Sorel-Tracy– In the first 100 days of a majority government of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois pledges to abolish Bill 78, cancel the 82% tuition hike and hold a summit on higher education . This is the commitment made by the leader of the Parti Québécois, when she participated in the re-entry of students at Cégep de Sorel-Tracy.
“By giving itself a majority government, the Parti Québécois will quickly fulfill its commitments. Law 78 can be abolished and tuition fees canceled within the first 100 days. A summit on higher education will be set up with student representatives, school management, union and employer representatives. This summit will focus in particular on accessibility to higher education for all, the evaluation of the overall costs of tuition fees, including related fees, the quality of teaching and research, funding and management of universities. », She assured.
The leader of the Parti Québécois took advantage of the return to the Cégep de Sorel-Tracy to express her solidarity with regard to the demands of the students. “I would like to reiterate the solidarity of the Parti Québécois towards the student movement. This spring we have witnessed the awakening of a generation and the demonstration of all its determination. Faced with the closing of the Prime Minister, the students never gave up, recalled Pauline Marois. The CEGEP students decided to go back to class rather than continue the strike. It is to their credit. I guarantee them that a majority government of the Parti Québécois will honor its commitments. &quot;
The leader of the Parti Québécois took the opportunity to present the vision of the Parti Québécois in terms of education. “Education is a priority for the Parti Québécois. We must work to increase the number of graduates. The more Quebecers are well trained, the more we will collectively enrich ourselves. It is for this reason that the Parti Québécois is committed to keeping tuition fees accessible to all as long as Quebec has not reached the Canadian average of the graduation rate, ”she declared, noting that the Parti Québécois vision for education includes all levels of education.
“The CAQ of François Legault thinks that by cutting structures, all the problems of the world of education will be resolved as if by magic. Nothing is further from the truth. The world of education does not need a war of structures. For the Parti Québécois, it is the children first; for the CAQ, it is the structures above all, ”lamented Pauline Marois, recalling that the Parti Québécois is committed to hiring 600 more professionals by 2015 in primary and secondary schools. The Parti Québécois is also committed to implementing four-year-old kindergarten in underprivileged areas.
The development of vocational training in college educational establishments will also be a priority for the Parti Québécois in education. Also, the Parti Québécois will facilitate, within the framework of an adult education policy, the attendance of workers in vocational or technical courses in secondary schools or CEGEPs, in particular by modifying class schedules.
“In Quebec, we need all the vigor of our youth to meet the challenges that will come before us. The future of Quebec depends on an educated and educated youth, which is why we will do everything to facilitate their access to post-secondary education or vocational training, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
