Montreal - On the occasion of the anniversary of the founding of Montreal and as part of the activities of the 100th anniversary of Archives de Montreal, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announced the appointment of Jeanne Mance and Paul de Chomedey de Maisonneuve as historical figures, under the Cultural Heritage Act. The minister also announced his intention to classify seven albums and handwritten documents of Jacques Viger, first mayor of Montreal.
“Documenting our history is a responsible gesture of recognition that is part of a perspective of continuity. I am therefore taking advantage of the anniversary of the founding of Montreal to designate the emblematic figures of the founding of the city, namely Jeanne Mance and Paul de Chomedey de Maisonneuve. Through their actions, they have contributed to the growth of the city of Montreal and of the entire Quebec nation, ”said Minister Kotto.
Let us recall that, on May 17, 1642, Maisonneuve, Jeanne Mance and their group took possession of the island of Montreal and settled in the place known today as Pointe-à-Callière. They then founded Ville-Marie, with the mission of creating a community where French and Native American converts could live in harmony, in a Christian ideal. Today, 371 years later, the designation of these characters testifies to their crucial role in the history of Montreal and the development of New France.
First mayor of Montreal and important memorialist of the first half of the 19th century, Jacques Viger left an abundant and precious documentation. Minister Kotto signed a notice of intent to classify the following seven albums and handwritten documents: Census of the County of Montreal in 1825, Costumes of Religious Communities of Women in Canada (1854), Canadian Souvenirs (circa 1830-1856), Neology Canadian (1810), Ma Saberdache (red) (1840-1858), Ma Saberdache (blue) (1839-1841), and Panorama de Montréal (circa 1826-1827).
These documents bear witness to part of the history of Montreal and of everyday life in the 19th century. Under the Cultural Heritage Act, interested persons and groups have sixty days to make representations to the Conseil du patrimoine culturel du Québec on this notice of intent. The Minister, for his part, has a period of one year to officially classify these documents which are already protected and which cannot be transported outside Quebec without the authorization of the Minister of Culture and Communications.
