Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu– The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, and the MNA for Saint-Jean and Deputy Government Whip, Dave Turcotte, announced the expansion of the Haut-Richelieu Hospital, an installation of the Haut-Richelieu-Rouville Health and Social Services Center. This will in fact be the subject of major expansion and redevelopment work. The cost of the entire project is estimated at $ 105 million, including construction, furniture and equipment costs, as well as management and contingency costs.
“I am very proud to participate in this important announcement for the region. This major real estate and clinical initiative is part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, made public last April. This makes it possible to respond, in a planned, structured and responsible manner, to the needs of the population of the regions, as well as of Quebec as a whole. Patients in this part of Montérégie will ultimately benefit from a significantly improved hospital infrastructure, which will improve the quality and accessibility of care, ”said the Premier.
“This hospital, which has an important sub-regional mission, has not undergone any major transformation since it was built more than four decades ago. The investment we are announcing today will affect services as critical as emergency, intensive care, laboratories, operating theaters, respiratory therapy and day surgery, ”Minister Réjean added. Hébert.
The emergency will have 41 stretchers, including 4 shock for trauma cases. Ten examination rooms are planned for outpatient services, while the new day surgery premises will be equipped with 20 stretchers, in addition to 14 in the recovery room. Eight rooms will be set up in the operating room, and intensive care will have a total of 18 beds.
From a real estate perspective, the Haut-Richelieu Hospital will be expanded by more than 14,000 square meters, while existing premises will be redeveloped with an area of just under 2,000 square meters, all on four levels. . The site will get underway this winter, in the wake of the preparatory work carried out since the beginning of the year. The new facilities will be available in the fall of 2016. The cost of the work will be mainly assumed by the Ministry of Health and Social Services. The financial contribution of the Haut-Richelieu-Rouville Health and Social Services Center amounts to $ 1,262,000, as part of an energy saving project.
“I am very proud that our government is able to give the final green light to a mobilizing project, to which local and regional partners have devoted a great deal of energy in recent years. I note with satisfaction that we had the wisdom to plan for undeveloped areas, with a view to future developments, ”declared the MP for Saint-Jean, Dave Turcotte.
“The 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan will ultimately result in investments of nearly $ 19.4 billion for the health and social services component. Beyond its benefits in terms of services, this plan will have major economic spinoffs throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained per year, on average. This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to assess needs prospectively, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the costs associated with them and, thus, to make well-informed choices ”, concluded the first minister.
