Montreal - The Leader of the Official Opposition and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, is worried about the economic situation in Quebec, which is deteriorating every week. “The bad news for workers is growing at a breakneck pace. Every day over the past year, 140 workers have lost their jobs. It is a totally unacceptable situation ”.
“For our economy, we have something to be worried about. Quebec&#39;s economic record is the most negative in Canada. In 2011, more than 50,000 jobs were lost in Quebec while 250,000 were created in the rest of Canada. For a second consecutive year, Quebec ranked 8th out of 10 in terms of economic growth, far behind the Canadian average, ”explained Pauline Marois, denouncing the inaction of the Charest government.
“Thousands of workers are victims of Jean Charest&#39;s inaction. The current unemployment rate stands at 8.7%, a level that takes us back 10 years. This is more than those in Ontario, Canada and the United States. While these workers are losing their jobs by the dozen, the Prime Minister has no solution to stimulate the development of employment, ”she added.
Pauline Marois is concerned about the fate of workers who are paying the price for the government&#39;s inaction. Earlier this morning, she met with the union of workers at the Mabe plant in Montreal, which announced a few days ago that it was ceasing production in Quebec, leaving more than 700 workers unemployed. “We cannot remain insensitive to such a situation. The government must act immediately by taking the necessary means to curb the situation ”.
During the national council of the Parti Québécois which was held at the end of last week in Montreal, the delegates adopted an emergency proposal requiring the government of Quebec that it &quot;urgently develop an economic strategy in order to stop the bleeding. in the manufacturing sector; the anticipated loss of 700 jobs, announced this week at the Mabe plant, being the latest unfortunate example of the consequences of the government&#39;s inertia, a situation that penalizes and weakens the quality of life of hundreds of families in the riding of Bourget and all of Quebec ”.
In addition to the deteriorating employment situation, the disposable income of families is also in sharp decline. The numerous tax and tariff increases in effect since January 1 result in an additional burden of $ 2 billion. Concretely, all of these increases will slow down our economic growth by 1%.
“Quebec workers and families deserve better than that. Since the Liberals came to power in 2003, nearly 200,000 manufacturing jobs have been lost. The only strategy adopted by Jean Charest was that of laissez-faire. A Parti Québécois government will not abandon workers and will adopt strategies to make our economy competitive as we did when we were in power, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
