Montreal - As the year of the 150th anniversary of Canadian Confederation has only just begun, the leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, the member for Verchères and responsible for L&#39;Autre 150e, Stéphane Bergeron, accompanied by spokespersons Rod le Stod and Marie Imalta PierreLys, today released the engagement statistics on social networks for the campaign initiated by the Parti Québécois. The observation is clear and unequivocal: The Other 150th succeeds in mobilizing a greater number of citizens on social networks than the official pages of the 150th anniversary of the Confederation of Canada. For example, during the last two weeks of February, on Facebook, people liked, shared and commented more on the publications of the Other 150th than of the official 150th, in both languages!
“The federal government wanted to talk about history throughout 2017, it is now served! Not only were we able to prove the relevance of our operation, but we also dismantled the federal campaign on social networks. Our operation has already succeeded in bringing to light dozens of historical facts and events that the federal government wanted to forget. With half a billion dollars, the federal government has embarked on a veritable orgy of spending on the backs of taxpayers to make the federal pact of 1867 appear as the start of a promising adventure paved with roses. Today, the figures speak for themselves and confirm that Canada has again embarked on an operation to waste public funds, ”said Mr. Bergeron.
“The history of Canada is also that of the battered Canadian Francophonie and the one in which the federal government, by its blows of force, tries by all means to limit the reach of Quebec and its people. The good news is that L&#39;Autre 150e has only just begun, ”concluded Operation spokespersons Rod le Stod and Marie Imalta PierreLys.
Launched by the Parti Québécois and supported by a group of volunteer historians as well as numerous guest collaborators, the L&#39;Autre 150e team aims to present 150 facts and events directly or indirectly affecting Quebec after 1867. The population is invited to continue to follow the activities of L&#39;Autre 150e on the various official pages of the operation:
Facebook: https: //www.facebook.com/autre150e/Youtube: https: //www.youtube.com/channel/UCweapQQ1nABBCJcSB2vDPkATwitter: https: //twitter.com/autre150eSite internet: http: //autre150e.ca/
