Laval– The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, as well as Ms. Suzanne Proulx, Member of Parliament for Sainte-Rose, and Mr. Léo Bureau-Blouin, Parliamentary Assistant to the Premier and Member of Parliament de Laval-des-Rapides, participated today in several announcements aimed at strengthening the healthcare offer for Laval residents. These announcements total nearly $ 15.6 million. At the same time, they also inaugurated the new neonatology unit of the Center de santé et de services sociaux (CSSS) de Laval, a project funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services, in partnership with Opération Enfant Soleil and the Cité de la Santé Foundation.
Minister Hébert announced investments totaling $ 15,606,000, which will allow capital work to be carried out with a view to strengthening the service offer in the Laval region. First, 14 additional hemodialysis stations will be installed at the Cité-de-la-Santé Hospital in Laval, for a total amount of $ 6,885,000. The hospital center will also receive a sum of $ 6,053,000 for the development, as of May 2014, of its pathology laboratories, which includes the morgue, laundry facilities and offices. The third project for this hospital is to add a third CT scanner at a cost of $ 2,668,000. This type of medical imaging equipment makes it possible to examine organs by cross-sections and to diagnose pathologies with great precision.
“Our government is particularly committed to closely monitoring the growing needs of the population of Laval. We are continuing our efforts to consolidate the care and service offer there, both in terms of the services themselves and the infrastructure. We thus wish to respond to the desire of the people of the region to be able to have recourse to quality care and services, as close as possible to their place of residence ”, also indicated the Minister.
“The Laval Health and Social Services Center has developed a solid expertise in specialized care, an expertise that must be put to good use in order to better serve populations, especially people whose state of health is weakened and who must avoid long trips, ”said Léo Bureau-Blouin.
These three projects are part of an approach that aims to promote access to local services. This initiative is funded equally by the Ministry and the Laval Health and Social Services Agency, out of regional capital budgets.
“Developments in neonatal care have made great progress in Quebec, which we can be proud of. The inauguration of this new unit is a great example of this, which also shows how much the health of newborns is important to us. This new unit, which advocates a more personalized approach, will allow optimal development of babies in the company of their parents and a team of professionals attentive to their needs, ”said Dr. Hébert.
This project made it possible to increase the number of cradles in the new neonatal unit from 10 to 20, in addition to raising the level of care from IIA to IIB, which will make it possible to avoid certain transfers to specialized centers of university hospitals in addition to allowing the faster return of very premature babies to Laval territory. The different modules of the unit have also been renovated to comply with the new recommended standards. It includes three isolation rooms, a room with four heated domes for the resuscitation and monitoring of very unstable newborns and a breastfeeding room that can accommodate four mothers, in accordance with the recommendations of the Baby-Friendly Hospital Initiative. (IHAB). In operation since September 23, 2013, the new unit has so far been able to accommodate more than 327 newborns.
Recall that the Minister announced on November 26 a total investment of $ 365,276, shared between the Ministry and Operation Enfant Soleil, to carry out these renovations. For its part, the Cité de la Santé Foundation made a contribution of $ 47,074 for the purchase of a central console for cardiorespiratory monitoring of newborns. These amounts are in addition to other previous investments by the Ministry intended to consolidate the neonatology activities of the CSSS de Laval, i.e. $ 302,400 (2010) for the purchase of specialized equipment in addition to a recurring budget of 250,000. $ (2012). Another amount of $ 611,000 (2011) was also used to purchase equipment as part of the increase in the number of beds in the neonatal unit, accompanied by an operating budget of up to $ 1 million per year, depending on the activities of the unit.
&quot;This great project shows how important it is for our government to offer families in Laval the possibility of receiving these services as close as possible to their homes, particularly with regard to the care of premature newborns,&quot; said added Madame Proulx.
