Quebec - At the end of their working session held on the occasion of the 17th Alternate Meeting, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Prime Minister of the French Republic, Jean-Marc Ayrault, agreed on actions intended to breathe new life into the Franco-Quebecois relationship.
Since last September, the political dialogue between Quebec and France has intensified, thanks in particular to the official visit of the Premier of Quebec to France and numerous ministerial visits on both sides. The major issues shared by the two companies are addressed at the highest level thanks to a political dialogue focused on the future which covers, among other things, the aging of the population, health financing, the social and solidarity economy, energy renewables, cultural diversity and gender equality.
According to the wishes expressed by the premiers, the relationship between Quebec and France is henceforth placed under the sign of creativity and innovation. The priorities and orientations set out in the Record of Decisions signed today in Quebec aim to deepen ties, more particularly in the fields of the economy and youth. These new directions will take advantage of the entire Franco-Quebec relationship, both at the political and institutional level.
The premiers make the development of economic exchanges and investment a priority.
“France is already establishing itself as an essential partner in the prosperity of Quebec, as its second foreign investor and one of its main European export markets. Today we want to strengthen this economic axis by building on the strengths of language, of course, but also on the complementarity of our economies and our expertise, ”declared the Prime Minister.
The Quebec project of the Economic Development Bank and the French Public Investment Bank have similar mandates. Quebec and France wish to establish a collaboration between these two institutions, with a view to providing financial support to companies wishing to invest in Quebec and France, as well as to companies in the social and solidarity economy sector.
The Premiers want the rapid finalization of the draft comprehensive economic and trade agreement between Canada and the European Union, through which businesses will be able to benefit from better conditions to carry out their expansion and investment projects, and they undertake to promote it. They also encourage the pursuit of cooperation in favor of northern development in Quebec while respecting the environment and communities.
The Premiers selected three new themes that will guide the actions of the Groupe franco-québécois de cooperation économique (GFQCE): innovation and creativity, the green economy, and the social and solidarity economy.
They are thus announcing the establishment of a Franco-Quebec dialogue on leadership in the innovation and creativity sector in anticipation of the C2-MTL conference. In May, this international event will bring together leaders in the metropolis who share an innovative approach to the business world.
Another new priority is the green economy. The Premiers wish to strengthen support for projects in the sectors of clean technologies, renewable energies and emerging technologies in transport, with the support of Quebec niches of excellence and French competitiveness clusters. Yesterday in Montreal, business leaders from Quebec and France took part in a meeting aimed at targeting cooperation possibilities in these promising sectors.
Finally, the Premiers announced the signing of a cooperation agreement in the area of social and solidarity economy, which will allow discussions on cooperative models, financing and labeling in this sector which is set to gain in importance. A declaration to this effect was signed on the sidelines of the International Summit of Cooperatives held in Quebec and Lévis last October.
The premiers spoke last night in Montreal in front of hundreds of Quebec and French business leaders gathered at the initiative of the French Chamber of Commerce in Canada.
“At a time when Quebec wishes to diversify its export markets, we need to focus on France which, it should be remembered, represents both the fifth largest economy in the world and the most important political partner of Quebec on the stage. international. In view of the conclusion of the Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union, this country appears more than ever as a natural gateway allowing our companies to more easily penetrate the French and European markets ”, said the premier.
The Premiers underline from the outset the growing importance given to entrepreneurial succession, entrepreneurial mentoring and vocational training for young people in the programs of the Office franco-québécois pour la jeunesse (OFQJ). The centerpiece of the Franco-Quebecois system, whose programs benefit more than 4,000 Quebecers and French people each year, the OFQJ is celebrating its 45th anniversary in 2013.
In the company of young Quebecers and French people who have benefited from the services of the OFQJ, the premiers took part in an activity in Montreal that shed light on the Office&#39;s youth mobility projects in these sectors. The participants were able to present their achievements and discuss with the Premiers on the concrete impact of their experience with the OFQJ. Entrepreneurial mentoring was also on the agenda of the Premiers&#39; working session. The leaders of the Fondation de l&#39;Entrepreneurship du Québec and the Institut du mentorat entrepreneurial de France presented their joint actions in this sector.
The Premiers encourage the emergence of a Franco-Quebec group of young creators and innovators, in the wake of the international C2-MTL conference. Youth, creativity and new technologies play a leading role in the dynamism of cultural cooperation. They invite the bodies responsible for this cooperation, in particular the Society for the Development of Cultural Enterprises (SODEC) and the National Center for Cinema and Animated Image (CNC), to promote partnerships and co-productions in the field of cinema and moving image, as well as in digital arts.
In the field of higher education and research, the premiers underlined the success of the joint thesis supervision between Quebec and France, which amounted to 3,000 for the last decade, as well as that of the many cooperation projects between Quebec and French.
&quot;This new impetus that we wish to give to the Franco-Quebecois relationship must be nourished by the dynamism of our youth, which is already manifested eloquently through exchanges in culture and education, but also in terms of vocational training and entrepreneurship, ”added the Prime Minister.
Social and solidarity issues The Premiers congratulate themselves on the results obtained under the Agreement on the mutual recognition of professional qualifications. They invite the competent authorities to continue their mobilization, in particular as regards the implementation of the mutual recognition arrangements already concluded. They ask professional orders and other authorities that have not yet concluded arrangements to step up their negotiations.
Finally, based on a broad consultation, the prime ministers agree to work together so that the Francophonie adopts an ambitious economic strategy, in order to contribute to growth and employment, particularly in the countries of the South, and to promote the development of North-South and tripartite exchanges.
The Statement of Decisions will be available on the website of the Ministère des Relations internationales, de la Francophonie et du Commerce internationales.
