Québec, July 7, 2017 - On the eve of the anniversary of the Jordan ruling, on the subject of judicial delays, the official opposition critic for justice, Véronique Hivon, takes stock and calls for action concrete actions of Minister Stéphanie Vallée.
“Justice has been neglected for years, forgotten and underfunded by the Liberal government. Our justice system has not seen funding or major reforms. On the contrary, again last year, cuts were under way. It took pressure from the Parti Québécois and an unprecedented crisis, triggered by the Jordan decision, for the government to finally start moving. Today, the confidence of the population is undermined, the victims are abandoned, not to mention the dozens of defendants released without trial and the hundreds of applications still pending. Despite our repeated requests and the serious release of three accused of murder and one accused of repeated sexual assault on a minor, the Minister still refuses the use of the notwithstanding clause to stop the bleeding, ”stated Véronique Hivon.
IN SHORT
“The Chief Justice of the Superior Court mentioned this week that it still takes 12 to 18 months for &#39;Storm Jordan&#39; to pass completely. 12 to 18 months during which public confidence in our justice system will be severely tested is inconceivable. On the side of civil and family court cases, for example, hundreds of parents and children are paying the price for ever longer delays, due to the transfer of judges to the criminal to stop the bleeding. Meanwhile, the Minister of Justice still believes that the solution lies with the federal government for the appointment of judges to the Superior Court. However, she failed to convince the federal minister to appoint the 14 judicial posts she has been claiming for months, ”she illustrated.
“We also deplore the fatalism and resignation that seized the Minister of Justice. She mentioned this week that it was a sad anniversary, but what does she do if not lament the situation? A case of stay of proceedings for unreasonable delays is already one too many. We expect energetic actions to stop the all-out disruption of our justice system and the serious erosion of confidence that follows, ”concluded Véronique Hivon.
