Quebec - The member for Saint-Jérôme and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the member for Joliette, Véronique Hivon, the member for La Pointe-de-l&#39;Île and president of the Bloc Québécois, Mario Beaulieu, the leader of National option, Sol Zanetti, the president of the United Organizations for Independence (OUI Quebec), Claudette Carbonneau, the president of the Société Saint-Jean-Baptiste (SSJB) and president of the network Cap on independence (RCI), Maxime Laporte, and the vice-president of the Mouvement national des Québécoises et Québécois (MNQ), Martine Desjardins, are meeting as part of the 20th anniversary of the 1995 referendum to send a strong signal of convergence for the future.
“Quebecers have ambition. Our best investment is first of all to believe in ourselves and in our success. Together, with all the separatists, we are working to recreate the unity which made the strength of the movement. On the eve of the commemoration of the 20th anniversary of the 1995 referendum, we are inspired by the great citizen mobilization orchestrated by Prime Minister Jacques Parizeau and the partners for Yes. As a first action, today we are launching a poster campaign, in collaboration with the SSJB, the MNQ, ON, the BQ and the OUI Quebec. The citizens who so wish will once again be able to get hold of the popular 1995 referendum posters, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“Today, we are demonstrating concretely that the Parti Québécois is no longer the sole and unique master of the independence game. We want to show that it does not have a monopoly on independence and that it wants to work with partners whose relevance and difference it recognizes. Each gesture of rapprochement is a significant gesture, from the most modest to the most ambitious. In itself, it is representative of a real desire for commitment while teaching us to work together, ”added Véronique Hivon.
“The last federal campaign demonstrated that parties can join forces. In many ridings, activists from the various separatist parties worked hand in hand to restore a representation that defends Quebec every day in Ottawa. Now is the time to look at the next electoral event and rebuild the magnificent coalition of 1995, ”said the president of the Bloc Québécois.
“Over the next year, Option Nationale will have constructive discussions with Québec solidaire and the Parti Québécois with the aim of reaching an agreement on a clear commitment to achieve independence between 2018 and 2022. To bring the movement towards a real overhaul, everything will have to be called into question, ”said Sol Zanetti.
This initiative is broader than the parties. As in 1995, civil society is involved in the independence project. Three major partners are joining the Parti Québécois, the Bloc Québécois and Option nationale today.
“In 1995, the MNQ played a leading role in the referendum campaign by setting up the Partners for Sovereignty coalition, which brought together the major organizations in society and which had its foundations in all regions of Quebec. Today, it is clear that the question of Quebec&#39;s political status has still not been resolved. This is in particular why it is our duty to take up the torch to demonstrate that freedom is always the best choice for Quebecers, ”said Martine Desjardins, vice-president of the MNQ.
“As I have seen in Catalonia, civil society and citizens are the ones who bring the idea of the country to life and vibrate. By showing off, we are sending a very clear message: twenty years after the 1995 referendum, we are still alive and well and we will no longer accept the status quo, ”added Claudette Carbonneau.
“The march of a people towards the acquisition of its full potential is strewn with obstacles, defeats and half-victories. Talk to the Irish, the Greeks, the Catalans, who fought for centuries to get to what is beginning ... So let&#39;s keep hope and stay the course! For me who was too young to vote in 1995, it is clear that as long as independence is not achieved, it remains to be done, because it is a modern project, worthy of what we are and worthy of what we aspire to, both collectively and individually, ”concluded Maxime Laporte.
Citizens can order their posters at: ouimonpays.quebec.
