Saint-Eustache- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and the MNA for Deux-Montagnes, Mr. Daniel Goyer, announce $ 2.6 M for the creation of an external center hemodialysis at the Lac-des-Deux-Montagnes Health and Social Services Center (CSSS). This amount is part of an envelope of nearly $ 3.7 million granted to the establishment to develop the offer of care and services in the region.
“With the growing number of people in the region requiring this service, this is definitely great news for the people here. This new center will ensure that patients no longer have to leave family and friends to go and receive these services elsewhere, and will at the same time promote the maintenance of their autonomy, ”declared Minister Hébert.
The deputy for Deux-Montagnes, Mr. Goyer, added: “By reducing the trips of these people, we are directly contributing to improving their quality of life, as well as that of those around them. I am therefore very happy with this announcement, which once again demonstrates our government&#39;s desire to improve access to care in our region. &quot;
The real estate solution allowing this external hemodialysis center to emerge will be realized thanks to an investment from the Ministère in the order of $ 2,640,000. For its part, the Laurentian Health and Social Services Agency will grant the establishment, from its regional operating appropriations envelope, an additional annual operating budget of $ 4,130,000.
Minister Hébert also took advantage of his visit to the CSSS du Lac-des-Deux-Montagnes to announce other investments totaling $ 1,093,000, which aim to carry out capital work and the acquisition of equipment in order to strengthen the service offer in the region and improve access to local care.
These investments will allow various expansion and redevelopment work to be carried out within the walls of Saint-Eustache Hospital. These will benefit: day surgery ($ 358,000), which will accommodate up to 15 additional stretchers to meet increased surgical activity; the pulmonology and respiratory therapy department ($ 300,000), which will benefit from more spacious premises for respiratory therapy; the radiology department ($ 222,000), which will have a new ultrasound machine; as well as the birthing unit ($ 213,000), which will include a new delivery room and two additional postpartum beds.
For all of these projects, the Department will finance the equipment costs, which amount to $ 477,000, while the real estate work will be assumed by the Laurentian Health and Social Services Agency, out of the funds. regional capital envelopes.
&quot;We are continuing our efforts to strengthen the service offer in the Laurentians, both in terms of services as such and infrastructure, in order to meet the population&#39;s desire to have access to quality care and services. as close as possible to her home. The establishments in the region have been able to develop, in recent years, a solid expertise in several specialized care. It is important to put this expertise to good use, especially since it will allow many people whose state of health is weakened not to have to make long journeys, ”concluded Minister Hébert.
For the Laurentians region, these announcements are part of an overall envelope of $ 23 million to improve the offer of care and local services. This is in addition to our government&#39;s effort to reduce the differences between the regions in the allocation of health and social services budgets. For the Laurentians, this translates into a 31% decrease in the past year.
