Val-David - A new residence with 26 affordable housing units intended for seniors with a slight loss of autonomy was inaugurated today in Val-David by the Member of Parliament for Bertrand, Mr. Claude Cousineau. Built thanks to the AccèsLogis Québec program of the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), Le Havre de Val-David required an investment of more than $ 4.6 million from the government of Quebec and its partners in the community.
“This project is excellent news for the community of Val-David since it allows seniors with a slight loss of autonomy to find housing in a new, quality, affordable apartment. As its name suggests, Le Havre de Val-David offers its residents a peaceful and safe environment, ”declared MP Claude Cousineau, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault.
The government of Quebec, through the SHQ, granted a subsidy of nearly $ 1.8 million for this project. In addition, the SHQ guarantees the mortgage loan taken out by the organization. The community&#39;s total contribution amounts to some $ 505,000, of which more than $ 411,000 comes from the Municipality of Val-David. It should also be noted that the project received a grant of $ 345,000 through the SHQ&#39;s Renovation Québec program.
“They say that a society needs to know where it came from to know where it is going, and our elders are in a good position to remind us. Val-David can finally offer them to stay in their community instead of going into exile to live in retirement, for lack of suitable housing. The whole community will benefit from their presence, their experience and their wisdom, ”said Nicole Davidson, Mayor of Val-David.
It should be noted that additional financial assistance of nearly $ 224,000, spread over five years and assumed 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the Municipality of Val-David, offers the possibility to 13 households in Havre de Val-David to benefit from the Rent Supplement Program. Thus, these low-income families pay a rent similar to that of a low-rental housing, or 25% of their income.
Among the contributions from the community, it should be noted that the project received a grant of nearly $ 49,000 from the Office of Energy Efficiency and Innovation of the Ministry of Natural Resources to ensure that it meets the standards of the Novoclimat program, which ensures tenants a significant saving on the costs of heating their accommodation.
