Lachine - Quebec Premier Pauline Marois announced today that her government is putting forward the necessary measures to create 273 new jobs at CAD Industries Ferroviaires, in addition to the current 300.
“To enrich Quebec, our priority is to create quality jobs for Quebecers, specialized jobs in promising industries, in all regions. This is why we have decided to financially support the CAD Industries Ferroviaires modernization project. Thus, the company will be able to increase its presence as a major North American player in the sector of refurbishment of locomotives and rail cars, ”said Pauline Marois.
The allocation, by Investissement Québec, of financial assistance of nearly $ 6.5 million to this company specializing in the maintenance, refurbishment and design of locomotives and rail cars aims to expand and modernize from its Lachine facilities.
In addition, a financial contribution of $ 950,000 from Emploi-Québec is granted to the company for the deployment of a vast training plan for its workforce. This assistance, approved by the Commission des Partenaires du marché du travail, is complementary to an investment of $ 2,850,856 by CAD Industries Ferroviaires in its skills development project. The company will thus be able to provide training to 273 new employees and 15 already in place.
The Quebec rail sector has 150 companies active as manufacturers and service providers. These directly generate more than 4,400 jobs, mostly in SMEs. This sector of activity represents sales of over $ 800 million per year.
“Experts in the rail industry are seeing an increase in investment in rolling stock, particularly in refurbishing locomotives, as well as an increase in the volume of rail transport. In 2015, the US government will also implement new polluting emission standards that most of the 25,000 locomotives operating in North America will have to meet. These are important business opportunities for CAD Industries Ferroviaires. With the investments confirmed today, the company will be in a better position to benefit from them, ”said the Prime Minister.
Mr. Fausto Levy, President and CEO of CAD Industries Ferroviaires, for his part underlined that by investing in the modernization of its laboratories, by increasing its production capacity and by installing the railway infrastructure necessary to receive the locomotives six-axle company CAD Industries Ferroviaires will be in a good position to win new contracts.
