Trois-Rivières– The MNA for Champlain, Ms. Noëlla Champagne, announced, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Bank of Economic Development of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation of a loan of 225,000 $ to Automation Mauricie inc., specializing in the design and manufacture of automated systems. The loan, granted under the Economic Diversification Fund for the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions, will help carry out a process optimization project valued at nearly $ 1.2 million, which will create 30 new quality jobs.
This is the second phase of the company&#39;s expansion project. The first phase had allowed the construction of a new building and the fitting out of equipment. This second phase aims to increase the company&#39;s competitiveness by optimizing its processes, and includes the purchase of equipment, training and marketing.
“Automation Mauricie is a dynamic and visionary company that contributes to the development of our manufacturing industry, while consolidating the industrial vocation of our great region of Mauricie,” declared Noëlla Champagne. “This project is part of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie Economic Diversification Plan. It therefore has significant economic benefits for our region, and will help maintain the company&#39;s 45 current jobs and create around 30 others. &quot;
&quot;The manufacturing sector is an important engine of economic growth and our government has made a commitment to further support it, particularly within the framework of the 2013-2017 Québec industrial policy,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “This policy relies in particular on the modernization of manufacturing companies to ensure their competitiveness, a modernization which essentially involves automation. We are therefore redoubling our efforts to ensure that our manufacturing companies continue to start up, grow, export and innovate in order to remain leaders and offer quality jobs in all regions. &quot;
Founded in 1989, Automation Mauricie specializes in the design, manufacture, programming, installation and maintenance of automated systems for many sectors of activity, such as agri-food, mining and processing. wood. Its subsidiary, CPMI Specialized Entrepreneur Inc., brings together electricians specializing in control and instrumentation.
It is to better meet the needs for space and diversification of its activities as well as those of its clienteles that Automation Mauricie has developed this project in two phases.
&quot;Thanks to the optimization of our processes, we will carry out innovative projects, in addition to increasing our competitiveness here and internationally,&quot; said Automation Mauricie President Stéphane Thiffault. “We would like to thank the Government of Quebec for its invaluable support, which will enable the second phase of our expansion project to be carried out. We will thus consolidate our position of excellence in automation and industrial control. &quot;
For more information on the fund, the table and the plan relating to the economic diversification of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie.
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
