Lévis– La Financière agricole du Québec will soon pay close to $ 3.6 million to more than 550 lamb producers and $ 21.4 million to 3,000 feeder calf producers.
These amounts represent respectively compensation of $ 5.79 per lamb and $ 0.4687 per kilogram of lamb sold, and compensation of $ 43.29 per calf and $ 0.426 per kilogram of veal sold. They are in addition to the $ 7.5 million paid in July to lamb producers and the $ 16.7 million received in June by feeder calf producers.
These disbursements, made under the Farm Income Stabilization Insurance Program, will allow producers to have access to liquidity in a context where market prices are not at the rendezvous, particularly in the sheep sector where prices are low. of the various categories of lambs have been low since the start of the year. The payment of these indemnities is in line with the desire of the Government of Quebec to support and promote the economic development of Quebec agriculture and agri-food.
On this subject, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, stated: “It is important to support Quebec producers of lambs and feeder calves. . Present in several regions, they allow sustainable economic development and dynamic occupation of the Quebec territory.
&quot;Through its insurance programs, La Financière agricole enables businesses to better cope with the risks inherent in agriculture,&quot; declared Mr. Robert Keating, President and CEO of La Financière agricole du Québec.
By providing quality products and services in terms of financing, insurance and income protection, La Financière agricole du Québec promotes the development and stability of more than 25,000 agricultural and forestry businesses in Quebec. In addition, it places the next generation of farmers at the heart of its priorities by offering direct financial assistance adapted to its reality. With insured values of $ 4.7 billion and a loan guarantee portfolio of $ 4.4 billion, it actively participates in the economic development of Quebec and its regions.
