La Malbaie - Quebec Premier Pauline Marois welcomes the success of the 37th Annual Conference of New England Governors and Eastern Canadian Premiers (CGNA-PMEC) which concluded today &#39; hui in La Malbaie. This meeting, attended by nine heads of government from the region, enabled notable progress in several areas.
At the end of the work, six resolutions were adopted, two of which were initiated by Quebec. The first urges the Canadian and American federal authorities to take all necessary measures to strengthen the safety of the transport of hazardous materials by rail. It also aims to increase collaboration, information sharing and the exchange of good rail safety practices between states and provinces in order to prevent rail disasters such as the one in Lac-Mégantic.
The second resolution presented by Quebec underlines the members&#39; commitment to increase the use of energy-efficient vehicles, in particular by promoting the compatibility of charging infrastructure for electric vehicles, as well as identifying road corridors to deploy this type of vehicle. infrastructure. “More than ever, the issues and interests of Quebec are echoed in this conference. Over the past 40 years, it has made it possible to establish a highly profitable regional collaboration for all of its members. I salute the commitments made today, which testify to a firm desire to include our future in it, too, ”declared the Prime Minister.
Among the other resolutions agreed between the members, let us underline the objective, by 2020, for the regional vehicle fleet to be made up of 5% alternative fuel vehicles, while promoting the availability of refueling stations in order to support use. Members also agree to propose, by the 2014 conference, improved public transport options to ensure a more environmentally friendly transport network in the region. In the area of public security, it was agreed to strengthen mutual aid partnerships by identifying constraints that could hinder cross-border aid between states and provinces. Recommendations will be made to mitigate these obstacles.
According to the regional greenhouse gas inventory 1990-2011, the GHG reduction target for 2010 appearing in the CGNA-PMEC action plan, which was to return to the 1990 level, was exceeded and almost achieved a third of the target set for 2020.
Governors and Premiers agree on a new Climate Change Action Plan and call for the development of a short-term work plan. They thus confirm, for 2050, a target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 75% to 85% below the 2001 level.
Conference members renew their commitment to increasing renewable energy trading opportunities. They recognize the importance of continuing efforts to ensure the region&#39;s energy security, as well as the critical role of the provinces in Eastern Canada in adding new sources of clean energy for domestic markets and markets. export.
In this year of the 40th anniversary of the creation of the conference, Quebec pleaded for the economic dimension to occupy a greater place within the conference. &quot;We want to involve businesses more closely in our future activities in order to stimulate economic exchanges between our provinces and states,&quot; said the Premier.
The 38th annual conference will be held in 2014 in New Hampshire.
