Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, makes public the twelve projects that will be put forward by eight wildlife partners by the end of the 2013-2014 financial year. Thus, grants totaling $ 477,321 were granted by the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks as part of the “Recovery and enhancement” component - national envelope for Reinvestment in the field of wildlife.
“Through this initiative, the Government of Quebec recognizes and encourages the contribution of these organizations in the development of wildlife activities and the training of the next generation. Their approach is both modern and part of our traditions, ”said Minister Blanchet.
The projects selected (see appendix) come from eight organizations active in the wildlife sector, namely the Fédération québécoise des chasseurs et pêcheur, the Fédération des outfitters du Québec, the Foundation for the preservation of speckled trout, the Fédération québécoise for Atlantic salmon, the Federation of trappers managers of Quebec, the Federation of managers of salmon rivers of Quebec, the Society of outdoor establishments of Quebec and Zecs Quebec. They relate, on the one hand, to the renewal of the clientele of hunting, fishing and trapping activities, and, on the other hand, to the development of the wildlife resource in order to optimize and improve it. &#39;&#39; develop its exploitation.
Each year, in Quebec, hunting, fishing and trapping activities generate nearly $ 1.9 billion in wealth creation and salaries in businesses here and elsewhere. For example, these spinoffs generate nearly 14,000 jobs in all regions of Quebec. “With this financial assistance, our government confirms the importance it attaches to hunting, fishing and trapping activities and recognizes their contribution to the development and character of the regions. Fauna constitutes an invaluable common wealth, both in terms of the economy and Quebec&#39;s biodiversity and identity, ”concluded the Minister.
