Quebec, February 22, 2017 - In the case of the tax credit for the most vulnerable seniors, the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of finance, Nicolas Marceau, and the spokesperson for the elderly, Harold LeBel, are delighted that the government has finally heard reason and admitted its mistake. Indeed, the age to have access to it will be maintained at 65 years.
“After denying the problem for two years, Minister Leitão finally admits that his decision affected thousands of people; faced with the mobilization of seniors, supported by the Parti Québécois, he finally gives up cutting them this financial assistance. In fact, as early as 2015, we called on the Liberal government to question the harmful and foreseeable impacts of its decision. Today&#39;s announcement is a good illustration of the government&#39;s contempt for the public; again, he failed to appreciate the consequences of his vile cuts. Obviously, no impact analysis had been carried out on the effects of a $ 500 drain from the pockets of the most vulnerable, ”declared Nicolas Marceau.
“Things always have to turn into a crisis before this government decides to listen to the people. Once again, the Liberals attacked seniors, ignoring the negative consequences. Even today, even when announcing that he would ultimately not touch the tax credit, the minister was arrogant in suggesting that the real problem was not the measure itself, but the that the elders did not understand it; in short, it would be a simple communication problem. It is a total lack of respect for the people who built Quebec. Sadder still, during this whole debate, where was the Minister responsible for Seniors? Nowhere. We haven&#39;t heard it once. Once again, she refused to stand up to defend the seniors of Quebec, ”added Harold LeBel.
“Today, it is a victory for the seniors of Quebec who mobilized to denounce this unacceptable measure. The Parti Québécois will continue to exercise extreme vigilance to protect the interests of Quebecers, ”concluded the deputies.
