Montreal - On the occasion of the launch of the activities surrounding the 50th anniversary of the Cinémathèque québécoise, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, inaugurated the permanent exhibition Secrets and Illusions, the Magic of Special Effects, funded at the level of $ 500,000 by the Department.
“With this contribution, the Government of Quebec is making a tangible contribution to the 50th anniversary of the Cinémathèque québécoise in order to underline the invaluable contribution of this institution to the preservation and dissemination of our audiovisual heritage since its founding. By exploring the fascinating world of image magicians, the new permanent exhibition highlights Quebec know-how in the creation of special effects, which will delight visitors of all ages, ”said Minister Kotto.
The exhibition Secrets and Illusions, the Magic of Special Effects, which will open to the public from April 19, focuses on the creation of audiovisual illusions, by special effects and special effects, in the fields of cinema, television and new media. It is aimed at all audiences but particularly appeals to young people, naturally inclined towards inventive technologies. It offers a participatory and playful approach that integrates interactive devices allowing certain effects to be experienced.
Founded on April 18, 1963, the Cinémathèque québécoise&#39;s mandate is to collect, preserve and distribute the national film and television heritage as well as all related material, such as scripts, photos, press kits and posters. The organization is notably the manager of the legal deposit and the Guy-L. Coté media library, the most important documentation and reference center on cinema and television in the country. &quot;I want to salute those who, through their fervor, have contributed to the success and fame of the Cinémathèque, which continues, after 50 years of activity and despite the difficulties, its essential mission of safeguarding and remembrance&quot;, added Minister Kotto.
