Quebec - The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, testified to Quebec&#39;s expertise in the fight against violence against women during the activities of the 57th session of the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women. The Minister took the opportunity to increase the number of high-level meetings and to emphasize the importance that this cause must have on the international scene.
During the High-Level Francophone Concertation on Violence Against Women and Girls, Minister Maltais gave a vibrant speech on behalf of Quebec and demonstrated her firm determination to defend the rights of women in the context of the adoption of the Francophone action plan on violence against women and girls of the International Organization of La Francophonie. She presented the formal mechanisms developed in Quebec to ensure effective implementation of government actions to counter violence against women.
“The fight to counter violence against women must be done at all levels. I am convinced that the leadership of the Quebec government in this matter will lead other governments, particularly those of the Francophonie, to make this fight a priority. It is the responsibility of parliamentarians around the world to shape a world where the words respect, equality and human rights resonate as women, ”said Ms. Maltais.
On the sidelines of the work of the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women, Ms. Maltais held bilateral talks with several of her counterparts on issues of violence. She met Ms. Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, French Minister for Women&#39;s Rights, Ms. Yanick Mézile, Haitian Minister for Status of Women and Women&#39;s Rights, Ms. Mariama Sarr, Senegalese Minister for Women, Children and Women entrepreneurship, Mr. Benno Bättig, Secretary General of the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs and head of the Swiss delegation, and Ms. Marie-Claude Blais, Attorney General, Minister of Justice and Consumer Affairs and Minister responsible for Women&#39;s Issues of New- Brunswick.
Ms. Maltais also spoke with the Honorable Rona Ambrose, Minister of Public Works and Government Services and Minister of Status of Women of Canada. They agreed on the need to plan specific actions to counter violence against women, especially against indigenous women and those of immigrant origin. In addition, they agreed on the importance of involving men and boys in preventing all forms of violence and thus putting an end to it in a sustainable way. The federal minister took the opportunity to underline the remarkable work of Quebec in these matters.
Minister Maltais took the opportunity to hold a meeting with representatives of two non-governmental organizations in Quebec, the Concertation des Luttes contre les exploitation sexual and the Regroupement des maisons pour femmes victims of conjugal violence.
The Minister also participated in the Inter-Parliamentary Union event on parliamentary strategies to counter violence against women and girls.
Let us recall that the 57th session of the Commission takes place from March 4 to 15, 2013, on the theme of the elimination and prevention of all forms of violence against women and girls. Representatives of Member States, United Nations entities and non-governmental organizations from all regions of the world participate in the session.
