Laval– The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Bank of Economic Development of Quebec, Élaine Zakaïb, announced the allocation of financial support in the form of a loan $ 7 million to Viau Food Products, which specializes in food processing.
This government assistance will be used to carry out an expansion and equipment acquisition project valued at $ 61 million. In all, 105 new jobs will be created over the next five years and 285 more will be consolidated.
“The government&#39;s objective is to ensure that Quebec becomes one of the most prosperous places in North America, by focusing on private investment. Since taking office, we have been working to create an attractive business environment for investors, in addition to supporting initiatives that are strategic for the growth of our economy. The spinoffs from the Viau Food Products company project, including the creation of more than 100 quality jobs, are most positive for Quebec. It is with great pride that we contribute to the growth of this food processing company. Food produced in Quebec must indeed be recognized in its own right as a flagship of our economy. It is in this spirit that we announced, on May 16, our new Food Sovereignty Policy, ”declared the Prime Minister.
“Quebec needs the creativity of its entrepreneurs to stay on course for growth in the current economic context. The Viau Food Products company is showing us its understanding of productivity issues by investing in an expansion project that will allow it to take advantage of a booming market. The government is present to support entrepreneurs up to their ambitions and according to their needs, as evidenced by the tabling of the bill creating the Banque de développement économique du Québec, which will be at the service of entrepreneurs and the regions, ”stated the Deputy Minister Élaine Zakaïb.
Founded in 1977, Viau Food Products specializes in the processing of foods, such as pepperoni, Italian cold cuts, sausages, pizza toppings and meatballs. It owns two factories, one in Laval and another in Montreal-North, and markets three distinct brands of products: Sila and Viau, intended for food professionals, in particular hoteliers and restaurateurs, and Fantino &amp; Mondello, intended for to the general public. The investment project announced today consists in particular of expanding the Laval plant, acquiring strategic equipment and redeveloping certain areas of the plant located in Montréal-Nord.
“Our reputation within the food industry is solidly established, due to the quality of our products which denote great originality. Support from the Government of Quebec will allow us to increase our competitiveness by manufacturing new products and increasing our productivity. The completion of this project represents a unique opportunity to develop our markets and an important step in the growth of our company ”, underlined the President and CEO of Viau Food Products, Mr. Pat De Marco.
