Sainte-Agathe-des-Monts– The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Doctor Réjean Hébert, the Member for Labelle and government official for the Laurentides region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, and the Member for Bertrand and Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Claude Cousineau, announce the establishment of a new ophthalmology clinic near the Laurentian Hospital of the Center de santé et de services sociaux (CSSS) des Sommets, an investment of $ 6.5 million. This amount is part of an envelope of nearly $ 9.7 million granted to the establishment to develop the offer of care and services in the region.
“We have made a commitment to improve the accessibility of care and services and this announcement is precisely in line with this objective. Considering that the Laurentians region is characterized by strong demographic growth, particularly among the elderly, and that this clientele has significant ophthalmological needs, it is appropriate to set up such a public service here, at the CSSS des Sommets ”, declared Minister Hébert.
Indeed, in the absence of a public service in the area, people with ophthalmological needs, such as basic examination, cataract surgery and age-related macular degeneration (AMD) services, were referred either to the CSSS de Saint-Jérôme or to the private sector.
“I greatly welcome this initiative from our government. This new ophthalmology clinic will allow many people to benefit from high quality care and services, close to their place of residence, ”Mr. Pagé said.
Mr. Claude Cousineau added: “This is a considerable advantage for people in the sector, and especially for older people, for whom long trips can sometimes be taxing. &quot;
Evaluated at $ 6,542,000, the establishment of this new ophthalmology clinic will benefit from financial support from the Department in the amount of $ 6,348,000, part of which ($ 4,606,000) will be used for the construction of a new two-storey building on the grounds of the CSSS des Sommets, and another ($ 1,742,000) for the purchase of equipment. The Laurentian Health and Social Services Agency will pay for the balance of this project ($ 194,000).
Minister Hébert also took advantage of his visit to the CSSS des Sommets to announce investments totaling $ 3,239,000, aimed at carrying out various capital works and the acquisition of equipment in order to strengthen the service offer in the region and improve access to local services.
These investments will allow the redevelopment of part of the operating room at the Laurentian Hospital ($ 2,265,000) to accommodate, instead of endoscopic activities, ophthalmology and gynecology activities. They will also support the development of a second recovery room and a rest room ($ 379,000), which will allow the two operating rooms to be used simultaneously rather than alternately.
Other projects funded include: fitting out a second reading room and an additional ultrasound room in a temporary unit adjacent to medical imaging ($ 350,000); the relocation of certain outpatient services ($ 195,000), such as internal medicine, pediatrics and gynecology, which will be relocated to other premises at the Laurentian Hospital, at the CLCS de Mont-Tremblant or at the CLSC Sainte-Agathe-des- Mountains; as well as the addition of equipment related to the voluntary termination of pregnancy ($ 50,000), to allow women in the region who so wish to benefit from this service closer to home, within the public network of health.
For all these projects, the Department will finance the equipment costs, which amount to $ 1,940,000. The real estate work will be assumed by the Laurentian Health and Social Services Agency, out of the regional capital budgets.
&quot;We are continuing our efforts to strengthen the service offering in the Laurentians, both in terms of services as such and infrastructure, in order to meet the population&#39;s desire to have access to quality care and services as close as possible. possible from home. The establishments in the region have been able to develop, in recent years, a solid expertise in several specialized care. It is important to put this expertise to good use, especially since it will prevent people with compromised health from having to travel great distances, ”concluded Minister Hébert.
For the Laurentians region, these announcements are part of an overall envelope of $ 23 million to improve the offer of care and local services. This is in addition to our government&#39;s effort to reduce the differences between the regions in the allocation of health and social services budgets. For the Laurentians, this translates into a 31% decrease in the past year.
