Joliette - Ms. Véronique Hivon, Minister responsible for Social Services and Youth Protection, Minister responsible for the Lanaudière region and Member of Parliament for Joliette on behalf of Mr. Maka Kotto, Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Stéphan La Roche, President and CEO of the Conseil des arts et des lettres du Québec (CALQ), Mr. Gaétan Morin, President of the Regional Conference of Elected (s) of Lanaudière (CRÉ), Mrs. Dominique Masse, President of the Forum jeunesse Lanaudière ( FJL) and Ms. Ghislaine Bourcier, President of Culture Lanaudière (CCL), today unveiled the content of a new agreement promoting the artistic and literary development of the Lanaudière region.
Under the terms of this agreement, CALQ and CRÉ Lanaudière will respectively invest a total amount of $ 300,000, while the Youth Forum will devote an amount of $ 80,000. Artists, writers and professional artistic organizations in the region will be able to count on the availability of funds totaling $ 680,000 for the realization of artistic projects in connection with the Lanaudière community.
(c) Guillaume Denommée- MSSS
“Investing in culture is investing in all that we are and in all that we can be. This is why it is essential to participate in the development of Lanaudière artists and local cultural organizations in order to promote their development, to live enriching collective and individual experiences and to shine outside our borders. », Declared Minister Hivon.
“The development of the arts and letters throughout Quebec is one of the priorities of the CALQ. With the collaboration of committed partners who have the development of their region at heart, the CALQ is very proud to support the artists and writers of Lanaudière and thus encourage the cultural vitality of this dynamic region ”, mentioned the President. -director general of CALQ, Mr. Stéphan La Roche.
“The president of the CRÉ Lanaudière, Mr. Gaétan Morin, for his part reiterated the commitment of the CRÉ to encourage artistic creation and the promotion of the arts in the region. According to him, this participation clearly demonstrates the involvement of the Lanaudière Regional Conference of Elected Officials in the development of all faces of Lanaudière ”
“The Forum jeunesse Lanaudière has chosen to take part in this agreement in order to promote the place of the next generation of artists throughout the Lanaudière region. Artists under 35 will benefit greatly from this support, which will allow them to increase their visibility, to forge their place in the cultural world and to develop their feeling of belonging to the region ”, specified Mrs. Dominique Masse, President. of the Lanaudière Youth Forum.
The specific agreement on support for artistic creation and its dissemination motivated by its link with the community of Lanaudièrea has the objectives of supporting artistic creation and its dissemination with links to the community; increase and diversify sources of income for professional artists and writers in Lanaudière; to contribute to the retention of professional artists and writers, in particular those of the young next generation, in order to break their isolation and promote their recognition within the community; to promote the emergence of the next generation of artists, as well as to encourage and support the development and influence of professional artistic organizations on the territory and abroad.
This agreement therefore allows, for the 2013-2014, 2014-2015 and 2015-2016 fiscal years, the implementation of the Creation Support Program and its dissemination motivated by its link with the community of Lanaudière which includes the following components:
Component 1- Support for professional artists and writers in connection with the community of Lanaudière;
Component 2- Support for professional artistic and literary organizations linked to the community of Lanaudière;
Component 3- Support for the promotion and dissemination of the agreement.
This third component is the responsibility of Culture Lanaudière, whose mandate is to assist promoters in their efforts, to offer appropriate training and to promote both the program and the projects selected. “It is a great privilege for Culture Lanaudière to work with the artists and organizations that make up the cultural fabric of Lanaudière. All artists and organizations are invited to come and meet with us and we will be happy to help, ”said Ghislaine Bourcier, President of Culture Lanaudière.
Over the next three years, the registration deadlines for Stream 1 will be October 15, 2013, April 22, 2014, and April 13, 2015.
There is only one registration deadline for part 2 which is set for October 15, 2013.
Details concerning the programs and registration forms are available on the CALQ website at: www.calq.gouv.qc.ca/regions/14.htm or again, by hyperlink, on the CRÉ websites. Lanaudière (www.cre-lanaudiere.qc.ca or Culture Lanaudièrewww.culturelanaudiere.qc.ca).
Remember that the signatory partners of the agreement are the CALQ, the CRÉ Lanaudière, the Youth Forum of Lanaudière, the Ministry of Culture and Communications, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, the Minister responsible for the Lanaudière region, Ms. Véronique Hivon, and Culture Lanaudière.
