Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, today announced government financial assistance of $ 750,000 to support the restoration and enhancement of the property of the Vigneault family, cited in 2008 by the Municipality of Natashquan, as well as the enhancement of the Allée des Galets. For the occasion, Ms. Marois was accompanied by the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the Minister for Tourism, Pascal Bérubé, and the Member of Parliament for Sainte-Marie – Saint-Jacques, Daniel Breton.
“Natashquan and Gilles Vigneault are two inseparable names, and the site targeted by the project has considerable historical, cultural and symbolic value. He is the source of inspiration for one of the greatest poets of modern Quebec. Anchored in the heart of a municipality made famous above all thanks to its illustrious ambassador, this project proposes the enhancement of a place that saw the birth and growth of a prominent figure of Quebec, Mr. Gilles Vigneault ”, declared the Premier. .
&quot;I am proud to be a member of a government that recognizes the importance of transmitting to future generations a natural and cultural whole, the value of which resonates in us this Quebec identity, made up of deep attachment to the north,&quot; added Minister Maka Kotto.
“Improving the quality of the tourist offer is the priority element of our action in terms of tourism in the northern regions. This project therefore fully meets our objectives. The visit of the whole site, combined with that of the neighboring attractions of Havre-Saint-Pierre, could make it possible to lengthen the stay of visitors in Natashquan and, by the same token, in the tourist region of Duplessis ”, has for his part declared Minister Bérubé.
The project includes the exterior and interior restoration of the property where Gilles Vigneault grew up, i.e. the birthplace of the poet, the house of Mon&#39;onc Claude where the grandfather and then the poet&#39;s uncle lived, as well as three other buildings. constituting the outbuildings of the Vigneault property. The twelve Galet stores, commonly called &quot;Les Galets&quot;, form a site classified under the Cultural Heritage Act since 2006. The heritage site of Gilles Vigneault was protected in 2008 by virtue of a municipal citation. A project manager will be hired to ensure proper implementation. The total cost of the project is almost $ 1 million.
“I would like to thank all the people who devote their time and effort to safeguarding a unique heritage contributing to the definition of the identity of the citizens of Natashquan and of the entire North Shore, a heritage imbued with authentic intimacy. with the sea and nature, ”said Member of Parliament for Duplessis, Lorraine Richard.
The project falls within the framework of the objectives of northern development in terms of tourism and culture, and the financial assistance granted breaks down as follows: $ 450,000 comes from the Ministry of Culture and Communications under the Fund of Quebec&#39;s cultural heritage, while $ 300,000 comes from the Tourism Development Assistance North of the 49th Parallel component of Tourisme Quebec&#39;s Tourism Industry Development Program.
