St-Jérôme- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and Mr. Sylvain Pagé, responsible for the Laurentides region and Member of Parliament for Labelle, announced investments totaling $ 9,234,000, which will allow real estate work to be carried out and the purchase of equipment as part of seven projects aimed at strengthening the service offer of the Saint-Jérôme Health and Social Services Center.
“Our government is particularly keen to better respond to the desire of the people of the Saint-Jérôme region to have access to quality care and services, as close as possible to their place of residence. The Saint-Jérôme Health and Social Services Center has developed solid expertise in specialized care, expertise that must be put to good use in order to better serve the population, ”said Dr. Hébert.
The amounts offered by the Ministry will all be used to cover the costs of the purchase of equipment to strengthen the service offer of the Saint-Jérôme Hospital. The largest amount, $ 1,991,000, is intended to support the creation of an external dialysis center, a project for which discussions are currently underway in order to define its final scope. Other funded projects include the addition of six intermediate care beds, which will be granted $ 410,000, the addition of 14 hospital beds in medicine, which will obtain $ 140,000, as well as the development of clinics. versatile day students at the Rosaire-Lapointe Pavilion, which will receive an amount of $ 200,000. In addition, an amount of $ 92,000 will also be devoted to equipment used to develop a mental health day hospital and another of $ 114,000 to increase the offer of care and service for voluntary termination of pregnancy. . Vascular and pulmonology services will share $ 100,000. The Laurentian Health and Social Services Agency will pay for the balance of these projects through regional envelopes.
“I am delighted to see that our government seriously considers the needs of the population of Saint-Jérôme in terms of health care and services. This concrete assistance will help bring services closer to the people, which is excellent news, especially for people whose state of health is weakened and who must avoid traveling over great distances, ”added Sylvain Pagé.
These seven projects are part of an approach that aims to promote access to local services. This initiative to strengthen the regional and local service offer is funded by the Department, in partnership with the Laurentian Health and Social Services Agency, out of regional capital budgets.
For the Laurentians region, these announcements are part of an overall envelope of $ 23 million to improve the offer of care and local services. This is in addition to our government&#39;s effort to reduce the differences between the regions in the allocation of health and social services budgets. For the Laurentians, this translates into a 31% decrease in the past year.
