Sherbrooke– Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, today kicked off the Parti Québécois youth campaign. Surrounded by many young candidates from several regions of Quebec, she recalled the merits of the public commitment of each and every one of them.
“These candidates embody the present and the future of our nation. They decided to get involved in Quebec and it was to the Parti Québécois that they came, quite naturally. They demonstrate one of the greatest forms of commitment there is: wanting to serve their fellow citizens and represent them in the National Assembly, ”said Pauline Marois.
During an evening hosted by the candidate in the riding of Laval-des-Rapides, Léo Bureau-Blouin, and by the candidate in the riding of Groulx, Martine Desjardins, young activists from several regions gathered in Sherbrooke to meet and support the political next generation at the Parti Québécois.
“By launching a new youth policy and by establishing a campaign on post-secondary campuses, the Parti Québécois has shown that it is committed to promoting the involvement of young people in public life. To move Quebec forward, we need women and men who choose politics. This is the choice I made when I joined Pauline Marois&#39; team, ”said Martine Desjardins.
After a consultation tour led by the candidate in the riding of Laval-des-Rapides, Léo Bureau-Blouin, the candidate in the riding of Terrebonne, Mathieu Traversy, and the candidate in the riding of Saint-Jean, Dave Turcotte, the The Parti Québécois government has tabled a white paper on young people, bringing ideas and concrete actions so that they can meet the challenges they will face.
“We listened to young people from all regions of Quebec. The proposals in the white paper are innovative; the youth policy that we want to put in place will support young people in building a society in their image. We are determined to help them make their dreams come true, to support their dynamism and creativity, ”said Léo Bureau-Blouin.
Thanks to the Parti Québécois government, students will now be able to exercise their right to vote directly on Quebec campuses. Polling stations will be open on university, college and professional campuses with more than 300 students on March 28, as well as on April 1, 2 and 3.
“When we took office, we abolished the scandalous tuition hike decreed by the Liberals and supported by the Caquists. But where we have greatly advanced the cause of youth, structurally, it is by setting up polling stations in educational institutions. To have their full weight, young people must vote! I invite them to get informed, to take part in the debates and to make their voices heard, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
