Québec, December 6, 2016 - When the Liberal government tables its bill on local governance, the Parti Québécois spokesperson for municipal affairs, Martin Ouellet, as well as the spokesperson for regional development and decentralization, Sylvain Gaudreault, denounce its disastrous record with regard to the regions of Quebec.
“At the start of their mandate, the first thing this government did for the municipalities of Quebec was to cut them $ 300 million annually. This same government is appearing before us today telling us that it is investing $ 100 million for regional economic development. This amount represents barely a third of the cuts imposed; it is an insult to the regions which are fighting to energize their environment, ”declared Martin Ouellet.
“The Liberal record for the regions of Quebec is quite simply disastrous. The government first deprived Quebec of a network of local development centers that brought together more than 3,000 volunteers working for the economic advancement of our regions. Then, the specific agreements relating to the regional conferences of elected representatives represented hundreds of millions of dollars in spinoffs that were managed by and for our regions. Finally, the issues of lumber, interurban transport, local forests and bank erosion are just a few examples of issues that are waiting on the shelves of government departments in Quebec, ”added Sylvain Gaudreault.
“We will carefully analyze the draft law on local governance tabled by Minister Coiteux. But, while this government, on the one hand, says it is giving municipalities more air, on the other, it is taking it away from them. I wonder, moreover, where Minister Coiteux was when drafting bills 106, on hydrocarbons, and 102, on the environmental authorization regime; these two bills are slaps for municipal autonomy. The Minister is in a bad position to teach us a lesson on this matter, ”added Martin Ouellet.
&quot;It is not surprising that this government has such a bad record for the regions of Quebec: how can you fully grasp the regional reality when your Minister of Regional Economic Development and your ministers responsible for the Laurentians and the Côte? Nord come from of Montreal, and that your minister responsible for the Gaspé and the Magdalen Islands is a member of the riding of Quebec? With such appointments, who stands up in the Council of Ministers to carry the voice of the regions? Who really understands their reality? ”Sylvain Gaudreault concluded.
