Quebec - Surrounded by the Parti Québécois candidates from the Capitale-Nationale region, Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, announced that a forthcoming Parti Québécois government will reduce the debt.
“During the next term, the Parti Québécois government will reverse the trend: Quebec&#39;s debt will finally begin to decrease, both in absolute numbers and as a proportion of GDP. Our goal is to bring the debt below 50% of GDP in 2018-2019, ”said Pauline Marois.
“We have shown that we are determined to achieve our targets: the Parti Québécois government has limited spending growth to its lowest level in 10 years. By comparison, spending rose 4.4% on average under the Liberal government. In the last budget, we announced that we will keep our good habits by limiting spending growth to 2% for the next 3 years, ”said the Prime Minister.
“The Liberal government is responsible for increasing the debt by a third, or more than $ 60 billion. Since the start of the campaign, Philippe Couillard has shown that the Liberal Party maintains its bad habits: it has announced commitments that would add $ 15 billion to the debt and that it will finance its promises by drawing from the Generations Fund ”, he added. added Pauline Marois.
Secor-KPMG has also demonstrated liberal negligence in infrastructure management. In several major works, cost overruns averaged 78%.
“Not only were the projects poorly put together, but by refusing to fight corruption and collusion, we have paid too much for our infrastructure. Now, unlike the Liberals, every project announced is budgeted. In addition, we have already managed to save $ 240 million in one year at the Ministry of Transport through concrete actions to fight against corruption and collusion. We are taking back control of public finances, ”continued Pauline Marois.
“We have put public finances in order and we are controlling spending. We have implemented rigorous management. We have an economic plan, and we have the best team to carry it out, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
