Quebec - “I would like to salute the decision announced today by Minister Dutil to go to court to save the Quebec portion of the firearms registry. Faced with the imminent adoption of Bill C-19 by the House of Commons of Canada, the elected representatives of the National Assembly must speak with one voice and support the position of the majority of Quebecers. In the interest of the nation and as long as the government respects and defends the Quebec consensus, we will support it, ”said the member for Marie-Victorin and official opposition spokesperson for Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Bernard Drainville.
&quot;The federal government is preparing not only to abolish the gun registry, but also to destroy the data already there, it is unacceptable!&quot; This illustrates the dysfunction of the Canadian federal system, since the stubbornness of the federal government could force Quebecers to pay a second time for something they have already paid for and which is functional! Quebec could not sit idly by in the face of this new rebuff from Canada, it was high time the Liberal government noticed it, ”added Bernard Drainville.
“Even if we hope that Quebec wins before the courts, it would be irresponsible not to consider a setback and consequently that the Quebec data in the registry be destroyed. This morning, Public Security Minister Robert Dutil said his own officials estimated the cost of a new registry at $ 35 million. If that turns out, the Parti Québécois believes that we would have no other choice but to turn to this option, ”declared Stéphane Bergeron, Member of Parliament for Verchères and official opposition spokesperson for public security. .
“No question of hoping for a burst of lucidity in Ottawa. If the federal government does not want to deal properly with gun control, Quebec will assume its responsibilities. Legal recourse has certainly become necessary, but in the meantime it is necessary to ensure the preservation of the data in the register. Let us not forget our motion of November 2, adopted unanimously, which read as follows: That the National Assembly demand that the firearms officer take all the necessary measures to preserve all of the Quebec data entered in the firearms registry, ”concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
