Magog– The dream has now come true for the tenants of Habitations Michel Lapierre, in Magog. This specialized residence, built thanks to the AccèsLogis Québec program of the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), has recently welcomed 8 young adults living with intellectual or physical disabilities. The deputy for Sherbrooke, Mr. Serge Cardin, today inaugurated the facilities which required an investment of more than $ 1.1 million from the government of Quebec and its partners.
“What an inspiring project! Thanks to these supervised housing, a new beginning is offered to these people. In addition to offering affordable housing in a safe environment, Habitations Michel Lapierre promotes the autonomy of tenants and their sense of responsibility. It is extremely touching to see the pride in the eyes of these young people and in those of their parents, ”declared MP Serge Cardin, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault.
In addition to the SHQ, which granted financial assistance of more than $ 545,000 and which guarantees the mortgage loan taken out by the Han-Logement organization, businessman Michel Lapierre has completed the down payment required for the realization of the project. project. We should also note the financial participation of the Caisse Desjardins du Lac-Memphrémagog, which paid $ 24,000 to allow the construction of the residence, as well as that of the City of Magog, which granted a tax rebate of close to of $ 26,000. The project also received a $ 15,000 grant from the Office of Energy Efficiency and Innovation of the Ministry of Natural Resources so that the building meets the Novoclimat standard.
During the ceremony, the tenant Angela Palmer gave a moving testimony: “I am more independent since I have my own apartment. I do things I didn&#39;t do before like washing, cooking, and grocery shopping. I am proud to take care of my own things and I have more confidence in myself since I fought my fear of being alone all night ”.
In addition, all tenants of the residence benefit from the Rent Supplement program, financial assistance intended for low-income people who, without this support, would have to pay more than 25% of their income for housing.
This additional assistance represents an investment of nearly $ 138,000 over five years, 90% assumed by the SHQ and 10% by the City.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether it is by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000 people. households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec. For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
