Québec, March 1, 2018 –The official opposition spokesperson for the environment and the fight against climate change, Sylvain Gaudreault, the spokesperson for public safety, Stéphane Bergeron, and the spokesperson for in municipal affairs, Martin Ouellet, deplore the short-term vision shown by the Liberal government and the sprinkling of measures it is carrying out through the Civil Protection Action Plan relating to floods, unveiled today &#39;&#39; hui.
IN SHORT
“However, we had proposed solutions last May. We then urged the government to set up a scientific and technical commission to reflect on the lessons to be learned from the 2017 floods, find ways to inform residents of flood-prone areas in Quebec much more effectively and ensure consultation with watershed. However, none of this has been done, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
“This plan is not a government strategy to reduce the risk of flooding. It is rather a sprinkling of measures, in silos, and without any real vision for the future. At best, it is an action plan aimed at coordination between civil security and the municipal world. The Liberals had a year to activate, knowing full well that extreme weather events, including exceptional spring flooding, would recur in the future and add to the effects of climate change. They present us today with a plan to react to events, whereas the work must be done upstream. When we were in government, we understood this and launched the Quebec Civil Protection Policy, which called on the public authorities to put themselves in prevention and preparation modes, rather than in reaction mode. Why are we back to square one? What has this government done for four years? », Continued Stéphane Bergeron.
“There are two big flaws in this plan. The first is in terms of governance: there is no measure relating to integrated management by watershed, and there is no vision for concerted management of floods. Real integrated water management would have placed watershed organizations at the heart of the action plan. The second gap concerns land use planning and town planning: the consideration of the risk of flooding, with regard to these two aspects, is completely deficient. The government has stood idly by for too long, ”said Martin Ouellet.
Finally, the deputies also deplore that the government has completely forgotten the victims of last spring in its plan announced this morning. “People affected by the spring floods of 2017 were asking for psychological help; either the minister did not hear them or he did not listen to them. Either way, he failed in the task, ”they concluded.
