Montreal - Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and her New Brunswick counterpart, David Alward, had a fruitful working meeting today in Montreal.
This meeting was an opportunity for the Premiers to discuss several subjects of common interest, in particular the consequences of the changes made to the employment insurance plan by the federal government on workers in Quebec and New Brunswick, the state of free trade negotiations between Canada and the European Union, the organization of childcare centers and energy.
In this regard, Premier Alward informed Ms. Marois of her last trip to Western Canada and discussed the provincial government&#39;s support for the construction of an oil pipeline linking Alberta to New Brunswick.
Quebec is not closed to this project. However, the Premier indicated that more in-depth analyzes were needed to ensure that all the conditions are met so that it can serve the interests of Quebeckers and New Brunswickers alike.
“Today, the Premier of New Brunswick presented me with a project to build an oil pipeline. However, we need to obtain more information and analysis to ensure that all the technical, environmental and economic issues of this project meet the interests of Quebecers. We have agreed to form a working group on this subject, ”said the Prime Minister.
Remember that the construction of this pipeline, a project valued at more than $ 5 billion, will have to obtain the approval of Quebec as well as that of the three Canadian provinces that it must cross.
&quot;I would like to thank Premier Marois for this opportunity to meet with us once again to discuss important issues and economic opportunities aimed at advancing projects in our neighboring provinces, such as the west-east pipeline,&quot; said Mr. Alward. I was able to report on my meeting with Alberta Premier Alison Redford and Alberta business leaders, and we agreed to continue working together to learn more. &quot;
&quot;I look forward to the information that will be gathered by the task force to help us better understand the scope of this important opportunity to spur job creation and innovation in our natural resources sector,&quot; added Mr. Alward.
