Quebec - While in Port-Cartier, the FerroAtlántica project has just been abandoned, the leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the member for Duplessis and the Parti Québécois spokesperson for northern development, Lorraine Richard, and the spokesperson for the economy, Alain Therrien, deplored the loss of this investment of $ 382 million and the 345 jobs planned. They also note that this is the second major investment project whose termination is announced this week after that of IFFCO in Bécancour. The Parti Québécois is calling on the Liberal government to act, finally, in favor of economic development and job creation.
“We are very far from the liberal promises of Philippe Couillard, who assured that the liberal effect would miraculously create 250,000 jobs. Liberal smokescreens are dangling jobs, but to no avail. The Plan Nord is not an economic plan, it is a simple plan for the primary exploitation of our resources which lets market conditions destroy jobs and projects, a plan which leaves workers with nothing when the price of metals is experiencing a significant slowdown, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“This news is a shock for everyone in Port-Cartier and throughout the region. The situation is very worrying, our region currently has fewer jobs than in 2013 and has seen its unemployment rate drop from 7.8% to 10.5%. The regions of Quebec are paying the price for this government&#39;s economic incompetence. The workers of the North Shore are fed up with broken promises and poor excuses; they need jobs now, ”continued Lorraine Richard.
“We share the immense disappointment of the citizens of the region, particularly those of Port-Cartier, who were impatiently awaiting these jobs. For several months now, we have been demanding that the Liberal government adopt a real economic development plan to diversify the economy of the regions and promote the establishment of transformation activities; it is high time he acted, ”added Alain Therrien.
“The Prime Minister appropriated the good news when the natural resources sector was in a boom cycle. Now he is leaving workers and their families behind, without taking action to help them. When I arrived as Leader of the Official Opposition last May, I reached out to the Prime Minister to bring together economic decision-makers and build consensus on priorities for action. Instead, he chose inaction. As a result, Quebec has lost 12,000 jobs in 6 months. The people of the Côte-Nord and all of Quebec are fed up with Liberal promises. They are asking for concrete action to revive our economy, ”concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau.
