Québec, March 6, 2020 - The member for Rimouski and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois for seniors and family caregivers as well as for social services, Harold LeBel, strongly denounces the government decision to cut a bonus offered to caregivers. beneficiaries who work in CHSLDs.
IN SHORT
Harold LeBel initially thought it was a misunderstanding, since the government keeps repeating that everything must be done to attract people to the field; it even goes so far as to grant scholarships of $ 7,500 to people who choose this profession, in addition to looking for foreign workers to fill the many vacant positions. “It&#39;s no secret that in Quebec, there is a dire shortage of patient attendants in all regions. These people do essential work with seniors and people with disabilities, often in difficult conditions. The decision to withdraw a bonus from them that encourages them to work in CHSLDs is therefore completely inconsistent with the objectives we want to achieve, ”he said at the outset.
The premium in question represents a sum of approximately $ 180 per 750 hours worked. “Beneficiary attendants do not earn astronomical salaries; we&#39;re talking about $ 20 an hour in the public network, and more or less $ 17 an hour in the private sector. On this account, the abolished premium could really make a difference in a budget. I therefore ask the government not only to restore the premium, but also to review all the salary and working conditions of beneficiary attendants; this profession must be more valued, ”continued the Member for Rimouski.
In fact, considering the fact that the waiting lists for a place in a CHSLD are constantly growing, it is essential to give people, especially young people, the desire to invest in a career in care. “In Bas-Saint-Laurent, for example, a quarter of the population is 65 and over. In Quebec, in total, some 40,000 people are accommodated in CHSLDs. The government, through the voice of Minister Marguerite Blais, has talked a lot about redeveloping CHSLDs, building beautiful seniors&#39; homes… but first of all we need staff to take care of people properly! », Concluded Harold LeBel.
