Quebec - “Hydro-Quebec empties the regions, at the request of the Liberal government, to fill the head office in Montreal and François Legault applauds. It is shameful and irresponsible ”.
This is what Berthier MP and spokesman for the official opposition on regional development and land use, André Villeneuve, said, blaming the Coalition Avenir Québec (CAQ) and its leader , François Legault, to be totally insensitive to the realities of the regions. What&#39;s more, the Khaki leader rubs his hands.
In fact, yesterday, during his press conference, the CAQ leader, François Legault, was happy that Hydro-Québec is proceeding with the abolition of 200 positions in several regional offices of the Crown corporation to better concentrate them in its head office in Montreal. It should be remembered that the Crown corporation intends to proceed quickly with the elimination of these positions distributed in particular in Gaspé, Sept-Îles, Rimouski, Gatineau, Chibougamau and Chicoutimi. &quot;François Legault does not understand that a loss of 15 jobs in Sept-Îles is the equivalent of a loss of 1,000 jobs in Montreal,&quot; said the deputy.
For the Parti Québécois, this declaration by François Legault is a good illustration of the fact that it has no vision or position on the role and future of the regions of Quebec. “Unlike François Legault, we believe in the Parti Québécois that the regions deserve the respect of our Crown corporation and that it cannot be acceptable to endorse Hydro-Québec&#39;s intention to centralize its activities in Montreal. Without the regions of Quebec, Hydro-Quebec would not be the flagship it is today, ”continued André Villeneuve.
The deputy also asks François Legault and the Caquistes to take a clear position on Bill 499 that the Parti Québécois tabled two weeks ago and which was greeted with great enthusiasm by all those who are &#39;are interested in the dynamic occupation of the territory and decentralization.
“This bill clearly confirms that the Parti Québécois is the party of regions. It wants to ensure that services are distributed equitably across the territory and give local and regional players the necessary tools to promote the development of their territory. If we want to make our regions dynamic and prosperous places, we must certainly not endorse the actions of Hydro-Québec, which is currently doing the opposite with its decisions, ”concluded the Member for Berthier.
