Quebec - The member for Marie-Victorin and official opposition critic for Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Bernard Drainville, is amazed that the Liberal government has chosen to support the words of Stephen Jarislowsky who affirmed that the sovereignist movement is &quot;maybe not Nazi ... but it&#39;s fascist!&quot; &quot;
The Parti Québécois tabled a motion this morning, supported by all the opposition parties and independent members, which read as follows: &quot;That the National Assembly of Quebec recognize the legitimate and democratic character of the sovereignist movement and dissociate itself from the remarks made by Stephen Jarislowsky who affirms that the sovereignist movement would be fascist ”.
On reading this motion, the Deputy Leader of the Government stood up to say “have no problem” with the first part of the motion. “By saying that it agrees with the first part of the motion, the government is implying that it endorses Mr. Jarislowsky&#39;s comments. Why does the Liberal government refuse to dissociate itself from statements that associate several million Quebeckers with the fascists? “Asked Bernard Drainville.
The deputy said he was relieved that Mr. Jarislowsky was no longer participating in the ADQ general council, but said he was nonetheless surprised that Gérard Deltell continued to praise him in the press release issued earlier by the ADQ. “Since the arrival of Gérard Deltell at the head of the ADQ, the party has become radicalized and“ federalized ”a little more every day. Moreover, the new president of the political commission of the ADQ, Claude Garcia, is the one who said during the referendum of 1995 to want to &quot;crush&quot; the sovereignists &quot;, bemoaned Bernard Drainville.
The member wished to recall that the sovereignist movement wants the independence of the Quebec nation, including all Quebecers regardless of their language, origin or religion.
“Quebec is a unique, democratic, pluralist nation open to the world. For the Parti Québécois, the best way to ensure the sustainability of our difference is through the sovereignty of Quebec, ”concluded the member for Marie-Victorin.
