Quebec - The leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois for Quebec-Canada relations, Stéphane Bergeron, and the spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Alain Therrien, denounce the silence of Prime Minister Philippe Couillard in the face of interference and attacks by the premiers of Western Canada against elected Quebecers, and they question his ability to defend the interests of Quebecers.
Recall that following the rejection by elected officials of the Montreal Metropolitan Community (CMM) of the Energy East pipeline project, the Premier of Saskatchewan, Brad Wall, showed contempt for Quebec elected officials by suggesting for mayors to reimburse their share of equalization &quot;paid&quot; by the West. Alberta Premier Rachel Notley added, calling the MWC mayors&#39; position a “short-term vision”.
“It is only for Quebec to make its choice regarding the passage of the Energy East pipeline on its territory. The interference of the premiers of Saskatchewan and Alberta in the affairs of Quebec is unacceptable. They do not have to question the decisions of Quebeckers. That said, given the raging debate, it is very surprising that we still have no idea what the Premier of Quebec thinks, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“British Columbia and the United States have refused to allow a pipeline to pass through their territory, and have not been entitled to such displays of contempt. Why a different attitude when Quebecers also express an unfavorable opinion? Would this opinion be less valid or less legitimate when it is expressed by Quebeckers? Will Prime Minister Couillard finally stop bowing to Canada and ensure that Quebeckers&#39; choices are respected, whether they agree or not with the rest of Canada? », Added Stéphane Bergeron.
“Quebecers refuse to allow their territory to serve as a highway for the export of oil from the tar sands. The mayor of Montreal and the mayors of the CMM have clearly rejected the pipeline project. What is the Prime Minister waiting for to take a stand on this issue? Can his silence be explained by the fact that his adherence to the Canadian Energy Strategy is tying his hands? “, For his part asked Alain Therrien.
