Quebec - Following the disconcerting, even irresponsible, position taken by the Attorney General of Quebec on the possibility that a religious marriage could only be considered as a &quot;spiritual union&quot; and not have civil effects - This position has also been adopted by the Superior Court - the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of justice, Véronique Hivon, asks Minister Vallée to clarify it as a matter of urgency, because it throws us into complete confusion.
&quot;While the Civil Code clearly says that any celebrant must immediately transmit the declaration of marriage to the Registrar of Civil Status, now the Attorney General adopts a position that goes against this reality, yet never questioned. until this day. This orientation has enormous potential effects, as much for the population as for the celebrants, who will not know what to expect. And that&#39;s without taking into account that we risk witnessing the birth of a parallel religious regime, with the risk of multiple or even forced marriages. It&#39;s very worrying, ”said Véronique Hivon.
Creation of a non-partisan commission on family law
Faced with the many questions and recent interpretations of the courts that have led to new law, it is high time to work on a reform of family law, rather than being dictated by new directions by the courts. “Family law affects absolutely everyone and it must reflect the values and consensus of Quebec society. This is why we believe that a non-partisan commission, like the spirit of the Commission on the question of dying with dignity, must be set up. This would be the best possible framework for a debate on the many issues relating to the reality of families today. We can think of the situation of de facto spouses and that of the increasingly numerous children resulting from this type of union, of new forms of filiation, of the reality of blended families and the role of step-parents, or questions related to surrogate mothers, for example. The report tabled last June by the Advisory Committee on Family Law, chaired by Me Alain Roy, constitutes an excellent basis for discussion, ”continued the Member for Joliette.
Véronique Hivon therefore reaches out to all political parties so that such a forum can be created quickly. &quot;The situation revealed in recent days, as to the possible absence of civil effects of religious unions and the surprising position of the State in this matter, only reinforces our conviction that we must act so that it is the elected officials who , together with the population, carry out the reform, ”she concluded.
