Quebec - In light of the information released this morning regarding the fatal accident involving a police officer and causing the death of a young boy, the member for Lac-Saint-Jean and spokesperson for the official opposition in justice, Alexandre Cloutier, believes that a review of the file is absolutely necessary. He therefore calls on the Minister of Justice, Stéphanie Vallée, to quickly appoint an external prosecutor for this purpose.
“Obviously, this issue raises very worrying questions. Quebecers are rightly asking themselves questions about the reasons that motivated the Director of Criminal and Penal Prosecutions not to lay criminal charges against the Sûreté du Québec investigator involved in the accident. We ask the Minister of Justice to take up the case and demand that it be reviewed by an external prosecutor, ”said Alexandre Cloutier.
Indeed, the information unveiled to date by the media makes it very legitimate to believe that the file must be revised. “The criminal and penal prosecuting attorney is not a judge. His analysis is based on the reasonable prospect of conviction given the provable facts. With the information we have and given the case law in dangerous driving cases, the minister must demand that this case be reviewed. It is the credibility of the judicial institutions that is at stake, ”added the member for Lac-Saint-Jean.
Finally, Alexandre Cloutier asks the Minister of Justice to ensure that henceforth, when a peace officer is involved in an incident causing the death of a citizen and that no charges are brought against him, the Director of Criminal and Penal Prosecutions (DPCP) systematically discloses the reasons justifying his decision. Moreover, in a letter tabled to the National Assembly in March 2013, as part of the creation of the Independent Investigations Office, the DPCP itself stated that it wanted to develop such a policy of unveiling its motives.
“Transparency does not undermine the independence of criminal and penal investigations. From now on, the reasons for the DPCP must be communicated to the public, not only to guarantee the perception of a system of integrity and in the service of citizens, but above all to ensure that families do not have to fight against the system simply to understand what happened, ”concluded Alexandre Cloutier.
