Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, announce that the government of Quebec has indicated its support for the agreement in principle on the major issues of the negotiation of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union (CETA). This draft agreement in principle comes after several months of intense negotiations.
&quot;We are proud to take this crucial step in the negotiations which will lead to the most important free trade agreement since NAFTA in 1994. Due to a limited internal market, Quebec must open up more to the world. With its 500 million consumers, the European Union is the world&#39;s leading economic power, ”declared the Prime Minister.
“The Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union aims to diversify and consolidate access to an essential market for Quebec businesses. CETA will make it possible to abolish all European Union and Canadian customs tariffs on industrial products, including 98% of tariff lines as soon as CETA enters into force, ”added Minister Marceau.
Quebec will therefore be able to benefit from significant gains, particularly in the sectors of aluminum, recreational vehicles, petrochemical and chemical products, sawn timber, mobile homes, auto parts, telecommunications equipment, advanced optical equipment. as well as for many processed food products.
CETA will also include a framework for the recognition of product certification bodies for sectors where CE marking is required. For Quebec, this certification will mean reduced delays and costs for our industries.
In the area of public procurement, it is important to mention that no other G20 country will benefit from access comparable to that obtained by Canada to the public procurement markets of the European Union, the largest public procurement market in the world. , valued at nearly $ 3 trillion annually.
In agriculture, CETA will grant increased access to the European market for beef and pork and eliminate tariffs on many fresh and processed products.
However, the federal government agreed to an increase in the cheese import quota, which could have repercussions on the income of dairy and cheese producers in Quebec.
“The government of Quebec had expressed to the federal government its opposition to such a compromise in the face of the demands of the European Union. Furthermore, I confirm that we have obtained a firm commitment from the federal government according to which compensation measures will be provided for dairy producers affected by this increase in imports. These measures will specifically aim to compensate for any loss of income attributable to the increase in the import quota, to tighten the entry of out-of-quota cheeses, to implement tighter border control effective in the short term and finally to better take into account the share of the sector present in Quebec in the allocation of import licenses, ”explained Nicolas Marceau.
It was agreed that these compensation mechanisms should be known and detailed before the final ratification of CETA.
Finally, Quebec has made sure to exclude from the scope of CETA, in particular, services related to education, health and social services, services provided in the exercise of governmental power and management. of the offer. With regard to cultural industries, the negotiations made it possible to put forward an approach of exceptions by chapter, with a reference, in the preamble to CETA, to the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of Diversity. cultural expressions of UNESCO.
“As soon as we arrived, our government indicated its support for a possible free trade agreement aimed at diversifying market access for Quebec industries. Until the ratification of a final agreement, we will continue to work tirelessly to ensure that Quebec derives as many benefits as possible from this agreement, ”added the Premier.
“Quebec was a stakeholder throughout the negotiations, and we made significant gains for our economy. We have made ambitious offers to allow Quebec companies to access European markets more easily. It is therefore essential to complete the work in order to allow Quebec to benefit as quickly as possible from major spinoffs by diversifying our exports to the European Union, ”concluded the chief negotiator for Quebec, Pierre Marc Johnson.
