Quebec - The official opposition in the National Assembly asks that the chief negotiator of Quebec for the signing of a free trade agreement between the European Union and Canada, Pierre Marc Johnson, meet with parliamentarians very soon in order to take stock of the state of the negotiations.
“The current vagueness surrounding the negotiations worries many stakeholders in Quebec. The time has come to take stock with parliamentarians in order to dispel the growing fears, ”declared the member for Rousseau and spokesperson for finance and economic development, Nicolas Marceau.
He recalled that the negotiations cover a wide range of economic activities. Access to public markets for the provinces and municipalities is of great concern, as is the protection of patents for pharmaceutical companies, the supply management system in the agricultural sector, and subsidy programs in the cultural field.
“Is the privatization of municipal water supply services, a sector in which European private investors are very active, on the table? Can the Government of Quebec assure our farmers that our way of doing things, which has proven itself, is not being called into question? Should Quebec open up its publishing assistance programs to European companies? These are just a few examples of questions that we ask ourselves and for which we will have to get answers quickly, ”said Mr. Marceau.
The member for Rousseau recalls that in October 2010, Mr. Johnson presented himself to a parliamentary committee, but that this meeting was not satisfactory because the Liberal government had refused to submit the relevant documents.
“There is an opportunity for Quebec to intensify its economic ties with Europe, but it must be done while respecting our values and the Quebec consensus. The Liberal government must change its practices, stop negotiating behind closed doors, inform the public about the issues at stake and submit the text of the agreement to parliamentarians as it goes along. of its evolution. We must therefore demonstrate the greatest transparency and this must begin with an accountability of Mr. Johnson to the deputies with the relevant documents, underlined the member for Rousseau. Let’s not be delusional either; Mr. Johnson has limited influence within the Canadian delegation, one negotiator in ten, ”he concluded.
The Parti Québécois will support the motion presented by the independent member for Nicolet-Yamaska, Jean-Martin Aussant, which will be debated today in the National Assembly.
