Montreal - MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and official opposition spokesperson for secularism, Carole Poirier, is puzzled by the differences of opinion observed between François Legault and Chantal Longpré, president of the Fédération québécoise des directions educational institution and member of the Coalition for the Future of Quebec (CAQ) on the issue of reasonable accommodation.
Indeed, Ms. Longpré spoke publicly this week against the fact that Muslim employees of the Montreal School Board were granted an additional day off due to the end of Ramadan. Chantal Longpré speaks of unfairness towards other employees who will not benefit from this leave.
“There is food for thought here. However, as we have been hammering unceasingly for months and, as Mrs Longpré underlines, it is precisely because of the political vacuum on the question that such situations occur ”, declared Carole Poirier.
François Legault said he was opposed to the wearing of conspicuous religious symbols for civil servants, but only for certain categories of civil servants, judges for example. The founder of the CAQ also specified that secularism was not a priority for him.
“The debate on reasonable accommodation and the secularism that we want in Quebec has resurfaced regularly since 2006. The Liberal government has totally failed in this area. Likewise, the positions expressed by François Legault and his coalition are totally unacceptable because what they propose would create two categories of civil servants: those who would have the right to wear conspicuous religious symbols and those who would not! François Legault is only suggesting that Quebecers divide them and create inequities between them! This attitude is totally irresponsible! », Added Carole Poirier.
“Both the Liberals and François Legault&#39;s coalition want to maintain the case-by-case regime in matters of secularism and reasonable accommodation. Quebec needs a real debate on secularism. However, on this subject, PLQ or CAQ, it is white cap and white cap! Only the Parti Québécois proposes to reject open secularism and to set up an inclusive secularism charter which would define once and for all the conditions for living together in our society, ”concluded Carole Poirier.
