Lac-Mégantic– The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announced an agreement in principle for a maximum amount of $ 1,348,683 for the renovation project of the auditorium of the polyvalente Montignac in Lac-Mégantic. The deputy for Sherbrooke, Serge Cardin, was also present for the occasion.
“For the community of Lac-Mégantic, the auditorium of the polyvalente Montignac occupies an important place in the dissemination of the performing arts. This renovation project will allow it to fully fulfill its role and shows that the Government of Quebec recognizes the importance of providing better access to quality cultural facilities to our fellow citizens throughout the territory, ”declared Minister Kotto.
“There is no doubt that the auditorium of the polyvalente Montignac is a privileged place of access to culture in the region. Citizens of neighboring municipalities regularly converge in Lac-Mégantic for fun and relaxation. This work is therefore made necessary in order to provide the public with adequate services and diversified programming, up to their expectations, ”added MP Serge Cardin.
The renovation project aims in particular to redevelop the performance hall and improve the quality of the scenographic equipment, thus enabling the presenter, the Mégantic Cultural Committee, to meet the criteria of professionalism in the performing arts. This multidisciplinary broadcaster, supported in operation by the Ministry of Culture and Communications, offers a rich and varied programming in theater and song that is rarely found outside major centers.
Built in 1972, the auditorium of the polyvalente Montignac in Lac-Mégantic is the only professional performance hall serving the population of the MRC du Granit, which includes more than 20 municipalities. It also welcomes audiences from the Haut-Saint-François MRC and the Chaudière-Appalaches region.
This project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan, made public in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 2 billion for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make informed choices.
