Sherbrooke– On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the Minister responsible for the Estrie region, Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, and the Member for Sherbrooke, Serge Cardin, announced an agreement in principle for a maximum amount of $ 4 million for the construction of a new hall specializing in dance and theater for young people in Sherbrooke.
“With this agreement in principle, the Government of Quebec encourages the first moments of wonder in a child during a show and the precious moments of a cultural family outing. This place of dissemination will also open its doors to several thousand students each year and will thus offer them a new learning environment. This support from the Government of Quebec reflects our desire to promote artistic growth and development among our young people, ”Minister Kotto said.
“I am convinced that the population of Estrie will develop an attachment for this new place which will have the particular mission of initiating our young citizens in the making into cultural life… and therefore of reintroducing their parents who will accompany them! In addition, I would like to salute all those who put the elements in place to reach this agreement in principle. Their commitment demonstrates the collective desire to diversify the region&#39;s cultural offer. Finally, I am all the more happy with this news since it refers to an electoral commitment that my colleagues from Sherbrooke and I made in August 2012, ”declared Minister Hébert.
“This announcement is very encouraging for the citizens of the City of Sherbrooke and the Estrie region. This project will greatly contribute to the cultural development of our community and will thus increase the quality of life of young families, ”added MP Cardin.
The total cost of construction is estimated at more than $ 8.6 million and is shared between the Ministry of Culture and Communications, the City of Sherbrooke and the Côté scène organization which brings together three Sherbrooke presenters, namely the Petit Théâtre de Sherbrooke, the Théâtre du Double Signe and the Sursaut dance company.
This project is part of the 2012-2016 Strategic Plan of the Ministry of Culture and Communications (MCC). The MCC&#39;s contribution comes from the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan, made public in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 2 billion for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make informed choices.
