Quebec - Following the vote on the approval of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada and the European Union (EU), the Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesperson for agriculture and food, André Villeneuve, and the spokesperson for international relations, Stéphane Bergeron, denounced the Liberals and Caquists, that is to say the PLCAQ, for their abandonment of producers and Quebec cheese makers.
IN SHORT
“Overall, CETA will be beneficial to our exporting SMEs and our entire economy, there is no doubt about it. However, before officially approving it, Quebec had to wait to know the details of the compensation program for cheese makers. The federal government had accepted the principle. But he encountered no resistance from the PLQ and the CAQ, who said yes without knowing the program, without any conditions. The PLCAQ decided to sign a blank check in Ottawa, at the expense of our producers. He cowardly dropped the balance of power against the federal government that the Parti Québécois government had established, ”lamented Jean-François Lisée.
“When the federal government decided to sacrifice our dairy industry in exchange for western Canadian beef, our government demanded and obtained formal assurance that Quebec cheese makers would receive full compensation from Ottawa. However, the Liberal government has just given its acceptance, while the compensation promises to be insufficient and, moreover, we do not even know the details, ”added André Villeneuve.
“I denounce the rejection by the Liberals and the Caquists of my postponement motion. We could have given the federal government time to fulfill its commitment in full. The assessment of the impacts for our dairy industry, our cheese industry is in the order of $ 1.5 billion, and the proposed compensation is a long way off. Account. The Liberal government and the members of the CAQ have knowingly abandoned our producers, there is nothing to add, ”concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
