Quebec - Accompanied by representatives of the Association des fromagers artisans du Québec, the leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesperson for agriculture and food, André Villeneuve, the spokesperson for in international relations, Stéphane Bergeron, and the spokesperson for the economy, Alain Therrien, announced that they will table an amendment, today, during the debate on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada and the European Union (EU). The purpose of this amendment is to postpone the approval of the Accord by the National Assembly for 6 months, the time for the federal government to fulfill its commitment to fully compensate Quebec producers and cheese makers.
IN SHORT
“It is important to repeat: we are convinced that CETA will benefit our exporting SMEs throughout Quebec. We are not, however, for naive approval. In the negotiations, the Canadian government favored the West and made Quebec pay. The Parti Québécois government had obtained a formal guarantee from the Harper government that producers would receive full compensation. We call on the Trudeau government to fulfill this commitment; he must come to an agreement with the cheese makers on financial compensation and import quotas. On these issues, as on many others, the federal government is not sensitive to the reality of Quebec. For its part, the government of Philippe Couillard is neither feared nor respected in Ottawa. He is only expressing his disappointment. Its only lever is to suspend its agreement until Ottawa repairs its damage, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
“We are proud of our fine cheeses, which represent 60% of all Canadian production. Quebec is therefore the most affected; for our cheese makers, we are talking about an estimated loss of $ 1.5 billion. The proposed compensation, $ 350 million, is insufficient. Furthermore, we still do not have the details regarding the distribution of this sum. There is no guarantee that industrial players will not have the lion&#39;s share, leaving only crumbs for artisan cheese makers. However, we must do everything in our power to support this important economic sector, ”added André Villeneuve.
It should be remembered that under this agreement, an additional 17,700 tonnes of fine European cheeses will enter Canada, a concession representing approximately 4% of the market. “Access to the European market is obviously a good thing for our exporting companies, but at what price! Europeans are already entitled to two-thirds of the 20,400 tonnes of cheese imported annually. This additional quantity will directly cut the market shares of local producers, who are mainly Quebecers. The option of granting import quotas to producers rather than third parties or retailers would mitigate the impact of the additional 17,700 tonnes. Instead of cannibalizing the market, the income from imports could be used to reinvest in the Quebec cheese industry, particularly in promotion or research, for example, ”explained Stéphane Bergeron.
“It is estimated that Quebec cheese makers will lose $ 150 million per year; compensation of $ 100 million over 4 years is therefore clearly insufficient. We still have time: we can always ask the federal government to improve the compensation. And above all, we can urge the Quebec government to react strongly and support local producers. Six months is a reasonable time; we are in favor of CETA but, if the Liberal government persists in asking us to approve it today, we will abstain, ”concluded Alain Therrien.
