Quebec - The Parti Québécois spokesperson for the economy, Alain Therrien, the spokesperson for agriculture and food, André Villeneuve, and the spokesperson for international relations, Stéphane Bergeron, are disappointed to see that once again the government is ignoring the concerns of farmers; as proof, he refuses to study the free trade agreement with Europe in parliamentary committee.
Yesterday, the Parti Québécois tabled a motion to convene a parliamentary committee to study the impact of the free trade agreement for Quebeckers, and in particular for our dairy and cheese producers.
The motion reads as follows:
“That the Committee on Labor and the Economy study the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union, in particular the impact on the dairy and cheese industry in Quebec; That to this end, the Commission hears all the persons and all the organizations that it deems necessary to convene; That the organization of the mandate be entrusted to the members of the Commission; Finally, that this motion be an order of the National Assembly. &quot;
“The Parti Québécois has always maintained that to accept the free trade agreement with Europe, dairy and cheese producers must be adequately compensated by the federal government. However, the compensation announced is clearly insufficient. It therefore remains essential to mitigate the impact of the agreement on our producers, ”said Stéphane Bergeron.
“The softness of the Liberal government is hurting our dairy and cheese producers. The Minister of Agriculture went to meet with his federal counterpart and came back empty-handed. Ottawa certainly does not intend to bow to a government that does not give a damn about its farmers, ”said Alain Therrien.
“The government&#39;s refusal is just another sign that it has abandoned farmers. Since their arrival, the Liberals have cut more than $ 425 million from the budget allocated to agriculture. Minister Pierre Paradis, like the Prime Minister, refuses to cancel these changes which will increase property taxes for 83% of farmers, for amounts of up to $ 3,000, or even $ 4,000. Our producers have had enough! For two and a half years, they have endured a government that turns its back on them, ”concluded André Villeneuve.
