Quebec - Twelve months after signing an agreement to improve patient access with the Federation of General Practitioners, the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, unveiled results which show that he has failed. Diane Lamarre, Member of Parliament for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, notes with disappointment that the targets, in terms of the number of registered patients and the attendance rate of physicians, are far from be achieved.
Ms. Lamarre also deplores the fact that the minister waited until after the end of the parliamentary session to provide these figures, although she has been asking for them for several months and that quarterly reports have been available for a year. “Was he afraid to give this information that was not reassuring for the population and to submit to my questions? She asked.
“Since June 2015, that is to say for a year, barely 2.4% of Quebecers have been newly registered with a family doctor. It will therefore take an increase of 14% in a year and a half to reach the target of 85% of Quebecers registered before December 2017. How can the Minister think that he will meet his objectives? “, Also questioned Diane Lamarre.
“As for the attendance rate, which corresponds to the actual ability of people to see their family doctor when they need it, the statistics presented by the Minister mean nothing, since they are based on a number of registered patients much lower than expected. Gaétan Barrette&#39;s confession today confirms that despite the return of the Bolduc bonus and all the other registration bonuses it has granted to physicians and which cost more than $ 22 million last year, targets are missed. Meanwhile, the minister continues to have a contemptuous attitude towards doctors, accusing them of being responsible for the delay, and patients, for their part, are being forced to wait, again. This is unacceptable, ”added the spokesperson.
“We have already deplored the minister&#39;s lack of transparency in monitoring the targets set in this agreement. While he was supposed to give us news every three months, it took a year for him to finally admit that the improvement of access is not there and that his targets are far from being achieved. . Even the Prime Minister admitted this week that his Minister of Health was not setting the record straight on another issue affecting long-term care. Today, what Gaétan Barrette admitted confirms our concerns: his reforms are a failure. One million patients still do not have a family doctor, and nearly 500,000 of them are in great need and want one, since they have registered at the access desk. In short, the increase in registrations and access, by the minister&#39;s own admission, is not materializing, ”concluded Diane Lamarre.
