Quebec City, August 30, 2017 - Faced with the complete failure of the Barrette reform, this umpteenth liberal reform over the past fifteen years, the leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the health critic , Accessibility to Care and Home Support, Diane Lamarre, present a realistic and innovative plan that finally puts the patient at the center of our health system.
IN SHORT
“With their structural reforms, the Liberals have only weakened our health care system, without ever getting to the heart of the problem. We will have the courage to take the real steps to ensure that Quebecers finally have access to the care they are entitled to expect in a modern and prosperous society like ours ”, declared Jean straight away. -François Lisée.For a decompartmentalization in health The Liberals have always refused to do so, but Quebec can no longer wait: physicians must be freed from a large number of procedures and foster real interdisciplinarity. “We are proposing to increase the role of specialized nurse practitioners, NPs, and to extend the model of clinics without a doctor to treat minor emergencies to all of Quebec. IPSs could also provide services in CLSCs to complement the first-line offer. It is not normal, for example, for nurses to be supervised by fee-for-service doctors for vaccination operations, as has recently been reported. It is these kinds of aberrations that cause costs to go up, and access to go down. More than ever, we need a clinical big bang! », For her part, illustrated Diane Lamarre. The other professionals must also have more responsibilities in the dispensation of care. “For example, occupational therapists assess seniors for the renewal of their driver&#39;s licenses; why, with some exceptions, should they see a doctor again? Dental hygienists must be able to clean without supervision, otherwise people in CHSLDs will never have access to this basic service again. As for dentists, they rightly claim access to the DSQ, because certain drugs affect oral health. Psychologists can speed up the assessment of children with mental health problems or ADHD. Physiotherapists and optometrists can help with the assessment and treatment of several conditions. Pharmacists, paramedics, social workers, audiologists… in short, all other professionals have a lot to offer patients in Quebec. Quebecers have contributed for decades to their training, but our outdated laws keep these professionals in reducing roles that do not allow them to make their full contribution, while doctors are no longer sufficient for the task. Elsewhere, by decompartmentalizing the role of other professionals, we have succeeded in improving the service offer, ”added the spokesperson.
Patients at the heart of our budgetary choices The Minister of Health had carte blanche to find solutions to the problems of access to care, but he chose to invest everything in doctors. In fact, three quarters of the new sums invested in health went into the pockets of 20,000 doctors, without any guarantee of improving access. The social contract was not respected. “This decision is one of the worst to have been taken in recent decades in the area of public finances. Patients and taxpayers are paying the price. Once in government, we will immediately freeze the physician compensation envelope and reinvest these funds in services. And we will put an end to their incorporation, which causes us to lose millions of dollars annually, ”also indicated Jean-François Lisée, who also notes that this year, the remuneration of physicians will increase by a minimum of 6%, which represents nearly a third of the increase in the entire health budget. For real access to primary care &quot;What to do when you are one of the 25% of Quebecers who still do not have access to a family doctor? And, even if you have one, what to do when you need it in the evening or on the weekend? Too many people end up in emergency needlessly, and too often. We must act! &quot;Added Diane Lamarre.&quot; We will make sure that primary care is available when patients really need it. We will ensure that Quebeckers have access to services in the evenings and on weekends. We will guarantee proximity access, to an IPS or to a doctor, until 9 p.m. And we will put an end to the ping-pong of doctors between the public and private systems, ”the spokesperson also mentioned. This is an important announcement for patients in Quebec. The official opposition will have a lot more to do in the coming weeks, especially for seniors, as well as social services, home care, and public health in general. a Parti Québécois government in October 2018 will yield results for patients in Quebec. Structural reforms and bad liberal solutions have disappointed. The patients are still desperate. However, it is possible to go up this slope; it&#39;s about having courage. In this area, the Liberals have proved their inability. We are going to do it! », Concluded the leader of the official opposition. Let us recall finally that the health team of the Parti Québécois, made up of the deputies Diane Lamarre, Sylvain Pagé and Dave Turcotte, will travel the regions of Quebec in the coming months in order to find out about our proposals and discuss with local stakeholders about the best ways to deploy the plan, according to their reality on the ground.
Axis I: For professional decompartmentalization in health
4. Allow professionals other than physicians to refer patients to specialists, under certain conditions.
Axis II: Patients at the heart of our budgetary choices
5. Freeze, as soon as power is taken, the budget for physician remuneration until total remuneration is rebalanced around a Quebec standard taking into account the share of the wealth that society agrees to pay its physicians. - a standard which must not be the Canadian average. 6. Reinvest money to ensure better access. 7. End the incorporation of physicians.
Axis III: For genuine access to the first line
8. Guarantee local access to a specialist nurse or doctor until 9 p.m. Put an end to doctors&#39; ping-pong between the private and the public.
Some examples In other Canadian provinces and in the United States, NPs are authorized to prescribe drugs and make certain diagnoses. Those of the United Kingdom and Australia also enjoy much more autonomy than the Quebec IPS. The same is true of dental hygienists in Ontario. Pharmacists are licensed to vaccinate in all US states and almost all provinces in Canada, as well as in Portugal and Australia. In addition, in Ontario, they have been authorized for 10 years to review medications.
