Quebec - The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, today tabled Bill 65 in order to facilitate the replacement and reconstitution of the notaries&#39; registries that were destroyed during the railway disaster which occurred in Lac-Mégantic on July 6. According to an estimate from the Chambre des notaires du Québec, the destruction of 12 notary registries resulted in the loss of nearly 100,000 notarial deeds: marriage contracts, wills, mandates in case of incapacity, mortgage deeds, deeds of purchase or sale of property, etc.
“The destruction of notarial acts represents the loss of a piece of the history of the community of Lac-Mégantic, the notaries&#39; registries being the silent and privileged witnesses of the history of a region. It is also the loss, from a legal point of view, of a precious guarantee of the protection of the rights of the citizens who inhabit it. With the adoption of this bill, we will give ourselves more effective tools to replace and restore destroyed transplants, in the interest of our fellow citizens, ”said Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud.
In fact, the current rules of law were not adopted by the Quebec legislator to respond to an extreme situation such as the disaster in Lac-Mégantic. Rather, the applicable articles of the Code of Civil Procedure were adopted with a view to replacing or reconstituting an act or a few acts lost or destroyed inadvertently. This is why current law provides that each replaced or reconstituted notarial deed must first be submitted to the court.
The bill therefore proposes, in particular, a streamlined and diversified procedure for replacing acts. It provides that the documents destroyed may be replaced by the insertion in the registry of an authentic copy of these documents. The copy thus integrated into the registry would then have the value of an original. In addition, in cases where the replacement of the deed will not be possible, the bill proposes that the notary proceeds to its reconstitution, but only at the request of a party or an interested third party.
“Given the high number of documents destroyed, compliance with the general rules would require too much human and financial investment, in addition to hampering the efficient functioning of the judicial system. This is why, and exceptionally, the bill provides for specific rules for the reconstitution of transplants destroyed in the disaster that occurred last summer in Lac-Mégantic ”concluded Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud.
