Gatineau– The Minister of Health and Social Services, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and the Minister of Public Security responsible for the Outaouais region, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, confirm the addition of 168 hours of weekly ambulance services for the city of Gatineau. This addition of services, granted following recommendations made by the Outaouais Health and Social Services Agency guide, Dr. Donald Aubin, takes effect immediately. This represents an additional investment of $ 1,162,854 annually, an amount that is added to the overall budget for pre-hospital emergency services in the Outaouais, for a total amount of $ 19,991,297.
“These additional hours of ambulance services, which had been granted on a temporary basis a few months ago, correspond, after analysis, to a real need in the region. Our government is proud to support the Outaouais paramedics cooperative in its efforts to better serve the population, ”said Minister Réjean Hébert.
“The issue of pre-hospital emergency services is very important for the citizens of the region. This addition of services is a concrete demonstration that our government is listening to the needs and concerns of citizens, ”continued the Minister responsible for the region, Stéphane Bergeron.
In addition, Minister Hébert indicated that the mandate of Doctor Donald Aubin, an accompanist of the Outaouais Agency, will be renewed for an initial period of 6 months. This mandate may be extended up to 12 months depending on the progress of the work. “The support report submitted by Doctor Aubin on September 30 was very enlightening, in particular showing the mobilization of all stakeholders to improve the provision of prehospital services in the region. There is no doubt, however, of the need to continue this support in order to ensure that the achievements of the work accomplished remain, in particular in terms of governance of the institutions concerned and the Agency&#39;s responsibility in the field ”, precise.
Note that the mandate of Doctor Aubin has been adjusted according to the work already carried out and what remains to be accomplished. Its role will be in particular to ensure the implementation of the various elements of the Agency&#39;s action plan following the report of the Ministerial Working Group on pre-hospital emergency services in the Outaouais, to ensure the proper functioning the Board of Directors of the Outaouais Health Communication Center and the independence of its governance. It will also have to ensure that the corrective measures to be made in the financial management and the allocation of ambulance resources in the region are continued.
