On September 24, 2015, the Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, addressed the participants of the Annual Congress of the Federation of Quebec Municipalities in Quebec. Here are his speaking notes.
The pronounced version is authentic.
Thank you for the invitation. I am honored to speak to decision-makers and key players in our democracy committed to the development of Quebec.
Unlike some members of the government, in the Parti Québécois, we consider that the voice of elected officials who sit in town halls counts as much as the voice of Members of the National Assembly.
Allow me to greet Sylvain Gaudreault, MNA for Jonquière and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of municipal affairs and decentralization, as well as Gaétan Lelièvre, MNA for Gaspé and spokesperson for regional development and fisheries, in addition to being responsible for our beautiful region of Gaspésie – Îles-de-la-Madeleine.
Beyond their vast experience in the municipal world and their achievements as former ministers, Sylvain and Gaétan are passionate about the advancement of the regions. They have always been and will always be at your service and at your service, like all the members of the Parti Québécois.
I would also like to salute the elected officials of Chaudière-Appalaches who represent this year&#39;s star region. There are several reasons for this choice, but will you be surprised if I remember the dynamism and the entrepreneurial spirit that animate this region?
When I was chair of the board of the Fondation de l&#39;Entrepreneurship, I had the opportunity to give a conference at the Beauce School of Entrepreneurship, a great achievement that shines throughout Quebec. Congratulations to the Dutil family, who are behind it.
The Chaudière-Appalaches region is inspiring in many ways and I look forward to talking to its citizens.
Also as part of my presidency of the Foundation&#39;s board, I traveled across Quebec to promote entrepreneurship, as my father did during his lifetime.
He believed, like me, that Quebecers can and must succeed in business in order to continue building a strong economy, and that we have every interest in having control over our decisions. This is what I continue to do.
Some have criticized me for spending too much money during the leadership campaign of the Parti Québécois. Well, I want to tell them that I spent this money to meet with those who live in our regions. Those who participate in the occupation of the territory. Those who are building Quebec day after day.
This is how I came to Thetford Mines, Montmagny, Lévis and Bellechasse, as in Rouyn, Alma, Granby, Sainte-Julie, Trois-Rivières, Baie-Comeau, Gaspé, La Pocatière, in Cap-Chat and Matane, where I had the opportunity to meet your colleague from Amqui, Gaétan Ruest.
I continued to do so as leader of the official opposition in Dégelis, Esprit-Saint, Havre-Saint-Pierre, Sainte-Florence, Dolbeau, and I can tell you that I will continue because I have always considered it important to meet people.
It is a principle that is dear to me and that I applied very early on when I was in business. I consider this principle to be equally important in politics.
I believe that as elected officials, our first duty is to listen to the women and men who live in our vast territory.
And I believe that in business as in politics, decisions should not be taken only from the head office, just as too often decisions are made in Quebec for the municipal world.
There is no Quebec without its regions. I am deeply convinced of this. Our history is marked by the determination and the strength of people who built villages, then regions and who participated in the building of this beautiful and great nation which is ours.
We must never forget this, especially not in the name of a harmful economic doctrine disconnected from reality.
The Parti Québécois has always recognized and will continue to recognize the crucial importance of the dynamic occupation of the territory and, at the same time, that local and regional authorities need concrete support and autonomy in order to develop according to their aspirations.
This was true at the time of Mr. Jacques Léonard, who was Minister of State for Planning and Minister of Municipal Affairs for the Parti Québécois, and who created the regional county municipalities. I was talking to him yesterday and I can tell you that his interest in the municipal sector is still just as keen.
Trust, respect and recognition form the basis of decentralization aimed at building strong and autonomous communities.
To the vagaries of changes in government, the mood of ministers or the tastes of the day, such as the austerity regime that the Liberal government is serving Quebecers, we will oppose an approach that offers stability, predictability and protection.
The rights of the regions must be protected and I fully intend to discuss with you to determine the terms of this protection.
I have spent more than 25 years in the corporate world. I would never have been successful if I had to manage with uncertain or changing income assumptions.
So, I am extremely well placed to understand your annoyance and your weariness to design a business plan and your budget without guarantee of stability, and without the certainty of being able to count on the means required to achieve it.
We must put an end to this approach which is dependent on the goodwill of the Minister of Municipal Affairs or the doctrinal approaches of the President of the Conseil du trésor.
Currently, the Liberal government is moving in the opposite direction and navigating against the interests of the regions. He does not understand that local decisions must be taken by those who have the capacity to assess the real needs of their fellow citizens.
Of course, Premier Couillard had promised something else. But, with the liberals, the words fly and the damage remains:
$ 80 million reduction in the budget devoted to local and regional development; $ 130 million in cuts to La Financière agricole; Cuts to health and education, when these are services essential to the vitality of our communities.
In this regard, the government has shown a staggering lack of vision with the abolition of regional conferences of elected officials, which notably supported organizations fighting against dropping out of school. The same lack of vision with the cuts made in the youth employment centers.
The presence of young people in the region is one of the most important factors in the sustainability of our villages. What will happen to our regions and our municipalities if our young people leave them to go to town?
The CRÉs and the CJEs helped to keep our young people in the regions and to train them for a job. Our youth need support, not cut their wings.
It is exactly the same situation with the CLDs, which supported future entrepreneurs who, in turn, created wealth and jobs.
Austerity deprives the regions of its young talents. And these losses, the Liberal government will never be able to quantify. No offense to the President of the Treasury Board, the intangible exists.
The list of cuts would still be long. I am sure you can complete it or cite concrete damage these cuts have caused to you. Obviously, Premier Couillard wants to balance public finances on the backs of the regions. It does not propose any growth or development plan, nor any economic strategy.
This morning, I asked him the following question: how is it that after 18 months in power, we have no economic strategy, no strategic plan for Investissement Québec, our lever for our economic development?
I once again offered him my collaboration to quickly bring together the economic players in Quebec around the creation of jobs and wealth. Always the same categorical refusal.
While the government persists, our economy is bogged down.
It is not just the economic slowdown that is of concern to the population.
Over the past few months, I have met a number of citizens and elected officials concerned about major projects for the transportation of hazardous materials. While recent events in Quebec urge us to exercise exemplary caution, citizens feel abandoned because of the Liberal government&#39;s lack of reaction to Ottawa&#39;s negligence.
My colleague Martine Ouellet, the Member for Vachon, can also testify to the public&#39;s concerns and federal carelessness through her tour of the Chaleur Terminals project.
The federal government has long since abdicated its responsibilities with respect to transportation and its role of protecting the public. It is the municipalities that pay for this laxity.
The reports from the Office of the Auditor General of Canada and the Transportation Safety Board are damning.
In 2009, Canada had one inspector for 14 crude tank cars. In 2013, it was an inspector for 4000 wagons. Yet we still send $ 48 billion of our taxes to Ottawa. In addition, 40% of railway inspectors did not receive the training required to perform checks.
If the Energy East and Chaleur Terminals projects are successful, hundreds of municipalities will see the risk associated with transporting hazardous materials skyrocket. However, these projects do not offer any positive spinoffs for Quebec. That risks for our safety and our environment.
British Columbia said no. The United States said no. Why should Quebec accept this fool&#39;s bargain? Because we are forced to do so and we do not have the legal and constitutional means to oppose it.
The Constitution Act and the jurisprudence of Canadian courts, whose judges are appointed by Ottawa, are clear on this issue.
Like you, I hope that Quebec&#39;s jurisdictions will be respected, that communities have the information they need to ensure the safety of citizens. But we need more and you know what I think we need!
Federal authority allows other interests to take precedence over the priorities of our communities.
It is by achieving independence that we can recover all the powers we need to ensure the prosperity of our regions and protect our populations who live near the railroads.
I would like to end by telling you that the best partnerships are mutually beneficial.
Unfortunately, the government keeps the revenues to itself, but it shovels the cuts in the heart of the regions.
He was inspired by the federal government, which had done the same to Quebec when it decided to release the infrastructure, for which it is responsible, however, under the Constitution.
Thus, Gaspé was forced to buy back its airport, but without the financial means associated with it.
The Rimouski wharf is abandoned and endangers the city&#39;s economic development.
Passenger rail transport in the Gaspé is being abandoned, and anecdotal air service is reserved for the North Shore.
Broken promises, recurring cuts and the lack of an economic plan hurt the regions as much as municipal democracy.
Whatever the government says, a loss of $ 850 million over 4 years is not a gain.
In the end, it is always the taxpayers and families of our regions who will see their services cut or who will not be entitled to a rich and healthy community.
Although some measures concerning labor relations appear attractive at first glance, I believe that they should be approached with caution, with very great caution.
It would be perilous to want to correct one imbalance by another. This risks creating more disruption, but not solving the problem, in addition to opening the door to a costly and endless proliferation of legal remedies and latent conflicts.
Let us not forget that it is always the citizens who foot the bill.
The devil is in the details and we must ask ourselves the following question, as many do today: are we dealing with a poisoned gift?
The government must provide candid and precise answers. But it looks like he&#39;s going to wait until next fall to do so. Until then, all kinds of legitimate concerns will arise.
This is certainly not the climate in which we must operate to ensure useful, efficient and harmonious economic development. It makes you wonder if the Liberal government of Philippe Couillard is not the government of the chicane.
Gentlemen and ladies, you are essential partners in the construction of the Quebec of today and tomorrow.
The government must stop having this paternalistic attitude towards the municipal sector. I consider the desire for autonomy of municipalities to be more than legitimate and I can easily see the advantages.
You can count on the Parti Québécois to work alongside you. I learned a lot by listening to elected municipal officials and citizens.
There is no greater wealth than pride and the desire to succeed. And this pride and this desire to succeed, they are cultivated in all regions of Quebec.
Thank you and have a good congress!
