Quebec, January 16, 2017 - The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on agriculture, André Villeneuve, the spokesperson for the Conseil du trésor, Nicole Léger, and the spokesperson for the National Capital Region, Agnès Maltais, are dissatisfied with the changes made to the Council of Ministers this morning.
“How many reshuffles have there been since the arrival of this Liberal government? Six. Each time the Prime Minister tries to erase his mistakes and start over. He wants the coming year to be less disastrous than the one that has just ended. However, Quebeckers are not fooled. This government is worn out. The revival lies in the Parti Québécois, as we clearly demonstrated this weekend during the National Council, ”Jean-François Lisée said straight away.
The elected members of the Parti Québécois are indeed of the opinion that many other changes would have been necessary. “Let us think of Gaétan Barrette, whose decisions and style are denounced from all sides, and of the unprecedented crisis created by the Minister of Justice, Stéphanie Vallée. In the eyes of Philippe Couillard, these people deserved to stay in office? “, Then questioned the leader of the official opposition.
“Another example: in the case of agricultural property taxes, as in several others, Pierre Paradis has lost the confidence of the agricultural community. The Prime Minister should have taken advantage of this ministerial adjustment to remove Pierre Paradis from his duties as Minister of Agriculture. Farmers, with the support of the Parti Québécois, have been asking for it for too long, ”illustrated André Villeneuve.
“Moreover, political and economic leaders have declared that Minister François Blais was not doing the job in the Capitale-Nationale region and yet the Prime Minister decided to keep him in office. It is a slap in the face to the Liberal MPs in the region; Philippe Couillard considers that they have neither the qualities nor the experience to defend the interests of the Capitale-Nationale ”, for his part reacted Agnès Maltais.
“The only change made by Philippe Couillard is to give the Treasury Board to Pierre Moreau, whose return we welcome. Carlos Leitão, who devoted much more time to his role as Minister of Finance, never took the time to negotiate with state lawyers and notaries. His handling of the case was lamentable. The fact that he is leaving is, after all, a relief. The new president must take the time to negotiate and quickly put an end to this conflict which has lasted long enough, ”for her part demanded Nicole Léger.
&quot;Finally, we note, once again, the refusal of the Prime Minister to trust the former police officer turned MP Robert Poëti, who was dismissed from his post at Transport for having been a little too curious about embezzlement which took place there, ”concluded the members of the official opposition.
