Quebec - Following the special meeting of the Board of Directors (CA) of the Center hospitalier de l&#39;Université de Montréal (CHUM) held last night, the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Doctor Réjean Hébert, accepts and follows up on the Board&#39;s proposals in order to support the establishment in the implementation of the measures necessary to restore governance and to restore sound management and a balanced budget. To do this, the Minister appoints a ministerial assistant, and the ministry appoints an interim director general from outside the CHUM.
“I take note of the Board of Directors&#39; desire to make major changes to restructure the governance of the CHUM, as recommended by the Auditor General of Quebec (VGQ). I accept his request to be accompanied in this process. Thus, the ministerial adviser will support the Board of Directors and the senior management of the CHUM in the implementation of rapid, effective and structuring measures to achieve this. The establishments of the health network have a duty to make decisions in the interest of the public, which wants taxpayers&#39; money to be invested in care and services in a responsible and rigorous manner, in compliance with the laws and rules. in force. We believe that today&#39;s decision will put the establishment back on the path of good governance, ”said Minister Hébert.
The Minister designates Dr Michel Baron to assume the role of accompanist. As soon as he takes office on December 16, he must ensure that he responds to the recommendations of the VGQ report, while taking into account the observations of the two guides appointed by the Agence de Montréal who complete their mandate. Dr. Baron will also work with the Board to restore order in the internal management of the CHUM while ensuring imperatively the maintenance of services to the population and operations surrounding the construction of the new CHUM. He will also have to support the Board of Directors and senior management to return to a balanced budget by March 31, 2014, in order to prevent the establishment from ending the financial year in deficit, currently estimated at 13 million. of dollars. The supervisor must report to the Agency and the Ministry on a monthly basis to inform them of the progress of the work. Dr Baron is appointed for a period of 180 days, which can be renewed
Dr Baron is a specialist physician. He notably held the post of Dean of the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Sherbrooke from 1996 to 2003. He was also CEO of the Agence de l&#39;Estrie from 2004 to 2012. He is also the author of the report. on the analysis of the rules of governance and financial management of the McGill University Health Center published in December 2012.
At the request of the council, the ministry agreed to delegate Michel Fontaine, who currently serves as associate deputy minister for coordination, financing, capital and budget at the Ministry of Health and Social Services, as Interim Director General as of Monday, December 16, 2013. Mr. Fontaine notably held the position of CEO of the Agence de la Capitale-Nationale from 2004 to 2011. A competition will be open shortly to appoint a new Director General for the establishment. &quot;Considering the shortcomings pointed out by the Auditor General of Quebec, particularly in relation to senior management, I believe it is wise for the ministry to delegate an interim director general from outside the CHUM in order to take a separate look,&quot; added the Minister. Hébert.
In addition, the Minister is satisfied that the board of directors of the CHUM has reached an agreement on the termination of Christian Paire&#39;s contract as general manager of the establishment, as of December 17, 2013. Let us recall that Mr. Paire was suspended with pay on December 2 following the filing of the VGQ report.
“The CHUM is a large-scale establishment whose management must be characterized by exceptional transparency and rigor. The government will not compromise when it comes to the sound management of public funds. The measures announced today aim to get the CHUM back on the path to good governance. We hope that this will allow donors to regain confidence in this exceptional institution. Above all, we wish to re-establish the climate of serenity necessary for its thousands of professionals and employees to pursue, with the commitment and dedication that we know them, their mission with the Quebec patients who frequent the establishment every day, ”concluded Minister Hébert.
Let us recall that the report of the Auditor General of Quebec, tabled on November 27, revealed irregularities and discrepancies in the governance and management of the CHUM. In addition, in recent months, various bodies, including the Special Parliamentary Commission on the Management of the CHUM, held last March, the preliminary report following the analysis of the compliance of the working conditions of senior executives and senior executives of the CHUM, carried out by the Agence de la santé et des services sociaux de Montréal last August, as well as the preliminary report of the guides appointed by the Agence de Montréal, also confirmed serious problems in the administration of the establishment.
