Quebec - The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, welcomes the adoption, on today&#39;s date, of Bill 35, which corrects certain difficulties in applying the Civil Code of Quebec .
“Our laws must reflect the needs of our ever-changing society. These legislative changes are in addition to achievements aimed at making our justice system more humane and more accessible, ”said the Minister.
As Minister responsible for the fight against homophobia, Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud is particularly pleased with the adoption of new provisions aimed at facilitating the procedures of transsexual and transgender people.
Thus, persons of full age who have been domiciled in Quebec for at least one year and who have Canadian citizenship will be able, as soon as the law comes into force, to obtain the modification of the sex indicated on their birth certificate, without the obligation of treatment. medical or surgical intervention. The conditions will be specified in 2014 by regulation. The publication of changes to gender or given name in the Gazette officielle du Québec and in local newspapers will no longer be compulsory.
In addition, under certain conditions, the new provisions will allow people born in Quebec and living abroad to ask the Registrar of Civil Status to change the sex indicated on their birth certificate.
“Transgender and transgender people unfairly face administrative barriers within the government apparatus. As Minister responsible for the fight against homophobia, I was made aware of the difficulties that these people must face and I am proud to have reacted promptly by making the necessary amendments to remedy the situation ”added Bertrand St- Arnaud.
The legislative amendments also authorize the electronic transmission of a declaration of birth or death to the Registrar of Civil Status. They also give the latter the power to draw up the death certificate of a murdered person whose body has not been found, thus sparing the families the need to go to court to obtain this certificate. Finally, the law now allows deaf people who cannot speak, read or write to use the services of a sign language interpreter to make a notarial will or a will in the presence of witnesses.
