Quebec - The Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Régie des rentes du Quebec, Ms. Agnès Maltais, is delighted with the adoption, today at the National Assembly of Quebec, Bill 39, Voluntary Retirement Savings Plans Act. These new plans will be implemented gradually as of July 1, 2014. Thus, all workers in Quebec will have access to a retirement savings plan.
“The implementation of VRSPs will allow 2 million workers to have access to a simple and inexpensive vehicle allowing them to save for their retirement. Our government is very proud of the rapid implementation of VRSPs, as recommended in the D&#39;Amours report, ”said Minister Agnès Maltais.
The introduction of VRSPs will allow workers, for the most part employees of SMEs or self-employed workers, to save for retirement in a structured framework, by means of payroll deductions or periodic deductions, at low cost, while benefiting from &#39;benefits reserved for group plans.
The companies targeted by the bill will be required to offer a VRSP to their employees. The deadline for meeting this obligation differs depending on the size of the business. Thus, employers with 20 or more affected employees must offer a VRSP by December 31, 2016. Companies with between 10 and 19 affected employees will have one year more and must do so by December 31, 2017 at the latest. Employers with between 5 and 9 affected employees, if the government deems it necessary, the deadline will be set later, but will be after January 1, 2018.
The term “covered employees” means employees 18 years of age and over who can provide proof of one year of uninterrupted service, within the meaning of the Act respecting labor standards, and who do not currently benefit from any employer group retirement plan. where a payroll deduction could be made, or who have no registered pension plan within the meaning of the Income Tax Act.
It should be noted that the implementation of these new plans does not require any specific training for the employer and that self-employed workers will be able to join them voluntarily.
This measure is also in line with the government orientations on which the “solidarity” pillar is based, one of the four pillars of government action, along with integrity, prosperity and identity. These guidelines, made public on October 30 by Prime Minister Pauline Marois, will guide the government&#39;s action in implementing measures aimed at improving the well-being of the most vulnerable individuals and families. The government thus wants to give new impetus to solidarity, a value inseparable from collective wealth.
