Quebec - The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is delighted with the adoption, today in the National Assembly, of the draft law allowing for the provisional a municipal elected official, which has been enhanced by the addition of several amendments since its tabling in November 2012.
“Our government has listened to citizens and it is to respond to their concerns that we have improved this bill. The latter also illustrates our very firm desire to strengthen the accountability of elected officials and, in so doing, to foster the public&#39;s bond of trust in municipal democracy, ”declared the Minister.
The Minister also wished to underline the good cooperation of the opposition parties for the adoption of several amendments. Among these, let us note that the elected official found guilty of an offense which was the subject of a prosecution which served as the basis for a judgment in provisional incapacity will be deprived of all of his departure and transition allowances, and not only the portion attributable to the period during which he was relieved of his duties. The law also provides that the Minister may set up a program intended to provide financial support to any elector who has presented or who intends to present a request to have a member of the council declared temporarily incapable of exercising any function related to his office if he is the subject of a lawsuit brought during his term of office.
Recall that, under the new provisions, electors, municipalities and the Attorney General of Quebec will be able to ask the courts to temporarily relieve an elected municipal official from office who is the subject of a lawsuit brought during his current mandate. for an offense against a law of the Parliament of Quebec or of Canada, which is punishable by two years imprisonment or more.
“A few months before the municipal electoral meeting of November 3, 2013, we had to put in place measures that would preserve the confidence necessary to guarantee the proper functioning of local democratic institutions. I am therefore convinced that this new measure will have a significant impact on citizens, municipalities and the elected officials who govern them, ”concluded the Minister.
