Quebec - The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, and the Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today presented to the National Assembly the draft Law No. 47 which aims to modify the rules applicable to adoption, parental authority and disclosure of information.
Bill 47 is a response to the needs of today&#39;s families, whether traditional, blended, single-parent or homoparental. It intends to facilitate the disclosure of information between the adoptee and his parents of origin, whether the adoption takes place before or after the proposed reform, and to recognize the effects of customary adoption practiced by the Inuit and by the First Nations. Partly taking up Bill No. 81 which died on the order paper after the dissolution of the last legislature, it is based on the reports of the working groups which had been tasked with analyzing the various regimes and on a major public consultation held in 2010.
&quot;This bill is a response to the many requests received, particularly in terms of access to information allowing identification or reunification, and awaited for several years by groups representing adopted persons,&quot; said Minister Bertrand St- Arnaud.
“For us, the goal is always to meet the best interests of the child. The contemporary context differs in many respects from that which prevailed when the current rules were adopted. In matters of adoption, as in many other areas, it is important to be able to adapt the legislative framework so that it corresponds better to today&#39;s social values and family models. Adoption is in particular a much more open and transparent process than it was in the past and our laws must echo it, ”Minister Véronique Hivon said.
Bill 47, presented today, amends the Civil Code, the Youth Protection Act and other legislative provisions on adoption, parental authority and disclosure of information.
In addition to the important changes to the confidentiality regime for adoption files, both for adoptees and for adoptable persons who have never been adopted, and the recognition of the effects of Aboriginal customary adoption, the proposed changes relate in particular to:
“My colleague Véronique Hivon and I are counting on the consultations planned in a parliamentary committee so that the groups and stakeholders concerned as well as the citizens can vote on the legislative proposals. We then intend to seek the collaboration of all our colleagues in the National Assembly, so as to have this bill quickly adopted, ”concluded the Minister of Justice.
