Quebec - The member for Sanguinet and official opposition spokesperson for work and pensions, Alain Therrien, wishes to clarify the elements that concern the Parti Québécois about Bill 3, An Act to promote health financial and sustainability of defined benefit pension plans in the municipal sector, while the detailed study will begin shortly.
“For us, it is obvious that the status quo is no longer viable for defined benefit pension plans for municipal employees, which constitute an immense financial burden for cities, and therefore for Quebec taxpayers. We must ensure the sustainability of pension plans, that is obvious. That is why we voted for the principle of the bill. Nevertheless, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Pierre Moreau, chose confrontation and division instead of reaching a consensus with the parties. He decides to target all pension plans, even those proving to be in good financial position, in addition to leaving no room for negotiation, ”declared the member for Sanguinet.
The spokesperson for the official opposition points out that the unique approach of the bill does not take into account the particularities of the regimes, previous negotiations and municipal realities.
“We regret that the government is sending us for a detailed study without knowing the real situation of pension plans. We have asked him to make public the actuarial valuations of the pension plans as at December 31, 2013. The updated figures will allow us to do a rigorous job. Faced with such an important problem, it is essential to have the most accurate possible picture of the situation, ”continued Alain Therrien.
“The detailed study is an opportunity for Minister Moreau to add water to his wine. He must not remain locked in aspects of the bill that are not acceptable, especially to retirees. Deindexation, compliance with past contracts, as well as the restructuring of adequately funded plans, are also issues of concern to us. All the speakers present in the parliamentary committee agree that amendments to the bill are necessary; we will table our amendments so that they can be made, ”concluded Alain Therrien.
