Quebec - &quot;Canada&#39;s retrograde agenda took another step yesterday with the passage of Bill C-10 which will reverse the Quebec model of youth criminal justice and cost $ 1 billion over the next five years . Who is going to pay for this? &quot;
This is the question asked by the member for Marie-Victorin and official opposition critic for Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Bernard Drainville, the day after the adoption of Bill C-10, the government of Quebec having been unable to be heard by the federal government.
Thus, Quebec today finds itself applying a decision that it denounces. “Even if the National Assembly of Quebec has voted unanimously against the provisions of C-10, they will still apply in Quebec. In addition, this law will cost $ 750 million for the construction of new prisons and up to $ 100 million per year in recurrent costs. The government of Quebec has already indicated that it does not intend to foot the bill. Ottawa also refuses to assume this amount. We find ourselves in a dead end. Who will pay? Asks Bernard Drainville.
On November 1, 2011, during his appearance before the House of Commons Standing Committee on Justice and Human Rights, the Quebec Minister of Justice, Jean-Marc Fournier, declared &quot;that we are going to end up in a spiral of imprisonment ”. He added “there is a red light and we will not pay. I don&#39;t know if it&#39;s clear enough? We won&#39;t pay. &quot;
“The Conservative government&#39;s steamroller is at work. With C-10, we have another example of the legal weakening of Quebec, which is part of Canada&#39;s Plan C, ”said the member for Marie-Victorin.
“Quebec is losing its model, a model that advocates the rehabilitation of our young people. Canada made a gesture yesterday, a gesture that directly clashes with Quebec values. The Charest government was unable to achieve Quebec unanimity. His balance of power is completely destroyed. The first victims of this lack of leadership will be young people first, but also taxpayers who, one way or another, will have to pay. Faced with so much injustice, Jean-Marc Fournier must tell us today: what does “we will not pay” mean in concrete terms? », Concluded Bernard Drainville.
