Quebec - Bill 28 instituting the new Code of Civil Procedure was adopted today in the National Assembly. For the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, the new provisions will have a considerable impact on access to justice.
“The adoption of this reform will help move our civil justice from the 20th to the 21st century. Concretely, the new provisions will help make our civil justice system more accessible, faster, less cumbersome and less expensive, ”said the Minister.
The new Code of Civil Procedure aims to make civil justice much more accessible, while preserving the right of all parties to assert their rights in court.
Thus, in order to reduce court delays, it emphasizes amicable dispute resolution methods, such as mediation, arbitration or conciliation, which are more user-friendly, accessible and rapid. As for the parties opting for the traditional judicial route, they will have to ensure that their requests, their pleadings and their means of proof will be proportionate to the nature and complexity of the case in question, in order to prevent abuses.
Judges will also have increased management powers, in particular to ensure respect for the principles of proportionality and cooperation at the heart of the new Code of Civil Procedure. Thus, they will be able to reduce the number of interrogations and expert opinions, two elements repeatedly denounced as significant sources of costs or delays for citizens.
The new Code of Civil Procedure provides, among others, for the following provisions:
Increase the amount that can be claimed in proceedings before the Small Claims Division of the Court of Quebec from $ 7,000 to $ 15,000;
Allow the presentation of oral requests or challenges, instead of more costly written procedures, for cases not presenting any particular complexity;
Oblige the parties to file a protocol of the proceedings, in which they will mention in particular the number of examinations on discovery that they intend to hold and the number of experts they plan to use;
Promote the use of common expertise between the parties rather than the multiplication of expertise, to limit costs and deadlines;
Authorize the judge to take into account, in the allocation of legal costs, abuses in the procedure or undue delays of a party;
In family matters, allow de facto spouses in a situation of breakdown to join requests relating to their economic rights to those relating to the custody of a child or their maintenance obligations, thus avoiding them to multiply litigation;
In matters of youth protection, authorize the Court of Quebec, already seized of an application in matters of adoption or youth protection, to rule if necessary on the custody of a child or on the exercise of parental authority, even on his emancipation;
Allow a consumer, an insured, an employee or a mortgagee to present his case or defend himself in the district of his domicile or in that where the building is located;
Encourage the use of information technologies to limit travel, for example, by agreeing to interview through videoconferencing;
“This bill is the result of numerous consultations and important work in parliamentary committee. I would like to thank my colleagues in the National Assembly and all those involved in the legal community who paved the way for the adoption of this bill, which constitutes a considerable step forward in terms of access to justice. The realization of this project and all of our actions bear witness to the commitment of the Government of Quebec, that of administering justice with integrity, fairness and humanity, for a more accessible and united justice system ”, concluded the Justice Ministry.
