Québec– The member for Lac-Saint-Jean and official opposition critic for justice, Alexandre Cloutier, the member for Matane-Matapédia and spokesperson for public security, Pascal Bérubé, and the member for Verchères and spokesperson for Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, strongly denounce the final adoption of Bill C-51 by the federal government and the inaction of the government of Quebec, which did not take the means necessary to defend Quebecers.
By granting unprecedented powers of intervention to the Canadian Security Intelligence Service, Ottawa weakens the rights and freedoms of Quebecers. “Bill C-51 opens the door to dangerous slippages. The need and the urgency to act to put in place measures to fight terrorism must not become a pretext to violate civil liberties, ”said Alexandre Cloutier.
The Parti Québécois deplores the inertia of the Government of Quebec, which has done nothing to defend the rights and freedoms of Quebecers in this matter. “Justice Minister Stéphanie Vallée and her fellow Ministers of Public Safety and Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs have not proposed any amendments in Ottawa. The convening of an obscure working committee produced no results. The only action the Government of Quebec will have made is to send a vague letter of grievances to the federal government, following repeated pressure from the Parti Québécois, ”added the member for Lac-Saint-Jean.
In addition, according to her agenda, the last discussion between the Minister of Public Security, Lise Thériault, with her federal counterpart, Steven Blaney, dates back to March 2. “It&#39;s been over three months. If the Minister did nothing after co-signing a letter, it is not surprising that Quebec&#39;s requests were not followed up, ”said Pascal Bérubé.
“Once again, Quebec will pay the price for the Liberal government&#39;s inaction in the face of Canadian intransigence. Quebeckers risk being impacted by measures intended to target potential terrorists, simply because they challenge the policies of the Harper government. How can Philippe Couillard justify that his collaborative federalism ended in lamentable failure, with the final adoption of Bill C-51? », Concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
