Quebec - The Minister of Public Security, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, welcomed the adoption by the National Assembly of the Act to amend the Police Act concerning independent investigations. The adoption of this law allows the creation of the Bureau of Independent Investigations.
“I am particularly proud of the adoption of this law, which is the culmination of a long process and several consultations. This initiative, which had been awaited for several years, thus responds to our government&#39;s commitment to review the current mechanism by focusing on the participation of civilians, while being able to count on the necessary expertise in criminal investigations. I am confident that the creation of the Independent Investigations Office will finally allow us to put an end to the doubts that remain among some as to the impartiality of the current process, ”said Minister Bergeron.
The mission of the Bureau will be to investigate when a person, other than a police officer on duty, dies or is seriously injured or by a firearm used by a police officer during a police intervention or during his detention by a body from police. The objective is to determine whether there is any evidence to show that a criminal offense was committed by the police officers involved in the event.
The director of the Bureau will be a civilian who has never been a peace officer; around 12 investigators will be under its responsibility. The latter may be retired police officers. They will not be able to investigate the service to which they belonged or to have maintained personal or professional links with the police officer involved. As for civilian investigators who have never been a police officer, they must however have experience and skills relevant to the responsibilities of the Office. The École nationale de police du Québec will provide training and they can be paired with an experienced police officer during the first investigations they carry out.
Minister Bergeron reiterated his confidence in the work of the police and underlined the excellent work they do on a daily basis. He specified that this law will strengthen the public&#39;s confidence in our institutions, in particular those which ensure the safety of Quebeckers. &quot;The police officers being invested with important powers, their activities must be framed by mechanisms at the same time fair and rigorous in the eyes of all and all,&quot; concluded the Minister.
Over the next few months, significant efforts will be made to establish the Bureau of Independent Investigations, develop regulations under the law and design training for the staff to be hired.
