Quebec - “A historic setback for access to health care and services. It is in these terms that the leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the member for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, described the passage of Bill 20, made possible by the support of all Liberal MPs.
“In a sneaky way, several months after the consultations took place, the minister inserted an amendment into his bill legalizing incidental costs. Thus, we are depriving thousands of Quebecers of the health care to which they are entitled, by billing them $ 50 million for services already funded by taxes. It is more than a breach in our public health care system. This is a real betrayal of the government towards the health insurance contract, especially since the subject had nothing to do with the object and principle of the initial bill, ”denounced Pierre Karl Péladeau.
Minister Barrette has resolutely demonstrated that he is the minister for physicians, not for patients in Quebec. &quot;One of the immediate effects of Bill 20 is that family physicians will receive $ 25 million for the registration of new patients - this is the return of the Bolduc premium - and specialists, $ 50 million in costs. accessories paid for by patients. A nice gift, in short, as the minister tries to make people believe that he has made access to care his priority. What do patients gain in return? Nothing at all. They will not have more services and will not wait less to access them. And those who do not have the means to pay will likely have to deprive themselves of potentially essential care, ”continued Diane Lamarre.
The adoption of Bill 20 marks another transfer to the private sector: the end of public coverage of in vitro fertilization (IVF). “The minister penalizes infertile couples to save money, by his own admission. How can he knowingly prevent couples from becoming parents? Even the Health and Welfare Commissioner, who had been very critical of the program, recommended its maintenance and the preservation of public coverage of IVF. This decision is incomprehensible and will be prejudicial to a large number of Quebecers, ”concluded the Member for Taillon.
