Quebec - The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased that the National Assembly yesterday adopted Bill 46 which will make it possible to better fight against land grabbing agricultural land and tighten the rules governing access to agricultural land by non-residents.
“This new law is an important first step in protecting our land heritage, which is farmland. Our laws must adapt to the current economic reality. The Parti Québécois government has decided to act now and not wait for the monopolization phenomenon to gain momentum. It is a responsible gesture to ensure the sustainability of Quebec&#39;s agricultural land, in accordance with the orientations of the Food Sovereignty Policy, ”indicated the Minister.
Bill 46 alleviates the concerns of stakeholders in the agricultural sector about the interest of foreign buyers in Quebec land. More precisely, he puts three measures in the foreground:
Tighten the definition of resident status provided in the Law on the Acquisition of Agricultural Land by Non-Residents, in order to prevent a foreign investor from using this provision to acquire agricultural land without going through the process of authorization from the Commission for the protection of agricultural land in Quebec;
Review the evaluation criteria, when examining an application, in particular to take into account the possible consequences on the occupation of the territory and to take into account the positive effects of an acquisition when it aims to put in value of underused agricultural land;
“The message is clear: we are taking the necessary measures to ensure that our farmland remains the property of Quebecers. I am convinced that this will reassure many farmers and many other people in several regions of Quebec. Quebec&#39;s agricultural land must be treated with the utmost respect. It is important to preserve it and use it intelligently so that subsequent generations can benefit from it in turn, ”concluded François Gendron.
For more information on the Government of Quebec&#39;s Food Sovereignty Policy, you can regularly visit the blog www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca dedicated to it or go to the pagewww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSAdu website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at twitter.com / mapaquebec.
