Quebec - The Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation, Bernard Drainville, is proud to announce the adoption of Bill 2, An Act to amend the Election Act in order to reduce the limit on contributions per voter, to lower the limit election expenses and increase the public funding of political parties in Quebec.
“The adoption of this law shows the commitment of elected officials to want to restore the confidence of the population in the political class and its democratic institutions. In fact, it will now be very difficult for anyone to set up a nominee system. The law will end the pernicious influence of fundraisers. It essentially aims to restore integrity in the funding of political parties and to re-establish the bond of trust with the people of Quebec, ”declared the Minister.
It achieves this thanks to a bouquet of ten main measures:
The new law decreases the maximum contribution a voter can make to a political party from $ 1,000 to $ 100. This measure will put an end to the nominee system and the undue influence of fundraisers. It will no longer be possible to collect large sums of money with $ 100, as it was possible to do with amounts of $ 1000.
The law abolishes the tax credit related to political contributions, which will generate savings for taxpayers of nearly $ 6 million per year.
The savings thus generated will be used to increase public funding for political parties, which will go from $ 0.85 to $ 1.50 per voter. This public allowance will be paid to parties based on their electoral results. It is therefore the support of the population to the ideas of a party that will be its main source of funding.
The law creates a matching fund. From now on, all recognized parties will be entitled to public funding, provided they have 500 members in at least ten regions of Quebec or 1,000 members throughout the country. The first $ 20,000 raised by a party will be entitled to $ 50,000 from the Chief Electoral Officer (DGE); in other words, $ 1 raised by the party corresponds to $ 2.50 in public funding. Beyond this first $ 20,000 tranche, the pairing will be dollar for dollar up to a maximum of $ 200,000. So it&#39;s a maximum of $ 250,000 in public funding that can be paid to a new party, double that in an election year.
To make the parties accountable for the proper use of these public funds, the law ensures that the obligation of transparency and accountability is maintained. The CEO will monitor the income and expenses of each party through even more demanding annual reports.
To encourage small donors, the law allows cash donations up to a maximum of $ 50. Any contribution over $ 50 must be made by check or credit card. As is already the case, all donations without exception will be accompanied by a contribution sheet to allow the CEO to ensure control.
In order to facilitate the financing of leadership races, the law will allow donations to pass through the CEO&#39;s website. Such a measure should encourage small donations. In addition, the contribution limit for leadership races is reduced from $ 1,000 to $ 500 (without tax credit).
The key element of the consensus between the parties: the 30% reduction in the limit on election expenses, from $ 11.5 million to $ 8 million per year. This will limit the financial pressures on the parties.
To ensure parties have sufficient campaign funds, the law allows an additional contribution of $ 100 during this period in addition to creating an election fund equivalent to $ 1 per voter. This measure is not at zero cost, but the establishment of fixed-date elections would partially finance it. A bill has been introduced for this purpose.
&quot;I am proud to be able to say today that by adopting this reform, we are still the company with the most rigorous system of control of the financing and the expenditure of the political parties in the world&quot;, declared Bernard Drainville.
The Minister wishes to recognize the work of his colleagues and to thank them for their collaboration in the adoption of this law. He believes that the consensuses reached by the parties to improve the funding system for political parties will help restore citizens&#39; confidence in the political class and our democratic institutions.
