Quebec - The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is proud of the adoption by the National Assembly of Bill 27 which aims to recognize, promote and increase the role of the social economy in socioeconomic development in Quebec.
“As soon as I was appointed to the Council of Ministers on September 19, 2012, the Prime Minister, Mrs. Pauline Marois, gave me the mandate to continue the deployment of the social economy in all regions, in particular by submitting a project of law. This long-awaited framework law, the National Assembly adopted it today, ”said Minister Gaudreault.
Concretely, the framework law will ensure the recognition of social economy enterprises (cooperatives, mutual societies and non-profit organizations with a commercial vocation) by all government ministries and bodies. A place of permanent dialogue will be established between the government and the actors of the social economy with a view to continuing the adaptation and the implementation of new public policies. To this end, the law designates the Chantier de l&#39;Economie Sociale and the Quebec Council for Cooperation and Mutuality as privileged interlocutors and establishes a table of partners in the social economy.
With a view to building a more prosperous and more united Quebec, the main players in the social economy environment called for this legislation which places the response to social needs and common well-being at the heart of economic activity.
This law constitutes an important institutional recognition for the sector, and proposes a framework favorable to the development of the social economy which contributes to the social and economic vitality of all the territories of Quebec. In doing so, it allows Quebec to continue a long tradition of solidarity and to remain a leader in supporting the development of social economy enterprises.
This initiative also places Quebec in a global trend in which more and more states recognize the social economy as a distinctive economic activity that contributes to sustainable prosperity.
“The adoption of Bill 27 finally completes a long process initiated at the 1996 Summit on the Economy and Employment. We will recall that the Parti Québécois government then committed to supporting this sector. Promise kept! », Concluded the Minister.
