Montreal - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, took advantage of her presence at Aeromart Montreal, an international event dedicated to the aeronautics and space industries, to confirm the government&#39;s support for the aerospace sector. It thus announced the implementation of the PME 2.0 measure, which particularly affects the aerospace industry, and the imminent arrival in Montreal of three new companies in the aeronautics sector.
“Aéro Montréal, the aerospace cluster, is one of the most dynamic industrial clusters in the city,” said Élaine Zakaïb. “With major prime contractors, recognized equipment manufacturers, numerous suppliers and a pool of qualified workers, greater Montreal is one of the largest aerospace centers in the world and it serves as a spearhead for the entire Quebec industry. This industry is also at the forefront of Quebec exports and annually invests more than $ 1 billion in research and development. It is a promising sector of which we are proud and on which we rely a lot. This is why I am pleased to make four announcements today, on the occasion of this international business convention, which will fuel its growth. &quot;
The PME 2.0 measure was set up to help businesses in two target sectors, fashion and aerospace, to increase their productivity through the integration of information and communications technologies (ICT). With a budget of $ 6 million over three years, divided equally between the two sectors, this measure provides for helping 30 small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to integrate ICT into both their production and their business processes. The Francophone Center for Informatization of Organizations (CEFRIO) is responsible for carrying out this project.
&quot;Thanks to this measure, we are providing aerospace SMEs with a tool that will greatly help to strengthen their position in the global supply chain,&quot; said Minister Delegate.
Élaine Zakaïb also announced the upcoming arrival of three new companies from the aeronautics sector in Quebec. &quot;I am proud when foreign companies choose to come and settle in Quebec,&quot; said the Minister. “This confirms our many competitive advantages recognized around the world, including the expertise of our workforce, our extensive network of universities and research centers, as well as the presence of world leaders based here. &quot;
The first company is the German company PFW, which is preparing to move its design office on the manufacture of tubes and air ducts for airplanes, currently located in Seattle, to Montreal. The creation of PFW Aerospace Canada and its establishment in Quebec is the result of a feasibility study for which the government has contributed an amount of $ 26,000.
The other company, FACC Solutions, an Austrian company specializing in the manufacture of parts in composite materials for aeronautics, will open an engineering firm in Montreal to design new furniture for business jets.
Finally, the French company LGM will establish a subsidiary in Montreal to perform program management and maintenance. LGM Management et Conseil will target, as a priority, the aeronautics and rail markets.
In total, more than 190 high-quality jobs will be created in Quebec within three years thanks to these three companies. These will be in addition to some 42,550 quality jobs in the industry.
