Quebec - The member for Lac-Saint-Jean and official opposition critic for justice, Alexandre Cloutier, demands the full reimbursement of the $ 214,000 of public funds used for personal purposes by the former judge of the Administrative Tribunal of Quebec (TAQ), Hélène de Kovachich. To do this, he calls for the intervention of the Minister of Justice, Stéphanie Vallée.
Recall that on December 5, 2014, the Parti Québécois tabled a motion demanding that the government take steps to recover all of the public funds used by the former judge to defend himself in a personal case. The government then refused to support this motion.
The Minister of Justice must make known the government&#39;s opinion on the public funds swallowed up in this affair. In fact, in his report for 2013-2014, the Auditor General of Quebec explicitly recommended that the government issue an opinion on the relevance, for the TAQ, of covering, through public funds, the costs of lawyer for Me de Kovachich in his personal case, and that he document the decision taken.
“One year after tabling the Auditor General&#39;s report and three months after tabling our motion, what did the Minister of Justice do? Has she issued a government opinion? Did it follow up diligently with the TAQ so that it quickly implemented the Auditor General&#39;s recommendations? The Minister has the duty to ensure the proper administration of justice, which includes administrative justice. In this era of austerity for all Quebecers, the government must position itself without delay on the management of public funds, ”declared Alexandre Cloutier.
Recall that the November 2014 report of the Conseil de la justice administrative concluded that Hélène de Kovachich&#39;s conduct was likely to undermine the public&#39;s confidence and respect for the TAQ, its leaders and, more generally, administrative justice. &quot;It is essential that the Minister issue a government opinion so that all public funds are recovered, out of respect for the population,&quot; concluded Alexandre Cloutier.
