Montreal - The Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, this morning presented the Parti Québécois commitments in terms of language.
“For more than 400 years, the Quebec nation has lived, grown and flourished in French. French is the precious heritage left to us by our fathers and mothers. It is one of our greatest assets. In the Parti Québécois, we are the only ones to propose concrete measures for our language. Quebecers can expect nothing from the Liberals and Caquists on this fundamental issue, ”said Pauline Marois.
“The decline in French, observed for several years, both from a demographic point of view and in the workplace, requires concrete and immediate actions. The Parti Québécois is committed to quickly adopting a new charter of the French language worthy of the 21st century. Above all, we will integrate the right to live and work in French in the Charter of human rights and freedoms. This is a major step forward for generations to come, ”continued Pauline Marois.
Last night, Quebeckers had the opportunity to see that not only the leader of the Liberal Party of Quebec, Philippe Couillard, does not care about issues related to the French language, but, worse still, he denies the very existence of &#39;a threat to French in Quebec.
“One of the first duties, if not the first duty, of a premier of Quebec is to protect the French language, a minority language in Canada and in North America. In businesses and workplaces, there is a decline in French, corroborated by several studies by the Office québécois de la langue française and the Conseil supérieur de la langue française. For his part, Philippe Couillard says that workers should be encouraged to speak English. He is ready to renounce the achievements of Law 101, without qualms. These are mind-boggling words from someone who aspires to govern Quebec, ”added the Premier.
From 2003 to 2012, the Liberal Party took no concrete action in the language area. The Liberals have totally lacked the will to enforce Bill 101. Ilsse are firmly opposed to Bill 14, tabled in December 2012 by Minister Diane De Courcy. In fact, the Liberals voted against the adoption of Bill 101 in 1977.
As for the CAQ, it also opposed Bill 14 and has no real concrete proposal for our language.
Quebec is a welcoming society, where everyone can achieve their aspirations. To promote better access to the labor market, francization measures for immigrants are essential. This is why the Parti Québécois government has taken action in this area, notably by adding $ 13.5 million over 3 years to improve francization.
“We must give the best chances of integration, both in the labor market and in everyday life, to all the immigrants we welcome. When they arrive in Quebec, some need lessons in order to learn French. It is the responsibility of our State to allow people who have chosen to live in Quebec to be able to integrate harmoniously in French ”, declared Pauline Marois.
“For our language, only the Parti Québécois has the will to act and will do it. For our metropolis and all regions of Quebec, we must take concrete steps to defend and promote our language. Do we want to entrust the future of French to Philippe Couillard&#39;s liberals? », Concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois.
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
Watch the press conference.
