Quebec - Diane Lamarre, the member for Taillon and official opposition spokesperson for health and access to care, considers that it is the patient who must be at the heart of the health system and not the minister. However, in what he is proposing, the Minister of Health and Social Services, Gaétan Barrette, wants him to be granted full powers over the network.
Obviously, given the scale and urgency of the needs, the proposed reform does not provide any solution to respond to the real problems of the network, nor to improve access and the quality of care for users and patients. This is why the Parti Québécois voted against the principle of Bill 10.
“Contrary to what the minister claims, almost all the groups heard in parliamentary committee expressed serious reservations and serious concerns about Bill 10. All are of the opinion that it will plunge the health network in great instability which paralyzed him for several years. Far from generating savings, the bill will generate expenses, among other things because of the costs associated with the transition, the standardization of IT systems and the redeployment of teams and departments, ”said Diane Lamarre.
“Minister Barrette&#39;s reform does not aim to improve access to care, he himself admitted. Rather, it seeks to concentrate all decisions, even the simplest, in the hands of the minister, which will create a bottleneck in the department and make the system more cumbersome and vulnerable. In addition, the bill is in line with the centralizing actions of this government so far with regard to the regions, that is to say, it represents cuts in local and regional development. . In fact, we are depriving municipalities, CLDs, youth employment centers - and so on - of important resources. This is very worrying for our regions, ”she added.
The member is also very concerned about the minister&#39;s lack of attention to the situation on the ground. “We do not feel he is sensitive to the realities of the most vulnerable. In real life, in terms of care and social services offered, not everything is calculated in minutes; it&#39;s more complex than columns of numbers! The majority of groups told the minister that there were urgent needs to be addressed before implementing this administrative reform. In addition, we have never heard Gaétan Barrette talk about access difficulties for the user, the patient, or the real issues of the network, such as the need to improve home care and improve access. in the first line, or the benefits that could be obtained by tackling overdiagnosis and promoting better follow-up by various health and social services professionals. From these latter measures, there would be concrete improvements and savings in the short term; we must do better right away! », Continued Diane Lamarre.
What will the minister&#39;s amendments be?
“We have been asking the Minister of Health for more than a week to table his amendments, and he still refuses to cooperate. In our opinion, corrective measures must absolutely be made to several aspects of his bill, in particular:
the maintenance of local consultative bodies, respect for the citizen voice and the integration of local and regional actors in the management of establishments;
the balance between the “health” and “social services” fields of competence for each of the “CEO and Deputy CEO” duos;
preservation of the current autonomy of the youth protection network;
the realistic and balanced distribution of powers between regional and ministerial bodies;
“The Minister will also have to table a detailed transition plan, as requested by the Québec Ombudsman, as well as an assessment of the costs of his reform, which have still not been made public. Without major adjustments to these aspects and greater transparency on the real impacts of the proposed reform, this bill will remain unacceptable, ”concluded Diane Lamarre.
