Quebec - As more and more Indigenous women are breaking their silence and claiming to have been sexually assaulted by Sûreté du Québec police officers, Public Security Minister Martin Coiteux has had to broaden the mandate given to the Service of the City of Montreal, responsible for investigating these allegations. However, according to the Parti Québécois, a big problem remains. “Once again, the police are investigating the police. These investigations must absolutely be entrusted to the Independent Investigations Bureau, ”declared Pascal Bérubé, Parti Québécois spokesperson for public security.
Carole Poirier, spokesperson for the status of women, agrees with her colleague. “These women are afraid of the police. How could they trust, knowing that it is police officers who are investigating other police officers? The Independent Investigations Office was created by our colleague, Member of Parliament for Verchères, Stéphane Bergeron, exactly for this kind of situation. I cannot understand why the government stubbornly denies these women 100% independent inquiries, ”she said, adding that the Regroupement des centers d&#39;amitié autochtones du Québec, the Assembly of First Nations and the Human Rights Commission, among others, also asked Minister Coiteux to entrust said investigations to the Bureau of Independent Investigations (BEI).
Let us recall that soon three years ago, under the government of the Parti Québécois, the National Assembly adopted the law that created the BEI, allowing the Minister to &quot;instruct [...] to conduct an investigation into any event [...] involving a peace officer and having a link with his functions ”. However, the BEI, due to liberal laissez-faire, is still not operational. “It is now time for the BEI to start operations. We have been waiting two years for the Liberal government to act on this file. The BEI is supposed to be ready. What is the government missing? Why does he not entrust the investigation of the allegations of aboriginal women to the BEI? Yet he has the power, ”concluded Pascal Bérubé.
