Montreal - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, will chair tomorrow the National Forum on Mental Health to be held tomorrow at the Center Mont-Royal in Montreal. More than a hundred participants from the health and social services network and partner organizations in the community network are expected to participate in the discussions surrounding the development of the next mental health action plan.
“We are committed to implementing actions to improve prevention and the care offered in mental health. This is one of our government priorities for 2014. To be effective, these actions must be based on optimal consultation and collaboration between the various stakeholders and partners. This Forum is a privileged opportunity to reflect together, with all the actors concerned, on the best measures to be deployed in the field, in particular in order to ensure better access to services ”, declared Minister Hébert.
Several major themes will be addressed during the Forum, including the full exercise of citizenship for people with mental disorders, detection and early intervention among young people, the range of services offered in mental health, as well as organizational practices. and clinics.
&quot;I am convinced that the work of this day will help us to develop an action plan that will guide us even more effectively towards achieving our objectives, particularly with regard to the quality and accessibility of care and mental health services as well as closer alignment between specialized resources and the first line. Family physicians and general practitioners are often the very first people with whom people with mental disorders come into contact. Our government has the firm will to make mental health a priority and the Forum to be held tomorrow will be an important contribution to enlighten us on the efforts to be made in this direction, ”concluded Minister Hébert.
The day&#39;s program is available at the following address: www.msss.gouv.qc.ca/presse
Follow the activities of the Mental Health Forum on Twitter: # SantéMentale2014
