Montreal - The Parti Québécois undertakes to cancel the loan of 58 million dollars granted to the promoters of the Jeffrey d&#39;Asbestos mine by the liberals of Jean Charest, a few days before the start of the electoral campaign. &quot;If the Parti Québécois is brought to power, these $ 58 million will instead be invested in the economic diversification of the region,&quot; said the Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Daniel Breton.
Concerned about the future of Asbestos workers and their families, the Parti Québécois undertakes to invest these $ 58 million in economic diversification and to ensure quality jobs in sectors of the future, innovative and promising. lasting prosperity. &quot;By granting a $ 58 million loan to relaunch the Jeffrey mine in Asbestos, the Charest government has once again demonstrated its lack of economic vision for Quebec and more particularly for this region,&quot; added Daniel Breton.
In this regard, the position of the Coalition Avenir Québec is totally inconsistent. François Legault says he wants to ban this product definitively and, at the same time, promises to maintain the subsidy of 58 million at the Jeffrey mine. The head of the CAQ goes against common sense. The Parti Québécois undertakes first to cancel the subsidy, then to make a decision about the future of the industry. François Legault does the opposite.
If it is brought to power on September 4, the Parti Québécois will hold a parliamentary committee during which experts and those affected by the industry, including workers, will be consulted. Out of respect for workers in the industry, this parliamentary committee is needed to make a final round table before taking a final decision.
“The Parti Québécois has a vision of economic development that is promising for the future. We want to develop new niches of excellence in promising sectors such as the electrification of transport. By aiming for energy independence, we will succeed in creating wealth and quality jobs in Quebec. We want to focus on the industries of the future and not on those of the past, ”concluded Daniel Breton.
