Montreal - Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, has unveiled her plan to reduce traffic congestion in the metropolitan area.
“In 20 years, the costs of road congestion have exploded: they now reach $ 1.8 billion per year. Road congestion is major, the road network is saturated. Thus, we must improve the flow of traffic while reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. But above all, solutions must be found to improve the quality of life of families. In fact, the time we spend in our car, we do not spend it with our children, preparing good meals, indulging in our leisure activities or physical activity, ”said the Premier.
The Parti Québécois government has taken a major step by unveiling the National Strategy for Sustainable Mobility.
“Our strategy thinks above all about the user. It will make it possible to increase the public transport supply by 30% by 2020, in particular by allocating an additional $ 1 billion. This is how we will give motorists good reasons to change their habits, and we will reduce the number of vehicles on the roads. We want Quebeckers to be able to get around more easily, especially by public transit. By integrating transport planning with land use planning, we are taking action not only to improve the lives of families, but also for prosperity, by allowing goods to move more efficiently, ”she added.
In addition, the governance of transport companies must be reviewed in order to facilitate user travel. “It is not normal that there are approximately 700 different public transit fares for the citizens of the greater Montreal area. A Parti Québécois government will improve the planning and management of public transportation in Quebec, particularly in the Montreal region. We will review the roles, responsibilities and obligations of the various authorities responsible for planning and organizing services as well as operating public transport networks, ”added Sylvain Gaudreault, Parti Québécois candidate in the Jonquière constituency. , Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy.
In addition to the National Sustainable Mobility Strategy, the Parti Québécois government will continue to deploy the preferential measures announced last September, making it possible to double the network of reserved lanes for Montreal and the surrounding area. Thus, during the next mandate, the network of reserved lanes will be reduced from 209 km to 417 km.
“Over the past 18 months, we have worked hard to improve the fluidity of transportation and reduce traffic congestion. We have doubled the network of reserved lanes and increased government funding from 75% to 100% of these projects, ”continued Pauline Marois.
In closing, the Premier recalled the next major public transit projects, such as the extension of the blue line of the Montreal metro and studies for the extension of the yellow and orange lines. The implementation of a light rail system on the new Champlain Bridge will also allow people from the South Shore to reach downtown Montreal more quickly.
“Providing Quebec society with a fluid, modern and efficient transport system is a firm commitment from the Parti Québécois. Philippe Couillard&#39;s proposal is rooted in the past, worthy of his party&#39;s historic culture: asphalt and concrete. He can&#39;t see any further. Thanks to the actions of the Parti Québécois team, a government has never gone so far in terms of public transit. By adding to this our transportation electrification strategy, we will give Quebec a true vision of 21st century transportation, ”concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois.
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
