Quebec - The member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, denounces the attitude of the Minister responsible for Rehabilitation, Youth Protection and Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, who completely abandoned, facing Ottawa, the Quebec approach to the fight against homelessness; the guidelines for the next call for projects of the Homelessness Partnering Strategy demonstrate this.
Indeed, the majority (65%) of the projects submitted will have to favor the federal government&#39;s approach, focused solely on Housing First, while Quebec should be able to decide for itself to use a variety of approaches rather than to one. Homelessness is a complex problem with many faces; to counter it, we must therefore resort to multiple approaches.
“Our worst fears are confirmed with regard to the renewal of the agreement between Quebec and Ottawa for financing. For several months, we have joined our voice to that of organizations, to say that the imposition of the federal government&#39;s &quot;wall-to-wall&quot; approach is not the way forward to effectively support the most vulnerable in our society and those who are most vulnerable. organizations that help them. Just before the holiday season, we learn that Minister Lucie Charlebois has completely abandoned the Quebec approach. How does it respond to the organizations that will be affected by the cuts? What will she do so that street work and reintegration work, among others, can continue? », Declared Jean-François Lisée.
The member deplores the fact that, on the one hand, the Minister launched the action plan to combat homelessness, while, on the other, she is endangering the very existence of projects and organizations essential for their families. communities throughout Quebec.
“This is nonsense! The minister, consistent with her government, has ceded everything to the federal government. The National Policy against Homelessness adopted by Quebec advocates a multitude of approaches and focuses on the prevention of homelessness. By abandoning the defense of the interests and needs of Quebec before Ottawa, the Liberal government is turning completely in the other direction. Unfortunately, it will be the most vulnerable in our society who will pay the price, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
