Quebec - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today announced the conclusion of an agreement in principle between the government of Quebec and the group Les Sages-femmes du Québec ( RSFQ) concerning the working conditions of midwives.
“I am delighted with the conclusion of this agreement in principle which recognizes the contribution of midwives to the Quebec health network. In addition to respecting the State&#39;s ability to pay, this agreement is in addition to the efforts made by our government to accelerate the development of the midwifery service offer, in accordance with the orientations and priorities of the Perinatal Policy. 2008-2018 of the Government of Quebec, ”declared Minister Hébert.
In fact, in addition to recognizing their expertise and know-how, this agreement significantly improves the working conditions of midwives and those in charge of midwifery services, while promoting an offer of service that meets the needs of the population.
This agreement in principle comes to the end of negotiations that had lasted for several years. Indeed, let us recall that in 2005, the previous government put an end to the negotiations by unilaterally imposing a collective agreement on midwives, which expired on March 31, 2010. The negotiations had been underway since 2011. The parties are finally at it. reached an agreement in principle on January 6. This was subsequently presented to the general assembly of RSFQ members, to finally be ratified on January 8, 2014.
“Our government has shown openness and has been able to negotiate a mutually satisfactory agreement. We can be proud of the conclusion of such an agreement, which required sustained work on the part of the RSFQ and our government. Various measures of great importance can now be more easily implemented, in particular to increase support for clients in vulnerable situations, which is, moreover, another objective of the Perinatal Policy. This is undoubtedly great news for midwives in Quebec and for all Quebec women and families who use their services, ”Minister Hébert concluded.
