Québec, February 16, 2018 - The official opposition spokesperson for health, access to care and home support, Diane Lamarre, denounces the fact that the government intends to pay an additional $ 2 billion to medical specialists , without any guarantee that access to health care will be improved.
IN SHORT
“The Liberal government is currently in crisis management, and it is a crisis that it itself created. He outrageously favored physicians at the expense of other health professionals, and he now finds himself forced to reveal to us in disaster part of the agreement he concluded with the FMSQ. In total, an additional $ 2 billion will be paid to medical specialists, when they are already paid better than their Ontario colleagues. These sums should never have been promised or paid! Let us summarize: doctors, including 10,000 specialists, already monopolize 8% of the Quebec budget and 20% of the health budget. As this is expected to grow, there is no need to add, in addition, the guarantee that doctors will always capture this proportion. It shows how out of touch the Liberal government is, ”insisted the spokesperson.
&quot;Besides, do you see how ironic it is?&quot; This bad agreement compensates for the shortcomings of an even worse agreement, concluded in 2007 between the then Minister of Health, Philippe Couillard, and the representative of medical specialists at the time, Gaétan Barrette. Today, when speaking of &quot;savings&quot;, the liberals have implicitly admitted it! She added.
Diane Lamarre recalls the solid plan of the Parti Québécois in the field of health: &quot;We propose to freeze the remuneration of physicians and to reopen this indecent agreement, while the Liberals and the Caquists agree to continue to increase the remuneration of physicians. . In addition, instead of giving an additional $ 500 million recurring to medical specialists, we will reinvest this recurring $ 500 million in home support. We are also committed to giving more autonomy to specialized nurse practitioners and other professionals, to improve access to care. In short, we will stop always giving everything to doctors! It is with our plan that access to health care will improve, not by adding $ 2 billion to the remuneration of specialists, ”she argued.
Finally, the Member for Taillon calls on the government to make public the agreements made with family physicians and specialist physicians. “We are entitled to know the extent of the damage caused by Liberal mismanagement. And I remind the government that it was committed to revealing the details of these agreements. &quot;
