Quebec– The member for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, denounces the creation of a “Bolduc bonus” for medical specialists in the agreement concluded between the FMSQ and the Minister of Health.
&quot;We learned this morning that medical specialists have negotiated an additional premium modeled on the&quot; Bolduc premium &quot;, in addition to having obtained the possibility of lowering the targets to be reached along the way, without any penalty. It&#39;s scandalous! What the minister is asking them is to see patients who are in the emergency room within 2 to 4 hours, only between 8 am and 4 pm and only… on weekdays. If you are unfortunate enough to be in the emergency room before 8 am, after 4 pm or on weekends, you have no guarantee that you will be able to see a specialist within a reasonable time, ”Ms. Lamarre denounced.
&quot;Did the minister really need to give them a bonus for that?&quot; Signing an agreement in which one of the two parties promises to try to respect it, but which does not include any consequences in the event of failure, it is absolutely absurd and it is a profound lack of respect towards Quebecers ”, a declared the member.
“Faced with the ridiculousness of what is being asked of specialists, we understand that the minister was embarrassed to unveil the agreement before the end of the last parliamentary session, while he was immersed in hot water because of the report of the Auditor General. Today, three months later, the population realizes the monumental bluff of the Minister, for whom the agreement with the specialists is a self-promotion operation, ”added Ms. Lamarre.
In an interview, the president of the FMSQ even went so far as to say that Minister Barrette &quot;is still seated in [his] chair, [and that] he is trying to manage the federation according to his current vision&quot;. &quot;Unfortunately, this is yet another admission which confirms that we have a minister of physicians, who works for his physician colleagues, and not for patients in Quebec,&quot; insisted the deputy.
It should also be remembered that in the agreement concerning the staggering of the increase in doctors&#39; remuneration, Minister Barrette granted them an additional increase of $ 150 million. In addition, there is the $ 400 million overpaid, a situation highlighted by the Auditor General of Quebec last fall.
