Québec– The MNA for Taillon and spokesperson for the official opposition in matters of health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, and the MNA for Rosemont and spokesperson for social services, Jean-François Lisée, denounce the fact that the agreement entered into by the government with the Fédération des médecins omnipraticiens du Québec (FMOQ) contains not only the return of the Bolduc premium, but also an article aimed at compensating physicians for acts performed by other healthcare professionals health.
“The more you read the agreement with general practitioners, the better you understand the financial gains that the Minister has granted them. Article 21 fulfills a long-standing wish of doctors: to receive a supplement to work with other professionals. Yves Bolduc had already given them a bonus of $ 60,000 per year for each specialized nurse practitioner supervised within FMGs. However, in the agreement reached, it is a question of extending this way of doing things to other categories of professionals, ”said Diane Lamarre.
“In the current budgetary context, where every dollar counts, how can the minister choose to pay a supplement to physicians for the simple fact of working in collaboration with other professionals? All health professionals who want more interdisciplinarity want the patient to emerge as the winner of this better collaboration, ”continued the MP.
For his part, Jean-François Lisée denounced the fact that, on the one hand, the Liberal government invokes austerity to recover sums from other health workers, but that, on the other, it spares doctors. &quot;The government is proposing to abolish retention bonuses for nurses in the regions, demands $ 177 million from pharmacists, wants to impoverish all health workers by not even indexing their salaries over the next few years, but it offers more to doctors. Minister Barrette had a huge power struggle with his Bill 20 which threatened doctors, but he got nothing in exchange for his abandonment. Contrary to popular belief, he was a very bad negotiator, ”he said.
“The minister missed the boat; the agreement he signed with general practitioners does not even guarantee results for patients in Quebec, nor does it provide for sanctions if doctors do not meet the objectives set. That the Prime Minister ratified this agreement is quite simply absurd, ”concluded the member for Rosemont.
