Québec, December 6, 2017 - The official opposition spokesperson for finance and Québec-Canada relations, Nicolas Marceau, and the spokesperson for culture, Agnès Maltais, once again denounce the agreement with Netflix signed by the Minister of Canadian Heritage, Mélanie Joly. &quot;By exempting Netflix from the obligation to collect taxes, the minister is putting artists, producers, broadcasters, workers and companies working in Quebec&#39;s cultural environment at a disadvantage,&quot; they insist.
IN SHORT
“Mélanie Joly and Justin Trudeau act without any consideration for Quebec. They got together to tell all of Quebec&#39;s cultural community: Netflix comes before you. All we&#39;re asking for is fairness between Netflix and local broadcasters. But, for Ottawa, the priority is to exempt multinationals from the obligation to collect taxes. In addition, we still do not have access to the agreement that the federal government signed with Netflix, despite repeated requests from Quebec. This lack of transparency confirms that for Mélanie Joly and Justin Trudeau, it is multinationals first and Quebecers second, ”declared Nicolas Marceau.
From what we know, therefore, not only is the agreement with Netflix unacceptable but, in addition, the whole of the cultural policy presented by Mélanie Joly does not pass. “In addition to giving privileges to Netflix, which will not have to collect taxes, the federal government is doing nothing to support the written press in its transition to digital. However, as long as Ottawa does not intervene to mark the flight of advertising dollars to Google and Facebook, the world of the written press will not be further advanced. The federal government must engage in a real process of support for it, ”added Agnès Maltais.
Let us recall that the Parti Québécois proposes to introduce the mandatory collection of taxes on all goods and services purchased on the Internet, while offsetting the effect on the tax burden with an equivalent drop in the overall tax rate. &quot;Our position, fair and balanced, makes it possible to satisfy all the stakeholders in this file, without overwhelming the taxpayers,&quot; concluded Nicolas Marceau.
