Terrebonne– The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Mrs. Diane De Courcy, the Acting Mayor of the city of Terrebonne, Mr. Stéphane Berthe, and the President of the Regional Conference of Lanaudière elected officials, Gaétan Morin, today unveiled, in the presence of Terrebonne MNA, Mathieu Traversy, the Specific Immigration Agreement for the Lanaudière region for the period 2013-2018.
“As I have often stressed, the regionalization of immigration is one of my priorities. This agreement is aimed precisely at promoting the long-term settlement of immigrants in Lanaudière. We want to attract qualified immigrant workers able to meet the labor needs of Lanaudière businesses and able to contribute to regional economic development while participating in the vitality of communities, ”said Minister Diane De Courcy.
“The integration of immigrants into public life and the labor market is an important issue for the Lanaudière community and, in this sense, the regional partners are determined to work together. The neo-Lanaudois who settle here represent a real asset for our region because they contribute to economic, social and cultural development. Finally, we are working vigorously to ensure that integration into Quebec society takes place in French, our common language, the keystone for successful integration, ”said the Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection. and Minister responsible for the Lanaudière region, Véronique Hivon.
“The agreement reached today also aims to put in place measures to promote harmonious intercultural relations. To this end, we can count on the support of two organizations, created under the last agreement, which offer services adapted to the growing needs of immigrant clients, namely the Multiethnic Reception and Integration of Newcomers in Terrebonne and les Environs (AMINATE) and the Immigrant Family Assistance Service of the Assumption Regional County Municipality (SAFIMA). These two organizations cover the south of the Lanaudière region, where a large number of newcomers settle, ”added MP Mathieu Traversy.
The signing of the Specific Agreement on Immigration comes a little over a year after Minister Diane De Courcy visited Lanaudière during her tour of the regions of Quebec. She then met the regional partners of the Ministry and exchanged with them on the main issues related to immigration.
This five-year agreement brings together the ministries of Immigration and Cultural Communities, Employment and Social Solidarity, Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Culture and Communications, Finance and Economy, the Regional Conference of Elected Officials of Lanaudière, the City of Terrebonne, the Lanaudière Health and Social Services Agency, the North Lanaudière Health and Social Services Center , the Council on the Status of Women, the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec, the Forum jeunesse Lanaudière as well as the Lanaudière regional immigration consultation committee.
In total, $ 2.2 million will be invested by all the partners in the agreement. The contribution of the Government of Quebec represents more than $ 1.4 million and, of this amount, $ 875,000 comes from the Department of Immigration and Cultural Communities.
The agreement will:
“This morning&#39;s announcement is excellent news for Terrebonne and for the organization AMINATE, which works hard for the social and economic integration of newcomers. Like all the players gathered here today, we hope that immigrants welcomed in the Lanaudière region integrate into their living environment, and this imperatively involves integration into the labor market and financial autonomy. This agreement will act as a formidable lever to promote full citizen emancipation and the local economy, ”declared Mayor Jean-Marc Robitaille.
According to Emploi-Québec forecasts, by 2016 there will be 50,700 positions to be filled in Lanaudière, of which 37% result from economic growth and 63% from retirements. The fields of metallurgy, furniture design and agrifood are niches of excellence in the region, and companies will need a qualified workforce to support their development, whether it comes from the region. environment or immigration.
“Immigrants are essential to the development of our region. They bring new and promising expertise in terms of socio-economic and cultural development, ”said the president of the CRÉ de Lanaudière, Mr. Gaétan Morin.
“The agreement will make employers more aware of the added value of immigrant labor and the advantages of diversity. It also responds to various regional needs and reflects the collective commitment of the Lanaudière partners to create a welcoming environment for newcomers, an environment where they can settle in a sustainable way to live and work, ”concluded the Minister. Diane De Courcy.
