Quebec - Diane Lamarre, the member for Taillon and official opposition spokesperson for health and access to care, welcomed with skepticism the announcement of an agreement made this morning by the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, and the Federation of General Practitioners of Quebec (FMOQ).
First, the problem of access to healthcare will remain unresolved at least until December 2017. “The Minister asks us to trust him; we will not know for two and a half years whether this agreement works. A year ago, during the consideration of 2014 estimates, the minister made many formal promises that he failed to keep. There is no tangible improvement for the people. People are desperate. We ask him to make public the agreement he concluded with the FMOQ and to report the situation to parliamentarians and the public every three months, in order to have a fair picture and for the sake of transparency. If he refuses, it is because he is not so certain of the results for Quebeckers, ”Diane Lamarre said at a press conference.
Thanks to the work of the Parti Québécois and the many groups that came to testify before a parliamentary committee, the minister finally admitted that his demands on family physicians were unrealistic. “However, registration with a doctor and access to the latter should not be confused; accessibility to care also means more availability of physicians and an increased role given to other professionals - in particular specialized nurse practitioners, psychologists, pharmacists - who could greatly contribute to improving access to our health care system. health. However, none of this was mentioned by the Minister this morning, ”added the spokesperson.
“This agreement was negotiated between a doctor and other doctors, without a comprehensive plan. For those who wait more than 16 hours, on average, in the emergency room, for the 25% of Quebecers who do not have a family doctor, for people needing home care, for the 37,000 residents in CHSLDs who hardly receive a bath per week and who we want to make pay more for their accommodation ... for all these people, in fact, there is nothing more today, nor tomorrow, ”concluded Diane Lamarre .
