Quebec - The Minister of Public Security, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, and the Head of the Atikamekw Council of Opitciwan, Mr. Christian Awashish, announce that the Ministry of Public Security and the Atikamekw Council of Opitciwan have agreed on the principles of an agreement for the provision of police services in the community of Opitciwan. The Opitciwan police force will therefore remain in operation after March 31, 2014.
“This agreement is in keeping with the spirit of openness and mutual respect that the Government of Quebec wishes to maintain in its relations with the First Nations and the Inuit. In these negotiations, the Quebec and Atikamek nations share the same objective, which is to ensure the safety of citizens. There is therefore no doubt that by working together, we will arrive at lasting solutions ”, declared the Minister of Public Security, Stéphane Bergeron.
Over the past few weeks, discussions have enabled the parties to agree on the main parameters that will allow Opitciwan Public Security to provide police services for the 2014-2015 fiscal year. As part of this agreement, a pilot project aimed at promoting the efficiency of the Opitciwan police force will be set up. This includes in particular the loan of an officer of the Sûreté du Québec to the community to supervise, as interim director, the operations of the police force. The exact terms of the Opitciwan agreement will not be revealed, however, as they will have to be ratified as part of formal agreements.
“I am pleased with the positive outcome of our recent discussions with the Government of Quebec, which has shown a much appreciated openness. This pilot project will allow us to better meet the needs of our population, while making it possible to adequately assess the level of resources necessary to ensure quality police services within our community, ”concluded Chief Awashish.
It should be remembered that the agreements on the provision of police services in the Aboriginal communities of Quebec are funded 52% by the Government of Canada and 48% by the Government of Quebec.
