Québec, October 5, 2016 - As the deadlines for the softwood lumber agreement expire in a week, the member for Jonquière and leader of the official opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the member de Bonaventure and Parti Québécois spokesperson for forests, Sylvain Roy, called on the Premier of Quebec, Philippe Couillard, to act in order to prevent our regions from being once again hard hit. by a forestry crisis.
“The expiration of the deadlines will open the door to the imposition of new tariffs that go against the interests of our forest industry. If we look to the past, the Americans could impose a 25% tariff that would hit our businesses hard. During the last crisis, several Quebec companies had to close because of these sanctions. The role of the Prime Minister is to ensure that the new Quebec regime is taken into consideration by Canadian negotiators. What&#39;s his game plan? », Asked Sylvain Gaudreault.
“The big difference, compared to the previous negotiation, is that Quebec now has a new forestry regime that complies with international trade rules, which makes the imposition of tariffs even more unjustifiable. However, a week from the deadline, there is no progress; not only is our new forest regime not recognized by the American government, but, in addition, Prime Minister Couillard has not even succeeded in convincing the Canadian government that it can no longer accept the terms of an agreement that favors Western Canada and the Maritimes. Our regions and the forestry sector have already suffered several job losses and plant closings. What are the Prime Minister and the Minister of Forests saying to them? Sylvain Roy wanted to know.
“The intentions of the Americans are clear and worrying for our foresters, who do not know if they will still have work at the end of the year. They need to be reassured. There is one week left. In addition, in Saguenay – Lac Saint Jean, my region and that of the Prime Minister, we know that the surtax on overcalendered paper, imposed by the American government on the Kénogami and Dolbeau plants, will have serious consequences. A million dollars per month, per plant. The Prime Minister knows they will not be able to endure this for long. What does he plan to do about this second issue in addition to that of softwood lumber? », Concluded the leader of the official opposition.
