Quebec - The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the Minister responsible for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignist Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, are pleased to announce the conclusion of the 2014-2020 Canada-Quebec Agreement for the transfer of funds from the Canada Job Fund.
The 2014-2020 Canada-Quebec Agreement is in line with the Labor Market Agreement (LMA) and provides for the transfer of amounts from the Canada Job Fund to support the services offered in Quebec to improve the employment integration of groups under-represented on the labor market and of workers with a significant deficit in basic training. It also takes into account the essential role of the Commission des Partenaires du marché du travail (CPMT), a partner of the Government of Quebec with regard to the orientation and planning of the offer of public employment services.
“Since the signing of the first labor market agreement in 1997, Quebec has developed a partnership model unique in Canada which gives excellent results and which promotes the participation and financial contribution of employers to workforce training. -work and skills development. I would like to underline the openness of Minister Jason Kenney with whom we were able to negotiate in all transparency and in good faith. He was able to recognize the Quebec reality and the crucial role of the Labor Market Partners Commission, which made it possible to conclude the agreement, ”said Minister Agnès Maltais.
For the past 15 years, Quebec has been able to count on a single concertation structure, the Commission des Partenaires du marché du travail. It brings together representatives of employers, the workforce, the education community, community organizations and government organizations, and is supported by the 17 regional councils of labor market partners. In addition, the existence in Quebec of the Law to promote the recognition and development of skills, commonly called the 1% law, already made it possible to meet several objectives set by the federal government, including participation and financial contribution. from employers to workforce training.
“The model that Quebec has developed has proven itself. There is a consensus as much in the National Assembly as among workers and employers for Ottawa to respect this exclusive jurisdiction of Quebec and for the current model of workforce training to continue to bring results. This agreement is good news for people far from the labor market, for partners and for the economy of Quebec, ”said Minister Alexandre Cloutier.
Note that for the past few months, the federal government has been negotiating agreements with the provinces and territories on the application of the new Canada Job Grant (CES) according to a model adapted to their reality. The 2014-2020 Canada-Quebec Agreement for the transfer of funds from the Canada Job Fund respects the terms of the current labor market agreement as demanded by the National Assembly of Quebec.
