Quebec - The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, announced today, within the framework of the general convention of the Union des producteurs agricoles (UPA), the allocation of financial assistance of $ 50,000 to the UPA - international development component. This sum will contribute to the organization of the Continental Meeting of North America, an event that fits into the program of activities planned to underline, in 2014, the International Year of Family Farming.
The Continental Meeting of North America will bring together, on April 7 and 8 in Quebec, hundreds of participants from here, other Canadian provinces, the United States and Mexico. This international event is in addition to the many activities and initiatives that will aim to publicize the commitment of family farming for a sustainable future.
“Family farming is one of the pillars of our Food Sovereignty Policy. The passion, determination and creativity of these men, women, and families have always contributed to the development of a prosperous Quebec. Preserving our collective pantry, meeting the food needs of the population and developing our vast territory, these are major challenges for our future and that of the next generations. Hence the importance of the involvement of the UPA in this global movement for a better recognition of the strategic role played, here as elsewhere, by family farming, ”explained Mr. Gendron.
The result of an initiative of the UPA and the Coop fédérée, this important meeting is in line with the events presented by major international organizations and places family farming, its challenges and its main issues at the heart of discussions.
“Better understand its needs, promote new ways of doing things, foster its development, encourage the next generation, these are all subjects that will be discussed and that concern us, particularly here in Quebec. It is precisely this agriculture on a human scale which has contributed and which still contributes today to the collective wealth and of our regions, ”concluded Minister Gendron.
Recall that it was the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) which declared, on November 22, 2014 as the International Year of Family Farming. In this way, we want to make known, in both developed and developing countries, the essential contribution of family farming. Rich in traditions and practices passed down from generation to generation, this agriculture covers a wide variety of agricultural activities and participates widely, at regional, national and global levels, in the protection of the environment, in sustainable development and even in the eradication of hunger in some countries.
For more information on the Government of Quebec&#39;s Food Sovereignty Policy, you can visit the blog www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca dedicated to it or go to the pagewww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSAd on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
