Quebec - The member for Rousseau and official opposition spokesperson for economic development and finance, Nicolas Marceau, and the member for Joliette, Véronique Hivon, strongly denounce the Caisse de dépôt&#39;s choice to financially support a project investment of the Kruger company in Memphis in the United States while this investment could be made in Quebec, in the municipality of Crabtree.
&quot;The mandate of the Caisse de dépôt is to promote the economic development of Quebec and not the relocation of investments from our own companies to other markets using the savings of Quebecers,&quot; said Nicolas Marceau.
While Investissement Québec is trying to encourage Kruger to carry out its expansion projects in Quebec, the other financial arm of the Quebec government, the Caisse de dépôt, is working exactly in the opposite direction. “There is clearly a lack of leadership and consistency in government action. It is also further proof that the mandate of the Caisse de dépôt must be revised to specify that its mission of economic development in Quebec should no longer be subordinate to its mission of performance, ”recalled Mr. Marceau.
“By making the granting of the loan to Kruger conditional on the selection of the expansion project at Crabtree, the Caisse de dépôt could have both obtained a return and made a strong contribution to the economic development of the Lanaudière region. Obviously, the management of the Caisse does not care at all, ”denounced the member for Joliette.
“After the move of Electrolux from L&#39;Assomption to Memphis and the closure of Gadoua in Saint-Thomas, the liberal government of Jean Charest, ministers Clément Gignac and Michelle Courchesne in the lead, promised significant efforts to develop jobs in Lanaudière. Not only is there no sign of real effort, we see that $ 211 million of our money is going to be used to create jobs in Memphis rather than Crabtree. It&#39;s downright shocking and Lanaudière residents are right to be outraged, ”added Véronique Hivon.
While the Caisse de dépôt presents rather ordinary results for the months of January to June, Quebeckers especially want to know what decisions are currently being taken by the directors of the Caisse while the financial markets are experiencing further turbulence.
“At the end of 2008, when the stock markets fell sharply, the Caisse de dépôt sold large stocks of shares and thus materialized losses of several billion dollars for which Quebecers still pay the price today. What Quebeckers want to know from the directors of the Caisse now are the decisions being made as the stock markets are going through another period of turbulence. The directors of the Caisse and the Minister of Finance, Raymond Bachand, must assure Quebeckers that the mistakes of the past are not being repeated today, ”concluded the member for Rousseau, Nicolas Marceau.
