Quebec - As special consultations begin today in connection with Bill 70, An Act to allow a better match between training and employment and to promote integration into employment, the Word of the Parti Québécois in matters of employment, social economy, fight against poverty and solidarity, Dave Turcotte, joined the coalition Objectif dignity to denounce certain measures which must be modified before its adoption.
“The objectives targeted by the bill, that is to say to allow a better match between training and employment, and to promote integration into employment, are desirable. However, the means identified by the government to reach them are not the right ones. The old carrot and stick method will not work to effectively lift people out of the circle of poverty. As elected officials, let&#39;s instead try to understand why these people have come to this, listen to their needs and give them the necessary tools to get out of it once and for all, ”said Dave Turcotte.
The spokesperson added that the bill, in its current form, leaves several questions unresolved. In addition, the lack of accompanying regulations is cause for concern. “What is &#39;suitable employment&#39;, according to Employment Minister Sam Hamad? Will people be forced to move to keep their benefits, or will they have to accept a job 200 kilometers from their homes? The bill is opaque. We do not have the details, and the minister has so far maintained the vagueness. Let us hope that it will be more open and that it be more transparent during the detailed study of the bill, which must follow the special consultations, ”he continued.
Finally, Dave Turcotte believes that Sam Hamad is relieving himself of his responsibilities to the detriment of the employees of his department. “Social workers are going to find themselves with very important responsibilities that they normally wouldn&#39;t have to take on. By acting in this way, the minister opens the door to arbitrariness, in addition to keeping the possibility of blaming his officials if there is any slippage. However, we can already say that the problem is that the minister does not give sufficiently clear indications. State employees cannot be held responsible, ”concluded the member for Saint-Jean.
