Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, today inaugurated, along with the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the Maison-des-Marins, the fifth pavilion of the Museum of Archeology and History of Montreal, Pointe-à-Callière. The event took place in the presence of the Mayor of Montreal, Michael Applebaum, the President of the Pointe-à-Callière Foundation, Russell Goodman, and the Executive Director of the Museum, Francine Lelièvre.
“Quebec is a land of welcome and Pointe-à-Callière is an eloquent representation of it. The Museum is erected on the site of Montreal&#39;s foundation and preserves testimonies from all periods since prehistoric times. There are traces of the Aboriginal presence, the arrival of Europeans and the building of the Quebec nation. The Museum presents a concentration of remarkable historical sites of exceptional heritage value in North America. These places of memory bear witness to our identity and our origins, and we have a responsibility to preserve them and leave them as a legacy to our children and grandchildren. La Maison-des-Marins offers Quebeckers a new space dedicated to discovering our fascinating history, ”declared the Premier.
The total contribution of the Ministry of Culture and Communications for the rehabilitation of the Maison-des-Marins and the archaeological excavations at Place D&#39;Youville Ouest amounts to just over $ 20 million. In addition to cultural events and major temporary exhibitions, the new pavilion will host, among other things, multifunctional rooms at the cutting edge of technology, the Museum Boutique, the Pointe-à-Callière Foundation as well as the activities of the Archéo workshop. -aventure, which recreates in an interactive space an urban excavation site for young people. Educational activities and the dissemination of youth programming, as well as the events and exhibitions presented, will help attract new audiences and increase attendance at the institution by all target clienteles.
“Pointe-à-Callière is the largest archeology museum in Quebec and we are very proud of it. Located in the heart of Old Montreal, this exceptional museum institution helps consolidate Montreal as a cultural metropolis. With the opening of the Maison-des-Marins, the Museum is enriched with a fifth pavilion which will allow it to increase its cultural offer and offer an even wider showcase on archeology and history. Thanks to an educational component dedicated to raising the awareness of visitors, especially young people, archeology is more alive and captivating than ever, ”Minister Maka Kotto declared.
The work of art presented within the framework of the application of the Policy for the Integration of the Arts into the Architecture and the Environment of Buildings and Government and Public Sites is a creation of Montreal artist Nicolas Baier. This fragmented work, titled Vanités 3. The Mirrors of Time, is made up of 75 digitized images of old or contemporary mirrors. She was chosen for her allusions to the past and memory as well as for her strong presence in space.
