Quebec, June 30, 2020 - The deputy for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and Parti Québécois transport spokesperson, Joël Arseneau, strongly condemns the decision of Air Canada, which today announced the indefinite suspension 30 regional routes, including 8 in Quebec. The carrier is also abandoning 3 regional stopovers in Quebec.
IN SHORT
“For the regions of Quebec, Air Canada&#39;s announcement has serious consequences. The city of Gaspé finds itself without a commercial link, while air services to Mont-Joli, Baie-Comeau and Val-d&#39;Or will be considerably reduced. However, for the regions of Quebec, for the occupation, the development of the territory and the economic recovery, air transport is essential ”, declared Joël Arseneau first.
Like his parliamentary leader, Pascal Bérubé, the MP for the Islands said, however, that he had no expectations of Air Canada. &quot;In our opinion, the time has come to turn to a 100% Quebec option, Air Canada having proven for a long time that it has no respect for the regions of Quebec,&quot; he said.
In the member&#39;s opinion, the first thing the Government of Quebec must do is extend the Assistance Program for the maintenance of essential regional air services in times of health emergency, announced on April 1, 2018. , the time it will take to remedy this regrettable situation. In addition, the program should be extended to other destinations abandoned by Air Canada, which of course implies an adjustment of its funding accordingly. This enhanced program will provide guarantees of profitability to the companies that will take over from Air Canada.
In addition, the Minister of Transport, François Bonnardel, must urgently convene a meeting of the Permanent Air Transport Working Group, something he has neglected to do since taking office. Questioned by MP Arseneau 6 months after his appointment, in April 2019, Mr. Bonnardel criticized the Liberals for never having convened this working group ... A year later, the minister has not yet held any meeting. “Together with this committee, the Minister must determine which connections are a priority and identify the best ways to open up the cities and regions of Quebec. Its members must be convened as soon as possible in order to finally lay the foundations for a genuine national air transport policy, ”continued Joël Arseneau.
“Air Canada is a thing of the past. The future of air transport in Quebec lies in an option coming out of Quebec, ”concluded the Parti Québécois spokesperson for transport.
