L&#39;Assomption - The Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Minister responsible for the Lanaudière region and Member of Parliament for Joliette, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today launched at the Cégep régional de Lanaudière in L&#39;Assomption, the 2013-2014 edition of the information and awareness campaign aimed at preventing, among young people, the risks and consequences associated with the consumption of alcohol or other drugs, as well as the practice of gambling chance and money.
“I am pleased to launch the 26th Drug Abuse Prevention Week, which runs November 17-23. As a government concerned with the health and development of its population, we have a responsibility to act in prevention in order to offer our young people a better future. Their involvement in activities that correspond to their interests and passions is essential to their progress. Such a commitment allows them to develop personal and social skills that protect them from the risks associated with consumption, ”said Ms. Hivon.
This year, the theme chosen for young people aged 10 to 12 is &quot;Living your passions is intense&quot;, while for 13 to 24 year olds, the slogan reads: &quot;Be intense naturally - There is so much. better to do than to consume ”.
In order to encourage young people to get involved in something that motivates them, while educating them about the adverse effects of alcohol and drug consumption, or even gambling. , various means adapted to the interests of young people are used: posters, distribution of printed material, tools available online, televised messages, web placement.
In addition, there are field activities for 17 to 24 year olds, which will run until April 2014 in college education establishments, vocational training centers and adult education centers.
“Tools have also been produced specifically, in collaboration with Aboriginal health and social service organizations, to reach young Inuit and First Nations”, concluded the Minister.
More information on the different aspects of the campaign can be obtained at the following addresses:
www.dependances.gouv.qc.ca (for workers) www.intenseaunaturel.com (for young people).
