Alma– The member for Lac-Saint-Jean and Minister responsible for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs and Sovereignty Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, called a first meeting with the mayors of the 15 municipalities in his riding, in Alma this morning. This meeting gave rise to constructive exchanges and made it possible to discuss ways of doing things so that everyone could work together to advance the various files.
“During the election campaign, I made a commitment to continue my efforts to advance the issues of my constituency. From this perspective, it was therefore essential for me to quickly meet elected officials so that I could discuss with them the state of the situation with regard to many projects and so that we could agree on a common operating mode to ensure progress. various files in the Lac-Saint-Jean region, ”indicated Mr. Cloutier.
During this meeting, the main subjects affecting all municipalities were discussed. In particular, it dealt with infrastructure projects, early childhood centers (CPE), cell phones, the waste management authority, public transport service, permanent trails for snowmobiles, devitalized municipalities. as well as files related to drinking water management and wastewater treatment.
Alexandre Cloutier was accompanied by several members of his team, including Ms. Cynthia Tardif and Mr. Michel Néron, who are directly assigned to services for elected officials and files relating to municipalities. Elected officials also had the opportunity to meet members of the ministerial cabinet, in particular the director of cabinet, Ms. Andrée Corriveau, and the liaison officer, Ms. Marilou Gagnon, who is from Alma. The latter will lend a hand to the constituency team by facilitating exchanges with the ministries for the settlement of files which concern them.
In closing, Mr. Cloutier indicated that the citizens of Lac-Saint-Jean can be assured of his full cooperation and that of his team. &quot;These meetings with the elected representatives of the constituency will take place at regular intervals so that we can closely follow the development of the files in the interest of all,&quot; concluded Minister Cloutier.
