Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, today unveiled a strategy entitled Tous pour emploi: a new impetus with the partners, in order to promote the integration and retention in employment of a workforce sufficient to meet the needs of businesses throughout Quebec.
Quebec is going through a major transformation. The labor market is set to change as soon the number of people of working age will start to decline. By 2021, nearly 1.4 million jobs will be available in all regions. Already, certain sectors of activity are having difficulty meeting their needs for skilled labor, thus making this strategy most relevant.
“More than ever, Quebec must ensure the development of the full potential of its workforce. Both working and unemployed people must have the opportunity to put their skills at the service of Quebec society, to actively contribute to the development of our communities. It is by ensuring, together, the development and optimal use of our human capital that we will make Quebec an ever fairer and more prosperous society. What our government is proposing is a human and economic vision of solidarity, ”declared the Prime Minister.
To develop this strategy, three main priorities were set out by Minister Maltais:
rethinking solidarity and breaking the cycle of poverty;
refocus the action of the Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity (MESS) on groups that are under-represented in terms of employment;
The measures announced specifically target:
With regard to the MESS, new impetus will be given to public employment services in order to improve the integration or retention in employment of the available workforce. The Labor Market Partners Commission (CPMT), for its part, is committed to supporting companies that open their doors to people on the fringes of the labor market and that integrate skills development into their practices.
Thus, significant MESS resources will be refocused and mobilized to achieve these objectives. Ultimately, $ 463 million per year will be dedicated to these clienteles. For example, all young people newly registered for last resort assistance will be systematically met over a determined period to provide them with personalized support and offer them every opportunity to enter the labor market.
“The challenges relating to the economic security of individuals and families are answered in employment. I would remind you that 2 out of 3 young people under the age of 25 who benefit from last resort assistance come from beneficiary families, and that 2,500 new young people apply for financial assistance each month. That is why we have decided to join forces to break the cycle of poverty through a new targeted and effective intervention, ”Minister Maltais indicated.
This announcement was made in the presence of the President of the CPMT, Mr. Jean-Luc Trahan, and several members of the Commission, including the President and CEO of the Federation of Quebec Chambers of Commerce, Ms. Françoise Bertrand, and the Vice -President of the Confederation of National Trade Unions, Ms. Denise Boucher.
&quot;On behalf of the partners in the labor market, it is with enthusiasm that we join this vast mobilization for employment and pledge to step up our efforts in order to establish a true culture of continuing training and development. skills in Quebec. It is with the expertise and contribution of our partners and businesses that we will make our workers the mark of excellence in Quebec, here and on the world stage, ”said Mr. Trahan.
“I am happy to be able to count on the Labor Market Partners Commission, which answered the call. She made a remarkable contribution to the development of this strategy by proposing innovative solutions. The success of this operation will depend on the mobilization of workers, unions, employers, employability organizations, government partners and the education community, ”Minister Maltais concluded.
For more information about the planned measures and the main elements of the impact assessment of the four regulatory measures, visit the section specific to the All for Employment strategy on the website of the Ministère de l&#39;Emploi et de la Solidarité sociale. athttp: //www.mess.gouv.qc.ca/grands-dossiers/tous_pour_emploi.asp.
