Quebec - The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the Parti Québécois spokesperson for the status of women, Mireille Jean, as well as the spokesperson for public safety, Stéphane Bergeron, are deeply concerned about allegations of sexual assault targeting a Liberal elected member of the National Assembly. They call on the Prime Minister and his caucus to make a formal commitment to hand over all relevant information concerning this matter to the police, and to suspend from the caucus any MP who is under criminal investigation.
When she left the Liberal caucus, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Lise Thériault, refused to answer a journalist who asked her if she knew the identity of the MP concerned, merely declaring that &quot;this what happens in caucus stays in caucus ”. These are extremely disturbing comments; they suggest that the Liberal members have identified the person involved, but are trying to protect him. However, this is not a case of internal caucus management, but a case of criminal aggression.
“If a liberal elected official has any information in connection with this attack, it is to the police that he must contact. As for the Prime Minister, if he knows the identity of the person concerned, he must immediately remove him from caucus while the investigation lasts, rather than invoking caucus secrecy. He must send the message that such gestures are unacceptable and are not tolerated, and that members of Parliament do not benefit from a privileged regime, ”declared the leader of the official opposition.
“I find it worrying that the Prime Minister has asked his whip and one of his advisers to meet with the person (s) involved, these meetings being able to open the door to suspicion of an attempt to influence the versions of the facts. These people must be directed to the police services directly, without a political intermediary, ”continued Jean-François Lisée.
“Lise Thériault is the Minister responsible for the Status of Women. She will be responsible for implementing any government strategy to prevent and counter sexual violence. Like her Prime Minister, she must set an example and clearly state that in the case of sexual assault, it is zero tolerance. It must also ensure that the victims have all the necessary support, ”added Mireille Jean.
Finally, it should be noted that in an interview, a friend of the victim said that she had several concerns about the police complaint handling process. “The victim revealed that the Quebec police would have discouraged her from continuing her efforts. If this is the case, it is totally unacceptable! In the circumstances, the SPVQ police chief has a duty to ensure that an investigation is carried out, not only on the substance of the matter, but also on the way in which the complaint was handled. It is also necessary to examine the possibility that this misconduct could constitute a breach of police ethics. One thing is certain, these unfortunate events cannot go unchecked, ”responded Stéphane Bergeron.
