Quebec– The member for Terrebonne and official opposition spokesperson for family matters, Mathieu Traversy, the president and CEO of the Association québécoise des CPE (AQCPE), Louis Senécal, as well as the president of the Association Quebec private day care centers (AGPQ), Samir Alahmad, united their voices, today at a press briefing, to demand the departure of the Minister of Families, Francine Charbonneau, who no longer has their confidence. They also loudly denounce the modulation and draconian increase in childcare fees, two measures directly attacking families in Quebec and on which the Prime Minister must back down.
“It is a historic alliance that we are witnessing today. The two main associations of the childcare network, AQCPE and AGPQ, are united against the modulation and the increase in tariffs. Together, they denounce the fact that the minister does not consult them and ask for her departure. Almost all of the speakers heard in parliamentary committee on Bill 28 also affirmed their deep disagreement and their concern about the modulation and increase in tariffs. The government has not done any study on the impact of this increase on families, especially women. Locked in its accounting logic, it has not assessed all the complications that this modulation of tariffs will entail on administrative management and single-parent families, among others. The Liberals did not analyze anything at all! It&#39;s total improvisation! », Declared Mathieu Traversy.
&quot;With Bill 28, the government wants to impose a price shock on middle-class families in all haste and urgently reform one of our most important socioeconomic achievements,&quot; said Louis Senécal. After he reneged on his promise and refused social dialogue, we are a few days away from seeing this government impose a gag order on families in Quebec. The latter deserve a Minister of Families who defends them within the government. One thing is clear today: the Minister has chosen not to consider her partners and the bond of trust is irreparably broken. We are asking the Prime Minister to suspend his rate adjustment plan and to appoint a minister who will be able to re-establish dialogue with families in Quebec and partners in the educational childcare network. Together, we can work to put in place promising solutions, ”he continued.
“The Minister and her senior officials manage the department in an improvised and cavalier fashion, without any consultation or respect for the partners in the childcare sector. Modulating child care costs is a total aberration. It is the middle class family with children who will pay most of the bill. This is not at all what Mr. Couillard had promised during the electoral campaign, ”concluded Samir Alahmad.
