Québec, February 19, 2020 - The member for Rimouski and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of social solidarity and social services, Harold LeBel, as well as the member for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and spokesperson for health, Joël Arseneau, together with several community organizations, including A-Droit and COPHAN, are calling for an immediate adjustment to the calculation of the personal expenditure allowance for people accommodated in intermediate or family-type resources (RI-RTF ). This morning at the National Assembly, they also tabled a petition to this effect.
IN SHORT
The 2017-2023 government action plan for economic inclusion and social participation aimed to lift 100,000 people out of poverty; unfortunately, some of the measures it contains do the exact opposite. “At the time, social solidarity providers living in IR or RTF - often people with intellectual disabilities, disabilities or autism spectrum disorder - were delighted to learn that the The state was going to increase their allowance for personal expenses. However, I let you imagine their surprise and disappointment when they realized that these few dollars would go directly into the pockets of the RAMQ, which took the opportunity to increase their rents! “, Summarized Joël Arseneau.
In fact, on the one hand, the government increased the allowance by $ 73 per month in 2018. On the other hand, the RAMQ saw fit to increase the monthly rents in RI-RTF by an almost equivalent amount. A directive temporarily remedied the problem, but it was not renewed. As a result, in 2019, it was even worse; some people have even seen their allowance reduced by several tens of dollars!
The member for Rimouski is asking the government to show empathy. “We are not talking about astronomical sums! For the state, they are negligible. But they are significant for these 8,000 vulnerable people. The anomaly needs to be corrected now; moreover, in 2018, the François Legault whom I know denounced this injustice ”, he recalled.
François Winter, spokesperson for A-Droit, agrees: “Nearly 1,600 people are today asking the Quebec government to respect its government policies towards the most vulnerable people in our society. The allowance for personal expenses must be increased; it&#39;s a question of fairness, ”he said.
