Here is the speech given by Pauline Marois, Premier and leader of the Parti Québécois, on the occasion of the opening of the National Council on Quebec&#39;s international relations.
The pronounced version is authoritative
I am really happy to see you again. I have thought about you a lot in recent weeks.
We have heard people say that volunteers in political parties no longer existed. This may be the case elsewhere, but the Parti Québécois still has thousands of volunteers. Quebeckers who devote time and energy to advancing their ideals. And the proof is there in front of me: hundreds of volunteers dedicated to Quebec and to the idea that unites us, that of making Quebec a country!
The Parti Québécois is made up of women and men united around the conviction that to fully exist, Quebec must make its own decisions.
There are people more to the left in our party and others more to the right. There are 18-year-olds and others who are 88 years old. There are people from the Gaspé and others from Lévis. From Jonquière to Chibougamau, via Trois-Rivières and Baie-Comeau. From left, right, east to west and north to south, what brings us together, what we want is independence!
We also heard Philippe Couillard say that the Liberal Party had become a machine for collecting money and that he wanted it to become a party of ideas again. It would be quite a revolution ...
I still remember that famous time when a Liberal activist wanted to debate the creation of a commission of inquiry: not a single Liberal dared to support it.
The Parti Québécois is a party of ideas and convictions.
Experience has taught us that it is a democratic culture which does not emerge spontaneously. With us, it is the activists - volunteers - who build the program. Unlike others, the Parti Québécois is capable of applying its ideas and changing Quebec. We have to do it by listening to the people, by listening to everyone.
It is normal and desirable for the government to adjust along the way. Our goal is not to be right all the time. Our goal is to move forward, to bring about change. And, since September 4, if there is one thing of which I am absolutely certain, it is that Quebec has already changed a lot.
We are going forward!
