Quebec - As part of the National Organ and Tissue Donation Week, which takes place from April 21 to 28, the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, accompanied by spokespersons in health of other political parties, today recalled the importance of consent to organ and tissue donation during a joint press briefing. This press briefing took place in the presence of national partners such as Transplant Québec, RAMQ, Héma-Québec and the Chambre des notaires du Québec, and aimed to raise public awareness of the importance of making their consent known.
“Every year in Quebec, hundreds of people see their lives extended or their quality of life improved thanks to organ or tissue transplants. When we know that a 20% increase in the number of donors would eliminate the waiting list, we can set an example and sign our consent to organ and tissue donation today. This simple signature is a gesture full of generosity that can help save lives, ”said Minister Réjean Hébert.
“In Quebec, over the past few years, several measures and tools have been put in place to promote organ donation and we must continue in this direction. Today, we want to remind people that organ donation is a gesture of solidarity. We therefore invite Quebeckers to signify their consent since we know that every donation counts, ”said the official opposition spokesperson for health and Member of Parliament for Jean-Talon, Mr. Yves Bolduc.
“Consenting to donate organs and tissues represents a gesture of great generosity not only for others, but also for oneself, because no one is immune from an illness or an accident that could require a transplant. Sign your consent today! ”Added the spokesperson for the second opposition group on health and MNA for Groulx, Ms. Hélène Daneault.
“It&#39;s a necessity that no one doubts anymore. Since the film Jesus of Montreal by Denys Arcand, Quebec owes itself, if only symbolically, to be at the forefront in the field of organ donation. I hope that Quebec offers all the necessary legal framework and energetic logistical and financial support to facilitate and extend organ donation services. I invite all Quebeckers to sign and, in doing so, to make a big gesture to help others, ”said the Member for Mercier for Québec solidaire, Mr. Amir Khadir.
Since 2010, in addition to the sticker affixed to the health insurance card, it is possible to signify your consent to organ and tissue donation by registering your will in the National Register of Organ Donation Consents and fabrics. Under the responsibility of the Régie de l&#39;assurance maladie du Québec (RAMQ), this register, the data of which is confidential, is accessible only to persons authorized by the Minister within the partner organizations Transplant Québec and Héma-Québec. The registry collects consents for organ and tissue donation after death and facilitates the process for a possible donation. To date, nearly 1 million people are registered in the Régie&#39;s register. This new tool is added to the Organ and Tissue Donation Consents Register of the Chambre des notaires du Québec which, since 2005, has made it possible to record 875,000 consents.
Remember that people who renew their health insurance card, just like those who register with the RAMQ, receive the organ and tissue donation consent form. Consenting persons are then invited to complete the form, sign it and attach it to their health insurance card application. In addition, it is important to know that consents can be obtained at any time by ordering the form directly from the RAMQ.
“By donating organs and tissues upon death, one person alone can save up to eight lives and give a better quality of life to fifteen others. Hence the importance of notifying consent, but also of discussing it with relatives in order to make known your decision and ensure that it is respected. Organ and tissue donation saves lives. Like the well-known slogan: sign a donation! », Concluded Minister Hébert.
For more information on organ and tissue donation, visit www.signdon.gouv.qc.ca.
