Quebec - The MP for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, as well as the MP for Rousseau and finance and revenue critic, Nicolas Marceau, have serious reservations about the role of the Caisse deposit and investment in infrastructure financing in Quebec.
“Public transport infrastructure is a public service, not a business that generates operating profits, unless you inflate fares or bet on land speculation. This morning&#39;s announcement shows that the government is prepared to take a serious risk with Quebecers&#39; socks and that it has no short-term solution to support the economy. During the election campaign, Philippe Couillard pledged to increase infrastructure spending by $ 15 billion; he had to give it up. Today, we are told that we will be doing indirectly what the credit agencies do not allow the Liberal government to do directly; the Liberals are asking the Caisse to finance projects in place of the government, because they themselves have indebted Quebec beyond the reasonable limit and undermined the government&#39;s borrowing capacity. In short, the government is making the Caisse and its savers pay for its election promises, ”said Stéphane Bédard.
“The question of the independence of the Fund, of capital importance for its credit rating, also raises several questions, in particular because the government appoints its directors and CEO. How can this independence be guaranteed, when the government will constantly ask for new infrastructures? The government, by shifting the risks of investments and potential cost overruns of future projects to Quebecers&#39; retirement funds, is really jeopardizing the independence of the Caisse, ”added Nicolas Marceau.
Concerns about the return of new fashion PPPs
“The last time a Liberal government offered us a miracle method for infrastructure, it was P3s. We have seen the negative results and cost overruns in the case of the MUHC and the CHUM. However, today, we are told, no more and no less, the proliferation of PPPs in Quebec, ”continued the member for Rousseau.
“With regard to public transit on the new Champlain Bridge, we have proof that the Liberal government has completely given up on the federal government, which was supposed to finance the LRT. The government must stand up, so that the risks associated with the projects are not borne by the retirement funds of Quebecers, ”concluded the leader of the official opposition.
