Shawinigan - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, and the Member of Parliament for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, today met the various socio-economic players affected by the shutdown of production at the Rio Tinto Alcan (RTA) aluminum smelter in Shawinigan to to discuss the future of the site with them.
“The government is actively working to breathe new life into the Shawinigan smelter. Upon the announcement of the precipitous closure of the plant, we brought together representatives of RTA, Investissement Québec and the Ministry of Finance and the Economy to support the company in its efforts to find a new vocation. to the facilities and thus preserve the local economy. Our government will continue to support workers and the Shawinigan region. I will continue to be in regular contact with local stakeholders, particularly through the Member of Parliament for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, ”said Minister Marceau.
“We are satisfied to have been able to take stock of the situation with local stakeholders. All the partners involved - the elected representatives of the region, the managers of the plant, the workers and their union - actively contribute to the search for solutions for the future of the site. They will be able to count on the government&#39;s support and resources in this process. The challenge is great, but our motivation is even greater, ”added Minister Blanchet.
MP Luc Trudel, for his part, underlined the great maturity of the economic players who, despite the hard blow, remain united. “We quickly started looking for solutions. Already, RTA, the City of Shawinigan and Investissement Québec are working to continue industrial activities on this site. A local action committee will soon be set up to oversee the work to slow down operations. The work carried out by the various stakeholders will limit the consequences of the closure of the aluminum smelter and allow Shawinigan residents to get through this period of change. I would like to thank all the stakeholders I met for their commitment. Together we will make it happen! », He concluded.
