Quebec - The member for Sanguinet and official opposition critic for work and pensions, Alain Therrien, reacted to the amendments made by the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Pierre Moreau, to Bill 3 , An Act to promote the financial health and sustainability of defined benefit pension plans in the municipal sector.
“Unfortunately, we see that even with the amendments presented, Bill 3 remains a unique solution to a problem which, to be resolved, would require even more flexibility. Several proposed changes are only temporary and incidental. Among other things, workers and municipalities would not have any additional leverage to negotiate; it&#39;s a great missed opportunity, ”said Alain Therrien.
Moreover, the minister seems to have realized that his bill went too far. “The Minister proposes to postpone the automatic deindexation of retiree pensions, as well as not to open, before their expiry, the contracts in force when the pension plans are fully funded. In doing so, he implicitly admits that there is no urgent need to change the contracts of financially healthy plans. Obviously, Pierre Moreau is trying to get out of a quagmire in which he himself sank, ”continued the spokesperson.
Obviously, it has become necessary to ensure the sustainability of municipal employee pension plans; that is why, earlier this week, the Parti Québécois gave its support to the principle of the bill. However, he also called for the actuarial valuations of the pension plans to be made public as at December 31, 2013, which the government still refuses to do. However, if we want to seriously study this bill and arrive at the best possible solution, getting a true picture of the situation is absolutely essential. &quot;In view of the postponements proposed by the Minister, it is difficult to understand why he refused to wait ten days, that is, the time required to obtain the data, in order to allow parliamentarians to do their work properly, in the light of the the most recent figures, ”concluded Alain Therrien.
