Quebec - The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, wishes to pay tribute today to the exceptional know-how of Quebec cheese makers, which was once recognized by more on the occasion of the 30th American Cheese Society Convention, which took place in Madison, Wisconsin, from July 31 to August 3. A total of 23 decorations were awarded to local businesses, including 4 first places and 10 second.
“We can only be proud of the success achieved again this year by Quebec cheese makers, especially since a record number of 1,794 cheeses from the United States, Mexico and Canada were in contention in this important competition. . Thanks to the talent of local artisans, combined with the expertise of the largest Quebec companies, our cheese sector is always in full swing. Quebec alone produces more than half of Canadian cheeses and it sets itself apart by offering fine products that are as innovative as they are original. The honors conferred once again by the American Cheese Society on Quebec cheese makers clearly confirm this, ”said François Gendron.
Cradle of the first cheese factory established in Canada, Quebec can count on a most dynamic cheese industry. If we omit the 23 prizes collected this year by Fromagerie Bergeron, Fromagerie Le Détour, Fromagerie La Moutonnière, Fromagerie Alexis de Portneuf (Saputo, division of specialty cheeses), Fromagerie 1860 DuVillage (Saputo, division of specialty cheeses), Fromagerie Fritz Kaiser, Fromagerie de l&#39;Abbaye Saint-Benoît, Beurrerie du Patrimoine, Fromagerie Nouvelle France and Agropur, Fine Cheese Business Unit, 239 honorary mentions were awarded to our cheese makers and their products in this competition for the past 12 years.
“Our excellent cheeses undoubtedly contribute to shaping this strong identity of Quebec foods, which is a cornerstone of the Food Sovereignty Policy. Prestigious contests like that of the American Cheese Society are an opportunity to promote them as they deserve and to introduce them to a growing number of consumers. I am very happy about it! Added the Minister.
The American Cheese Society is a non-profit organization headquartered in Denver, United States. Founded in 1983, this association&#39;s mission is to promote the American cheese industry and support its development. Today it has 1,571 members, 36% of whom are retailers, restaurateurs, distributors or brokers. Among these members, 31 come from Quebec and 41 from other Canadian provinces.
Those interested will find more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy by regularly consulting the blog (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or the Internetwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA) website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
