Lachute– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, today took part in the groundbreaking for the new glass micronization plant at the sorting center de Tricentris, in Lachute. On this occasion, he was accompanied by the deputy for Argenteuil, Mr. Roland Richer. The implementation of this project is made possible thanks to financial contributions of $ 450,000 from RECYC-QUÉBEC and $ 400,000 from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy.
“In my opinion, the construction of this glass micronization plant is a logical and successful continuation of all the efforts invested in the management of residual materials in recent years. Especially since this new plant will be the only one of its kind in Quebec. When we think of the large quantities of mixed glass that went directly to landfill sites and that can now be recycled, we have every reason to be delighted with the realization of this innovative project, ”declared Minister Blanchet. Upon completion of the plant&#39;s construction, which will be carried out in two distinct phases, nearly 6,000 metric tonnes of glass powder will be produced. This glass powder will be used in particular as a cement addition for the manufacture of different types of concrete and mortars. This new way of doing things offers significant environmental benefits, including the possibility of reducing the production of GHGs.
&quot;The development of sustainable development for the benefit of Quebecers in all regions is part of our government&#39;s economic vision,&quot; said Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine. Zakaïb. “To achieve this objective of sustainable prosperity, we must rely on innovative environmental technologies, such as those put forward by Tricentris. It is with great pride that we support the company in carrying out its promising project for the region&#39;s economy and for the future of Quebec. &quot;
For his part, the MNA for Argenteuil, Mr. Roland Richer, emphasized: “Tricentris is an example of innovation and daring, not only in the Argenteuil region, but throughout Quebec. Over the years, the corporation has become a leader in the management of recyclable materials in Quebec. And it was here that it all started, with people from back home. The people of the Argenteuil constituency can therefore be proud of the achievements and success of Tricentris. &quot;
