Amos / - The Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Minister responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region and Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Ouest, Mr. François Gendron, announced today &#39;hui, on behalf of the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, the permanent establishment of the Offending Intervention Techniques program at the Amos campus of the Cégep de Abitibi-Témiscamingue.
Remember that since 2009, the Cégep could offer this study program on a provisional basis. Moreover, the number of registrations during this period testifies to the need for training in the region. “This is excellent news for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, but also for all future graduates in this field, because the demand for people with this type of qualification is favorable and recurring. I am therefore very happy to see the permanence of this program in our region come to fruition, ”said Minister Gendron.
Permanent authorization was granted to Cégep de l&#39;Abitibi-Témiscamingue on May 28, 2013. The educational institution already has the necessary facilities and equipment to offer this training. The program will be able to accommodate an annual cohort of 25 students as of the 2013-2014 school year due to recurring regional manpower needs and the Cégep&#39;s good recruiting potential. As part of its provisional authorization, the Cégep already welcomed an average of 25 beginners per year for this study program. It should be noted that one of the potential employers of the graduates is the Amos detention facility which hires new correctional officers every year.
“The authorization to offer this program on a permanent basis aims to meet the needs of skilled labor in this field in Abitibi-Témiscamingue. The contribution of CEGEPs to the vitality of regions is undeniable. In each of them, the CEGEPs represent important poles of economic, social and cultural development. It is for this reason that we will take into account the reality of the regions as part of the work on the college training offer resulting from the Summit on Higher Education, ”Minister Duchesne said.
Quebec now has six educational establishments offering training in Crime Intervention Techniques on a permanent basis, while another CEGEP offers it on a temporary basis. According to Emploi-Québec, employment prospects are favorable, as graduates of this study program are in high demand. Provincially, 75% of program graduates find a job within a year of completing their training.
“Over the past four years, we have demonstrated the relevance of offering this program. This confirmation, which affects the community and social fields, will allow the Cégep to better meet the many needs in the region. In addition, this training, initially supported by Maisonneuve College, fits in very well with the offer of university study programs at the University of Quebec in Abitibi-Témiscamingue, ”said the Director General of the Cégep. , Mr. Daniel Marcotte. At the same date last year, a first cohort of ten students had graduated and a second cohort of eleven students was preparing to graduate. “The existence of such training has a huge impact on a campus like ours. In fact, this program currently brings together nearly sixty students out of a total of 262 at our institution. We are therefore talking about more than 20% of the college population on our campus, ”said the director of the Amos campus, Ms. Dany Charron.
