Quebec - One year after the election of the government of Philippe Couillard, the member for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, draws up the balance sheet of liberal actions against families, against the regions and against equal opportunities in the Quebec.
“After a year, we see that the government has a plan: to shrink Quebec and shatter the development tools that we have given ourselves over the past 40 years. Quebeckers are already fed up with Liberal cuts. Unfortunately for them, the worst is yet to come, ”said Stéphane Bédard.
“The Liberals&#39; plan is not a zero deficit; it is to deprive families and regions of the means to move forward. This centralizing government is on the wrong track. Not only does it have no policy of economic development or stimulation of job creation but, in addition, the austerity it imposes slows down the economy and undermines the confidence of entrepreneurs and families, which does not not encourage investment. The result is that the government&#39;s budget forecasts are unrealistic, based on a failing fiscal framework. A balanced budget will not be achieved, not to mention the drastic cuts in health and education, ”he added.
Cuts in Quebec&#39;s future
“Education is the best way for the future and development for Quebec. Philippe Couillard has decided, by limiting increases in education spending to 0.17%, to cut directly in the services offered to our young people. In health, more than half of the increase in spending goes to physician salaries. What is left for the patients? Asked the leader of the official opposition.
Stéphane Bédard notes that protests have been numerous since the coming to power of the government of Philippe Couillard. “In the Parti Québécois, we had succeeded in relaxing the general atmosphere and in maintaining social peace. Since the return of the Liberals, we have experienced a great number of protests: workers, families, vulnerable people, regions, community organizations, students… all have stood up against toxic austerity, ”he continued.
Improvisation, setbacks and slippages
The weakness of the ministerial team was very damaging to the government&#39;s credibility. The departure of Yves Bolduc, after a series of unfortunate blunders, is only the symptom of this reality: the ministers are disconnected, far from the field and their respective partners. The only thing that matters to them is to sell the dismantling plan of the Prime Minister and his President of the Treasury Board, ”said Stéphane Bédard.
An official opposition in the service of Quebeckers
“We were happy to welcome a new member to the riding of Richelieu, Sylvain Rochon. Liberal austerity was rejected by the people of this constituency. Our team is strong, well established. We defend the values of the Parti Québécois, we act for families, workers, regions, equal opportunities. This is what we believe in, ”said Stéphane Bédard.
“Philippe Couillard is the premier who defends the interests of Quebec the least. For him, it is not Quebec&#39;s place that matters, it is putting Quebec in its place. He is incapable of standing up to the federal government to claim what Quebeckers are entitled to. The country the Prime Minister believes in does not exist. More than ever, it is the country of Quebec that must be brought into the world, ”concluded the leader of the official opposition.
