Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister for Tourism, Pascal Bérubé, kicks off the Support Program for the Development of Tourist Attractions. This new measure allows tourism businesses to count on flexible and advantageous financial assistance, under repayment terms adapted to the realities of tourism operators, across Quebec.
Under this program, an envelope of $ 85 million over five years is made available for existing, mature or growing tourism businesses, and financial support will take the form of a loan or loan guarantee. . Financial interventions could reach $ 150,000 to $ 2 million for projects that meet the priorities of the 2012-2020 Tourism Industry Development Plan.
“Tourism is an essential sector for the economic development of Quebec and its regions. According to the World Tourism Organization, this sector is growing and the number of international travelers should double by 2030. Quebec must resolutely follow this trend, and I want to give our entrepreneurs the means to invest in the development of their business in order to enrich our tourism offer. I am therefore delighted to announce today the launch of this financial tool, the Support Program for the Development of Tourist Attractions, ”said the Premier.
“With this program, we want to mark a significant turning point in the investment landscape of tourism businesses in Quebec. This measure constitutes a previously inaccessible tool that will allow several companies to find part of the financing necessary for their growth. I am very proud to accompany the Prime Minister today as she announces the implementation of this measure. It will help stimulate investment and innovation, essential to the development of our tourism industry, ”Minister Bérubé declared.
Investissement Québec, Tourism division
The administration of this program has been entrusted by Tourisme Québec to Investissement Québec. Thus, a new division dedicated to tourism (Investissement Québec, Tourism division) was created in order to adapt financial tools to the realities of the industry and, thus, to meet the specific needs of tourism businesses.
Tourism business managers are invited to submit projects immediately to Investissement Québec under the Support Program for the Development of Tourist Attractions. “Today, we are providing tourism businesses with an envelope of $ 17 million per year for five years, which will take the form of a loan or a loan guarantee which should make it possible to generate investments of at least 166 million. $ within five years within the industry, ”added Minister Bérubé.
Benoît Deshaies, Director of the Tourism division of Investissement Québec, with Pauline Marois, Premier of Quebec, and Pascal Bérubé, Minister for Tourism.
This new program targets projects that will allow the renewal of the tourist offer. More specifically, the projects supported must meet the priorities of the 2012-2020 Tourism Industry Development Plan and contribute to:
It should be remembered that the Support Program for the Development of Tourist Attractions stems from the 2012-2020 Tourism Industry Development Plan. Entitled A Route to Growth, this plan aims to make tourism a high-performance, innovative and sustainable industry that has a leverage effect on Quebec&#39;s economic development by offering an original and essential destination to international, Canadian and Quebec customers.
For the complete conditions relating to this program and to obtain the project presentation forms, consult one of the following pages:
www.tourisme.gouv.qc.ca/programmes-services/aide/padat.html
www.investquebec.com/fr/index.aspx?page=3190
