Rouyn-Noranda– The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, today announced investments of $ 268,600 in Abitibi-Témiscamingue, as part of the Program for the treatment of organic materials by biomethanization and composting (PTMOBC). This assistance will be paid to the firm Multitech Environnement for the installation of a composting facility. On this occasion, Ms. Marois was accompanied by the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet, and the MNA for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue, Gilles Chapadeau.
Multitech Environnement&#39;s project consists of setting up a composting platform in an unused part of its technical landfill site in Rouyn-Noranda. The center will offer a maximum processing capacity of 6,000 tonnes. The total cost of the project is $ 1.3 million.
“The Government of Quebec is determined to quickly and significantly reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. This is why we recently decided to extend the PTMOBC. Thanks to the project of the firm Multitech Environnement, we will prevent more than 9,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide from being released into the atmosphere each year. It is a substantial contribution to the fight against climate change, ”said the Premier.
&quot;The recycling of organic residual materials represents a strong economic potential in a real perspective of sustainable development, which helps to make Quebec a model&quot;, underlined Minister Blanchet.
The PTMOBC provides financial support to the municipal sector and the private sector for the installation of infrastructure to treat organic matter using these two processes. The objectives of this program are to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions as well as the quantity of organic matter intended for elimination.
“An enlightened management of residual materials is a key element in the fight against climate change, but this fight must take root in every institution, business and company. In a few weeks, they will have, in Rouyn-Noranda, an additional means to take an active part in the fight. I am convinced that many will take advantage of the new means of action that will be offered to them by Multitech Environnement, ”said the MNA for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue, Gilles Chapadeau.
