Quebec - “Quebecers regularly witness inconsistencies in the policies of francization of immigrants. This morning, what we learned in various media reinforces our conviction that the Liberal government must adopt real measures to francize work in Montreal and Quebec rather than anglicize immigrants. &quot;
This is what the member for Drummond and official opposition spokesperson for language and immigration, Yves-François Blanchet, said after reading several headlines this morning on the situation of French at home. immigrants.
He points out that Quebec welcomes 50,000 immigrants a year, but that it is unable to deploy the necessary resources to Frenchize them. However, the government is spending millions to Anglicize them. &quot;The problem is not that immigrants do not speak good enough English, but although English is required everywhere, including where the law requires that French be the language of use,&quot; he said. he adds.
The member for Drummond recalls that during the hearings in the National Assembly on the immigration policy tabled by Minister Kathleen Weil, several speakers denounced the inability of the Quebec state to properly francize newcomers. “We invite immigrants to Quebec by telling them about a French company. However, when they set foot on the ground, those who do not speak French realize that they can live perfectly well in English and those who speak French realize just as quickly that without English, they will have a hard time finding a job there. », Continued Yves-François Blanchet.
The Parti Québécois asks Minister Weil to correct this new inconsistency of the Liberal government in matters of immigration and francization. “It should come as no surprise now that half of immigrants who make a language transfer do so to English. Minister Weil must put an end to this unhealthy ambiguity; the working language, the display language and the common language in Quebec is French. The Minister must deploy all the necessary resources to francize our immigrants and stop contributing to the anglicization of Montreal, ”concluded Yves-François Blanchet.
