Here is the speech by the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, delivered on the occasion of the announcement of the new university pavilion in Sept-Îles.
The pronounced version is authoritative
“My colleague, Madame Lorraine Richard, Member of Parliament for Duplessis, President of the Committee on Culture and Education,
“Mr. Serge Lévesque, Mayor of the City of Sept-Îles
“Mr. André Martel, President and Chief Executive Officer of Aluminerie Alouette,
“Mr. Martin Gauthier, rector of the University of Quebec at Chicoutimi,
“Mr. Donald Bhérer, Director General of Cégep de Sept-Îles,
“I am told that Madame Laurence Méthot, mayor of Port-Cartier, is also with us…
“Today we are witnessing a brilliant demonstration of know-how and collaboration.
“Administrators from the Cégep de Sept-Îles, the Université du Québec à Chicoutimi and Aluminerie Alouette have worked together very fruitfully.
“Thanks to their vision, thanks to their determination, the community of the eastern part of the North Shore will see its university training offer grow.
“I am therefore happy to be with you to officially announce the construction of a new university pavilion at Cégep de Sept-Îles.
“This pavilion follows an agreement between the Government of Quebec and Aluminerie Alouette signed on October 31, 2011.
“It follows on from the commitments made by Aluminerie Alouette in exchange for the allocation of a 500 megawatt energy block to enable the third phase of expansion of its plant to be carried out.
“Alouette will devote 10 million to the construction of this 2,700 m2 university pavilion.
“This investment is intended to be an important legacy to the community of Sept-Îles. I would like to salute this important commitment of Aluminerie Alouette towards the community where it is established.
“This project will also create jobs during its construction over the next year. I am told that at least 25 people will work there full time, not counting the subcontracting.
“This project is also a shining example of a successful partnership.
“First, a partnership with the largest employer in Sept-Îles, the largest aluminum smelter in the Americas, the most efficient in the world in terms of energy efficiency: Aluminerie Alouette.
“Then, a partnership with the Cégep de Sept-Îles and the University of Quebec in Chicoutimi, well anchored in their community, and which have energized their region for more than 40 years.
“This is a fine example where universities and CEGEPs have brilliantly united their resources by working together to effectively play their role.
“The Université du Québec à Chicoutimi and the Cégep de Sept-Îles prove that they are real partners in both training and research.
“Together, they are putting forward a development model for higher education in the regions based on synergy between university and college levels.
“This is what makes the strength of an educational network.
“One of the goals that my ministry has set for itself in the wake of the Higher Education Summit last winter is to promote first-generation university graduates.
“There is no greater pride for a family than to see one of their own obtain, for the first time, a university degree.
“And often, this first success spreads oil and encourages brothers and sisters, cousins or cousins, to take the same path.
“We are convinced that the construction of this pavilion will encourage more and more citizens of the Côte-Nord to undertake university studies to reach the Quebec average.
“The CEGEP-university and private enterprise collaboration is also one of the avenues that will be explored and put forward in the development of the new National Research and Innovation Policy.
“We will have the opportunity to discuss this again shortly when this policy is launched.
“In the meantime, I can all the same reveal to you that this policy will be at the heart of a social project, in which Quebeckers will recognize themselves.
“In keeping with the government&#39;s vision, today&#39;s announcement shows that we are working to build a strong and competitive Quebec.
“I congratulate everyone on their work, local stakeholders, people from private business and representatives from the college and university.
“You have been able to meet my expectations, among other things, the importance of building this project around existing regional centers that would meet the needs of the community.
“By promoting accessibility to studies, you actively participate in the development of the region.
“You can be proud of it.
“I can&#39;t wait to see this pavilion come to fruition and I will be happy to open and visit it.
Good luck with your work and of course I wish all your future students the best of luck! &quot;
