Montreal - The candidate of the Parti Québécois in the riding of Rousseau and Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, the candidate in Vachon and Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, the candidate in Saint? Jérôme, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the candidate in Montarville, Simon Prévost, reacted positively to the announcement of the partnership between Osisko and Yamana Gold.
“This is very good news for the Quebec mining industry. This industry is an important sector of our economy. Despite the global context, Quebec is doing very well in this area. Quebec offers, with its new mining law and a royalty regime adapted to the realities of the industry, a stable and predictable regulatory framework, which makes us very competitive on a global scale, ”declared Minister Martine Ouellet. .
In fact, an agreement was reached between the two miners for the creation of a partnership that will hold equal shares of Osisko&#39;s mining and exploration assets, including the Malartic mine, in Abitibi-Témiscamingue.
“Osisko remains, with the support of the Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec, an independent company listed on the stock exchange. The Caisse&#39;s involvement helps preserve Osisko&#39;s future and gives it the means to resist other offers to purchase. Thanks in particular to the action of the Caisse, Osisko now has additional resources to preserve a major head office in Quebec, ”said Minister Nicolas Marceau.
“The liberal approach for the Quebec mining sector is laissez-faire. Moreover, Philippe Couillard proved it during the six months he sat on the board of directors of the Canadian Royalties mining company. Along with his partner Arthur Porter, he recommended the sale of the assets of Canadian Royalties to Chinese interests, ”recalled Simon Prévost.
This transaction shows that the Caisse is succeeding in fulfilling its mandate of performance and economic development in Quebec. The agreement between Osisko and Yamana Gold, for a total value of $ 929.6 million, is made possible thanks to the investment of the Caisse.
Over the past two years, the assets of the Caisse in Quebec have increased by $ 12.6 billion, including 10 billion for the private sector in Quebec. In comparison, during the two previous years, the assets of the Caisse had grown by only $ 3.8 billion for this same sector.
“After opposing the Caisse de dépôt&#39;s economic development mission for ten years, the Liberal Party took a 180-degree turn and announced at the start of the election campaign that it now agrees so that government funds deposited with the Caisse are used to protect our Quebec flagships. The Liberals&#39; real test will be the following: will they support the bill tabled by the Parti Québécois to restore to the Caisse de dépôt its dual mission of performance and economic development in Quebec? Finally, do they recognize that the bill imposed by gag order by the Liberal government in 2004 was a mistake that we must now correct? “, Asked Pierre Karl Péladeau, candidate in Saint? Jérôme.
The Parti Québécois government announced in its last budget that it would act quickly on the report of the expert group on the protection of head offices, in particular by amending the Business Corporations Act in order to give more power to the boards of directors. &#39;business management. For public enterprises registered in Quebec, this will mean that they will henceforth have the means to block hostile takeover bids.
Quebec will also continue the work undertaken by the Autorité des marchés financiers to convince its counterparts in other provinces of the merits of improving the protections offered to businesses under the Securities Act in this regard.
“The presence of head offices is essential to our economic development. We must retain the head offices in Quebec, particularly for our flagships of the economy, as is the case with the Osisko mining company. Only the Parti Québécois has a clear strategy for the retention of our head offices, ”concluded Nicolas Marceau.
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
Watch the press conference.
