Trois-Rivières– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, gave a very positive assessment of the first months of the implementation of the global strategy for future of Lake Saint-Pierre, while it was in Trois-Rivières today to announce the award of a two-year grant of $ 200,000 to the Solidarity Cooperative of the Biosphere Reserve of Lake Saint-Pierre (COOP).
“Great strides have already been made since the unveiling of this strategy last February. The many efforts invested have made it possible to obtain the first results: concrete achievements, an increase in the sums committed, the start of field work and the setting up of work and consultation structures ”, declared Minister Blanchet.
The COOP will thus have the necessary resources to carry out its mandate, which consists in seeing to the realization of concerted restoration projects, to develop projects of enhancement of Lake Saint-Pierre and its biodiversity and to identify promising projects. and job creators. “The COOP has already been working for 10 years to enhance Lake Saint-Pierre. The organization has acquired valuable expertise that will allow us to monitor and support the development of the lake&#39;s economic potential while respecting the environment and citizens, ”observed Minister Blanchet.
Since the start of the implementation of the strategy, several financial commitments have materialized, while other sums have been increased, in particular those intended for research. Thus, an amount of $ 100,000 from the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP) is now added to the amount of $ 100,000 already granted by the Ministry of &#39;Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology (MESRST). This $ 200,000 fund will stimulate research in order to improve the knowledge needed to make certain decisions concerning Lake Saint-Pierre and its biodiversity.
“Our efforts to save Lake Saint-Pierre must be rooted in research and scientific progress. This is the basis for effective concerted action, guaranteeing concrete results. I am convinced that these new investments will act as catalysts in the field of research. I also officially invite all organizations concerned with environmental issues or research areas related to Lake Saint-Pierre to contribute to this fund, ”declared the Minister of Higher Education, Research and Science. and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne.
In addition, all the work announced in February 2013 in the intervention plan is progressing as planned. Different working structures have been set up to promote exchanges and consultation between the actors involved in the strategy and to ensure the follow-up of actions. The Lac Saint-Pierre ZIP Committee is continuing its work to set up the regional concertation table (TCR) at the beginning of 2014. The Interministerial Committee for a concerted action plan for the restoration of aquatic habitats in the lake Saint-Pierre (CIPAC-LSPI) has been fully active for a few months now, and a preliminary version of the action plan for the coastal zone is expected within two months. During 2014, this document will be followed by an action plan for tributaries.
Duck Unlimited Canada (DUC) has started to restore Lavallière Bay and the Saint-Louis Marsh. In particular, the ZIP Committee completed work to develop agricultural waterways, raised awareness among young people and continued its efforts to acquire knowledge, in particular on exotic species. The Ministry&#39;s wildlife sector monitored fish populations, continued actions to slaughter cormorants and sterilize eggs aimed at reducing pressure on yellow perch populations and set up a voluntary license buyback program. fishing.
The MDDEFP also coordinated the preparation and drafting of a summary document presenting the issues and issues related to Lake Saint-Pierre. Many ministries took part in this project, which aims to raise the awareness of as many stakeholders as possible by offering for the first time a synthetic and popularized portrait. Accessible to all and based on cutting-edge knowledge gathered from recognized experts, it allows users to share a portrait of the state of the lake&#39;s health and the challenges of restoration. The document is available for consultation at the following address: www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca/eau/lac-st-pierre.
“This document is an essential resource for anyone who wants to have a global portrait of the current situation of Lake Saint-Pierre and the related restoration issues. It responds to our desire to share quality information in order to allow all stakeholders to commit to the extent of their abilities in the major restoration project of Lake Saint-Pierre. The success of the strategy relies primarily on the commitment and dedication of hundreds of stakeholders. Thanks to the summary document, they will now be able to work from a common basis, ”concluded the Minister.
