Québec, September 29, 2016 - Members of Parliament Diane Lamarre, Jean-François Lisée and Harold LeBel, respectively members of the Parti Québécois from Taillon, Rosemont and Rimouski, and spokesperson for health and access to care, home care and social services, and for the elderly, join their voice to that of the Ombudsperson and denounce the attack on the rights and dignity of citizens, who have seen their health care and services not only be reduced , but, worse, completely deleted in some cases. “The Liberal cuts have gone too far,” they summed up.
“The Protector confirms the fears that we have been expressing for two years and that citizens have shown about the harmful consequences of the Barrette reform on access to care for patients. Mergers have led to a race to the bottom in the supply of services, and patients are paying the price. The gap is widening between the offer of services and the real needs. There is a decline in terms of access, especially in mental health, where resources are insufficient. The Protector also denounces the deficient processes that have been put in place so that network users can lodge a complaint. In short, Minister Barrette&#39;s upheavals are harmful for patients and for the health network. Balanced budgets have been achieved at the expense of patients and through a reduction in services. Liberal cuts hurt! », Lamented Diane Lamarre.
&quot;The Ombudsperson sounded the alarm in her report:&quot; users […] see their hours of service considerably reduced, while their needs have not changed or have intensified &quot;. She cites the example of a lady with multiple sclerosis who had her support hours reduced from 33 to 12 per week. Faced with this reduction in services, and given that she no longer received help getting out of bed, the lady resigned herself to sleeping in her wheelchair. This government&#39;s lack of compassion is blatant and appalling. Does the minister think it is human to force people with disabilities who want to stay at home to sleep in their wheelchairs? “, For his part questioned Jean François Lisée.
“The protector raised several cases of shortcomings in the care and services offered in CHSLDs, particularly with regard to meals and hygiene care. However, instead of taking action and applying the many recommendations made to it, the Liberal government has chosen to stretch the time and send the member for Crémazie on yet another round of CHSLDs. Rather, it should read the report tabled today by the Protector and be guided by it to put in place, as of now, measures that will improve access and the quality of care and services for the elderly, ”concluded Harold LeBel.
