Saint-Fulgence - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced the allocation, through Investissement Québec, of a loan of $ 141,500 to the Coop of Solidarité du Cap Jaseux for the modernization of the facilities at Parc Aventures Cap Jaseux. The project, the costs of which total nearly $ 350,000, aims to increase and modernize the adventure park&#39;s tourist offer. One part of Québec&#39;s Priorité emploi economic policy deals with the development of Québec tourism, a sector that creates wealth and jobs.
&quot;Tourism is a dynamic sector of activity that is profitable for the economic development of several regions of Quebec, and most certainly that of the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region,&quot; said Ms. Zakaïb. “This is why our government is proud to support projects like that of the Coop de Solidarité du Cap Jaseux, which allow the diversification of our tourism offer. They are part of the will expressed in the Economic Policy to support tourism by investing in our specific attractions. &quot;
In operation since 1977, and located on the shores of the fjord in Saint-Fulgence, Parc Aventures Cap Jaseux is active in the outdoors, camping, adventure and ecotourism. With an area of 473 acres, this park offers a variety of accommodation establishments and a wide range of activities, ranging from the tree-lined fjord, regular or extreme, by train or sea kayak, to hiking, via the fishing and swimming.
“Parc Aventures Cap Jaseux is a leading destination for adventure tourism enthusiasts, thanks to its wide range of activities, the beauty of its landscapes and its accommodation facilities, notably the famous houses in the trees ”, underlined Pascal Bérubé, Minister for Tourism. “The project will allow it to diversify its offer and improve the comfort of its accommodation units. &quot;
The deputy for Dubuc, Mr. Jean-Marie Claveau, for his part, welcomed the fact that the project aims, among other things, to better position the park, both with the local population and tourists from outside the region. “Since the Cap Jaseux Solidarity Coop was set up in 2001, the offer has constantly improved,” he recalled. “The cooperative is a great asset for the region, since it attracts nearly 20,000 visitors each year and creates jobs for our young people. &quot;
The cooperative&#39;s interim general manager, Ms. Rebecca Tremblay, emphasized the role of Investissement Québec in the growth of the organization. &quot;He has been a valuable partner since our inception and we are very grateful to be able to count on him to make our revitalization project a reality,&quot; she said. “With this funding, we will be able to offer a wider range of activities to our customers and increase our ridership for years to come. &quot;
Investissement Québec&#39;s mission is to promote the growth of investment in Québec, thereby contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The Company provides businesses with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity investments, to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, she is responsible for administering tax measures and prospecting for investments abroad.
