Québec, July 18, 2014 - The MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and official opposition spokesperson for housing, Carole Poirier, denounces the irresponsible liberal cuts to the Rénovation Québec (PRQ) program which are forcing cities, Montreal and Trois-Rivières, among others, to suspend their subsidies for homeownership and home renovation assistance, measures that mainly benefited families.
The Liberal government made the wrong decision to stop contributing to the PRQ of the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ). The PRQ, in effect since 2002, made it possible to subsidize municipalities to set up major home ownership and home renovation assistance programs, which were 50% funded by the government and 50% by cities. Montreal and Trois-Rivières, like several other cities, benefited from the PRQ, which allowed them to create several programs that are now suspended.
As was the case for the cuts to the Home Adaptation Program and to the RénoVillage program, which the Parti Québécois denounced, Minister Moreau admitted, during the study of appropriations, to not having carried out any impact study. prior.
“This is an absurd and inconsistent decision. In addition to penalizing families once again, the Liberal government is on the wrong track by claiming to save money by cutting this program. All the studies on the socioeconomic impacts of the SHQ&#39;s activities clearly show that public assistance for housing is an investment and not an expense. For each dollar paid by the SHQ as a subsidy, $ 2.30 is injected into the Quebec economy. For a government that claims to want to create wealth, this is clearly the demonstration of its lack of vision and coherence, ”said Carole Poirier.
Measures for families: a priority for the Parti Québécois Let us recall that the government of the Parti Québécois had made the retention of young families on the Island of Montreal a priority for the metropolitan region. In September 2013, he released the progress report of the MONTREAL = FAMILLES Steering Committee. During the election campaign, the Parti Québécois also pledged to follow its recommendations and take concrete action on the two main obstacles to family retention: the cost of housing and the availability of units that meet their needs. The enhancement of SHQ programs was also one of the concrete measures included in the report&#39;s recommendations.
The Parti Québécois government also planned to endow Quebec with a national housing policy in order to increase the coherence of State interventions, to promote the coordination of actions, in addition to allowing the sustainable development of housing. .
“The Liberal government&#39;s inconsistency in housing proves the need for a comprehensive and coordinated strategy. I ask Minister Moreau to reconsider his decisions concerning SHQ programs and to continue the actions of the Parti Québécois. He must quickly present a national housing policy and propose harmonious and studied interventions rather than imposing cuts that have not been the subject of any analysis, ”concluded the deputy.
