Quebec - The Minister of Families, Ms. Nicole Léger, and the Member of Parliament for Labelle and government official for the Laurentides region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, today unveiled the projects that were selected following the recommendations of the advisory committees regional. For the Laurentides region, there are 12 projects, for a total of 34 places. These places will be available very quickly, starting this month.
This announcement follows the holding, last May, of a targeted call for projects for early childhood centers (CPEs) and subsidized daycares aimed at supplementing existing groups of children, while respecting the ratios provided for in the Regulation respecting educational childcare services in Québec.
The targeted call for projects is part of the general call for projects launched last February by the Minister of Families for the creation of 15,000 additional reduced-contribution places to complete the network of educational childcare services at the childhood. Of these 15,000 places, a maximum of 1,000 places have been reserved for this targeted call for projects. Last spring, following the proposal of the national associations representing Quebec childcare centers, Minister Nicole Léger launched this targeted appeal to quickly respond to the needs of parents.
“Better meeting the needs of families in terms of childcare services is our priority. By allowing the rapid creation of new places at $ 7, this targeted call for projects aimed at supplementing groups of children in childcare centers and subsidized daycare centers has borne fruit. And this approach is beneficial for many families across Quebec, ”said Minister Nicole Léger.
“This is excellent news for families in the Laurentians! With the allocation of these 34 new subsidized spaces, families in the region will be able to benefit from more accessible and high-quality childcare services, ”stressed the members of the Laurentian caucus, made up of Denise Beaudoin (Mirabel), Claude Cousineau ( Bertrand), Sylvain Pagé (Labelle), Roland Richer (Argenteuil) and Daniel Goyer (Deux-Montagnes).
Consult the list of selected projects.
