Quebec - Jean-François Lisée, the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, denounces the method of Minister Gaétan Barrette, who tried to &#39;hastily impose, without consultation, a controversial method of supplying drugs.
&quot;By tabling on Tuesday 20 new amendments to his Bill 20, Mr. Barrette wanted to both weaken the law on health lobbying and impose a partial and risky reform in the field of drugs, especially in terms of management of shortages. In both cases, the chairman of the commission, Liberal MP Marc Tanguay, ruled the minister&#39;s proposals inadmissible, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
“There is no doubt that the current method of supplying drugs should be reviewed, but it should not be done piecemeal, in a hurry, on the corner of the table. For several months now, on behalf of the Parti Québécois, I have been calling for a new approach to reduce drug costs in Quebec. We are prepared to quickly examine a bill on the issue and hear from experts, including the Auditor General, who devoted a chapter to this subject in his last report. But we reject the authoritarian approach of Minister Barrette, who, at first, drew 130 million dollars from the pockets of pharmacists, then unilaterally uncapped the rebates offered by manufacturers, which weakens part of the industry. . It is high time for the government to abandon structural reforms to devote itself to revising this policy and making good use of public money used to purchase drugs, ”added the Member for Rosemont.
Jean-François Lisée also believes that the Minister of Health has reached &quot;the height of absurdity&quot; by contesting the right of MP Diane Lamarre, former president of the Order of Pharmacists, to speak out on related issues drugs. “The truth is that Diane Lamarre set an example by asking not to be a spokesperson on these issues, while Gaétan Barrette is a walking conflict of interest who negotiates directly with his former union the conditions that will be used when he returns to radiology, ”he concluded.
