Roberval- The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, today confirmed the payment of $ 50,000 in financial assistance to the social economy enterprise Stagem, which operates in the secondary and tertiary wood processing sector. This support will allow the completion of a project valued at $ 100,000, which will consolidate 32 jobs.
&quot;To ensure Quebec&#39;s prosperity, our government favors all entrepreneurial models, including the social economy,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “The strategic role of the social economy in the growth of regions no longer needs to be demonstrated. It is really this dual economic and social vocation which makes the strength of companies like Stagem and which ensures their sustainability. We are therefore proud to support this dynamic company in a difficult but essential sector for the region, that of wood processing. &quot;
Founded in 1984, Stagem&#39;s mission is the social and professional integration of people far from the labor market. Its interventions target the entire territory of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean and are grouped under three divisions: commercial, integration enterprise and management. The project announced today affects the integration enterprise division and seeks to optimize the performance of the wood pallet components production line.
&quot;The Stagem company contributes to the development of a strategic sector of activity for the economy of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean,&quot; said the member for Roberval and parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (section forests), Mr. Denis Trottier. &quot;Thanks to its immense forests, which represent 23% of Quebec&#39;s forest resources, in order to develop Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, it must be able to count not only on private companies and cooperatives, but also on companies from social economy, including Stagem. The latter has proven itself in recent years. I am very pleased with the support she is receiving today from our government. &quot;
&quot;From our beginnings, we have succeeded in surrounding ourselves with partners from various spheres, be it the public, parapublic, institutional, community, private or government sector, and in creating a solid network for ourselves&quot;, underlined the president of Stagem, Mr. Martin Larouche. “This network allowed us to make ourselves known and put to work several workers who needed a helping hand to fully participate in the economic life of the region. The support of the Government of Quebec will therefore help us to pursue our mission essential to the economic and social development of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean. &quot;
