Montreal - Jean-François Lisée, Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, gave his support to La Tablée des Chefs, which today launched its new Cooking school with a social flavor, located at the Jean-Talon market. Government financial assistance, in the amount of $ 20,590, comes from the Metropolitan Initiative and Outreach Fund, administered by the Secrétariat à la région métropolitaine.
“I salute the social commitment of La Tablée des Chefs, whose mission of education and culinary training benefits many young people and families in the metropolitan region. Through its actions, La Tablée des Chefs promotes the principles of healthy eating and contributes to the development of food autonomy. This is an honorable and essential mission that I am happy to encourage, ”said Minister Lisée.
Government funding has made it possible to improve the equipment of the organization&#39;s premises at the Jean-Talon market, in particular the preparation, cooking and storage spaces. Newly equipped, the kitchen will allow La Tablée des Chefs to increase both the number of culinary workshops offered to young people in difficulty and the number of meal preparation chores, which are used to support the organization&#39;s social activities.
In Quebec, the social economy sector brings together thousands of businesses employing more than 125,000 people. These companies are the result of community initiatives and they contribute significantly to the vitality of our territories. Moreover, the new Act respecting the social economy, adopted by the National Assembly on October 10, recognizes the contribution of the social economy to the socioeconomic development of Quebec and aims in particular to promote access to measures and programs. of Public Administration for companies in this sector.
“Through actions focused on values such as job creation, the fight against poverty, social inclusion and school perseverance, collective enterprises play a very positive role in the socioeconomic development of their communities. This is why we recognize their contribution and support the carrying out of their activities, which benefit the community, ”said Minister Lisée.
This fund supports the implementation of initiatives contributing to the development of the Montreal metropolitan region and to its influence at the Canadian and international level. It is administered by the Secrétariat à la région métropolitaine, which reports to the minister responsible for the Montreal region.
Attached to the Minister of the Executive Council, the Secretariat advises the Government of Quebec on any question or measure having a significant impact on the metropolitan region of Montreal and on its development. It provides the secretariat for the Ministerial Committee of the metropolitan region, chaired by Minister Jean-François Lisée. The Secretariat is developing dialogue with its various strategic partners in order to promote the coherence and convergence of all interventions, as well as the growth and dynamism of the metropolitan region.
