Quebec - The federal Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food, Mr. Gerry Ritz, and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, are pleased to announce financial support of more than $ 156,000 to the Interdisciplinary Federation of Ornamental Horticulture of Quebec (FIHOQ) for the realization of two projects relating to the promotion of this sector of activity as well as research and innovation. Financial assistance is granted under the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, which is linked to the Agri-flexibility Fund of Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada.
Thus, the FIHOQ was granted a sum of $ 130,250 for the preparation of a campaign aimed at promoting producers of ornamental horticulture in Quebec and businesses in this sector. The organization can also count on a sum of $ 26,474 to undertake a project relating to the establishment of compulsory funding for the collective promotion of ornamental horticulture as well as research and innovation in this area of activity.
“The Quebec ornamental horticulture sector generates interesting economic spinoffs. The FIHOQ has distinguished itself over the years and this investment in the Economic Action Plan that we are announcing today will allow it to continue its momentum, ”indicated Mr. Gerry Ritz.
&quot;Ornamental horticulture is a booming sector in Quebec and, to a large extent, credit must be given to the FIHOQ and to its members who demonstrate great dynamism and have an inspiring vision for the future. . That is why we are supporting these projects, which will allow the ornamental horticulture sector to go even further and establish itself as a major player in Quebec&#39;s biofood industry, ”said François Gendron.
Remember that the governments of Canada and Quebec announced on March 25, 2011, the implementation of the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, which benefits from an investment of $ 16.7 million over a period of 4 years. . This program aims to promote both the adaptation and the growth of the various sectors of agrifood activity in the light of a most competitive and constantly changing business context.
For a complete description of the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, go to the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food: www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/strategiessectorielles.
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
