Rouyn-Noranda– The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, accompanied by the Member for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Labor, Mr. Gilles Chapadeau, confirmed the allocation of non-refundable financial assistance of $ 138,175 to the Quebec Mining Exploration Association (AEMQ) to support the completion of a project valued at $ 276,350.
This project aims to create a standard for the Quebec mining exploration industry leading to obtaining certification in sustainable development. Several partners will be involved: the UQAT-UQAM Chair in Mining Entrepreneurship (CEM), the MISA Group, which represents the underground Techno-mining niche of excellence in Abitibi-Témiscamingue resulting from the ACCORD approach, as well as AEMQ member companies.
&quot;The application of the principles of sustainable development in the activities of the Quebec mining exploration industry is essential to the achievement of the objectives of economic and social growth in Quebec,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “The standard and certification resulting from the AEMQ project will allow mining companies to combine economic development, environmental protection and the consideration of community interests. This is an initiative that will greatly promote the adoption of best business practices in the exploration of our mineral resources. &quot;
The Minister of Natural Resources of Quebec, Ms. Martine Ouellet, proudly announced that &quot;by creating this new standard, the government of Quebec is applying the principles of the new Mining Act, adopted on December 9, 2013, and supporting initiatives aimed at responsible development of our mineral resources and dialogue with communities ”.
“For nearly a century, Abitibi-Témiscamingue has been the main mining region in Quebec,” said Gilles Chapadeau. “The members of the underground Techno-mining niche of excellence work actively to gain recognition for this niche in North America and the world for its innovative, competitive and safe activities in the mining sector. Above all, they ensure that they carry out activities that respect the principles of sustainable development. The AEMQ project represents a further step in this direction. &quot;
Created in 1975, the AEMQ is a non-profit organization whose mission is to promote the sustainable and responsible exploration of Quebec&#39;s mineral resources and their contribution to the Quebec economy. AEMQ represents more than 250 corporate members and nearly 2,000 individual members. The development of a standard leading to sustainable development certification is part of the AEMQ&#39;s mission and will promote the increase in mining exploration activities in Quebec.
&quot;We firmly believe in the importance of setting up certification for mineral exploration,&quot; said the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the AEMQ, Mr. Philippe Cloutier. &quot;The benefits of the project for the Quebec mineral sector will be the improvement of corporate social responsibility, the development of the current and future competitiveness of the sector, in a perspective of sustainable development, as well as the improvement of availability of financial levers. &quot;
The Université du Québec en Abitibi-Témiscamingue (UQAT), firmly rooted in its community, recognizes that the mining industry plays an essential and structuring role in the development of regions in Quebec. To this end, UQAT and the University of Quebec at Montreal (UQAM) have pooled their expertise in order to develop the UQAT-UQAM CEM. &quot;As project manager, the CEM mobilized two holders, three professors and two master&#39;s students in management of organizations from UQAT in order to form a team whose expertise will ensure the success of the project&quot;, underlined Ms. Johanne Jean, rector of UQAT. “This research project meets the objective of UQAT&#39;s 2009-2014 Development Plan, which is to contribute to the development of Quebec and the influence of our society internationally. &quot;
The ACCORD approach (Concerted action for regional development cooperation) is a priority of government action aimed at boosting the economy of the regions of Quebec. This approach is based on regional strengths, on the mobilization and dynamism of regional business people, as well as on the search for excellence in key sectors of Quebec. It aims to build a competitive regional production system on a North American and global level in each region of Quebec, by defining and developing niches of excellence that can become their brand image.
The Abitibi-Témiscamingue region has three niches of excellence:
To find out more about the ACCORD approach and the niches and centers of excellence, visit www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/accord.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
