Quebec - The Minister of Public Security and Minister responsible for the Outaouais region, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, the allocation of financial assistance of up to 14,750 dollars to the Farm of our dreams for the realization of a project of recultivation of fallow land in Montcerf-Lytton. This financial support is granted under the Pilot Program to Support Multifunctionality of Agriculture.
This program aims to encourage agricultural businesses to implement projects that have positive spinoffs in their communities. The Farm of Our Dreams project is a fine example of the multifunctionality of agriculture, since it will allow ten hectares of land currently fallow to be put back into cultivation. These lands will be used to graze the company&#39;s beef cow herd.
“The multifunctionality of agriculture is at the heart of the Food Sovereignty Policy that we unveiled last spring, because it relates to each of its four axes. More particularly, it concerns the dynamic occupation of the territory of Quebec and the enhancement of the economic potential of the biofood sector. In this context, we can only support companies like the Farm of our dreams which contribute to the development of the regions of Quebec ”, underlined Mr. François Gendron.
&quot;Not only will this project allow the Farm of Our Dreams to increase its activities and thus improve its profitability, but it will also have a positive impact on the enhancement of the landscape and the preservation of the region&#39;s agricultural heritage. . This is excellent news, especially since the development of fallow land is an important regional issue, ”said Stéphane Bergeron.
To find out more about the Pilot Program to Support Multifunctionality in Agriculture, visit the Internetwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/multifonctionnalite site. For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministère de l&#39;Agriculture, des Pêcheries et de l&#39;Alimentation ( www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
