Quebec - The Minister for the Regions, Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region and Member of Parliament for Gaspé, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, confirmed today, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, the allocation of financial assistance of up to $ 535,532 to Aquaculture Gaspésie. Thanks to this sum, the Gaspé company specializing in arctic char farming will be able to carry out a project to improve the environmental performance of its facilities.
This grant from the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (MAPAQ) is granted under the Financial Support Program for the Development of the Commercial Fisheries and Aquaculture Sector and the Financial Support Program for the &#39;improvement of the environmental performance of salmonid fish farming companies - Aquableu. It is in line with the pursuit of the objectives of the Sustainable Development Strategy for Quebec&#39;s freshwater aquaculture.
The Gaspé Aquaculture project consists in particular of adding five fattening ponds, optimizing the sedimentation pond and improving the filtration and oxygenation of the rearing system. These measures will make it possible to substantially improve the company&#39;s environmental management and increase the volume of fish that can be produced annually to 90 metric tonnes.
“Aquaculture Gaspésie perfectly reflects the dynamism and creativity of our region and the vitality of its aquaculture sector. There is no doubt that the Aquaculture Gaspésie project, which reflects its concern for sustainable development, will give it the opportunity to go even further and this is why our government is proudly supporting it ”, declared Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre.
Remember that the MAPAQ implemented the 2013-2018 Action Plan in 2013. Develop our commercial fishing and aquaculture industry. This plan dovetails with the Food Sovereignty Policy, which is the government&#39;s preferred tool to meet the food needs of Quebecers and support Quebec&#39;s economic prosperity.
It should also be noted that the Gaspésie Aquaculture project fits perfectly with the objectives defined in the Food Sovereignty Policy, in particular with regard to developing a prosperous, profitable biofood sector that generates jobs, respects the environment and contributes to the dynamic occupation of the Quebec territory.
“Sustainable development is at the heart of MAPAQ&#39;s activities and concerns and also of the Food Sovereignty Policy that we are implementing. In this context, it is only natural for our government to support companies that take measures to ensure that their activities are as environmentally friendly as possible, ”said François Gendron.
With investments of $ 2.3 billion and annual food demand of nearly $ 34 billion generating 475,000 jobs, the biofood industry is a driving force behind the Quebec economy.
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, we invite you to regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or to visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and of Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
