Quebec - The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Chaudière-Appalaches region, Ms. Agnès Maltais, is proud to announce, on behalf of the Deputy Premier and Minister of &#39;Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, the allocation of financial assistance of $ 30,000 to the Ferme des Pensées sauvage, located in Saint-Aubert, for the implementation of a project agro-ecosystem management. This financial support is granted under the Pilot Program to Support Multifunctionality of Agriculture.
This program aims to encourage agricultural businesses to implement projects that will benefit their environment and the community. The Ferme des Pensées sauvage project is a fine example of what the multifunctionality of agriculture represents, since it will notably enable shrub wasteland to be put back into cultivation in order to make plots intended for organic market gardening. Facilities promoting biodiversity will also be carried out.
“We can only support dynamic businesses like the Ferme des Pensées sauvage, which contribute to the vitality of the regions of Quebec. The project that we are promoting today fits perfectly into the spirit of the Food Sovereignty Policy that we unveiled last spring and in which the multifunctionality of agriculture occupies an important place ”, underlined Mr. François Gendron.
“I would like to underline the audacity and the great sense of innovation of the leaders of the Ferme des Pensées sauvage, who have chosen to focus on organic farming and on the model of agriculture supported by the community. I have no doubt that this young company will succeed and that its success will inspire other farmers to take this promising path for the region and for all of Quebec biofood, ”said Ms. Agnès Maltais.
To find out more about the Pilot Program to Support Multifunctionality in Agriculture, visit the Internetwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/multifonctionnalite site. For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministère de l&#39;Agriculture, des Pêcheries et de l&#39;Alimentation ( www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
