Quebec - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, and the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women and the Regions of Chaudière-Appalaches and Capitale-Nationale, Ms. Agnès Maltais, announced the establishment of three organizations supporting female entrepreneurship Femmessor in the Chaudière-Appalaches, Lanaudière and Laurentides regions.
With the establishment of these last three organizations, the network which offers financing and support adapted to the needs of entrepreneurs is now present in the 17 regions of Quebec.
“Our government made a commitment to complete the range of services intended for women entrepreneurs. It is now done ”, rejoiced Elaine Zakaïb. &quot;The growth of our economy is based on entrepreneurship,&quot; she recalled. “However, more and more women decide to go into business and their stakes are often different from those of men who make the same choice. The presence of the Femmessor network throughout Quebec guarantees all women entrepreneurs, from all regions, access to support adapted to their reality and their needs. &quot;
The Femmessors are non-profit organizations that offer financing adapted to the needs of women entrepreneurs and that offer sustained support, training and networking activities, in addition to promoting female entrepreneurship. The Femmessor network is the result of a partnership with Filaction, a division of FondAction. In each region, it benefits from the support of several community organizations.
&quot;Thanks to the dynamism, determination and daring of businesswomen who do not hesitate to take up challenges, female entrepreneurship is booming in Quebec,&quot; said Agnès Maltais. “The Femmessors are the only regional one-stop shops intended entirely for women entrepreneurs. They were born out of the desire of the business community in each region to meet the specific needs of women entrepreneurs, a desire that I salute. The Femmessors are truly valuable allies in achieving our government&#39;s economic growth objectives. &quot;
&quot;It is a work started almost 20 years ago which ends today with the announcement of the creation of the last three Femmessor&quot;, declared for her part the president of the Femmessor network, Mrs. Gloria Lemire. “Femmessor&#39;s tailor-made approach complements and optimizes the services offered by the various economic development stakeholders in Quebec. Femmessor has been able to renew itself over the years and establish itself as a key player in the field of female entrepreneurship. The next big challenge will be to get women to grow their businesses, and Femmessor will be there to support them on this path throughout Quebec. &quot;
Minister Élaine Zakaïb concluded by welcoming the commitment of women entrepreneurs who sit on the boards of directors of Femmessor organizations, in particular those now located in the Chaudière-Appalaches, Lanaudière and Laurentides regions. “Their determination allows us to look with optimism to the future of female entrepreneurship in Quebec. &quot;
To learn more about Femmessor organizations, visit www..femmessor.com.
