Montreal- On April 15, the Parti Québécois proudly launched a first campaign to promote Sovereignty outside a referendum process, on its new pq.org site. The result is more than conclusive. The series of video clips which launched the campaign and which features Pauline Marois, leader of the Parti Québécois, resonated with many pro-independence supporters, with a total of nearly 70,000 views.
The activists&#39; comments are also excellent: an inspiring campaign bringing clear and limpid arguments, accompanied by videos of a very natural Pauline Marois, which all Quebecers should watch.
The campaign revolves mainly around easily shareable sheets which not only promote Sovereignty but which also provide elements of discussion for Quebecers.
The campaign spanned six months and dealt with various subjects such as the economies of a sovereign Quebec, Quebec&#39;s place internationally and Quebec&#39;s wealth. Already, after just one month of promotion, we can underline that Sovereignty for All, the launch theme, was an unexpected success, with nearly 8,000 shares and 14,000 likes on Facebook only.
The Parti Québécois also wanted to give voice to sovereignist activists. Because after all, sovereignty depends on us! It depends on Catherine, Marc-André, Ariane, William, Denise, Yves. Here again, success was not long in coming. These small in-house capsules have averaged over 600 views each.
The next theme, which begins on Monday, risks provoking even more debate since it will be a question of the economies of an independent Quebec. Supporting figures, the Parti Québécois intends to demonstrate that by becoming a country, Quebec would not only be richer in its choices, but also in its portfolio.
Finally, to complete the whole thing, we call on the supporters of a country of Quebec to assert themselves, to show themselves and to express their pride in being sovereignists with the help of tools, posters, t-shirts. , avatars, cover images, Twitter backgrounds, etc.
We have developed some, but we will not be alone in doing so. Quebec is full of designers, and we will call on them. We will be launching contests for slogans, images, posters, etc. Because sovereignty depends on us.
