Quebec - MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and official opposition spokesperson for seniors, Carole Poirier, is sorry to attend another festival of liberal announcements that will not change the serious problems experienced daily by our elders. “While Marguerite Blais is on a veritable liberal propaganda tour just before the holidays, thousands of seniors are placed on waiting lists to obtain an assessment of their loss of autonomy, to obtain care at home or for a place in a CHSLD. All this without counting the horror stories experienced by seniors and their families who haunt the news every day, ”said Carole Poirier.
The official opposition spokesperson for seniors is also worried about the devastating effects of the application of the new Liberal strategy concerning home support. “Currently, several CSSS are reassessing all seniors who receive home care and many of them see the total number of hours devoted to home care being revised downward to allow those who are on a waiting list to benefit from it. This is the real face of the Liberal government&#39;s strategy of a serious race to the bottom. By removing hours of home support from seniors who could stay at home, the Liberal government is sending them even more quickly to residential care facilities. In addition to costing all Quebecers more, this logic completely contravenes the will of our seniors to stay at home as long as possible. It is very shocking! », Carole Poirier continued.
The member is concerned about the delay in the new Liberal policy, Aging at Home. Still non-existent on paper, this policy seems to be ultimately just another public relations campaign by Marguerite Blais that will not bring any significant improvement in the daily lives of seniors. “Since her arrival at the Council of Ministers, Marguerite Blais has collected the commitments left unanswered. Significant differences in the budgets used by CHSLDs for feeding the elderly still exist, the regulation to set the maximum water temperature has still not been filed, the team of 23 inspectors in private residences has not yet been filed. still not in operation and the support services promised to family caregivers still boil down to four pilot projects that generate more administrative burdens than real direct support measures, ”said the MP.
“We are not so reassured about what will happen next with respect to the new liberal Aging at Home policy. I wish the Minister to do her homework well and to come back to us in 2012 with something other than the wind, ”concluded the MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier.
