Quebec– In the past 15 years, 259 Indigenous children and adolescents have died in violent or obscure circumstances in Quebec. Faced with this worrying observation, Guy Leclair, the member for Beauharnois and Parti Québécois spokesperson for indigenous affairs, and the member for Hochelaga? Maisonneuve and spokesperson for the status of women, Carole Poirier, ask the government liberal to shed light.
“The rate of suspicious deaths among Inuit and First Nations children is three to four times higher than that of Quebec youth in general. This reality is unacceptable. The Government of Quebec cannot stand idly by. He must act promptly, acquiesce to the request of the Assembly of First Nations of Quebec and Labrador, and launch a public inquiry into the matter, ”declared Guy Leclair.
The situation is particularly worrying with regard to the Inuit. In fact, although this nation represents less than 20% of the Indigenous population of Quebec, more than 55% of violent and obscure deaths involving a young Indigenous person occurred in Inuit villages.
“The federal withdrawal from housing in Inuit communities is scandalous. Indeed, for six years, in the late 1990s, Ottawa stopped investing in social housing, which created a shortage that worsens year after year. This situation pushes the Inuit to live in inhumane conditions, and a multitude of social problems ensue. The death of these young Inuit is a sad demonstration of this, ”continued Guy Leclair.
Situation of women in Aboriginal communities
In addition, let us recall that the Parti Québécois has been asking for a year that the National Assembly study the means to be implemented to reduce the sources of physical, sexual and psychological violence against Aboriginal women. These recommendations should be addressed to the two levels of government, to the Assembly of First Nations of Quebec and Labrador, as well as to any other body directly or indirectly concerned.
“We know the fate that awaits thousands of young girls and women. They&#39;re in distress right now. To do nothing would be the equivalent of not assisting a person in danger, ”insisted Carole Poirier.
