Quebec - The Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Seniors and Minister responsible for the Estrie region, Mr. Réjean Hébert, on behalf of the Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, announces the allocation of financial assistance of 35,000 dollars to the company Pisciculture des Arpents Verdes for the realization of work aimed at improving its competitiveness.
Established for nearly 20 years in Sainte-Edwidge-de-Clifton, in the Eastern Townships, the company specializes in the breeding of trout and char for stocking. The owners plan to carry out sounding and groundwater collection work in order to improve the quality of the water used in their fish farming activities. This work should help to optimize the company&#39;s farming conditions.
“I am particularly proud to recognize the work of the owners of Pisciculture des Arpents Verdes. I congratulate them on this new project, which testifies to their dynamism and their desire to participate in the sustainable development of freshwater aquaculture in the Estrie region, ”stated Mr. Réjean Hébert.
“Encouraging initiatives relating to the growth and competitiveness of fish farming businesses is one of the measures included in the 2013-2018 action plan for the development of commercial fisheries and aquaculture. The Government of Quebec is committed to supporting the projects of companies that take this route, ”said François Gendron.
Financial assistance from the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food is granted under the Financial Support Program for the Development of the Commercial Fisheries and Aquaculture Sector. This program supports the pursuit of the objectives defined in the Food Sovereignty Policy and which aim to ensure and increase the prosperity of the biofood sector.
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, we invite you to regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or to visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and of Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
