Quebec - The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, announces the allocation of financial assistance of $ 13,440 to the company Les truites Genebel, located in Authier, in the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, for improving its productivity.
The company, specializing in rainbow trout and brook trout farming for nearly 30 years, will be able, thanks to this financial assistance from the Department, to optimize the potential of its site and thus improve its productivity and its profitability. To do this, it will place in a greenhouse the eighteen new circular fiberglass breeding tanks that it has just acquired. The new facility will help reduce predation and improve rearing conditions. The acquisition of new devices used for water analysis and electricity supply will complete the project.
Financial assistance from the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food is offered under the Financial Support for the Development of the Commercial Fisheries and Aquaculture Sector Program.
“In aquaculture, improving productivity is a major issue. The 2013-2018 Action Plan for the development of our commercial fishing and aquaculture industry takes on its full meaning here, since it specifically provides for support for projects that promote better productivity of aquaculture businesses. This project, which will contribute to the sustainable development of aquaculture and the dynamic occupation of the territory, also meets the objectives of the Food Sovereignty Policy, ”Gendron said.
You can consult the action plan of the Ministère de l&#39;Agriculture, des Pêcheries et de l&#39;Alimentation concerning commercial fisheries and aquaculture in Quebec at the electronic address www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca / pechesaquaculture. It is also possible to watch the video of the Minister dealing with this subject at http://youtu.be/88bKnIc6DTY. For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can read posts on the Ministry&#39;s blog (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) regularly published on this subject or consult www.mapaq.gouv on its website. qc.ca/PolitiqueSA. You can also follow the Department on Twitter (twitter.com/mapaquebec).
