Montreal - Surrounded by the Parti Québécois team of candidates from the Lanaudière region, Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, announced that a Parti Québécois government is committed to showing leadership in order to that our water be managed responsibly, in the interest of all Quebecers.
Like the successful Rendez-vous national sur la forêt québécoise, the Parti Québécois government is committed to holding a major national meeting on water. During this event, which will bring together all the players in the field, we will determine the priority actions to be taken for the future.
In 2002, the Parti Québécois government was the first to endow Quebec with a national water policy. The Liberals put this policy on the shelf. The Liberal record in terms of water management is catastrophic: muddle in the shale gas file, destruction of thousands of hectares of wetlands, erosion of the banks. Liberal laissez-faire has prevented the establishment of coherent and concerted water management.
&quot;It&#39;s over, the laissez-faire. As we have done successfully for the forest, we are committed to preserving this irreplaceable wealth that our water constitutes ”, affirmed Pauline Marois.
A Parti Québécois government will also act in the short term, following on from actions already taken, by passing a law that will effectively protect wetlands, after a consultation has been held. The Parti Québécois also makes a commitment to protect drinking water sources. He also intends to re-table the bill establishing a moratorium on shale gas.
“The Parti Québécois is the only party capable of putting an end to the practices of the shale gas industry. Expected by the population, this bill was blocked irresponsibly by the Liberals and the CAQ, ”said Pauline Marois.
Since September 2012, the Parti Québécois has taken courageous decisions in defense of the environment. He pulled Quebec out of nuclear power and asbestos, while supporting the regions in their transition to a sustainable economy. It also ended the mini power plant program. In addition, mandates have been given to the BAPE concerning shale gas and uranium, in order to consult the population. A Parti Québécois government will continue to ensure that all natural resources are exploited according to the highest environmental standards.
“The protection and enhancement of our lakes and waterways represent important issues for our future. In the forestry and mining sectors, we got down to work and we succeeded. Water is our collective natural heritage. It is a source of pride and wealth that we have a duty to preserve for future generations, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
Watch the press conference.
