Québec– Sylvain Roy, MP for Bonaventure and official opposition spokesperson for forests, and MP for Saint-Jérôme and spokesperson for the economy, entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports , Pierre Karl Péladeau, denounce the inaction of the Liberal Party, while Resolute Forest Products today announces the indefinite shutdown of two machines at its Baie-Comeau plant, the 30-day shutdown of the plant Amos and the four-week shutdown of machine No. 14 at its Alma plant.
Members also deplore the fact that the Liberal Party has abandoned forestry workers. And that is not new: from 2003 to 2012, while he was in power, nearly 20,000 jobs in the wood industry were lost, and more than 300 factories closed their doors. temporary or permanent.
&quot;Just yesterday, the Minister of Forests, Wildlife and Parks, Laurent Lessard, told me at the National Assembly:&quot; The world works in wood, companies make money, sawmills are going better, we meet the needs of paper mills &quot;. Obviously, the minister is completely out of touch and is saying anything. Over 260 jobs are lost at Resolute. That is the liberal effect, ”said Sylvain Roy.
The government has no economic policy
This week, the member for Saint-Jérôme also called on the government about the job losses. Among other bad news, 180 jobs were lost at Cascades, 300 were lost at the Laurentide plant in Shawinigan and Kruger laid off 98 workers.
“Faced with these job losses, the government&#39;s only action was to create a group of civil servants, who were already in place, to manage the closures. Austerity is not a vision. The government must get its act together and quickly table an economic development policy. The Minister of Finance admitted yesterday that he will not meet his job creation targets; will he also stand idly by? “Asked Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“We can clearly see the Liberal interest in the regions of Quebec and their workers. They are paying the price for the austerity measures put in place and budget cuts. The government must get down to work to properly support the regions, especially the forest environment. The consensuses obtained by the Parti Québécois government during the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise were destroyed by the Liberals. Now it&#39;s up to them to repair their mess, ”concluded Sylvain Roy.
