Quebec - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, has confirmed the payment of a financial contribution of more than $ 4.7 million to the Quebec Community Credit Network (RQCC) , on the occasion of the organization&#39;s annual general meeting.
The Minister Delegate took the opportunity to reaffirm the importance of community credit in the economic and social growth of Quebec and in individual and collective development.
&quot;Community credit is an essential lever for the development of sustainable development in Quebec,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “It is an innovative solution that allows people made vulnerable by employment-related problems to participate fully in the economic and social life of their community. The RQCC&#39;s mission is in line with our government&#39;s orientations not only in the fight against poverty and social exclusion, but also in the area of entrepreneurship. The benefits of community credit bear witness to the scope of the actions of the RQCC and its members and amply justify the support granted. &quot;
Founded in 2000, the RQCC is a non-profit organization whose mission is to promote and develop the community credit approach to allow individual and collective well-being and eliminate poverty by promoting entrepreneurship. The RQCC has 23 members divided into 13 loan funds and 10 loan circles. These different resources, based on mutual aid and consultation, provide access to capital from the community as well as support to local populations in carrying out economic activities.
In 2012-2013, more than 2,100 people were supported and 210 loans totaling $ 1.4 million were granted, which helped create and maintain more than 1,000 jobs in Quebec. “The RQCC helps people become active again through entrepreneurial projects. It therefore relies on the creation of businesses as a means for these people to achieve economic and social goals, ”explained Ms. Roselyne Mavungu, President of the RQCC. “Too often, our clients encounter obstacles that prevent them from accessing traditional sources of financing. This is where RQCC member organizations come in by offering individuals the opportunity to become entrepreneurs. The support of the Government of Quebec helps us to pursue this mission essential to the growth of communities, a mission based on socially responsible investment. &quot;
To learn more about community credit, read the post &quot;Community credit: an essential lever for prosperity, in all solidarity&quot; on the Parti Québécois blog.
