Gatineau -Members of the Parti Québécois in the riding of Hull, in the nomination assembly in the presence of the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, have appointed Dr. Gilles Aubé to represent them as the party&#39;s candidate for the next general election.
“I have confidence in our region, in the future of Quebec and in the Parti Québécois. I also have immense confidence in Pauline Marois, in her determination and in her commitment to the social, economic and cultural development of the riding of Hull, said Gilles Aubé. I am also confident in my ability to inspire, motivate, support and represent all the citizens of the riding of Hull ”.
“The very high quality of our candidate shows that we are determined to want to win in the Outaouais. Gilles Aubé is a remarkable person and devoted to his community. Her experience and expertise in the healthcare network will be an important asset for our team, ”said Pauline Marois.
Father of two children, Gilles Aubé is an emergency physician at the Center hospitalier de Hull where he was head of the emergency department from 1995 to 1999. Trilingual, he was very involved in humanitarian causes, notably with Development and Peace. Gilles Aubé also distinguished himself as spokesperson for the Outaouais in the phase 2 emergency. A member of the Parti Québécois since 1976, he was the party&#39;s candidate in Hull during the by-law and general elections of 2008.
“In health, as in many other fields, the Outaouais is neglected by the Liberal Party and Jean Charest. In 2003, the average length of stay in the emergency room for this region was 15 and a half hours. Now the average wait is 22 hours, that&#39;s 40% more! This situation is unacceptable! Last Friday, at the Gatineau emergency, the occupancy rate was 145% and that of Hull was 196%. This is the Liberal Party in the Outaouais. They take us for granted, ”added Gilles Aubé.
“At the Parti Québécois we have ideas for changing Quebec. What we are offering to the people of the Outaouais and to all Quebecers are real measures to improve the health care system. In particular, we suggest that nurses can do more to free up time so that doctors have more time for patients. As soon as we come to power, we will take all measures to speed up the training of super nurses. We will promote the bringing together of family medicine groups and CLSCs so that health professionals - psychologists, nutritionists, respiratory therapists and nurses - are even more available to the population. This is how we will be able to give every Quebecer access to a family doctor and therefore improve access to health care, ”said Pauline Marois.
The Parti Québécois also proposes to deploy the necessary resources so that the elderly can stay at home as long as possible. Home care is an important element of our health proposals, as are prevention, the fight against cancer and the computerization of the health network.
“As for François Legault and the Coalition d&#39;avenir Québec, the only thing they are proposing to solve the problems in the health sector is to increase the salaries of doctors by $ 500 million. This is a simplistic solution that does not hold water. It is not because their wages are increased that their working day will be reduced from 24 to 36 hours and that they will be able to see more patients. It&#39;s magical thinking, ”concluded Pauline Marois, recalling that François Legault&#39;s position with regard to the private sector in health is“ we&#39;ll see ”.
