Montreal - The Government of Quebec is pleased to announce that Astral Media has just confirmed a financial contribution of $ 1 million for the realization of the promotional campaign Culture Changed My Life. This initiative proposed by the Working Group on Cultural Philanthropy, chaired by Mr. Pierre Bourgie and in which Mr. Jacques Parisien participated, will be implemented next year by the future PArtenaires organization. This campaign will be used to raise awareness among Quebecers of the importance of philanthropy and sponsorship in the development of the cultural sector.
This is the first initiative since the publication of the report Vivement, pour une culture philanthropique au Québec !, by which a private company takes a concrete step aimed at placing philanthropy at the heart of its action to encourage cultural life and support. cultural organizations.
“Thanks to this investment intended for the implementation of a promotional campaign, Astral Media is showing its attachment to Quebec culture and its interest in seeing it develop and shine. I hope that this first action will encourage other donors and businesses to support our cultural organizations and our creators in order to establish a philanthropic culture that will benefit all Quebecers, ”declared the Premier.
“Astral Media is pleased to provide financial support for the Culture Changed My Life campaign. Always committed to the promotion of artists, artisans and cultural organizations, we want to promote acts of patronage and philanthropy. We want to convince businesses and citizens to invest in culture, ”said Jacques Parisien, Executive Vice-President and Chief Operating Officer at Astral Media.
Let us recall that the Premier of Quebec has mandated the Minister of Culture and Communications so that, in concert with the Conseil des arts et des lettres du Québec, it define and put in place, by the fall, the partner organization. A non-profit organization, PArtenaires should stimulate networking between the cultural and business communities in all regions of Quebec. His mandate will be to implement the promotional campaign Culture has changed my life.
The report Vivement, pour une culture philanthropique au Québec! Was released on June 11, 2013 and is available on the website of the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications.
