Quebec– Rousseau MNA and finance and revenue critic Nicolas Marceau expressed the official opposition&#39;s expectations for the budget that will be presented on Wednesday. It asks the government to put in place strong measures for the economy and to promote job creation, in order to avoid a discount that would have serious consequences for families in all regions of Quebec in addition to endangering services to the population, including those intended for the most vulnerable in our society.
“We first ask the government to renounce the increase in debt of $ 15 billion for infrastructure investments. This Liberal promise will lead Quebec straight to the discount. If the government does not respect its debt control plan, it will be inevitable and will have serious financial consequences, which will reach 1 billion per year, ”declared Nicolas Marceau.
&quot;In addition, we have no sign of accelerating the discussions on the side of the Minister of Health and Social Services. Will the President of the Treasury Board finally get involved in the file to move it forward? what the medico-liberal tandem will impose a special law to close the negotiations? Without modification to the agreement, all the government&#39;s financial leeway will be devoted to it, at the expense of patient care and other public services, ”added Nicolas Marceau.
The financial situation requires concrete actions, as important as those that the Parti Québécois government has put in place in its Priority Jobs economic policy.
“We expect support measures for our SMEs. What clear actions will the government take to electrify transportation? To promote job creation, will the government renew economic development projects, just as it did for the cement plant in Port-Daniel – Gascons? Asked the spokesperson for the official opposition.
Regarding the tax burden on the population, Nicolas Marceau would like to point out that, under the Liberals, taxes increased by $ 6 billion. “It&#39;s the same old liberal recipe. The tax burden on Quebecers must not increase further, ”he said.
The reluctance and Liberal setbacks have caused great concern among the most vulnerable families and individuals in our society, as well as among community organizations.
“The government has choices to make. Parents are waiting for the 28,000 childcare places announced in all regions to materialize. Community groups work with families, seniors and the most vulnerable people, struggling with situations of poverty and homelessness. The government must not make the poorest and families pay for its austerity measures, ”continued the spokesperson for the official opposition.
Finally, the official opposition is asking the government to prove to it, in the next fiscal year, that the planned cuts will be made in administration and not in services to citizens.
&quot;Who will the budget hurt?&quot; The Liberals are planning $ 1.3 billion in administrative cuts. We will be attentive so that Quebecers, especially the most vulnerable, do not pay the price, ”added the deputy.
“During the election campaign, the Liberals announced 340 million new pledges for this year. They were made with full knowledge of the facts, since Philippe Couillard then estimated the 2013-2014 deficit at $ 3 billion. What will the switchblade apply to make way for Liberal commitments? », Nicolas Marceau concluded.
