Quebec - The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health, access to care and home support, Diane Lamarre, propose to tackle discrimination affecting cancer survivors, who are often unable to insure or have to pay very high premiums. They suggest the passage of a bill ensuring that cancer survivors, after recovery, do not have to pay more than other citizens for their insurance.
“Nearly one in two Quebecers will develop cancer in their lifetime. Fortunately, over 60% will survive it beyond five years. But right now in Quebec, just because you have survived cancer does not mean you stop being a victim. For survivors, taking out life insurance, disability insurance, or even obtaining a loan is difficult or impossible, even if the possibility of a recurrence is negligible or even zero. This is a form of discrimination that we cannot tolerate, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
The Parti Québécois is therefore reaching out to the government to work on tabling a bill to this effect during the next parliamentary session. “Quebec would do well to draw inspiration from the French example, which enshrined the right to be forgotten. This right makes it possible to avoid additional premiums or exclusion from insurance by eliminating, after a determined period of time, the obligation to declare to the insurer the fact of having had cancer. For example, for survivors of 5 common cancers and hepatitis C, the period of access to the right to be forgotten could vary between 1 and 10 years only ”, detailed the spokesperson.
There is now evidence on survival for several types of cancer. In France, people who have had hepatitis C or certain types of cancer - of the thyroid, breast, cervix, testis, and certain melanomas of the skin - can have access to insurance without a premium or exclusion after periods without treatment varying from 1 to 10 years.
&quot;We all know people in this situation, and we can act together to ensure that they stop suffering the consequences of such an ordeal, several years after their last treatment,&quot; concluded Diane Lamarre.
