Quebec - The Minister of Public Security, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, wishes to provide clarifications following erroneous information concerning the Correctional Services of Quebec and the reduction in spending at the Ministry of Public Security.
“Contrary to what has been conveyed, the Ministry of Public Security does not intend to abolish any correctional service officer (ASC) position. On the contrary, new CSA positions have been granted by the Conseil du trésor ”, declared Minister Bergeron. Moreover, for the current year, two cohorts of 48 CHWs have obtained their diploma. A third is currently in formation. Among this cohort, 24 people will be assigned to new positions and the others will fill vacant positions as of December 18, 2012. The addition of these resources will make it possible in particular to reduce overtime costs.
As for the closing of reception and admission stations at night, this is only a matter of staff displacement. In fact, very few prisoners are admitted between midnight and 7 a.m. The majority of entries are made during the day or in the evening. Thus, night staff will be reassigned to where the prison staff needs are.
As for the monitoring of convicted persons serving a sentence in the community, it will be improved by the implementation of additional verification measures. Thus, while continuing our verifications in the field, we will increase the number of telephone calls to the surrogatees and begin the realization of a pilot project using new technologies.
The assignment of certain CHWs to other functions is notably due to the fact that, for the last year, there was a 4% drop in the number of stayers to be supervised in the community. With the entry into force of the Federal Act respecting the safety of streets and communities, Bill C-10, a further reduction in these regulations is to be expected.
Finally, with regard to the objective of reducing expenditure of around $ 12 million, it is important to specify that this objective targets the entire department, contrary to information reported by certain media. The decisions taken will not have a negative impact on the operations or customer services of the Department of Public Security. “We are responsible for ensuring sound management of public finances; we must therefore optimize the allocation of our resources, ”concluded Mr. Bergeron.
