Quebec - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announces financial support of $ 35,100 to the Augustines of Mercy of Jesus for the restoration of the foundations of the Notre-Dame-des-Anges wing of the Monastery of the General Hospital of Quebec and the Presbytery.
“The heritage value of the Monastery of the General Hospital of Quebec is unique. This vast ensemble, patiently put together by the Augustinians, forms an admirably preserved architectural and landscaped whole. This financial support from the Government of Quebec consolidates the cultural heritage of Quebec, ”declared Minister Kotto.
“Today&#39;s announcement is part of a vision of a dynamic Quebec, proud of its origins and its cultural heritage. I am very happy to be associated with the conservation and enhancement of the heritage of the Augustinians of Mercy of Jesus in the Quebec City region, ”added Minister Maltais.
The Monastery of the General Hospital of Quebec is a heritage building classified since 1977. It was founded by Mgr de Saint-Vallier in 1692, on the domain previously belonging to the Récollets, then it was then entrusted to the Augustines of the Mercy of Jesus. It constitutes an important place of memory of the War of the Conquest and testifies to the evolution of architecture and construction techniques over more than three hundred years. Since 1999, the establishment has been transformed into a residential center, under the responsibility of the Center de santé et de services sociaux de la Vieille-Capitale.
The sum of the work carried out amounts to $ 87,900 and breaks down as follows: $ 35,100 is allocated by the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications, under the Quebec Cultural Heritage Fund, and $ 52,800 is paid by the Augustines of the Mercy of Jesus.
Additional information concerning the Monastery of the General Hospital of Quebec as well as all the heritage elements registered in the Register of cultural heritage of Quebec are available on the site of the Directory of cultural heritage of Quebec (RPCQ), at www.patrimoine-culturel .gouv.qc.ca.
New tools for disseminating cultural heritage have been added to the RPCQ, making it possible to discover all of its richness and diversity, by making it accessible to all. In fact, part of the RPCQ&#39;s content can now be found on the Government of Quebec&#39;s open data portal, at www.data.gouv.qc.ca, as well as on the social network Pinterest, in the form of virtual exhibitions, atwww. pinterest.com/rpcq.
Online training is also available at www.formation-patrimoine.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. Composed of video capsules and learning activities, it presents the basic concepts of the Cultural Heritage Act and explains the roles and responsibilities of each to promote the knowledge, protection, enhancement and transmission of Cultural Heritage.
