Quebec - The member for Rousseau and official opposition critic for finance and revenue, Nicolas Marceau, presented the expectations of the Parti Québécois in anticipation of the tabling, on Thursday, of the next budget of the Minister of Finance, Carlos Leitão .
“The government must put an end to toxic austerity for Quebecers. There is currently no effort invested in economic development; only cuts are detrimental to this development. Moreover, the RBC bank said last week, like Desjardins, that the austerity practiced by the Couillard government has a negative effect on the growth of the Quebec economy. Everywhere in the region, people are losing their jobs, families are seeing prices increase; It is time for this government to come to its senses, ”declared Nicolas Marceau.
Godbout report
“We don&#39;t have confidence when the Liberals say they want to drive changes to the tax system, while keeping the overall burden unchanged, because they are compulsive &#39;taxers&#39;. The tax burden of Quebecers has increased by more than 6 billion under Jean Charest and nearly 1 billion already under the government of Philippe Couillard. We are open to debates on taxation in Quebec. However, it is out of the question for us to increase the QST or the electricity rates; these increases would directly penalize middle-class families and those most in need, ”added Nicolas Marceau.
The member also recalls that the government had promised, during the election campaign, to lower taxes, not to raise taxes.
Financial reserves of 2 billion not included in the budget
Nicolas Marceau also emphasizes that the most recent report of the Auditor General (VG) highlighted important information that has never been disclosed to the public: the government has built up considerable financial reserves, but which are not entered in the budget. . “These reserves monopolize, according to the VG, three quarters of the growth in spending provided for in the government&#39;s financial framework. If not used, additional drastic cuts will need to be made. The government can no longer hide from the public the use of amounts that amount to $ 2 billion; it must specify, in the next budget, what this money is intended for, ”he added.
Truncated economic picture
“Since coming to power, the Liberal Party has deliberately tarnished the situation of public finances in order to be able to make its ideological cuts. He overestimated the 2013-2014 deficit by 300 million; this was confirmed by the VG. No one will be surprised that the budgetary balance is also improved for 2014-2015, since the corrections made by the AG are recurrent. The correction of this amount of 300 million is the cause; liberal management has nothing to do with it. Spending, which is limited to 0.7% growth in 2015–2016, will have a detrimental effect on our economy. In short, Quebecers have not finished suffering from austerity, ”concluded Nicolas Marceau.
