Quebec– Sylvain Gaudreault, the member for Jonquière and official opposition spokesperson for sustainable development and the environment, denounces liberal austerity and the cuts imposed on environmental organizations.
In fact, the government did not renew two programs to support the mission of environmental community organizations, namely the Program to support the mission of national organizations and the program to support the mission of independent community environmental organizations. . The financial impacts are very real and affect the financial sustainability of these organizations. “The affected environmental groups are real levers on the ground to fight against climate change, which should be the priority of the Ministry of the Environment. Why harm the groups that represent this first line of awareness and action? We must renew these programs, which are essential to protecting the environment, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
The member for Jonquière adds that instead of blindly cutting programs to support the missions of environmental groups, sustainable solutions are possible. “A working committee existed in the government to advance the recognition guidelines for groups and to provide them with predictable funding. Why not have continued with the meetings of the working committee? He wondered.
It should be added that environmental groups are also targeted by the Canada Revenue Agency, for political reasons and because of pressure exerted by the public relations firm Edelman, as part of TransCanada&#39;s communications strategy. &quot;While the environmental future is played out with the TransCanada project, the cuts by the Liberal government prevent groups from dedicating themselves to their mission,&quot; lamented the spokesperson.
Finally, it should be remembered that the Parti Québécois government acted on the financing of environmental community organizations through, on the one hand, the renewal of the two programs concerned on an annual basis and, on the other hand, the renewal of the two programs concerned on an annual basis. establishment in April 2013 of a joint committee for the recognition of environmental community organizations in order to put in place predictable financial support.
