Quebec - The member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of social services and youth protection, Jean-François Lisée, and the member for Lac-Saint-Jean and spokesperson for education and school perseverance, Alexandre Cloutier, warns the Liberal government and asks it not to wait several more months before taking action to meet the needs of autistic children and their families.
“The needs are known and documented; autistic children and their families expect services, not a forum! This morning&#39;s announcement should not be used as a pretext for the government not to act and, above all, not to invest to improve access to services for people with autism spectrum disorder and their families. . Several concrete actions can be taken now, particularly in terms of managing waiting lists and supporting young people and their families on the obstacle course to obtain a diagnosis and, subsequently. , Services. Moreover, the scientific literature shows that it is before five years that early stimulation and rehabilitation services are most effective; is it necessary to pay several tens of thousands of dollars to say it again in a group in a forum? Already, many reports - from the Auditor General of Quebec, the Québec Ombudsman, a working group on services for people 21 and over, etc. - issued recommendations that the Minister for Rehabilitation, Youth Protection and Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, could quickly implement. We regret that she is trying to gain time instead of acting now to try to mitigate the effects of her government&#39;s cuts on vulnerable people, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
Let us add that the Liberals have an additional responsibility, since their cuts in education have a direct impact on the services offered to children with autism in schools. “The government is talking both sides of its mouth. On the one hand, he makes fine speeches; on the other, it cuts directly into services for children with autism spectrum disorder. At the start of the school year, there are fewer professionals to help young people. This is the reality that young people and parents live every day. It is time for the Minister of Education to go into the field to see the devastating effects of his cuts. We will participate in the forum, but I am sure that the money that will be invested to organize it would have been much more useful in schools in Quebec, for autistic people, ”added Alexandre Cloutier.
Remember that it was the Parti Québécois that worked on the development and publication of the first autism action plan, which was published in 2003. In addition, in 2014, it was the only party to present commitments. to help people with autism and their families.
