Candiac– The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced, in the presence of the Member for Sanguinet and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Finance and the Economy Mr. Alain Therrien, l government allocation of a loan of $ 600,000 to Automacad, a company specializing in the design and manufacture of automated machinery for the manufacturing sector. This loan, made through Investissement Québec, will allow the development of new products with high added value, in particular a molding and demoulding line and a robotic coloring system for the concrete industry.
&quot;Automacad is a key player in the manufacturing sector which contributes to the region&#39;s economic dynamism and to the modernization of industrial companies,&quot; declared the Minister. “Its activities are in line with the objectives of our industrial policy, which aims to increase the productivity of our manufacturing companies by encouraging them to automate and robotize their production. It therefore goes without saying for my government to support this dynamic company in pursuing its marketing and expansion efforts. It is by investing massively in innovation projects that Quebec companies will be able to face the challenges of competition for years to come. &quot;
As companies must constantly improve their productivity to remain competitive, Automacad operates in a market with strong growth potential. The company also wants to market its products from September 2014, in order to meet the significant market demand in the concrete industry.
&quot;Automacad has always remained at the cutting edge of its sector thanks to significant investments in research and development and by the use of innovative technologies in the manufacture of its products,&quot; said MP Therrien. “This constant concern to be on the lookout for new manufacturing methods has allowed the company to carve out an excellent reputation here in the region, as well as with the companies it serves. &quot;
&quot;The support of the Government of Quebec made it possible to make our innovation project a reality,&quot; added Mr. Louis Hébert, co-shareholder and president of the company. “We are very happy to finally be able to carry out the development of the products necessary for our continued growth. We also plan to hire new employees over the next few years. &quot;
Founded in April 1999 by Mr. Louis Hébert and Ms. France Barbeau, the Automacad company specializes in the design and manufacture of automated machinery for the manufacturing sector. It is active, in particular, in the concrete, plastic, wood and steel industries. Thanks to its sought-after expertise, Automacad assists its customers in the automation of production processes. It also offers industrialization solutions that boost not only production chains, but also the entire market.
