Quebec - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, has announced non-repayable financial assistance of $ 300,000 to Optina Diagnostics. The technological company will thus be able to develop a camera, called an IRIS imaging scanner, allowing the very early diagnosis of eye diseases such as macular degeneration or diabetic retinopathy and, in the medium term, several diseases such as diabetes, arterial hypertension and Alzheimer&#39;s.
This project entitled &quot;Adaptation of a retinal hyperspectral camera for first commercial applications&quot; will allow Optina Diagnostiques to market this camera intended for the research market and to continue a round of financing in the order of 6 to 8 million dollars.
“I am pleased to announce this financial support to Optina Diagnostics, because this project will contribute to the development of the photonic optics sector in Quebec and will have a major impact in the Montreal region. The global ophthalmic diagnostic equipment market is valued at $ 850 million in 2013 and the market segment that corresponds to the Optina project is valued at 40% of the overall market. There is therefore a strong growth potential for the company and this will make it possible to showcase Quebec know-how around the world, ”said Minister Duchesne.
Optina Diagnostics develops specialized molecular ocular imaging systems that allow early detection of diseases and improve treatment monitoring. Through its technologies, the Quebec technology company improves the health of patients.
Thus, the IRIS imaging scanner allows ophthalmologists to visualize the molecular changes that occur in the eye, before the morphological changes caused by the diseases, making possible an early diagnosis, and this, in order to better manage their progression.
&quot;This project calls for collaboration and partnerships, two elements that will occupy a major place in the future National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI), in addition to consolidating high-level jobs,&quot; added Minister Duchesne.
Based in Montreal, the company currently employs three people. The grant awarded will help consolidate five jobs, in addition to creating a dozen others by the end of 2014.
“Optina&#39;s technology will allow early diagnosis of diseases that are presently only diagnosed after irreversible morphological damage has occurred. The support of the Ministry will help us to multiply the technical proofs necessary for our evolution ”, underlined the president of Optina Diagnostiques, Mr. David Lapointe.
The total cost of this project is $ 750,000. The contribution from the Government of Quebec represents 50% of the eligible expenses of the project. Thus, under the Innovation Support Program, Part 1: Support for technology start-ups, the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology grants financial assistance of 300,000 $. The financial package is completed by a sum of $ 450,000 paid by Capital-actions and the CLD-Ville Saint-Laurent.
The National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI) is one of the four major strategic initiatives around which the Government of Quebec&#39;s Economic Priority Employment policy is based. In terms of research and innovation, the PNRI represents an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion that will extend over five years.
For more information on the Department&#39;s programs and services, visit www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca.
