Quebec - On the occasion of the 2nd Religious Heritage Forum of the Quebec Religious Heritage Council, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announces the signing of three notices of intention to classify under the Act respecting Cultural Heritage. These concern the church of La Décollation-de-Saint-Jean-Baptiste, located in L&#39;Isle-Verte, the chapel of Notre-Dame-de-Bon-Secours, located in Montreal, and the church of Saint-Dominique , located in Quebec.
“This announcement is another tangible expression of the commitment of the Government of Quebec in the protection of our religious heritage. These historic places are an invaluable wealth for our national culture; it is therefore essential to preserve and protect them, ”said Minister Maka Kotto.
The notice of intent to classify the church of La Décollation-de-Saint-Jean-Baptiste aims to protect the place of worship, including part of the land, and movable property of artistic and historical value. The heritage value of the church rests among other things on the interest of its interior decoration of neo-Gothic influence, one of the most completed carried out at the same time. The painting The Beheading of Saint John the Baptist, as well as a chalice and its paten, are of interest for their historical and artistic values.
This chapel is a significant heritage place for the city of Montreal because of its historical, architectural, artistic and ethnological values. The notice of intention to classify concerns the protection of the chapel and three of its movable property, its archaeological site and a collection of objects which were extracted from it. Among the protected movable property, let us mention the Notre-Dame-de-Bon-Secours statuette, the only object found intact after the fire that ravaged the first chapel in 1754, as well as the True portrait of Marguerite Bourgeoys, which is said to be the most old famous painting painted by an artist born in the country.
The notice of intent to classify Saint-Dominique Church aims to protect the place of worship and its movable property for their architectural, artistic and historical values. The decor of Saint-Dominique Church, a major work by sculptor Lauréat Vallière, is one of the largest sculpted wood sets in Quebec, in addition to being an important witness to the influence of the Gothic Revival movement.
Additional information concerning these churches as well as all the heritage elements registered in the Cultural Heritage Register are available on the website of the Quebec Cultural Heritage Directory (RPCQ), at www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca.
In total, there are 350 places of worship, 275 presbyteries, convents and residences of religious men and women and thousands of religious movable goods which are already protected under the Cultural Heritage Law.
New tools for disseminating cultural heritage have been added to the RPCQ, making it possible to discover all of its richness and diversity, by making it accessible to all. In fact, part of the RPCQ&#39;s content can now be found on the Government of Quebec&#39;s open data portal, at www.data.gouv.qc.ca, as well as on the social network Pinterest, in the form of virtual exhibitions, atwww. pinterest.com/rpcq.
Online training is also available at www.formation-patrimoine.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. Composed of video capsules and learning activities, it presents the basic concepts of the Cultural Heritage Act and explains the roles and responsibilities of each to promote the knowledge, protection, enhancement and transmission of Cultural Heritage.
