Quebec - Throughout the development process that led to the tabling of the draft charter of secularism by the Marois government, eminent jurists were consulted to ensure that it rests on solid legal foundations. Among them are Me Henri Brun, professor at the Faculty of Law at Laval University, the Honorable Claire L&#39;Heureux-Dubé, former Supreme Court judge, and Me Julie Latour, former Bâtonnière of the Bar of Montreal.
The spokesperson for the official opposition for the charter of secularism and Member of Parliament for Taschereau, Agnès Maltais, wishes to recall that the draft charter of values is a societal choice that was primarily the responsibility of the people of Quebec and its members. duly elected representatives. “The elected representatives of the National Assembly could not finish their work on the charter of secularism. Once this legislative work was completed, the courts could then have done their work, if necessary. Moreover, the Parti Québécois government has always been confident of the solidity of the legal foundations of the charter. Moreover, during the parliamentary commission, several jurists considered it constitutional ”, indicated the deputy.
On the occasion of the parliamentary committee consultation process, Me Henri Brun declared on February 7, 2014: “As regards the validity, quickly, we all believe that Bill 60 is valid, including which concerns its article 5, which restricts the right to wear religious symbols in certain very limited circumstances. We base this conviction on recent developments in constitutional law, in case law, and we also base it on future developments, if I may say so, in constitutional law. The state of constitutional case law, at any given moment, cannot and should not be considered the end of history, especially since what Bill 60 deals with has never been submitted to the courts. We are in a new matter. In any case, this debate, the legalistic debate on validity, should not come to inhibit or blur the essential debate which must take place on the advisability of Bill 60. &quot;
&quot;Should the express waiver clause be used or not?&quot; My legal answer is no, continued Me Henri Brun. For the reasons mentioned, we believe that this bill, in its entirety, is constitutional, is valid. But, in front of all that is said elsewhere, one cannot nevertheless stop the ears; I think there will also be a decision of an exclusively political nature and no longer legal at all, absolutely political and administrative, to say: are we going to live with 10 years of legal battles on the same subject? And that could spoil this peace that we anticipate. But there, there is a political decision, there, which escapes us. &quot;
Still during consultations in parliamentary committee, the former Supreme Court judge Claire L&#39;Heureux? Dubé added: &quot;This legal debate is reduced, in my opinion, essentially to the divergent opinions of jurists on the interpretation by the courts of limits to civil liberties guaranteed by charters. Some, such as the Bar and the Human Rights Commission, among others, rely on a broad and expansive interpretation of these civil liberties by judges, an interpretation based on honest belief only, totally subjective, from person to person. the effect that its practices fall under a religious obligation without other criteria; the Amselem and Multani cases which have been discussed a lot. For the Lawyers for Secularism and State Neutrality, of which I am, this broad and totally subjective interpretation is over since the judgments subsequent to these two decisions which we report in our brief. &quot;
&quot;All state employees are subject, among other things, to standards of loyalty and restrictions on their political freedom of expression, which has been deemed valid by the courts,&quot; she added. . How would a similar restriction on their freedom of religious expression be different? And there, I answer maybe to someone who questioned that by saying: Yes, restriction compared to a secular state. You must always put this parameter there. &quot;
Finally, let us recall that Roger Tassé, former Deputy Minister of Justice of the federal government at the time of the drafting of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, declared in an interview in December 2013: “Here, what are we talking about? ? We are talking about a prohibition which at the end of the day is quite minimal. […] In my opinion, contrary to what some have said, including the Quebec Human Rights Commission, &quot;it is understood that it will be illegal&quot;, I am not convinced of that. I think an argument could be developed. [...] This is why it is important that the debate takes place at the political level, that all those who have views on it can be heard. And then we draw the conclusions, and the legislator decides what will be in the charter, and under what conditions. It seems fundamental to me. ”(Source: http: //ici.radio-canada.ca/nouvelles/societe/2013/12/28/002-pere-charte-canadienne-droits-libertes-charte-valeur-quebecoise-laicite-roger-tasse. shtml)
There is a distinction between formal legal opinions and legal opinions gathered throughout the development process that led to the drafting of the charter of secularism. The confidentiality of formal government legal advice is a fundamental principle.
“The Liberals are trying to hide behind a false debate on formal legal opinions versus formal legal opinions in order to hide their opposition to the establishment in Quebec of true secularism. How to ensure equality between men and women, guarantee the State&#39;s true religious neutrality and provide a framework for reasonable accommodation, this is the real debate Quebeckers want, ”concluded Agnès Maltais.
