Trois-Rivières– The Minister of Families, Ms. Nicole Léger, and the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec region, Mr. Yves-Francois Blanchet would like to congratulate the Carrefour jeunesse-emploi MRC Maskinongé, winner of the Recognition Award “Work-family reconciliation”. The prize was awarded to him during the first edition of the Gala Edis of the Jeune Chambre de commerce de la Mauricie.
“I would like to salute the commitment of the Carrefour jeunesse-emploi MRC Maskinongé in matters of work-family balance and the efforts it has made to promote a better balance between the family and professional responsibilities of its staff. This organization is a source of inspiration in its community and a partner for the Government of Quebec in its action in favor of families, ”said Minister Nicole Léger.
The Recognition Prize “Work-Family Reconciliation” has been awarded since 2008 by the Ministry of the Family, in collaboration with the Regroupement des jeunes chambres de commerce du Québec. It aims to highlight the initiatives of a company or an organization that makes a concrete contribution to the well-being of its employees, by facilitating the balance between their professional responsibilities and their family obligations.
The Carrefour Jeunesse-emploi MRC Maskinongé is a non-profit organization, present in the Muskell region since 1997. Because it could not be as competitive in terms of salary as other categories of employers, the Carrefour jeunesse-emploi MRC Maskinongé has put forward work-family balance measures that have made a difference in attracting and retaining its employees. “Among the initiatives of the Carrefour jeunesse-emploi MRC Maskinongé in the area of work-family balance, let us mention a flexible schedule, teleworking, the possibility of taking advantage of various leaves for family events as well as special leaves during the summer and during the holidays. Holidays in addition to the holidays. These initiatives have helped make this organization an employer of choice and an innovator in its sector of activity, ”said Minister Yves-Francois Blanchet.
“Work-family reconciliation measures improve the quality of life of staff, but they also represent added value for organizations, regardless of their sector of activity. By integrating work-family balance into their institutional values, these organizations become more attractive and ensure better retention of the workforce necessary for their development, ”Minister Léger underlined.
The Ministère de la Famille is taking action on several fronts to encourage workplaces to implement innovative measures to promote work-family balance. Financial support is offered in particular under the Financial Support Program for Workplaces in Work-Family Balance. The terms and details of this program are available on the website of the Ministère de la Famille.
