Quebec - The Minister of Families, Ms. Nicole Léger, and the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale region and the Chaudière region- Appalaches, Mrs. Agnès Maltais, would like to congratulate the company Proxima Centauri, winner of the Recognition Award &quot;Work-family balance&quot;. The prize was awarded to him by the Young Chamber of Commerce of Quebec in collaboration with the Youth Wing of the Lévis Chamber of Commerce during the award evening of the Young Enterprise Desjardins Grant.
“I would like to salute Proxima Centauri&#39;s commitment to work-family balance and its determination to promote a better balance between the family and professional responsibilities of its staff. In 2012, this company&#39;s efforts were also publicly recognized with the certification of its work-family balance program according to the Work-Family Balance standard awarded by the Bureau de normalization du Québec (BNQ). Proxima Centauri is a source of inspiration in its community and a partner of the Government of Quebec in its action in favor of families, ”said Minister Nicole Léger.
The Recognition Prize “Work-Family Reconciliation” has been awarded since 2008 by the Ministry of the Family, in collaboration with the Regroupement des jeunes chambres de commerce du Québec. It aims to highlight the initiatives of a company that makes a concrete contribution to the well-being of its employees, by facilitating the balance between their professional responsibilities and their family obligations.
Founded in 2008, Proxima Centauri is a Quebec-based human resources strategy consulting firm that works in the areas of training, human resources management consulting and recruitment. Among the work-family balance measures implemented within the company, we find in particular flexibility in working hours and the possibility of benefiting from various leaves for family reasons, i.e. paid leave in the event of marriage, civil union or bereavement as well as unpaid leave to meet the needs of its staff.
“As Minister responsible for the application of the Act respecting parental insurance, I note that the various work-family balance measures not only contribute to an increase in the participation rate of women and to an increase in presence of fathers with their children, but without a doubt to the socioeconomic development of Quebec. In fact, Quebec is one of the world leaders in this area. I would therefore like to congratulate the company for its constant efforts to promote the well-being of its employees, ”said Minister Agnès Maltais. Proxima Centauri is a team of professionals who also define themselves as parents and caregivers and, above all, as people in search of a healthy balance between their family and professional obligations. Listening to the needs of its staff and wishing to become a socially responsible company, Proxima Centauri has set up a work-family balance program as well as a committee responsible for the latter within the company. These achievements have become its hallmark as an employer and an important factor in attracting and retaining its staff.
“Work-family reconciliation measures improve the quality of life of staff, but they also represent added value for companies. By integrating work-family balance into their culture and organizational values, companies become more attractive and ensure better retention of the workforce necessary for their economic prosperity, ”said Minister Nicole Léger. . The Ministère de la Famille is taking action on several fronts to encourage workplaces to put in place measures to promote work-family balance. Financial support is offered in particular under the Financial Support Program for Workplaces in Work-Family Balance. The terms and details of this program are available on the website of the Ministère de la Famille.
