Québec, April 26, 2020 - Véronique Hivon, MP for Joliette and Parti Québécois spokesperson for education and the family, asks the government to answer the many questions raised by parents and school staff when it unveils its plan reopening of schools on Monday.
IN SHORT
In the plan to be tabled on Monday by the government, the Parti Québécois expects to have the answers to the following questions:
By reopening schools, the government must not lose sight of the pedagogical and educational objectives, believes the Parti Québécois. Because it is not only a question of striving for greater collective immunity; students and their parents must feel that educational success is part of the decision.
“The government must explain what it intends to do to ensure equity between students who return to class and those who stay at home, especially for those with learning difficulties or particular vulnerabilities. The health of students, their parents and school staff is paramount, but no one should be left behind. So, will all the children who will stay at home, for health reasons or because their school remains closed, be entitled to a personalized support plan? This is essential, ”said the member for Joliette.
Distance education is also expected to take more place than ever in the school network. This will be the case in the coming weeks, for all those who will not return to school in the near future, but also in the fall, if Quebec finds itself again confronted with a wave of the virus. The government will therefore have to provide better technological support for students, their parents and staff.
“Many students do not have adequate technological tools, such as a computer or a tablet. Does the Minister of Education intend to provide them with it, so that all can develop in an equitable manner, despite the difficulties posed by the health crisis? This seems essential to us; it is a simple matter of justice ”, affirmed the member.
The Parti Québécois spokesperson also recalls that thousands of school staff have volunteered to support health staff and patients. So far, we do not know the modalities of their return to schools, nor the measures that will be put in place to compensate for their possible absence, which could pose even greater challenges in the current context of staff shortages. . “It should not be forgotten, either, that a proportion of staff and bus drivers are over 60 years old. Consequently, measures will have to be taken to compensate for this shortage of staff - which will, moreover, increase if certain members unfortunately contract the infection in the coming months. Logically, these measures must be announced at the same time as the deconfinement plan, ”continued the elected official.
Finally, Véronique Hivon asks the government to explain its game plan for the next school year and the next school year, in particular in anticipation of other potential waves of COVID-19 in Quebec.
“I am proud to see the outpouring of solidarity that crosses all of Quebec, and in which school personnel, among others, actively participated. However, his safety must be ensured on his return, as must that of the pupils and their relatives. I therefore ask the government to be as transparent as possible; I am convinced that the more information it provides to the population, the more it will calm concerns, and the more it will be able to build a consensus by gaining the support of Quebecers for its plan, ”concluded Véronique Hivon.
