Québec - Martine Ouellet, Member of Parliament for Vachon and Official Opposition Critic for Transport, Maritime Strategy and Transportation Electrification, and Member for Verchères and Critic for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, note that the maritime strategy, unveiled this morning by the government, is off to a bad start. In fact, since the Liberals came to power, several difficult pieces of news have struck the Quebec maritime industry.
“Given the Couillard government&#39;s inability to stand up to the federal government, the Davie shipyard is accumulating bad news. More than 200 jobs were lost last May. In addition, 25% increases in certain fares and service reductions were announced by the Société des traversiers du Québec. Then, as for the protection of biodiversity, this strategy postpones for five years the achievement of the targets that the Liberals themselves had set during the last election campaign. Finally, after more than a year in power, this government has not taken any clear decision favoring the Contrecoeur site for the establishment of the logistics pole. In short, this is a very bad start for a government that says it wants to develop the maritime industry in Quebec, ”said Martine Ouellet.
Without Quebec independence, this plan is inconsistent
In any case, without a sovereign Quebec, there can never be any real development of the maritime industry in Quebec. “Minister D&#39;Amour confirmed today that no agreement has been signed with Ottawa concerning ports under federal jurisdiction. It has been neglected infrastructure for years, but the Liberals still want to invest millions in it. Today&#39;s announcement shows once again that the only way to provide Quebec with an effective maritime strategy for the Quebec economy would be to make Quebec a country, ”added Stéphane Bergeron.
Not a first
The Liberals claim that their maritime strategy is a first in history. They forget that the former PQ minister Jacques Baril had the Quebec Maritime and River Transport Policy adopted in 2001. The implementation of this policy, initially bypassed by the federal government of Jean Chrétien, has had its consequences. &#39;has been pursued by the government of Jean Charest.
