Quebec - At the end of the consultations on Bill 36, the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, said she was pleased with the comments received from economic players, future clients and partners of the Banque de développement économique du Québec (BDEQ), but very disappointed with the partisan attitude of the official opposition and the second opposition.
&quot;They heard, as I did, the very broad support from economic circles to the objectives of the Development Bank, in particular in its intention to facilitate the life of entrepreneurs and access to risk capital,&quot; said Minister Delegate Zakaïb. “They heard like me that entrepreneurs and regions were impatiently waiting for a tool better suited to their reality and their needs. They heard as I did that the majority of stakeholders saw the BDEQ as this effective tool. &quot;
Deputy Minister Zakaïb said she was stunned to see that political partisanship can take over an issue as crucial as that of economic development.
“Asking for amendments is one thing, but from there to rejecting out of hand the establishment of a unified window and a decentralization approach, there is a step that a responsible opposition should have refused to take. », She hammered. “They will have to answer for their actions to entrepreneurs, regions and the entire population of Quebec, who will pay the price for their partisanship. &quot;
The Minister Delegate recalled that the creation of the Economic Development Bank would make it possible to respond more effectively to the needs of entrepreneurs and regions thanks to a new approach.
A regionalised approach which will make it possible to have an office and permanent resources in each region and a strategy drawn up by and for them, in close collaboration with the local development centers. This new proactive approach will also give the Development Bank the mandate to support entrepreneurs, while implementing strategic projects. Finally, this approach considers entrepreneurs as clients and adapts its services to their needs and not the other way around.
The Minister Delegate, who has spent her entire career in economic development, including ten years in regional development, nevertheless wished to reassure entrepreneurs and regions. &quot;It is for you,&quot; she concluded, &quot;that I came into politics. I will not be discouraged. &quot;
