Montreal - Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, presented her commitments to better welcome and integrate people who have chosen to live in Quebec.
She was accompanied by the candidate in Crémazie and Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities, Diane De Courcy, by the candidate in Rosemont, Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Jean -François Lisée, of the candidate in Verdun, Lorraine Pintal, of the candidate in Saint-Henri – Sainte-Anne, Véronique Fournier, of the candidate in Laurier-Dorion, Pierre Céré, of the candidate in Anjou – Louis-Riel, Yasmina Chouakri , the candidate in Bourassa-Sauvé, Leila Mahiout, and the candidate in Viau, Odette Lavigne.
“We are proud that tens of thousands of people each year decide to come to live and work with us. We are determined to give them the best possible chance for success. Several actions have been taken by our government, but we must step up our efforts to better welcome new Quebecers, ”said Pauline Marois.
Over the past 18 months, the Government of Quebec has implemented major measures to facilitate the success of francization and employment integration for newly arrived immigrants and to further align the selection criteria.
A Parti Québécois government will modernize the immigration system and re-propose the Quebec Immigration Act, tabled in February 2014.
“We want to provide Quebec with a modern immigration system. We want to review the immigrant selection process to ensure their francization and professional integration. We will propose measures that will meet the current challenges of integrating newcomers, ”added the Premier.
Even if immigrants are selected on the basis of their education, their field of training and their command of French, they need time to adapt to the Quebec labor market, to make themselves known and to find a suitable job. their aspirations and skills. A Parti Québécois government therefore undertakes to shorten this period, by allowing immigrants to begin their procedures as soon as they are selected by Quebec, which generally precedes their arrival here by 12 to 18 months.
“Concretely, we will facilitate this preparation by increasing the number of users of online Francization by 10% annually and those of the Online Integration Service by 20%. A Parti Québécois government is also committed to significantly reducing the time taken for comparative evaluations of studies carried out outside Quebec, ”explained Diane De Courcy.
The Parti Québécois government has announced an additional investment of $ 13.5 million over the next three years for the francization of immigrants. This is one of the 24 actions of the Un Québec strong in immigration plan, which aims to maximize the contribution of immigration to the economic, cultural and social development of Québec.
“Fluency in the language is a fundamental factor in the integration of people. More support for learning French for allophone children will be offered, starting at preschool age. The government will also implement innovative francization practices for temporary foreign workers. Finally, projects promoting the integration and francization of parents will be more supported, ”added Diane De Courcy.
“Immigration is an undeniable force for Quebec, and all regions must benefit from it. Currently, only 20% of newcomers settle outside of Montreal. We will put in place measures to increase this rate to at least 25% by 2020, ”added Pauline Marois.
In several regions, agreements have already been concluded to adapt the means of attracting future immigrants or those who have just settled in Montreal. We also want to improve support for immigrants who have already settled in the regions, with a view to promoting their retention. These agreements will continue to be developed.
Even if they are selected in large numbers for their mastery of French and their education, immigrants from the Maghreb experience significant difficulties integrating into the labor market, especially during their first years in Quebec.
“A Parti Québécois government will ensure that these people are better integrated into the professional market, by improving the recognition of their diplomas and skills. We invited Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia to work with us in this direction ”, declared Jean-François Lisée.
“The Parti Québécois relies on the successful immigration and integration of people who choose Quebec to live there. We must do everything to better integrate our immigrants and give them the means to succeed, so that together, we become more prosperous, more welcoming, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
