Quebec - The member for Berthier and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of agriculture and food, André Villeneuve, pointed out that certain groups, during consultations in parliamentary committee, noted shortcomings in Bill 54, Law aimed at improving the legal situation of animals: there are particular concerns about the lack of inspectors assigned to animal welfare, the lack of supervision of religious slaughter and the fact that the law does not will not be applied in slaughterhouses under federal jurisdiction.
“For all of Quebec, only 15 inspectors are assigned to animal welfare. Everyone agrees that this is clearly insufficient. Despite the growing number of complaints, and despite the new responsibilities that will fall to them after the passage of Bill 54, the Minister does not plan to increase the number of inspectors. The government, hoping to keep this information silent, even went so far as to refuse to hear their representatives in parliamentary committee, ”denounced André Villeneuve.
In addition, the minister affirms that with his bill, the practices of religious slaughter will be more supervised. &quot;Where is it written? The bill does not mention it anywhere. There is no article that requires numbing the animal before killing during a ritual slaughter, ”continued the spokesperson.
Finally, the groups heard, just like the Minister, confirm that the slaughterhouses under federal jurisdiction will not be subject to the new law. “The Minister will have to conclude a hypothetical memorandum of understanding for Quebec legislation to apply to these slaughterhouses, which is in no way guaranteed. It is completely inconsistent, for a State that aspires to become a leader in terms of animal welfare, that two-tier standards apply on its territory, ”concluded the MP for Berthier.
Because it subscribes to the principle of the minister&#39;s bill, and with a view to improving it as much as possible, the Parti Québécois will continue to interact with the groups present in parliamentary committee.
