Laval– “On September 4, 2012, when Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Premier of Quebec, the citizens of the new riding of Sainte-Rose granted me the great privilege of representing them in the National Assembly. Our government&#39;s first year in office was marked by listening, courage and determination, ”Ms. Proulx immediately tells us.
The Member for Sainte-Rose and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister responsible for the Status of Women is pleased today to share the results that underpin the persevering and assiduous work she has done for them in the riding and in the National Assembly, since its election.
A woman of commitment, she has put forward several concrete actions, together with various social actors, not only to advance important issues but also to establish solid foundations that will ensure the sustainability of programs that are close to her heart. In this regard, let us underline its ability to mobilize the entire community around the Music Program which is offered to 800 students, from the 3rd year of elementary school to the fifth year of secondary school. She pledged to raise $ 150,000. With the support of the CRÉ (regional conference of elected officials), the Droit au talent foundation, the OSL (Laval Symphony Orchestra), her fellow ministers and deputies as well as the many participants in the benefit concert, which she initiated, she achieved its goal.
Let us also underline its involvement in ensuring increased safety rules and standards in private residences. “Minister Hébert heard the voices of seniors and their concerns following the fire at Villa Sainte-Rose, and granted us an amount of $ 15,000 to carry out a project in collaboration with FADOQ and other organizations. &#39;elders. The project, which will promote prevention and awareness among Laval residents, is underway, ”Ms. Proulx told us.
Her proactive approach was also guided by her solidarity with women and families who wish to have a child. This is why it openly supports Mieux-Naître à Laval, participates in all their information or fundraising activities and intervenes with decision-makers to move this file forward. “The Laval population will be the winners when Mieux Naître à Laval can offer all the perinatal resources necessary for the optimal development of children born here,” continued the Member.
We should not forget its action with women who run for the next municipal elections. With the avowed intention of showing them that we can do politics differently, she invited candidates from all parties as well as independents to a non-partisan brunch where we discussed the importance of being unite around certain issues.
Finally, despite a busy schedule, Ms. Proulx was very present on the field and participated in a large number of sports, recreational, cultural, educational and community activities. She was also present during the tragic events that shook Sainte-Rose this year. She supported the affected citizens and intervened with the authorities concerned to ensure swift resolutions in these cases.
It should also be noted that the Member has granted more than $ 70,000 in support of volunteer action since January 2013 to organizations in her riding as well as to several regional organizations.
“This first year has proven to be a real challenge. Our government has shown itself responsible and acted for the betterment of Quebecers, despite the little room for maneuver that the previous government had left it and the lack of cooperation from the opposition parties. Today, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain their pride. The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, and the pride of living together. The Parti Québécois government will therefore take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger. I am proud of our record and I intend to continue in the same vein to serve the citizens of the riding of Sainte-Rose in order to meet their needs and ensure them a better quality of life, ”concluded Suzanne Proulx.
