Beloeil, September 4, 2013 - A year ago today, Quebec adopted the first government led by a woman in its history, the Parti Québécois government, headed by Ms. Pauline Marois.
&quot;From day one, the Prime Minister had to show courage and leadership,&quot; said the member for Borduas and Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Pierre Duchesne, to the occasion of the first anniversary of the election of his government.
A first year in office marked by listening, courage and determination, argued the MP. He believes that after bringing order, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain pride. “Ms. Marois has surrounded herself with a team that works tirelessly and with determination to advance Quebec in a context of minority government, which can be very complex. I am very proud of the actions our government has taken since the election of September 4, 2012. ”
The priorities are clear, he added: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, identity and measures to live better together. “Thus, the Parti Québécois government is committed to making Quebec stronger! &quot;
For the member for Borduas, the results are positive in many respects but what he is most proud of is the progress concerning heavy transport on Route 133. The leadership shown by the deputy Duchesne made it possible to restore the bridges between the region, the Quebec Ministry of Transport and the mayors of the municipalities affected by this problem. In addition to this file, let us also recall the addition of nearly four hundred places in daycare services, support for free parking at the CLSC, and, not the least of the achievements, the participation of the region concerning the mobilization in favor of childcare. &#39;a moratorium on shale gas.
“I thank all the citizens of Borduas for placing their trust in me and it is with conviction and energy that I will continue to represent you at the National Assembly of Quebec. &quot;
