Repentigny - Although located in the neighboring riding, the announcement of the gradual closure of the Électrolux plant in December 2010 created a shock wave in the population of southern Lanaudière. The closure of the plant, scheduled for 2014, will result in the loss of 1,300 jobs, not to mention its effect on subcontractors and traders.
Aware of the impacts of this foretold disaster, MP Scott McKay joined from the outset in the great mobilization of political and socio-economic actors of the MRC de L&#39;Assomption to form a committee responsible for finding creative solutions. new jobs. First, a caregiver guide was designed to alleviate the psychological distress experienced by Electrolux employees. Subsequently, a technical and academic training program was set up for interested employees to improve their employment prospects. More than 400 employees have benefited from this training given in the workplace.
Finally, the committee developed an economic recovery strategy promoting job creation in the region. In addition to the canvassing undertaken to attract major players to the site of the Électrolux plant, four structuring projects were put forward to breathe new life into the territory of the MRC. This involves the establishment of a collegial center for technological transfer in sustainable design (CCTT), a center for the interpretation of plant biotechnologies, the establishment of a technological city bringing together companies linked to the education network, and the creation of an agricultural incubator dedicated to training people starting a business in the agricultural sector.
According to Scott McKay, “the steps taken since the announcement of the Electrolux plant closure are the result of collaboration and demonstrate the mutual help that exists within the community in these difficult times. Our government is helping those who need it and those who support them. Solidarity is the basis of our political action. In addition, we are obsessed with employment, which is why we are proud to place job creation at the heart of our priorities ”.
