Shawinigan - Ms. Pauline Marois became the first woman elected premier in Quebec history on September 4, 2012. Her government&#39;s first year in office is marked by listening, courage and determination. After bringing order, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain pride. The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, and identity and measures to live better together. The Parti Québécois government is therefore committed to making Quebec stronger.
It was in front of a recovered and improved election sign that MP Luc Trudel summoned the media to mark the first anniversary of his electoral victory. “The people of Saint-Maurice have placed their trust in me and I am taking two days to meet them and say thank you. It is for them that I will fight and defend the region ”. For him, the parliamentary function is demanding, but above all it is a fabulous experience and a privilege; &quot;It&#39;s an intense life, at the heart of the action, we have the impression of acting and changing the world a little.&quot; On the other hand, the demand for work is also felt at the family level, “it requires good compromises for the family. I owe them a lot, especially for all the support they give me ”.
“Last year, I offered my political experience, my knowledge of issues and the recognized vigor of the Trudels. My youth was also a determining factor in obtaining a large majority when the people of Saint-Maurice were looking for a representative embodying the ardor of the new generation, ”underlines Luc Trudel.
&quot;It is with honor that I have been representing the citizens of the riding of Saint-Maurice for the past year and I do not want to spare any energy to defend our beautiful region&quot;. The frankness and transparency of the new deputy were noticed when he did not hesitate to take strong positions in several files.
Very early on, important issues were brought to the fore. In particular, Gentilly-2 where Mr. Trudel was called upon to intervene directly in the heat of the moment in a hot issue. Subsequently, Hydro-Québec monopolized the public square with the markup of the Saint-Maurice River and the difficult relations with the community which resulted in a meeting organized by Mr. Trudel in order to alleviate the discontent and to conclude favorable agreements between the parties.
In the meantime, it is important to highlight the achievement of other projects such as the first installment of $ 1 million for phase 1 of the Shawinigan Entrepreneurial Center and the Tortue-des-Bois primary school in Saint -Mathieu-du-Parc who obtained the agreements to proceed with the construction of its gymnasium.
Pauline Marois&#39; team arrived in an unstable and precarious political climate caused by the previous government which had left bad surprises in all respects: corruption, student crisis and public finances. &quot;We were given the mandate to defend the population, but the situation forced us to make difficult choices.&quot;
For Luc Trudel, the priority for the next year is clear, “an action plan for the economic development of Shawinigan will be implemented. We must work together to give Shawinigan a luster that could recall the prosperous times it experienced ”. Other files will also be in the foreground, either; drinking water in Shawinigan, the Laurentide plant in Grand-Mère, water treatment in Saint-Mathieu-du-Parc and Lac-à-la-Tortue. “It&#39;s another eventful year ahead of us. I want to settle the drinking water issue to finally kick off the Lac-à-la-Tortue issue. I said that I did not want to make empty promises, but above all I said that I wanted to act and that is what I am doing ”underlines the deputy.
