Quebec - As the consultations on the 50% environmental protection rule for the territory come to an end, the member for L&#39;Assomption and official opposition critic for the environment, sustainable development and parks, Scott McKay , asks Minister Pierre Arcand to clarify his intentions.
“On the one hand, Prime Minister Jean Charest maintains that industrial activity may be permitted in protected areas, while Pierre Arcand said the opposite last week. The government is talking both sides of its mouth and sowing concern. The confusion is real, he must clarify his thinking and his intentions, ”said Scott McKay.
“Minister Arcand, by his statements, could literally kill the forestry industry and the thousands of jobs that go with it. Its ambivalence is inexcusable. During the public consultation session in Saguenay on September 22, Minister Arcand declared that &quot;there are possibilities without problem of logging&quot;. A few weeks later, in another forum, he suggested that logging be considered an industrial activity, thus making them impossible on the protected territory, ”added the deputy for Roberval and spokesperson for forests, Denis Trottier.
For the Parti Québécois, it seems clear that these contradictory statements clearly illustrate the government&#39;s improvisation on this issue. “There are a lot of gray areas as to the real intentions of protection. From attending some of these consultations, I see that the government has created immense expectations that it will clearly be unable to meet, ”said Scott McKay.
The member for L&#39;Assomption noted that the information presented during public sessions by the Liberal government was insufficient. “Minister Arcand must make the impact studies public in order to know the positive and negative effects of the protection of the territory for the communities. This is a minimum to reassure the population, unless the minister has no study, which would be an eloquent demonstration of a dangerous amateurism, ”continued Scott McKay, who demands that these impact studies be made. public before the upcoming bill is tabled.
The government&#39;s objective of protecting 50% of the northern territories rests on a bad foundation. “Sustainable development means both ensuring the preservation of northern territories with high ecological value, while allowing the populations who live in these areas to prosper and ensure their development in a responsible manner with the natural resources that surround them. . The current dithering only arouses fears and suspicion about the true intentions of the Liberal government. Sustainable development requires transparency, information and genuine dialogue with local communities. Minister Arcand, by reneging on his word, broke the bond of trust and betrayed the principles of sustainable development, ”concluded Scott McKay.
