Sainte-Scholastique - The MNA for Mirabel, Me Denise Beaudoin, says she is &quot;very proud to belong to the government of Pauline Marois, a government which, even in a minority, has acted and was able to take difficult but necessary decisions. , a government entirely dedicated to its people. We have done a lot in a short period of time: the results that we present guarantee it even better tomorrow. &quot;
The member recalls that last year at this date, Quebec was bathed in a climate of embezzlement and impunity, Montreal was blocked by a social crisis, public finances as left by the Liberals were in disorder, the budget deficit was digging and infrastructure investments were announced without being budgeted. The only thing that worked at full capacity was the Liberal Promise Factory.
Me Beaudoin notes: “We cleaned up the Liberal mess and repaired what the Charest administration had broken. The Marois government has shown courage, a great sense of responsibility and fierce determination. This is why we can say that things have been going much better in Quebec for a year! &quot;
The MP points out that “at the national level, the government of Quebec will have restored integrity by fighting severely against corruption; he piloted the important summit on higher education and the five projects that resulted from it; he dared to put the issue of fixed-date elections into force and profoundly changed the way political parties were financed. &quot;
In matters of identity, the government has stood up and defended the interests of Quebec everywhere and at all times, in Quebec, in Canada or in the world. “From sovereignist governance, we initiated several files to defend our interests, including the National Review Commission on Employment Insurance and the battle to modify federal decisions on workforce training. , as well as on labor-sponsored funds, ”explained the member for Mirabel, adding that the government would continue to fight to advance French in Quebec despite the opposition blocking it.
For several weeks now, the government has taken a more substantial approach to a new phase of its mandate: that of social and economic development. This is the case, for example, with the improvement of the home care system, autonomy insurance, the introduction of kindergarten to 4 years old in disadvantaged areas and the creation of 28,000 childcare places, including several. were allocated in the riding of Mirabel.
Me Beaudoin underlines economically, &quot;the implementation of the food sovereignty policy - which does not leave indifferent farmers, our local producers and consumers - our ambitious transport electrification project, the withdrawal in Quebec of the asbestos and nuclear; we have eliminated the Liberal 20% increase in electricity rates and the 82% increase in tuition fees. In addition, Quebecers will count on a new royalty regime as well as a new improved mining law.
“In short,” concludes the member in this regard, our actions are starting to bear fruit and everything indicates that the economic machine is off to a good start. &quot;
“In addition to my work at the National Assembly in Quebec and my participation in the work of parliamentary committees,” declares the member, “I have invested a lot in my constituency. The order was plentiful and varied and I got involved in all sectors to develop our economy, in harmony with the environment and agriculture.
In terms of culture, I would like to mention a significant achievement that I initiated, namely the establishment of Place Claude-Léveillée in Saint-Benoît, in Mirabel.
How can I ignore the important issue of the station in Mirabel: I have made a major contribution to ensuring that the future Mirabel station is located in the appropriate place where the least negative impacts are, and not on agricultural land. Thus, this sector of the riding of Mirabel will henceforth be able to remain a place of agricultural production contributing to its extent to feed Quebec rather than becoming a place of speculation, all in accordance with the new food sovereignty policy announced by the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron.
I announced, with the ministers concerned, significant investments for the construction of new primary schools in the constituency, including one in Saint-Augustin and the other in Saint-Joseph-du-Lac as well as the enlargements of Sainte-Anne schools in Saint-Canut and Mer-et-Monde in Mirabel-en-Haut.
In terms of health, MP Denise Beaudoin, with her colleagues from the Laurentian MPs caucus, obtained from the Government of Quebec the reduction of interregional financial inequity in the Laurentians and a major investment for the new day service. in mental health at the Saint-Jérôme Regional Hospital.
The MP also represented the government during two parliamentary missions abroad with, among others, the President of the National Assembly.
Ms. Beaudoin concludes with these comments: “As a Member of Parliament, I make it a point to be present to my constituents and to listen to them. I am in solution mode, very proud to serve the people who trusted me, and to do so within a responsible government! &quot;
