Longueuil– It is at the Maison des Citoyens that Martine Ouellet, MNA for Vachon and spokesperson for transport, transport electrification, maritime strategy and telecommunications, Diane Lamarre, MNA for Taillon and spokesperson for in matters of health and access to care and Bernard Drainville, MNA for Marie-Victorin, parliamentary leader and spokesperson for the Election Act and in matters of access to information, ethics and integrity, know their parliamentary session results. On this occasion, the three members of Longueuil agreed on the incompetence, injustice and inconsistency that the Liberals faced this fall.
Our children are paying the price
“In the dogmatism that we know, the PLQ cut $ 120 million from the Early Childhood Centers (CPE), this model place of development for our little ones. At this time, it is the survival of the CPE network and the jobs of thousands of educators that are threatened. Even though they had promised to invest in education, once in power, they cut services to students and weakened our public education system. My colleagues and I have also participated, with parents, in human chains in front of our schools with the movement I protect my public school, whether it is the Iberville school in Saint-Hubert, the Gentilly school or again the Armand-Racicot school in Longueuil. Moreover, I invite all citizens to sign the petition that a Saint-Hubert school commissioner submitted and that I am sponsoring to make public schools a real national priority, available on the Assembly&#39;s website. national. (https://www.assnat.qc.ca/fr/exprimez-votre-opinion/petition/Petition-5677/index.html)
This fall I also had the opportunity to do a tour on the dangers of transporting oil by train for export and particularly on the Chaleur terminals project. I went to meet citizens and elected municipal officials from the communities that would be affected. If it sees the light of day, 240 tank cars would pass through municipalities such as Saint-Lambert, Longueuil, Saint-Bruno and Mont-Saint-Hilaire every day, and those all along the CN rail line to Belledune in New Brunswick. I met several elected municipal officials and citizens&#39; groups there and as a result of this great mobilization, the UMQ and several MRCs and municipalities adopted a resolution asking the government to declare a BAPE on Chaleur terminals! Speaking of great mobilization, I congratulate all the citizens, elected officials and organizations who mobilized to prevent the toll on the future Champlain Bridge, it is a victory for the entire metropolitan region and an example of success for all those who mobilize for change things! ”said Martine Ouellet.
Question the government and question its real interests
“Throughout the parliamentary session, I tried to get the best for the people. I asked Minister Barrette clear questions. He refused to answer, confusing his former role as president of the FMSQ with that of Minister of Health and Social Services responsible for a budget that belongs to Quebecers! I denounced the introduction of a surcharge on patients for incidental costs, because it is a roundabout way of making patients pay a second time for health services they already pay; an obvious form of secret privatization compromising the principles of a universal health system accessible to all. I submitted a petition of more than 10,500 names to the National Assembly against these costs, a petition which shows that, contrary to the statements of the Minister, the citizens of Quebec do not accept this unilateral decision that he imposed without debate. public. Bill 20, now adopted, has also de-insured access and to some extent privatized in vitro fertilization (IVF). The equivalent of one child per class (1/32) was born thanks to IVF. Although we managed to win some amendments in parliamentary committee, the minister put so many obstacles that access to the parental project becomes inaccessible for most of them. I have repeatedly denounced, like the Auditor General of Quebec, the surplus remuneration of nearly $ 1 billion paid to physicians while the health and social services network is being cut by $ 450 million.
Meanwhile, in Longueuil, 10,000 people a month have to use food banks. In terms of health, the state of play of customer access counters without a family doctor remains problematic in the region. The number of patients registered at these access counters has increased by 60% in just 10 months. In total, more than 73,575 people were registered on the list on January 23, 2015, they were 45,849 on March 31, 2014. This government has an ideological approach; in addition to the lack of economic results, it cuts into social gains ”, declared Diane Lamarre.
Acts of integrity to restore confidence in Quebecers
For his part, the Member for Marie-Victorin and Parliamentary Leader of the Official Opposition, Bernard Drainville, emphasized three important elements related to his parliamentary functions: 1. the adoption of the bill aimed at putting a end of the departure bonuses for deputies who leave during their mandate without it being for health or family reasons, 2. the end of the applause during the question period in order to improve the atmosphere at the Blue Room and 3. shed light on the Charbonneau Commission, in particular by asking Mr. Renaud Lachance and Ms. France Charbonneau to come and explain themselves publicly, in a parliamentary committee.
“Quebecers thirst for integrity and ethics. I realize this when I talk to the people of Longueuil, they want the truth. They want to understand why the Liberals are doing so well in the Charbonneau commission report. Why have you protected the big gums of the Liberal party, Marc Bibeau et cie? 45 million later, was the Charbonneau Commission used to launder the PLQ? That is why we are asking that Mr. Lachance and Ms. Charbonneau come and explain the findings of the commission of inquiry.
It is for the same reason that I welcome the end of severance bonuses during my term of office. It&#39;s a great victory! A great victory for citizens, for Quebecers and for our democracy! The law that was adopted was the bill that I myself introduced, apart from one thing. I admit that I am particularly proud of it. It took a while, but we ended up winning this battle. Once again, this is proof that you should never let go. Thank you to all the citizens who supported us, ”said Bernard Drainville.
We are also continuing the battle to save funding for the 16 poverty reduction projects in Longueuil. “Diane, Martine and I, the three members of Parliament for Longueuil, met with the Corporation de Développement Communautaire (CDC) de Longueuil, in order to find a way to continue these projects which really help our world and our community. Nothing is over yet, but having discussed it with Minister Sam Hamad, he has not shown a great openness. Moreover, this government does not have the reputation of being particularly receptive to requests from community organizations, ”recalls Bernard Drainville. “We have the impression of a cold government looking down on us”.
“We are facing a government that will seek an additional $ 1,500 out of families&#39; pockets, that attacks the principle of equal opportunities, that cuts services to students and dismantles childcare centers, that cuts in health and secretly privatizing our care and who wants to force welfare recipients to move. We are facing a government that does not listen to the people. It is this same Liberal government which, on the other hand, is paying $ 800 million in excess to medical specialists. It is austerity everywhere in Quebec, except for the medical colleagues of the Prime Minister and his Minister of Health. This is unacceptable. Quebeckers are outraged and they are right. Quebec deserves better than an insensitive, stubborn, incoherent and incompetent government, ”concluded the members of the Parti Québécois.
