Quebec - The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, accompanied by his team, presented the results of the last parliamentary session.
“The Parti Québécois has worked very hard to achieve concrete gains for the population, and to propose solutions to the problems that citizens are experiencing. The work of MPs is impressive, as is the long list of our accomplishments! The only valid option to replace the current Liberal government is our team! We are proud to have been on the ground, close to people and their concerns. The PLQ and the CAQ are the parties of permanent austerity; we are the only ones to present another plan, that of success for Quebec! “, Said Jean-François Lisée from the outset.
IN SHORT
Gains for Quebecers
“Thanks to the work of André Villeneuve and the team, the increase in agricultural property taxes was canceled, thus protecting 80% of the farmers who were threatened. With Harold LeBel, we have succeeded in protecting the tax credit of $ 500 per year for seniors, which represents $ 77 million. Thanks to the work of Catherine Fournier, we convinced the government to reverse the publication of rent increase indices. In education, with Alexandre Cloutier, we worked to restore food aid to students who had lost it, and we urged the minister to act on the issue of inflated grades. In court, in connection with the Jordan decision, Véronique Hivon was the first to propose the use of the derogation clause; it is also she who insisted that the Minister finally reinvest resources in our legal system, ”enumerated Jean-François Lisée.
A plan for Quebecers
“If Quebecers want to know what a Parti Québécois government will look like, they can look at the proposals we have made and the initiatives we are putting forward. For example: the Priorité PME team, made up of three members who have been entrepreneurs, Alain Therrien, Mireille Jean and Martin Ouellet. They met dozens of companies and organizations in all sectors of activity, all over the territory. Their work will lead to an innovative regulatory relief policy that will boost prosperity in all of our regions. Moreover, since the beginning of this year, I have personally started a tour of the chambers of commerce in Montreal, Quebec City and our regions. Everywhere I have seen the great interest of our entrepreneurs in a modern, robust and open economic nationalism. This is what we offer! », Continued the leader of the official opposition.
&quot;With Nicolas Marceau, we showed Philippe Couillard how he could give respite to families, who have to cash rate increases totaling $ 1,100 since the arrival of his government. With Carole Poirier, we proposed 20 concrete measures to promote immediately the employment integration of Quebecers from cultural communities. The Solidarity in Action team, made up of MPs Catherine Fournier, Harold LeBel and Dave Turcotte, will go into the field, with community organizations, so that we can propose real solutions to poverty. Diane Lamarre introduced the right to be forgotten bill, prohibiting insurance companies from discriminating against cancer survivors. Then, with Maka Kotto, we proposed a bill to strengthen French as the language of work ”, for his part indicated the parliamentary leader of the official opposition, Pascal Bérubé.
“The Parti Québécois team is solid, and our gains are concrete. We will continue to be on the ground, to meet with Quebecers, to present what will become the Government of Quebec in October 2018: a competent, progressive, pragmatic and honest government, for all Quebecers. », Concluded Jean-François Lisée.
