Quebec - “Last year at this date, Quebec was bathed in a climate of embezzlement and impunity, Montreal was blocked by the social crisis, finances were in disarray and the budget deficit was widening, and investments in infrastructure were announced without being budgeted. The only thing that worked at full capacity was the Liberal Promise Factory. We cleaned up the Liberal mess and fixed what the previous government had broken. The Parti Québécois government has been courageous, responsible and determined. Things are better in Quebec! », Declared the Prime Minister on the occasion of the end-of-session report.
In matters of identity, the government has stood up and defended the interests of Quebec everywhere and at all times, in Quebec, in Canada or in the world. “From sovereignist governance, we initiated several files to defend our interests, including the National Review Commission on Employment Insurance and the battle to modify federal decisions on workforce training. , as well as on labor-sponsored funds, ”explained the Prime Minister. She also added that despite the opposition being blocked, the government would continue to fight to advance French in Quebec.
For several weeks now, the government has entered a new phase of its mandate, that of social and economic development. This is the case, for example, with home care, for which an additional $ 100 million per year has been injected. The government has proposed an ambitious, responsible and necessary policy with autonomy assurance. And, in addition to working for seniors, the government is working for children and young families by moving forward with kindergarten to age 4 in underprivileged areas and by creating 28,000 child care spaces.
“We have also implemented a food sovereignty policy so that we consume more food from home, which will help our producers and our economy. We had the courage to get Quebec out of asbestos and nuclear power. We are preparing an ambitious transport electrification project. We have reduced taxes for 3 million Quebeckers, and increased taxes for banks. We have eliminated the Liberal 20% increase in electricity rates and the 82% increase in tuition fees. In terms of solidarity, things are going better in Quebec! », Indicated the Prime Minister.
This new stage is also one of economic development in all regions of Quebec. “We have a new Timber Charter, a Northern Development Secretariat, a new royalty regime and a mining bill, which promotes processing in Quebec. We have put in place tax incentives to attract private investment. Our actions are starting to pay off and everything indicates that the economic machine has taken off in force. Economic growth is accelerating, paying jobs are created and private investment is increasing, ”she added.
GDP growth for 2013, at 1.8%, is stronger than in 2012 and stronger than Canadian growth. More than four million Quebecers have been at work since January 2013, a record level. Compared to the same period last year, there are 80,000 more jobs in Quebec. Private investments are increasing, which will create even more paying jobs in the coming months. The only declining economic indicator is the unemployment rate.
“The Liberals and the Caquists wanted to darken the economic situation and they worried many people by practicing the policy of the worst. Quebecers can be confident and reassured: things are going better, things are going much better for the Quebec economy! », Affirmed Pauline Marois, welcoming the work carried out by her increasingly seasoned and determined government team.
“It&#39;s getting better in many areas, that&#39;s undeniable. What has declined in Quebec is corruption and deficits. What is advancing is democracy and integrity, with the law on popular financing and the law on fixed-date elections. These results allow us to build for the future, ”concluded the Premier.
For more information
