Lachute - “On September 4, 2012, I reiterated my desire to play politics differently as the Member of Parliament for Argenteuil. A year later, I consider that I have kept my word, said Argenteuil deputy Roland Richer, as part of the assessment of his first year as a government deputy.
“I made myself the bearer of the issues that drive my fellow citizens of Argenteuil, the defender of the issues that concern them, and the igniter of pride in our beautiful region and its people. I tried to be as often as possible in the field, to meet and listen to citizens. I worked to represent them in the most fair and equitable way, ”he added.
One of the first important files on which the member for Argenteuil worked is that of the Régie intermunicipale Argenteuil / Deux-Montagnes (RIADM). After several years of inaction by the previous government in this matter, Mr. Richer took matters into his own hands and made the necessary representations to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupation (MAMROT). Result: two independent mediators were appointed by MAMROT with the aim of restoring sound management within this regional organization.
When the minister responsible for the Charter of the French language, Ms. Diane De Courcy, announced her Bill 14, Roland Richer did not wait for reactions. He quickly invited the minister to come and discuss with the mayors of the eight municipalities - out of ten in the Laurentians - with bilingual status in the Argenteuil constituency. Following this meeting, the member for Argenteuil proposed that the historic presence of the English-speaking community and the significant participation of its members be elements to be considered for the confirmation or revocation of bilingual status. These proposals were accepted by Minister De Courcy.
To ensure that the MRC d&#39;Argenteuil remains a priority region in the deployment of high speed Internet, the member for Argenteuil organized a meeting between representatives of the MRC d&#39;Argenteuil and the president of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard. They had the opportunity to demonstrate the quality of their file and to affirm the importance of the deployment of high speed Internet in our region. In addition to recognizing the priority of the MRC d&#39;Argenteuil, Mr. Bédard invited the latter to participate in the reflection within the framework of the repositioning of the development of the digital economy throughout the territory of Quebec.
Over the past year, the member for Argenteuil has been the spokesperson for various constituency issues in the National Assembly. He has :
The riding of Argenteuil is large, it has 17 municipalities in four different MRCs. Despite this, Roland Richer has made it his duty, even a pleasure, to meet people in the field. Since his first election on June 11, 2012, the MP has developed very good links with the various stakeholders in the constituency, whether in the municipal, economic, community or other fields.
“My favorite part of my job is meeting people, hearing their concerns. I try as often as possible to respond &quot;present&quot; to the many invitations I receive. But when that is impossible for me, I know that I can count on my team to represent me in good and good ways ”, expressed Mr. Richer.
Being present in the field is, of course, meeting people and participating in various activities, but it is also proposing projects. During the past year, Roland Richer initiated two important projects in the Argenteuil district. The first is to mobilize stakeholders from different backgrounds to work on setting up a college education offer in Argenteuil. Worried, like many, about the dropout rate in the region, the member believes that the establishment of a college study center would have a greatly positive effect on the academic perseverance of our young people.
The second project is to declare June 12 of each year “Regional Day of Non-Violence”, in memory of the terrible assassination of Aylin Otaño-Garcia in 2000, a young girl then aged 15. Because these atrocities must not be forgotten, a second phase to this project is currently on the table.
&quot;With a year of experience in my baggage, I feel well prepared to represent and defend the interests of the Argenteuil constituency even better,&quot; said MP Richer. The next year will be filled with great and great challenges and I intend to take them up with vigor. &quot;
For more details, see the MP&#39;s full report [PDF].
