Quebec - The leader of the official opposition and member for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, draws up a catastrophic record of the parliamentary session of the Prime Minister and the Liberal government. “Philippe Couillard is leading a bogged down and dysfunctional government, unable to move forward. Each time this government moves, it is to retreat or sink further into its own quicksand, ”Sylvain Gaudreault said straight away.
“In terms of integrity, we have found the good old Liberal Party of Jean Charest. The economic trio of liberals has been replaced by the ethical trio: Daoust, Hamad and de Santis. Major crisis at the Ministry of Transport, serious contradictions in the Rona affair, ethical breaches on the part of Sam Hamad, and reckless statements by the minister responsible for the Election Law; the government has a serious integrity problem, ”he added.
Jobs: promise, goal, myth
Philippe Couillard had promised to create 250,000 jobs. However, only 18,000 have been created in the past year; it is extremely weak. In addition, investments fell by 2.4%. “What was a promise has become a goal and is now a myth. Under the Liberals, the protection of our head offices declined, with the sale of St-Hubert and that of Rona, which was presented as &quot;good news&quot;. Obviously, the Liberal Party is not the party of the economy, ”also noted the leader of the official opposition.
Academic success, largely absent from the government&#39;s priorities “Yesterday, Philippe Couillard had the nerve to take stock in a school, while he heads the government which has invested the least in education over the past 15 years. The success of all students should be a top priority, from an early age. However, the dismantling of the public network of daycare services continued during the session, and the Minister of Education confessed his powerlessness in the face of illegal schools. That is the Liberal record, ”continued Sylvain Gaudreault.
Nothing for patients for two years
In health, we have seen the damage caused by an “all-doctors” approach. After two reforms and a huge increase in doctors&#39; salaries, the results speak for themselves: more than a million Quebecers still do not have a family doctor, and Quebec is at the back of the pack in West in terms of the length of the emergency room wait. “Innovative and effective projects, such as the SABSA and Jonquière Médic nursing clinics, are under threat. And the centralizing reforms of Minister Barrette are among the factors linked to the current crisis in the youth centers, ”also reminded the leader of the official opposition.
Gains for Quebecers thanks to the PQ
“Conversely, we, the Parti Québécois team, end this session with a feeling of duty accomplished. We succeeded in removing from Bill 59 the part dealing with hate speech, which established a real thought police. In health, the Parti Québécois team tabled a bill to abolish ancillary costs. This same team has also acted to protect our farmland, which is so necessary for the quest and maintenance of our food sovereignty, ”enumerated Mr. Gaudreault.
&quot;Philippe Couillard&#39;s failures in the sense of the State, the increasing scandals, the Prime Minister&#39;s inability to make the right decisions, to play fair and to create jobs, all of this has cost the families of the Quebec, to workers. As for François Legault, who imagines himself prime minister while his party is third since its creation, he will necessarily remain at this rank if he continues to show so much arrogance. Obviously, he has more ambition for himself than he has for Quebec, ”also denounced the member for Jonquière.
“As the official opposition, we have achieved many gains and we will continue to hold this government to account. The population can trust the Parti Québécois team to defend the economy, education and families, as we have always done and as we will continue to do to advance Quebec, ”concluded the Minister. leader of the official opposition.
