Quebec - The member for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, took stock of the parliamentary session by describing the Liberal government as disappointing.
“The government is hesitant, reckless and insensitive to the needs of the people. He presented the budget of broken promises, without vision and without structuring measures for the creation of jobs and the development of our regions, ”he declared.
“After backing down on just about every promise they made during the election campaign, the Liberals back down on another promise: the creation of 250,000 jobs. We have seen it; the liberal effect is the loss of 50,000 permanent jobs in two months. Obviously, the government is confusing austerity and austerity, ”continued the Leader of the Opposition.
Thanks to the action of the deputies of the Parti Québécois, however, the government has heard reason and backed down on several of its actions and policies. The very long list includes:
Let us also underline the unacceptable reopening of the shale gas industry, which Quebecers do not want. The government even refused to accept the moratorium proposal that the opposition made to it in parliamentary committee.
After 18 months of social peace, we learn today that more than 100 Montreal firefighters are retiring en bloc. In addition, workers are angry about the proposed pension law. The difficult balance that the previous government struck on major issues has now been shattered.
“When we took office, social peace in Quebec was broken. No one in Quebec can want us to relive moments when people are in a situation of insecurity or instability in relation to this social peace. I invite the government to listen and to meet people, ”added Stéphane Bédard.
Unlike the CAQ, which is an accomplice of the government and shows complacency towards it, the Parti Québécois team hears the concerns of families, regions, workers and the most disadvantaged.
“We are a constructive, vigilant and intractable opposition on certain points. We will not allow institutions to be weakened. The events of this week demonstrate it once again. Quebec families will not be allowed to be the victims of the austerity policies that the Liberals want to impose. We will make the voice of the regions of Quebec and of the most disadvantaged heard. Quebeckers can count on the strong Parti Québécois team, ”concluded Stéphane Bédard.
