GATINEAU, September 4, 2013 - The Minister of Public Security and Minister responsible for the Outaouais, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, gives a very positive assessment of the work carried out, both nationally and in the region, at the end of the first year of the Parti Québécois government. &quot;Relying on the four pillars set out by Prime Minister Pauline Marois at the opening of the work of the 40th legislature of the National Assembly, namely integrity, prosperity, solidarity and identity, we have worked hard to achieve our commitments, revive the economy, put public finances in order and eradicate corruption, ”declared Stéphane Bergeron.
The government has made social and economic development a priority. This is the case, for example, with home care, for which an additional $ 100 million per year has been injected. An ambitious and responsible autonomy insurance policy has been proposed to face the challenges arising from the aging of the population and to offer our seniors more options as to where they want to reside. What is more, the government has taken care of our children and young families by moving forward with kindergarten to age 4 in underprivileged areas and by creating 28,000 new child care spaces.
The Outaouais is not left out, as evidenced by the thirty visits made so far by Stéphane Bergeron and his ministerial colleagues in the region. These have often given rise to major investment announcements, which are good news for the economic and social development of the Outaouais.
In the area of Health and Social Services, the government quickly demonstrated its willingness to face the challenges arising from the Outaouais border situation. He first announced the maintenance of what has been called the “special status” and the forthcoming holding of a regional public consultation tasked with drawing up a state of play. Measures aimed at solving the problem of ambulances were subsequently announced, additional funds were granted to begin to catch up with inter-regional inequity, as well as to implement a client repatriation plan, not to mention the implementation establishment of a dialysis unit at the Papineau hospital and additional budgets to improve services to young adults suffering from pervasive developmental disorders as well as to seniors. We are talking about new sums invested in the order of $ 36 million over the past year, in a context of expenditure rationalization.
A large number of organizations and events in the region have benefited from ministerial subsidies for the pursuit of their operations. Several projects have been announced in municipalities in the region, including an investment of $ 342,000 to allow the construction of a municipal garage in Duhamel. Under the Accès-Logis program, investments of around $ 12.3 million will result in the construction of 160 new housing units in the region. Finally, disaster victims and the authorities of the affected municipalities, who numbered around forty, received financial support from civil security following the storm of December 21 and the floods that occurred from April 19 to May 30.
Long-awaited investments were also announced in the education sector. Thus, two schools will be built and another will be enlarged on the territory of the Commission scolaire des Portages-de-l&#39;Outaouais, while the Commission scolaire des Draveurs will be able to count on a new school. . Another of the great achievements of this first year is the inauguration of the last section of Highway 50, connecting Gatineau to Lachute. Expected for over 40 years, this is the culmination of a long-term project undertaken in 2000 under a Parti Québécois government. Over $ 195 million will be invested over the next two years for road works, bringing the number of road works in the region to 91, including the extension of Autoroute 5 over 6.5 kilometers between Chelsea and La Pêche.
“I am very proud of the record that we are presenting, just one year after our election. Our government&#39;s actions have also translated into concrete achievements in the Outaouais. We have thus demonstrated the importance we attach to the region; our fellow citizens can be assured that we will deploy the same energy and the same determination to carry out a number of projects that are already in the process of being carried out or under development, ”concludes Stéphane Bergeron.
