Carleton– On September 4, 2012, Pauline Marois became the first woman prime minister in Quebec history. After bringing order, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain their pride. The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, identity and measures to live better together.
The Parti Québécois is therefore celebrating its first anniversary as a government and Sylvain Roy, Member of Parliament for Bonaventure, is very proud of what has been accomplished during this year, not only by his political party, but also for his riding.
Indeed, no file has been neglected; significant investments and expected outlets have affected all sectors. To name a few, remember the renewal of the silvicultural workers program on the forestry side; in health, the investment of 4.5 million for an outpatient outpatient geriatrics project at the Rocher-Percé CSSS; in education, funds for the renewal of the CCTT at the Center collegial de Carleton for the next five years; without forgetting the contribution to collective housing, transport, the environment and recreational tourism. We should also mention the support given to the Mi&#39;gmaq Nation Council for the fishing industry as well as to the Mi&#39;gmawei Mawiomi Secretariat, representing the three aboriginal communities of the Gaspé, to consolidate their community development mandates. Finally, the wind industry is on a real roll. Sylvain Roy was able to convince the government to continue in this direction, and offers all its support to the companies involved in terms of skills development and local manufacture of the necessary products and equipment.
In twelve months, the important place that the region has acquired with the government is also not insignificant. Mr. Roy affirms that this is the result of a committed and constant work, which he carried out in collaboration with the members of the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, namely Pascal Bérubé, Gaétan Lelièvre and Jeanine Richard. This wide-ranging interest is ultimately manifested by the Strategic Development Plan for the Gaspé, chaired by Ms. Marois herself. She did the region the honor of presenting this plan to Bonaventure, and has visited the riding twice since her election, a great mark of appreciation.
The outcome of this fruitful year is no less brilliant than the previous months. On August 28 and 29, the PQ held its pre-sessional caucus in Carleton-sur-Mer, a great demonstration of recognition according to the deputy. Added to this is the appointment of Mr. Roy as parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (wildlife and parks component). All of this represents not only the culmination of a year of hard work, but also a springboard for the years to come.
“In the months to come, no less than twenty announcements are to be made, files of which they are only missing a few details to be refined. Following my election, I said I wanted to learn to walk before I run; count on me to continue on this road. As the saying goes, “the past guarantees the future”, and my experience with the citizens of Bonaventure gives me a glimpse of a future marked by collaboration, projects and success, ”said Sylvain Roy.
