Saint-Eustache - “A year already and I still have the same passion to represent the population of the riding of Deux-Montagnes in the National Assembly, and this despite the difficulties related to the exercise of power and the limits imposed on a minority government, ”said deputy Daniel Goyer at the outset.
Interestingly, he is the only government MP the riding has known in the past 10 years. “I have the privilege of bringing the issues and concerns of constituents directly to ministers and the Premier. The power to act and the privilege of participating in decisions is an enriching human and professional experience, ”he says with satisfaction.
This exercise also allows him to discover the workings of government administration while establishing valuable contacts and developing networks, in order to better understand the pulse of the constituency.
&quot;Placed at the center of government decisions, I am part of this government which has dared to take serious steps to make Quebec stronger,&quot; he says. And on this, to cite as an example the case of the closure of Gentilly 2 which he describes as a courageous decision with, in return, the development of wind power called to give a significant direction for the future, with among others better protection of the environment.
During this first year, the member discovered parliamentary life. It is there that, as a legislator, he participates very closely in the adoption of laws that have a direct impact on all citizens.
&quot;Some of them,&quot; he argues forcefully, &quot;made it possible to clean up the construction sector, in the financing of national and municipal political parties, to end the strike in the construction sector and to restore social peace with students. We are a responsible government that has acted in the best interests of society and I am happy to participate. &quot;
“It is with enthusiasm that, since my election, I met citizens, organizations and local decision-makers; I listened to, supported and represented the local community with the government ”, relates the deputy who had moreover carried out a veritable marathon of meetings, known as“ the deputy&#39;s tour ”, with many community organizations and businesses. .
“My dearest desire,” expressed Mr. Goyer, “is to live up to the mandate of worthy elected representative of the people of the riding of Deux-Montagnes, obtained just one year ago. &quot;
In keeping with his role as a Member of Parliament, Mr. Goyer intends to support the economic and harmonious development of the region. “As I argued during a lunch at the Chamber of Commerce, I believe in the essential character of the development of an industrial niche specific to our region, capable of giving it an“ identity ”called upon to be recognized on a national and international. &quot;
He says: “We have businesses and entrepreneurs who can easily help give that identity. It is also in my firm intentions to ensure &quot;that with such a promising niche, the citizens of here can work here, at home!&quot; And I will be there to support this idea with strength and determination! &quot;
Year 1 of the Marois government was devoted to restoring social peace, and working for a better financial situation for the state, in one sentence: a responsible government for a stronger Quebec.
“For my part, I am very proud to participate and I look forward to the second year with optimism alongside Premier Madame Marois. »He declares in conclusion.
