Montreal - “Quebec&#39;s 2011 economic results are the most negative in Canada. Quebec has lost 51,000 jobs while in the rest of Canada, it has instead created 250,000. For a second consecutive year, Quebec ranked 8th out of 10 in terms of economic growth, far behind. behind the Canadian average ”. This is the sad assessment made today by the member for Rousseau and official opposition critic for finance and economic development, Nicolas Marceau.
“Worse, the current unemployment rate of 8.7% takes us back ten years. It is now higher than those of Ontario, the rest of Canada and the United States, indicated Nicolas Marceau, recalling that when the economy of Quebec was doing better than that of its neighbors, the Prime Minister. attributed the merit. Now that Quebec is the only province to have lost jobs in 2011, that the 69,500 jobs lost over the last three months represent a record of mediocrity and that our economic growth is lower than that of our neighbors, we must also to attribute the credit to Jean Charest? &quot;
The disposable income of Quebeckers also fell in 2011 and 2012, which begins, suggests the worst. “With the numerous tax and tariff increases in effect since January 1, which entail an additional tax burden of some $ 2 billion, this further reduces the disposable income of Quebecers. In concrete terms, all of these increases will slow down our economic growth by 1%, ”added the member for Rousseau.
In 2011, the share of private non-residential investment in Quebec represented 13% of the Canadian total. “Every time a dollar is invested by the private sector in Canada, only 13 cents go back to Quebec. The underperformance of the private sector combined with massive government borrowing to invest in infrastructure has created an unsustainable situation in the long run. For the first time in Quebec, there is more public investment than private investment. This is a unique situation in North America, ”explained Nicolas Marceau.
The Minister of Finance has also confirmed the analysis made last fall by the Parti Québécois to the effect that the government can no longer increase its investments to counter the effect of a new slowdown. The debt has increased by $ 55 billion. “The situation is all the more worrying as Quebec is at the limit of what its debt can support. Quebec&#39;s debt is up by more than $ 10 billion for a second consecutive year and has grown by $ 55 billion under the Liberal government. The share of the debt in our economy will reach 55.5%, which brings us back to the situation that prevailed before the zero deficit was reached under the Parti Québécois government. Since 2003, the debt has increased by 42%, ”concluded the member for Rousseau, worrying about the real political legacy of Jean Charest.
