Edmonton - The 102nd Meeting of the Council of Ministers of Education, Canada (CMEC) concluded today in Edmonton. The Quebec delegation was led by Mr. Pierre Duchesne, Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology. This meeting enabled the Minister to inform his colleagues in the provinces and territories of Quebec&#39;s position with regard to the federal government&#39;s recent strategy in the area of international education.
The minister indicated that Quebec considers the federal strategy for international education as an encroachment on its exclusive jurisdiction in education. For this reason, Quebec intends to withdraw from the programs resulting from the implementation of the federal strategy in addition to asking for full financial compensation.
“Quebec intends to remain master of its priorities and orientations in education and higher education, including internationally. However, I reminded the CMEC meeting that Quebec will contribute to the efforts of the provinces and territories in international education, but that the role of the federal government must be limited to supporting the interventions of the latter by increasing, without condition, transfers to the provinces, which remain the best placed to determine the allocation of these resources, ”said Minister Duchesne.
This meeting will also have allowed the ministers and their representatives to discuss the major current issues in education and to work on the planning of CMEC activities for the months and years to come. In this regard, the ministers notably confirmed the holding of a joint symposium with the ministers responsible for the labor market next summer in Charlottetown.
&quot;This symposium will be an excellent opportunity for Quebec to demonstrate and highlight all of its workforce training initiatives as well as the reasons why the federal government should respect them,&quot; concluded Minister Pierre Duchesne.
The 102nd meeting of education ministers was preceded by the third high-level consultation on education cooperation between provinces and territories and the People&#39;s Republic of China.
This third meeting with the People&#39;s Republic of China was an opportunity for Quebec to highlight its expertise in mathematics education and vocational and technical training, to position itself as a dynamic partner in the eyes of the Chinese side. and to demonstrate its willingness to develop solid cooperation with its Chinese partners.
