Montreal - Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Premier of Quebec on September 4, 2012. Her government&#39;s first year in office is marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain their pride. The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, and the pride of living together. The Parti Québécois government will therefore take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger.
“Since that date, many important files have progressed in Quebec. We cleaned up the Liberal mess and fixed what the previous government had broken. We have been courageous, responsible and determined, ”declared the Member of Parliament for Pointe-aux-Trembles and Minister of Families, Ms. Nicole Léger.
In addition, the government of Quebec has taken concrete actions in terms of solidarity. “We have proposed an ambitious, responsible policy rooted in the reality of the elderly with autonomy insurance and end-of-life care. At the same time, we are concerned about the development of our young people and the well-being of Quebec families. That is why we went ahead with the creation of 28,000 new child care spaces at $ 7. Among the large number of projects that I have announced, let us also mention those retained in terms of summer care and support for the engagement of fathers, ”said Minister of Families, Nicole Léger.
As president of the East Montreal Development Committee, Nicole Léger is satisfied with the important work carried out by the eastern community which led to the adoption of an action plan in the spring of 2013. to make the East a strong and proud region through concerted economic, social and environmental development. In addition, the progress made in the Train de l&#39;Est file will undoubtedly improve the quality of life of local families. The enhancement of Île Sainte-Thérèse through the development of an ecotourism project is also an issue that is particularly close to his heart because citizens will be able to enjoy this haven of peace with unsuspected natural and historical riches just a stone&#39;s throw from the metropolis.
In addition, Nicole Léger&#39;s long-standing support for the Sainte-Germaine-Cousin community project and the support offered to the Mainbourg Corporation team led to the start of construction in April 2013 of this building which will include nearly 175 affordable housing units for seniors with a slight loss of autonomy and loss of autonomy, in addition to housing an early childhood center and a community hall within the preserved church. “This type of mobilizing and innovative project for community stakeholders is inspiring, especially since it offers a solution to a real need in the region,” said the MP for Pointe-aux-Trembles.
Touched by the distress of citizens who have recently suffered serious damage to their homes following a subsidence of the ground, Nicole Léger has also taken numerous steps to ensure that the City of Montreal reinstates its subsidy for the stabilization of land. foundations, funded equally by the City of Montreal and the Government of Quebec from the Quebec Rénovation Program.
At the same time, Nicole Léger closely follows all questions concerning the oil supply for Quebec. “Unlike the previous government, which folded its arms when the announcement of the closure of the Shell refinery, I intend to act upstream to ensure that the petrochemical industry continues to be a flagship of the economy of the East of Montreal and an example of innovation by the development of processes at the cutting edge of technology and this, while ensuring that Quebec adopts a plan of transition towards clean energies ”, commented the member for Pointe-aux-Trembles.
Many other issues relating to health, school perseverance, housing, sport and the environment are also at the heart of the MP&#39;s concerns, always attentive to the needs of citizens and concerned about the vitality of the region.
“What has declined in Quebec is corruption and deficits. What is advancing is democracy, responsible management and integrity. These results allow us to build for the future and care for our world, and it was done in our first year. The Parti Québécois government will focus on job creation and the economy, in addition to working on the two pillars of solidarity and identity. We will continue to support and help the population, ”concluded Nicole Léger.
