Montreal - Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Premier of Quebec on September 4, 2012. Her government&#39;s first year in office is marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain their pride. The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, and the pride of living together. The Parti Québécois government will therefore take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger.
MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve Carole Poirier is very proud of the work accomplished by the Parti Québécois government over the past year and is working energetically in the constituency. Elected since 2008 in Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier became first vice-president of the National Assembly following the election of September 4, 2012.
In the last year, projects slowing down social exclusion and marginalization have taken place alongside cultural and sports projects which have had an invigorating effect on the neighborhood. CAP St-Barnabé has opened an accommodation resource, La Maison Sainte-Catherine, to provide housing for women in difficulty. Likewise, the Réseau Habitation Femmes inaugurated 31 housing units with community support. Nearby, the Dopamine organization, which provides prevention services to consumers of psychotropic drugs, has moved to new premises.
On the other hand, the Olympic Stadium has been given a facelift with a program of accessible activities that is the pride of the citizens of Hochelaga-Maisonneuve. The social economy has also made a noticeable entrance at the Stadium with the arrival of the work cooperative Station in vivo, a terrace café directly overlooking Avenue Pierre-de-Coubertin.
“Our government also embodies dialogue. To find a lasting solution to the funding and space needs of the Popular Education Centers, a working table with the Ministry of Education and the CSDM has been set up and work is progressing well. I am optimistic that the Hochelaga-Maisonneuve Community Education Pavilion will emerge stronger from the year, ”said Carole Poirier.
Recently, MP Carole Poirier, along with MP Daniel Breton and Minister of Health Réjean Hébert, announced a birth center on the territory of the CSSS Jeanne Mance. &quot;This project has been close to my heart for years, finally the women of Hochelaga-Maisonneuve will be able to choose to give birth in a birth center near their home, it is invaluable&quot;, exclaimed Carole Poirier.
After a year in power, the Parti Québécois government is active on all fronts and is proving that it governs in the interest of all. Hochelaga-Maisonneuve is not left out and its MP Carole Poirier is more involved than ever!
