Saint-Constant– Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Premier of Quebec on September 4, 2012. Her government&#39;s first year in office is marked by the listening, courage and determination of her entire deputation. Today, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain their pride.
The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, and the pride of living together. The Parti Québécois government will therefore take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger.
Several achievements were made in the first months of the government, including the abolition of the tuition fee hike and the return of social peace in Quebec, the end of nuclear power and the closure of Gentilly, the end of asbestos subsidies. , the return of integrity with Law 1 and the reorganization of public finances. These are all important issues for Quebecers on which the Marois government has focused from the start of its mandate.
Mr. Therrien took advantage of this first year to meet people from various backgrounds. Whether it is community organizations, people from the business community or public organizations, the member for Sanguinet works in concert with all these actors in order to make the riding a place where the quality of life is optimal.
For the Roussillon region, a total of 574 new childcare places that have been granted by the government will emerge over the next few years. “A significant proportion of the places granted in Montérégie will be in our region,” added the member for Sanguinet.
It is also a total of 78 million for investments in education for the Montérégie, including the construction of a new school for the Commission scolaire des Grandes Seigneuries. An important element to meet the needs of the growing population.
We must not forget either the major investment of $ 39 million in health and social services in the Montérégie region. The objective of this measure is to reduce the regional inequity of 27.4%, which had widened under the government of the Liberal Party. &quot;I am also very proud of my government&#39;s achievements in the area of public transit,&quot; said Mr. Therrien. Several million dollars will be invested in public transit in the context of road congestion mitigation measures, the creation of new parking spaces, the improvement of services as well as for capital projects.
The Marois government also has the economic development of the Montérégie at heart. After the official opening of Highway 30 last February, the government deemed it essential to create an interministerial committee, involving 9 ministers, dedicated to the economic development of the new Highway 30 corridor.
Finally, last June, the member for Sanguinet had the honor of being appointed parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. “I welcomed this appointment with enthusiasm. This allows me to increase my meetings with economic players in Quebec and internationally, ”explained Mr. Therrien.
Thus, twelve months after this election, Mr. Therrien draws up a positive assessment of the first year of his mandate. “For the past year, I have also been working on many important projects that will be unveiled in the coming months. I can&#39;t wait to share it with you, ”concluded Alain Therrien.
