Sherbrooke– Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Premier of Quebec on September 4, 2012. Her government&#39;s first year in office is marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain their pride. The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, and the pride of living together. The Parti Québécois government will therefore take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger.
One year after the arrival of the new Parti Québécois government, the Minister of Health and Social Services and Member of Parliament for Saint-François, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and his colleague the Member of Parliament for Sherbrooke, vice-chairman of the Commission for public administration and permanent member of the Committee on Institutions, Mr. Serge Cardin, are delighted with the profound and lasting changes taking place in Estrie with the implementation of several measures and orientations of the Government of Quebec.
“In one year, we settled, in Estrie, several issues that the Liberal government had left lying around: lack of daycare spaces, shortage of social housing, deficiency of a strong first line in health, lack of a renewed vision. economic development for mining regions and lack of prioritization of infrastructure projects that respect taxpayers&#39; ability to pay, while changing the prevailing social climate. Our first year in power has enabled us to resolve many issues for many Estrie clienteles, whether they are young families, seniors, low-income people, entrepreneurs or researchers ”, declared the two members of the National Assembly.
Minister Réjean Hébert recalled the work accomplished in the case of the Center femme-jeunesse-famille du CHUS, which was confirmed last spring. The $ 121.7 million has been duly reserved for the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, which guarantees its completion by 2017. “This infrastructure, expected in the regions for more than 10 years, will finally be able to see the light of day and will make it possible to provide high-quality services for clients aged 0 to 18, ”mentioned Mr. Hébert.
In order to contribute to the development of a strong and effective first-line healthcare, more than $ 13 million has been invested in the hospitals of Coaticook, Magog, Windsor and Richmond over the past year for their expansion or renovation. To this is added an envelope of $ 6 million dedicated to the renovation of CHLSD in the Estrie region as well as a sum of $ 4 million to improve home care and services in the region, on an envelope. national 100 million. It should also be noted that nearly $ 600,000 was granted for projects intended to improve the quality of life of caregivers of seniors in the region, through the organization Appui Estrie. Finally, in terms of support for clients struggling with specific problems - mental health, addiction, intellectual and physical disabilities, etc. - Estrie was awarded more than $ 6 million shared between several partners working in these sectors.
“Last May, we confirmed the construction of two new schools in the Rock Forest sectors and an expansion in Saint-Denis-de-Brompton, which represents the opening of 43 new classes, to offset the demographic explosion of these sectors. This is excellent news for the quality of life of young families and the vitality of communities, ”said Minister Hébert.
“With regard to young families, during the election campaign, we made a commitment to meet the needs for childcare places in Estrie during a first four-year term. In less than a year, we announced the creation of 1,226 new childcare spaces in the Estrie region, many of which are already available for toddlers, ”added Mr. Cardin.
&quot;Whether in the economic sector, with financial aid for the diversification of businesses, transport with the extension of the 410, education through the construction and expansion of schools, research with the Pavilion of applied cancer research at the University of Sherbrooke or in the housing sector with the construction of affordable housing, we have taken up the challenge! », Said Serge Cardin.
In terms of the sustainable transformation of the local and regional economy, Minister Hébert recalls the repositioning of the ACCORD Biotech Santé niche to orient it more towards the development of products and services related to aging and autonomy. “Sherbrooke is an internationally recognized capital in terms of knowledge and know-how in the gerontology sector. It is essential to transform this knowledge into businesses and jobs. It is for this reason that we have initiated the repositioning of this ACCORD niche while injecting $ 300,000 to support the development of this new economic axis, ”said Minister Hébert.
Over the past year, the Parti Québécois government has been busy providing entrepreneurs with tools to enable a transition to a value-added economy. In Estrie, this is reflected in the implementation of the Economic Diversification Assistance Fund for the Asbestos region. “We were committed to actively supporting the Asbestos region in the gradual transformation of its economy, which was almost entirely based on asbestos. Over the past few months, we have played a supporting role, in particular by setting up a $ 50 million diversification fund, and by working closely with socio-economic stakeholders in the region ”, indicated Mr. Hébert.
Also, it should be noted that investments of $ 175 million have been reserved for the Estrie region for road infrastructure projects for the period 2013-2015. “Over the past year, we have reviewed the entire vast Highway 410 project in order to responsibly get it back on track, when the Liberal government has been making unrealistic promises on this issue for years. As such, part 1 of the extension of Autoroute 410, from University Boulevard to Route 108, is underway and announcements will be made shortly for the rest of the process, ”said Minister Hébert.
The government has also financially supported several socioeconomic, cultural and tourist projects of importance in the region. “Several Sherbrooke and Estrie businesses have been financially supported by the government so that they can continue to shine in the region, but also on the national and international scene. », Mentioned the member for Sherbrooke.
The year was marked by the Lac-Mégantic tragedy on July 6. As regional minister, Réjean Hébert played an active role in this file from the first hours of the tragedy and continues to be involved, particularly in the reconstruction phase that began a few weeks ago.
Minister Hébert and MP Serge Cardin mentioned that the coming year will be just as busy. “Several projects are currently underway, whether in the fields of culture, economic development and agriculture. We will continue to show solidarity, responsibility and integrity, ”said Serge Cardin.
