Quebec - At the end of parliamentary proceedings, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, is delighted with the positive impact of the initiatives taken by her government in recent months. Three priorities have guided all of its actions, namely strengthening employment, solidarity and Quebec identity. We have to admit that the government team was able to impose its game plan. And that has given results for all Quebeckers.
Strengthening employment Since September 2012, the government has made employment its priority. The Jobs First Economic Policy alone, rolled out in recent weeks, will help create 115,000 jobs over a three-year period, and will entail total investments of nearly $ 13 billion. Already, to date, results are appearing. &quot;Never have there been so many Quebecers at work, with an annual average for the first time to more than 4 million jobs,&quot; said Pauline Marois.
The new economic policy includes flagship measures to stimulate growth in the short term and to develop the economy in the long term. Among these is the ambitious dossier of transport electrification. &quot;Positioning Quebec as a world leader in electric transportation is a major collective project that will allow us to enrich ourselves, to unite, to give us confidence in the future,&quot; said the Premier.
Strengthening solidarity Believing that &quot;preparing for the future also means strengthening solidarity and acting for social justice&quot;, Ms. Marois referred to the establishment of ambitious and structuring initiatives to improve living and working conditions. of the most vulnerable people in society. These measures act on three levels: support for people in need, support for caregivers and preparation for the future. It should be noted that Quebec has seen a drop in the number of people using social assistance. Since the current government took office, the number of income security recipients has fallen from 459,620 to 445,400. At 6.7%, this is the lowest rate since 1975.
Finally, the Premier praised the dedication shown by all the stakeholders who came to the aid of the Méganticoises and Méganticois following the tragedy that struck them on July 6. She recalled that 4 days after the events, she was already announcing emergency aid of $ 60 million. In addition, she assured that no effort or no resources would be spared until the city is rebuilt, adding that Quebeckers could count on their government, a responsible and honest government, which has a vision and who knows where he is going.
Strengthening the identity In recent months, Pauline Marois&#39; team has advanced several strategic issues aimed at asserting Quebec&#39;s interests. This is particularly the case for the changes made to the teaching of history, to the immigration plan and to the resources devoted to the reception, francization and integration of newcomers.
In addition, the Government of Quebec has been able to ensure that Quebecers speak with one voice when it comes to defending their interests vis-à-vis the federal government, among other issues concerning the timetable for replacing the bridge. Champlain, employment insurance or the tightening of regulations in the area of rail transport and the transport of hazardous materials.
In addition, to ensure that Quebec remains a land of freedoms and possibilities, that all live better together and move forward in harmony, the government tabled Bill 60, affirming the values of state neutrality. , secularism and gender equality. “These values are part of the culture that we have inherited and that we want to pass on to those who will follow us. We have therefore taken a courageous step. We have taken our responsibilities to build a more united Quebec, ”added Pauline Marois.
&quot;When returning to our ridings to meet our fellow citizens, I want to emphasize what characterizes my team: its determination to offer results to Quebecers, its vision, which will take us even further, its desire to build a richer, more united Quebec, as well as her dream of giving herself a freer state, ”concluded the Premier.
