Quebec - &quot;After just 100 days, the government rolled back corruption, changed the funding rules for political parties, put public finances in order, supported economic growth, restored social peace, breathed new life into families, strengthened the place of French and defended the interests of Quebec in all forums. Quebec is back on track, ”declared the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, on the occasion of her assessment of the first 100 days of her government&#39;s action.
The government&#39;s first commitment was to fight corruption and modernize democracy. In that sense, the government has done better in 100 days than the Liberal government in nine years. Two important bills were passed, including the one that limits the annual contribution to a political party to $ 100 per voter. This is a bill that will fundamentally reform the financing of political parties, as we had committed to it. In addition, the adoption of the bill promoting integrity in public contracts ensures that there will no longer be any loopholes for offending companies. In total, no less than seven anti-corruption bills were tabled during the parliamentary session.
“The anti-corruption message sent by the government has yielded concrete results. Important changes have taken place in Montreal, Laval and Mascouche. Police searches show that no one is safe or above the law. After only 100 days, corruption recedes ”, affirmed Pauline Marois.
“The Parti Québécois was committed to putting Quebec on the path to lasting prosperity for all Quebecers by restoring our finances and accelerating economic growth. To ensure that we achieve a balanced budget and repair the damage left by the former government, we had to table a budget in the fall, a responsible budget, focused on rigorous control of public spending and on a debt reduction, ”she added, recalling that the proposed measures were well received by the population.
Québec will return to a balanced budget in 2013-2014, the debt will be reduced by $ 1 billion and the management of public infrastructure is already tightened. For example, the government saved Quebecers $ 124 million by renegotiating the Otish Mountains road contract. The government has also committed to better control of public spending by limiting its increase to 1.8%.
To accelerate economic growth, the government relies on private investment. Very aggressive tax measures have been put in place, including a ten-year tax holiday for investment projects of $ 300 million or more. The government has also pulled Quebec out of nuclear power and asbestos. As planned, a fund of 200 million for the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions was created following the decommissioning of the Gentilly-2 power station. Another fund of $ 50 million has been set up for the asbestos region.
The government favored the conditions for creating wealth. An envelope of $ 125 million has been set aside for research in the biopharmaceutical sector. A fund of $ 200 million has been set up for the electrification of transportation and clean technologies, a sector of the future for Quebec. To coordinate the development of the North for all, the Secretariat for Northern Development was created.
“In terms of solidarity, the contrast with the old government is striking. Let us remember the state of crisis in which Quebec was plunged just a few months ago. Demonstrations were taking place every day, Quebecers were divided. Since September 4, social peace has returned and that feels good, ”declared the Prime Minister, proud to have canceled the increase in tuition fees and repealed Law 78. The process leading to the holding of the Summit on Higher education is also well underway.
The government has also taken several actions in favor of Quebec families. Some 3.1 million Quebeckers received a tax reduction following the abolition of the Liberal health tax. The government canceled the 20% increase in electricity rates announced by the Liberals and replaced it with indexation, giving each family a respite of several hundred dollars. The establishment of tax credits for the physical, artistic and cultural activities of young people is another commitment kept by the government.
The creation of 28,000 new child care spaces is an achievement that is the pride of the government, as is the freeze on child care service fees at $ 7. For seniors, the government has kept its word by investing an additional $ 110 million for home care. Finally, 3,000 social housing units per year will be available to house the most disadvantaged in our society.
As promised, the government has tabled a new French Language Charter that aims to strengthen French as a working language, language of instruction and language of service in commerce. This is the first time in 35 years that a government has carried out such an important reform of Law 101. This will of the government to value and protect French is vital for the future of our nation.
The government has been present both internationally and in Canada. In three months, the Premier will have represented Quebec on three continents: in Africa, for the Francophonie Summit, in Europe, on the occasion of a fruitful visit to Paris, and in the United States, with a visit to New York next week. In all forums, the government defends the interests of Quebec.
Finally, the government has demonstrated its willingness to breathe new life into relations with the aboriginal nations and the Inuit nation. The Premier had fruitful meetings with the Grand Chief of the Grand Council of the Crees, Matthew Coon Come, and with the Chief of the Assembly of First Nations of Quebec and Labrador, Ghislain Picard. The Premier and several members of the government also participated in the Summit on territories and resources with the First Nations in order to relaunch our relations on new bases.
“Quebec got back on track and many things have changed since September 4. Social peace has returned, corruption has receded, public finances are under control, conditions conducive to lasting prosperity for all are in place, solidarity is restored, and middle-class families can breathe. Quebec is in the process of regaining confidence and regaining hope, and that is the surest way to convince us to once again become masters of our destiny. It took us barely 100 days to get Quebec back on track, ”the Premier proudly concluded.
