Dolbeau-Mistassini– Denis Trottier, MP for the riding of Roberval and parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (forestry section), is very satisfied with the work accomplished at the end of his first year of this new mandate. First, because it has succeeded in unblocking several files that did not have the support of the previous Liberal government, such as cell phones in Girardville (grant of $ 700,000). On the other hand, for having maintained the pursuit of the Roberval prison file, the most important immobilization project in the region, while the Liberals left the will to cancel this project by the government of the Parti Québécois once brought to power. This project requires an investment of $ 115 million which has and will have significant repercussions both locally and regionally, both during its construction and throughout its future operations. Then finally, for having carried out the necessary representations to allow the realization of the mini power plant project in Val-Jalbert. This project valued at $ 50 million has a promising future for the MRC Domaine-Du-Roy, for the MRC Maria-Chapdelaine and for the community of Mashteuiatsh, the objective of which is to create community financial leverage bringing in millions of dollars. for decades to come.
The member gives a very positive assessment of his achievements. These include the arrival of natural gas at Resolute&#39;s Kraft pulp mill in Saint-Félicien (government contribution of $ 3 million), the announcement of investments for the repair of the Saint-Félicien marina ( contribution of $ 1.7 million), the Cheddar Cheese Museum development project in Saint-Prime (assistance of $ 336,500), as well as several infrastructure works in the various cities and municipalities (several million $) and the realization of dozens of small projects important for municipalities, such as; the development of the inn in Saint-Edmond-les-Plaines, support for the convenience store in Saint-André-du-Lac-St-Jean, financial support for a feasibility study for the relaunch of the Jardins de Normandin and many others requesting financial aid for more than $ 400,000. &quot;And it is not over,&quot; promises the deputy.
In addition, Denis Trottier has increased the number of meetings with various development stakeholders and community organizations. “For me, it&#39;s important to stay in touch with the community. The people on the ground are in the best position to assess the needs that will allow me to move forward on the issues submitted to our government, ”declared Denis Trottier.
The parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (forestry section) remains optimistic about the future of the forestry industry. The Parti Québécois government is determined to support and build the forest industry for the 21st century. “The adoption of the Wood Charter and the law on the use of wood in non-residential construction demonstrate the government&#39;s interest in the forestry world. However, we still have important things to do and I am working on them. We must be aware that we cannot correct in a few months a situation which has persisted for years ”, argued the parliamentary assistant.
On a personal note, the accident of which Denis Trottier was the victim in the spring did not slow down his determination to work for the betterment of the people of our riding as well as for those of Quebec as a whole. “The people know they can count on a persevering, tenacious and hard-working MP. These are values that my father passed on to me. I therefore put these at the service of citizens and it succeeds ”recalled Denis Trottier.
In closing, the member for the riding reiterates his government&#39;s commitment to take care of people in their well-being and in their better life, wherever they are in Quebec. “The Parti Québécois government is working on economic development and job creation in all regions of Quebec. It also works to facilitate “better living together” We are a government that helps those in need and all who support them. We still believe in the need for Sovereignty which will allow us to make 100% of our decisions for ourselves and we are counting on solidarity to achieve this, ”concluded the MP for Roberval.
