Joliette - On the occasion of the first anniversary of the election of the Parti Québécois government, the deputies from North Lanaudière, Véronique Hivon (Joliette), Nicolas Marceau (Rousseau) and André Villeneuve (Berthier), take stock of their actions most positive: “After a decade of indifference towards our region, Lanaudière is once again receiving all the attention it deserves from the Council of Ministers. Major gains have been made since September 4 and more, just as important, are to come. In addition to our aspirations for Quebec, we have always had and will always have the interests of Lanaudière people at heart. &quot;
“On August 13, 2012, at the heart of the electoral campaign, we made a firm commitment, before the CHRDL, to restore equity in the funding of the Lanaudière network of health and social services. At that time, we had an annual shortfall of $ 42.5 million and the regional allocations were being allocated on a historical basis, which put us at a great disadvantage. Today, we are very satisfied to announce that this annual shortfall has been reduced by nearly a third in a single year and that our government is now taking into account the rapid demographic growth that Lanaudière is experiencing. Also, an additional budget of $ 1.8 million was allocated to our region to add services to people with autism or living with a disability, an investment from which only five underfunded regions were able to benefit. No government has gone so far in its quest for interregional equity, ”declared the deputies from the North of Lanaudière.
Another flagship achievement of the Marois government: the creation of 28,000 new places at $ 7 in childcare services across Quebec, of which Lanaudière obtained the lion&#39;s share. “We are proud to be part of the government that created the network of childcare centers in 1997 and which now intends to complete it! After having been seriously neglected in this regard by the Liberal government, our region obtained 3,334 places over the past year, that is to say nearly double our demographic weight ”, they specify.
“As for major investments in school infrastructure of around $ 59 million in Lanaudière, for the construction of three schools and the expansion of eight others, the positive story has repeated itself: our region obtained a little more double its demographic weight due to the glaring needs that were felt. With a Parti Québécois government, Lanaudière is getting its fair share and making up for the delays experienced under the Liberal government, ”rejoice the deputies.
“Two issues in which I was involved with conviction, first as a member of the opposition, materialized during the past year. This involves upgrading the Musée d&#39;art de Joliette, accompanied by an envelope of $ 10 million, and the construction of a new school in Saint-Paul, which should open its doors in September 2014. In both cases, the ministers responsible for the files were very open and I have a real feeling of a job well done, ”says Véronique Hivon, the Member for Joliette and Minister responsible for the Lanaudière region.
&quot;Our government has also expressed all its solidarity with the people here by reserving the 20 million dollars necessary for the development of premises at the CHRDL dedicated to child psychiatry, adult psychiatry, day surgery and intensive care, work currently in progress which was expected from the hospital environment. In addition, with the authorization for the construction of 3,000 social housing units per year in Quebec, projects intended for seniors with a slight loss of autonomy such as those in Crabtree, Notre-Dame-des-Prairies and Sainte-Mélanie were able to take new steps towards their achievement. Our government has its heart in the right place! ”Confirms Ms. Hivon.
“After years of delay for purely political reasons, the Saint-Lin – Laurentides bypass will finally be realized since it is now included in the government&#39;s road planning. It was a very important commitment for me and I am happy to have delivered it so quickly. In addition, the construction of a new school in Sainte-Sophie and fire stations in Rawdon and Saint-Hippolyte, as well as the allocation of several grants for upgrades to municipal aqueducts, are concrete examples that illustrate our government&#39;s concern and eagerness to act in order to meet the needs of the people here, ”declared the Member of Parliament for Rousseau and Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau.
“As Minister responsible for economic development, it is clear that the announcement made last June at the Paris-Le Bourget International Airshow of the establishment in Quebec of a new company born from the association between the French firm Loiretech and Composites VCI of Saint-Lin – Laurentides, is extremely pleasing to me. This is excellent news since quality jobs will be created in the short and medium term. In addition, the major investments made in the Atlantide campsite in Saint-Calixte and in the Unisson company in Saint-Roch-de-l&#39;Achigan will certainly contribute to the economic vitality of our region, ”indicates Mr. Marceau.
“In a constituency as large as Berthier, maintaining local services is a constant struggle for me. In terms of health, I worked with community partners to abolish the quotas put in place at the Lavaltrie sampling center as well as to maintain the Saint-Alphonse-Rodriguez service point threatened with closure. With regard to community resources, I am proud to have found, with the help of my colleagues in the Parti Québécois government, substantial additional funds to help some fifteen organizations working for the well-being of more deprived and families from here. These include Les Trouvailles de Mandeville, which required emergency aid following a fire which suddenly forced the organization to rebuild, ”explains the deputy for Berthier and parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and &#39;Occupation of the territory, André Villeneuve.
“Who says large territory, also says important road network. After briefing my colleague from Transport on some of our challenges, the necessary sums were released to carry out priority work in Mandeville, Saint-Didace and Sainte-Geneviève-de-Berthier, as well as to rebuild a signature bridge at Berthierville, to name but a few. Our government is sensitive to the realities of northern Lanaudière, ”said Mr. Villeneuve.
