Quebec– Pauline Marois became Quebec&#39;s first woman premier on September 4. His government&#39;s first year in office was marked by listening, courage and determination. The MNA for Masson, Diane Gadoury-Hamelin, and the MNA for Terrebonne, Mathieu Traversy, took the opportunity to draw up a positive assessment of the past year: “Our government has taken strong action in favor of integrity, solidarity, prosperity and identity. Respecting our commitments has benefited our region since we have taken several actions to restore equity on several levels. If Quebec is doing better since the arrival of the Parti Québécois at the head of the government, we can proudly say that our fellow citizens are largely the winners ”.
“In this annual review, it is impossible to ignore one of our most important achievements for our region, namely to restore equity in the funding of our health and social services network, as we had committed to. to do it. As a result of the large investments announced last April, we saw our deviation from the mean drop 22.5% all at once, from a shortfall of over $ 40 million to $ 31 million. Several other major announcements have demonstrated our government&#39;s determination to act for the citizens of Terrebonne and Mascouche in order to improve our health network. Whether we think of the expansion of the Pierre-Le Gardeur hospital and the gradual establishment of midwifery services, we have gone from words to deeds! »Declared the MNA for Masson, Diane Gadoury-Hamelin.
In addition, quotas were lifted at the CLSC Lamater and Meilleur blood collection centers. “We also lobbied for the Lanaudière Health and Social Services Agency to grant the test centers an additional recurring budget of $ 120,000 to help cope with the volume. This sum comes from additional sums injected by our government, which shows that the money is primarily invested in order to improve service to users, ”explains the member for Terrebonne.
“Integrity is a key part of our government. To that end, the very first action we took was to pass the bill promoting integrity in public contracts. We have also ensured, by adopting Bill 10, that it will henceforth be possible to remove from office an elected municipal official who is criminally accused. After having established a popular method of financing political parties by reducing individual contributions to $ 100, we are asking our fellow citizens to hold fixed-date elections, in accordance with the commitment made during the election campaign. In short, we are taking action to restore the bond of trust between the population and democratic institutions, ”said Ms. Gadoury-Hamelin.
“In terms of infrastructure, our government has listened to the needs of a region benefiting from sustained population growth. Thus, the citizens of La Plaine who lose precious time on the road network due to the high traffic density on Route 337 will benefit from the widening of this lane as announced by the Minister of Transport, Sylvain Gaudreault, in last June ”explained the member for Masson.
In the Terrebonne-Ouest sector, citizens were also heard since Minister Gaudreault announced that the Highway 19 project was taking the next step with the submission of the environmental impact study to the Ministry of Sustainable Development. , Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP). “This demonstrates the importance our government attaches to the completion project and confirms our commitment to this infrastructure. In addition, with the modifications made, the project enters into a perspective of sustainable development where public transport plays a major role. Once again, our government has moved this file forward faster in eight months than the Liberals had done in the past three years! »Reaffirms Mathieu Traversy.
Once again attentive to the needs of young families in the region, the construction and expansion of several schools have been announced and several works are already underway. “I am delighted that parents have access to enough places for their children to attend school in their neighborhood. These investments of nearly $ 24 million for schools in the county of Masson and $ 11 million for those in Terrebonne represent our government&#39;s desire to meet the needs resulting from the strong demographic growth experienced by our region in recent years. », Explains the deputy. In the MRC les Moulins, a total of 63 new classrooms and 4 gymnasiums will be built.
Parents&#39; cry from the heart was also heard by the deputies and their government since in Lanaudière, 1,425 new childcare spaces at $ 7 will be offered and granted according to the needs of the RCMs: “In accordance with our commitment, our government will make available , within 4 years, 250,000 reduced-contribution places to meet the needs of Quebec families. In Lanaudière, 3,336 new places will be offered to parents by 2016, in addition to the existing places. We are very proud of it! »Reiterates Mr. Traversy.
Remember that the result of the last call for projects should be known towards the end of the fall. In addition, the creation of these places will begin in 2014 and will continue until December 31, 2016. In order to respect the preferences of parents, these 15,000 places will be created in installations, that is to say 85% in centers. early childhood (CPE) and 15% in subsidized daycare centers.
The two deputies also recalled the announcement of financial assistance of $ 143,300 for the Télévision Régionale des Moulins (TVRM) to enable the station to acquire specialized equipment as part of a relocation project: &quot;We are proud of this happy outcome for this television network that is close to the people, because it is based on a solid regional identity of which the residents of Lanaudière are proud. This significant investment testifies to the importance that the government attaches to the diversification of information as well as to the cultural and social developments of our community, ”they indicate.
“There are many needs in the south of the region, in health, education or transport. We understand this and our government is working to improve the situation of our fellow citizens so that they finally get their fair share of investments. We are in the field, listening to people and we are working to improve their quality of life, ”conclude the deputies.
