Montreal - The Parti Québécois candidates in the ridings of Gouin and Borduas, Nicolas Girard and Pierre Duchesne, are delighted with the direction the electoral campaign is taking. “Jean Charest bet on the summer period to start the electoral campaign believing that the population would lose interest in politics. Quite the opposite is happening in the towns and villages of Quebec. The enthusiasm of citizens for the Parti Québécois is confirmed. People want to get rid of Jean Charest and elect a government with integrity and competence, ”he said.
“Pauline Marois is campaigning positively. She meets citizens all over Quebec and explains the Parti Québécois&#39; commitments for a better Quebec. She has already met several thousand citizens, visited 28 constituencies and traveled more than 3,000 kilometers. At each of the activities, she is warmly welcomed. People want to change government and more and more, it is towards the Parti Québécois that they are turning ”, specified Pierre Duchesne.
“Rarely have we seen such a competent team that brings together experienced men and women from such diverse backgrounds. Having succeeded in recruiting so many headliners demonstrates the leadership and unifying qualities of Pauline Marois. This team is rallying not only around an honest and competent chef, but also around an exciting project and concrete and innovative ideas to move Quebec forward, ”noted Nicolas Girard.
These three words aptly sum up the social project that we are proposing to Quebecers. To assert ourselves, we will defend our language and our culture and stand up in front of Ottawa; to enrich ourselves, we will increase royalties on natural resources and give ourselves the means to become masters at home; to help each other, we will take care of the youngest to the oldest.
Since the start of the campaign, we have already made concrete and realistic commitments:
“These are realistic commitments that hold up. In the Parti Québécois, we are not making empty promises to get points in the polls. We have too much respect for Quebeckers to do this. Our commitments are quantified and we will respect a rigorous financial framework in the current context of public finances. We refuse to launch into an escalation of costly promises. Since 2003, Jean Charest has dangled too many promises that he has never fulfilled, ”concluded Pierre Duchesne, specifying that the change comes through the Parti Québécois, its renewed team and its competent leader, capable of governing Quebec. . It&#39;s up to us to choose.
