Constituency of Verchères - The member for Verchères and Minister of Public Security, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, gives a very positive assessment of the work carried out, both on the national scene and in the constituency, at the end of the first year of the Parti Québécois government. &quot;Relying on the four pillars set out by Prime Minister Pauline Marois at the opening of the work of the 40th legislature of the National Assembly, namely integrity, prosperity, solidarity and identity, we have worked hard to achieve our commitments, revive the economy, put public finances in order and eradicate corruption, ”declared Stéphane Bergeron.
“To do this, the Parti Québécois government has put forward several measures and taken many actions to advance Quebec. On all these fronts, our efforts have been crowned with success. Our government has tackled corruption, in particular, by allowing the extension of the mandate of the Charbonneau Commission; the adoption of Law 1 promoting integrity in the awarding of public contracts and which adds a mandate to UPAC in this area; the adoption of Law 12 creating the Office of Independent Investigations, the tabling of a draft law on the registration of firearms, as well as the establishment of the Special Commission to Examine the Events of Spring 2012 ” , underlined the Minister of Public Security.
The government has made social and economic development a priority. This is the case, for example, with home care, for which an additional $ 100 million per year has been injected. An ambitious and responsible autonomy insurance policy has been proposed to face the challenges arising from the aging of the population and to offer our seniors more options as to where they want to reside. What is more, the government has taken care of our children and young families by moving forward with kindergarten to age 4 in underprivileged areas and by creating 28,000 new child care spaces.
On the local scene, Stéphane Bergeron has stepped up interventions in order to advance several issues directly affecting the constituency: the opening of the Blood Sampling Center with appointment in Varennes, the announcement of the modernization of the municipal library of Calixa- Lavallée, the construction of a new primary school in Contrecoeur and the redevelopment of the courtyard of the Mère-Marie-Rose school, in the same municipality. Moreover, the announcement of 62 new subsidized daycare spaces in Contrecoeur and 80 in Saint-Amable testifies to the government&#39;s desire to always better support children and young families.
Several organizations in the constituency have benefited from ministerial subsidies. This is notably the case of Phobies-Zéro, of Sainte-Julie, which received $ 10,000 for the pursuit of its mission, as well as the Fondation du Center sportif Vallée-du-Richelieu, which obtained $ 20,000 for the continuation of the project “The development of the TED child through movement”.
Like what is happening across Quebec, the riding of Verchères has recently been the subject of several very stimulating economic announcements. “We only have to think, among others, of Jean-Coutu, who announced the relocation of its head office and warehouse to Varennes, of the investments made by Solmax and ArcelorMittal in order to increase their production, in addition government investment in the company Enerkem for a plant to manufacture biofuels and green chemicals in Varennes ”, underlines Mr. Bergeron.
The member for Verchères is particularly pleased with the financial support of more than $ 3 million obtained by the municipalities of Varennes and Verchères for the replacement of several water pipes. He was also delighted with the announcement of the imminent creation of permanent park-and-ride parking with some 1,100 spaces in Sainte-Julie, a project eagerly awaited by the population and municipal authorities.
The work of Stéphane Bergeron and his team will also have contributed, among other things, to the presentation and adoption of Bill 209 on the Société d&#39;Économie Mixte de l&#39;Est de la Couronne Sud (SÉMECS) inc. allowing the advancement of the biogas plant project in Varennes, as well as the announcement of the ecotourism development project of Île Sainte-Thérèse, in partnership with the government and the cities of Varennes, Pointe-aux-Trembles and Montreal.
“Furthermore, I can only rejoice at the cultural development agreement concluded between the City of Varennes and the Ministry of Culture and Communications, which will promote the enhancement of our culture and our heritage, which will not will not fail to contribute to improving the quality of life of the population, ”declared Minister Bergeron.
“I am very proud of the record that we are presenting, just one year after our election. Our government&#39;s actions have also resulted in concrete achievements in the county of Verchères; my fellow citizens can be assured that we will deploy the same energy and the same determination to carry out a number of projects that are already in the process of being carried out or under development, ”concludes Stéphane Bergeron.
