Montreal - Ms. Pauline Marois became the first woman elected premier in Quebec history on September 4, 2012. Her government&#39;s first year in office is marked by listening, courage and determination. After bringing order, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain pride. The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, and identity and measures to live better together. The Parti Québécois government is therefore committed to making Quebec stronger.
Jean-François Lisée, Member of Parliament for Rosemont and Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, gives a positive assessment of the work carried out in his riding during this first year in office. “I am happy with the challenges met and the accomplishments achieved in just one year. Rosemont is a lively riding where citizens are involved and creative. We have succeeded, together, in laying the foundations for several years of collaboration. &quot;
“It&#39;s important for me to listen to the people of Rosemont. Over the past twelve months, we have offered different formulas that have allowed me to meet the citizens, institutions and organizations of Rosemont: individual meetings, Evening tribute to volunteers from organizations, public meetings of the Member and Day. citizen without appointment. I am proud to be able to say that I have met hundreds of citizens as well as the majority of organizations and institutions in Rosemont that have a major impact on the daily lives of people in our neighborhood. »Argued the member for Rosemont.
During the year, the member for Rosemont intervened in several cases brought to his attention in order to resolve dead ends or move projects forward. “I am always in solution mode with the people who speak to me. Often, we find the intervention that moves the file forward and the outcome is favorable. For example, I participated in the safeguard of Maison Haidar - Refuge Project for Refugees, allowed the resolution of an administrative problem for the residents of Habitations Nouvelles Avenues, supported the organization Solidarity of parents of disabled people for its reorganization. and supported the new artistic creation of Toxique Trottoir. Added Jean-François Lisée, speaking of the work of a deputy.
During the year, the member for Rosemont also announced several good news for the Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital: the start of the 3rd phase of the emergency room expansion, the functional redevelopment of the Medicine Unit. family and the construction of a new building to accommodate the dialysis service. “I am very proud of these announcements because the work will better meet the needs of the population. Our government has made access to specialized and primary health care a priority. For us, this accessibility does not only mean that the services are available, but also that they are in the right place and under the right conditions. &quot;
“Another major issue that is particularly close to my heart, as a member of Parliament and as a father, is the fight against dropping out of school. I decided to concretely support social integration companies in our neighborhood: Insertech Angus, Projets Part, Buffet Insert-Jeunes and Pousses Urbains. It&#39;s amazing to think that young people who take charge and decide to hang up have to wait on a list. During my visits to these companies, I met these young people, attended their graduation and I saw their desire to succeed despite the difficulties. Very inspiring! »Declared the member for Rosemont.
The member for Rosemont would like to point out that Quebec is doing better since the arrival of the Marois government. “In matters of integrity, Quebecers can regain confidence in their institutions: fixed-date elections, limit on contributions to political parties of $ 100 and integrity in public contracts. Resolutely united, our government announced 28,000 new daycare spaces, $ 110 million for home care, the establishment of 4-year-old kindergartens and the creation of 3,000 social housing units. It was also a year of prosperity, of efficient and responsible management of the money of Quebecers since the budget will be balanced in March 2014. Finally, the Quebec identity is better protected, in particular thanks to the tabling of a new charter of the French language. &quot;
“A year ago, I told you that what I wanted was to make Rosemont&#39;s priorities a reality. We are moving in this direction. Some are materializing and many remain to be done. You can count on me to continue to support them loud and clear. Be aware that some files are very active at the moment: the development of more efficient public transport, in particular by increasing the reserved lanes and the extension of the blue metro line or even the accessibility to social and affordable housing, in particular for families. . &quot;
“Rosemontois and Rosemontoises, thank you for the trust you placed in me a year ago today. Together, we can advance our priorities. Together, let&#39;s work to improve the quality of life of the citizens of our neighborhood and of Quebec. »Concluded Jean-François Lisée, Member of Parliament for Rosemont.
