Sept-Îles– Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Premier of Quebec on September 4, 2012. Her government&#39;s first year in office is marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain their pride. The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, and the pride of living together. The Parti Québécois government will therefore take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger.
The MP for Duplessis, Lorraine Richard, elected for 10 years now, says she is prouder than ever to be a member of the Parti Québécois team. The last 12 months have been marked by record investments in the county and by active listening on the part of the government.
“The Liberals and Caquists like to say that we have slowed the development of the North. What I see after a year in government is quite the opposite. There has been an acceleration of government initiatives to support northern communities in all areas. Whether in terms of municipal infrastructure, health or tourism, the government was there, ”said Lorraine Richard.
The member cites the examples of the millions granted to the municipalities of Havre-St-Pierre, Sept-Îles, Port-Cartier, Fermont and Schefferville in the context of northern development. La Minganie has obtained its aquatic complex and the Romaine complex service center will be located in Havre-St-Pierre. On the tourism side, the government renewed its agreement with the Duplessis ATR, funded the CoSte Travel Agency as well as a maritime link between Rivière-au-Tonnerre and Anticosti. The Minister of Higher Education, for his part, closed the file on the university pavilion in Sept-Îles.
In addition, the Gustave-Gauvreau residence expansion project will be able to go ahead and new childcare spaces have been created. The Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, as well as the Minister of Health, Mr. Réjean Hébert, both pledged not to force mergers between health centers.
As for transport budgets, they were maintained in the region and the faltering Pakatan agreement was canceled.
“Although we are a minority government, several important laws have been passed. We have set up the Secretariat for Nordic Development and soon the satellite antennas will be set up. Our work has only just begun. We will take Quebec and the riding of Duplessis even further, ”concluded the Member.
