Alma– The Member of Parliament for Lac-Saint-Jean and Minister responsible for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, today takes stock of his interventions which have made it possible to advance many issues of his constituency over the past year.
“I am very happy that my interventions combined with the hard work of my team were so fruitful. The last parliamentary session resulted in major investments of nearly $ 52 million in the riding of Lac-Saint-Jean. Some great announcements have materialized and others are to come in the coming months, ”said Minister Cloutier.
The past year saw the completion of several economic development projects in Lac-Saint-Jean. Thus, it is with enthusiasm that the Minister proceeded to the inauguration of Energie Milot, a subsidiary of the Coopérative forestière de Petit Paris. Contributions of $ 524,375 from the Government of Quebec have helped the company develop the by-products of forestry operations to produce renewable energy. In addition, the Saint-Nazaire Belle-de-jour greenhouse workers&#39; cooperative received government financial assistance of $ 1 million for energy efficiency work. The latter also uses forest by-products to heat its greenhouses, which allows it to reduce its operating costs as well as its environmental footprint.
The Friperie Coderr d&#39;Alma received a government grant of $ 380,181 to help it improve its facilities, consolidate its 13 jobs and create 2 new permanent jobs. Leader in terms of recovery and collection of residual materials, Friperie Coderr has a positive social and economic impact in our constituency.
To ensure accessibility to snowmobile trails on the Lac-Saint-Jean-Est territory until 2014, Minister Cloutier announced a financial contribution of $ 20,000 from the government. “The economic spinoffs associated with snowmobile activities are significant for our community. I am proud to support the efforts put in place by community partners and thus ensure accessibility to the trails in Lac-Saint-Jean, ”said Mr. Cloutier.
With regard to sports infrastructures, the aid granted in Lac-Saint-Jean demonstrates the importance that the Government of Quebec attaches to the quality and healthy habits of the population. The municipality of Sainte-Monique received financial support of $ 506,764 from the Government of Quebec to allow the renovation of the recreation center and the development of an indoor skating rink. In Alma, Minister Cloutier took advantage of the groundbreaking ceremony marking the launch of modernization work on the Mario-Tremblay Center to announce the financial commitment of $ 1 million from the Government of Quebec for the completion of phase I of this project. . “After five years of working in collaboration with community partners, I was very happy to participate in the launch of the modernization work. The Mario-Tremblay Center is essential for the people of Alma and Lac-Saint-Jean, ”said Minister Cloutier.
Families will also be able to benefit from additional childcare places in the constituency. 44 new places will soon be available. 21 places were created in Hébertville, 21 in Métabetchouan-Lac-à-la-Croix and 2 in Alma. These new places at $ 7 in our municipalities will help young families.
The deputy underlined the major progress of the file of the Isle-Maligne bypass which was the subject of a decisive announcement. Thus, the Government of Quebec has confirmed its desire to materialize the construction project of a new bypass for the Delisle and Isle-Maligne sectors in Alma. The 2013-2015 program provides for investments of $ 2.8 million mainly to finalize the preparatory stages. In addition to improving the safety and quality of life of residents in the area, the project will ensure an efficient and stimulating road link for the economy of Lac-Saint-Jean-Est and its surroundings. &quot;After years of hard work on this file, I am extremely proud that our government has clearly demonstrated its willingness to move forward with the Isle-Maligne bypass,&quot; said Alexandre Cloutier.
To ensure the protection of the population in terms of fire services, the Government of Quebec has granted an amount of $ 185,250 to allow the municipality of Lamarche to cover 95% of the costs of acquiring the new fire truck which replaces the one. which had reached the end of its useful life.
Minister Cloutier and his colleague Minister Réjean Hébert confirmed that the Center de santé et de services sociaux de Lac-Saint-Jean-Est will be authorized to begin its expansion and redevelopment project for the emergency room and outpatient clinics in Alma Hospital. This project, which is estimated at $ 40 million, was duly included in the Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI). “This is great news for our community. With this long-awaited announcement, the Alma Hospital will be modernized and adapted to the needs of the population and health professionals. In addition to allowing greater clinical efficiency and better coordination of care, the work will generate many economic benefits for local businesses, ”said Alexandre Cloutier.
In partnership with municipalities, we want to ensure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services for current and future generations. Minister Cloutier was therefore pleased to announce the contribution of the Marois government for several files aimed at replacing drinking water, wastewater and stormwater pipes as well as sewer separation. For this work, the municipality of Ascension-de-notre-Seigneur was granted financial assistance of $ 909,000, that of Saint-Bruno, assistance of $ 2,166,900 and the municipality of Saint-Nazaire as to her received a government contribution of $ 2,151,050. Coming from the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program, this financial assistance not only ensures the sustainability of infrastructure, but also improves the quality of life of the population while creating jobs here.
Several organizations in the riding have received one-off grants. In particular, the International Solidarity Center, the Alma Harvest, the Maison des Amis de Pierrot de Desbiens, the Center of Excellence for drones, Action Center-Ville and Liberté à Vélo.
“Over the past year, my team and I have come to the aid of more than a hundred citizens who needed support from government departments or agencies. This aspect, often overlooked in the work of an MP, is very important. When people have no more solutions, the member&#39;s office is often the last resort for these people who are going through difficult situations. We are helping them and doing everything we can to find solutions to resolve their problems, ”Minister Cloutier concluded.
