Quebec– The Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation, Bernard Drainville, presented the results of citizen participation on the government proposals for a charter of Quebec values. This campaign, which took place between September 10 and October 1, 2013, generated over 200,000 visits to the Webnosvaleurs.gouv.qc.ca site, including more than 160,000 by unique visitors. No less than 26,000 comments were received on the site, not to mention nearly a thousand telephone messages.
“People have consulted our proposals, either on the site or by reading the leaflet we sent them, and many of them have spoken out on this important issue, both to express their support and their disagreement. This massive participation of Quebeckers shows that this debate should have been held a long time ago, and that it is high time the government settled this issue, ”said Bernard Drainville.
“We are able to talk to each other in Quebec, while respecting everyone&#39;s opinion, despite our disagreements and in order to move forward together. On behalf of the Government of Quebec, I would like to thank you, to thank all those who took the time to write to us, to call us, who took the time to reflect on the charter of Quebec values and to discuss, ”added the responsible minister.
Following the comments expressed by the population, changes will be made to the original proposals and incorporated into the bill that the government will table by the end of the fall.
“The ball is now in our court, and we are working to present a bill that will meet the expectations of Quebeckers by the end of the fall. A bill, I repeat, which will affirm the religious neutrality of the State and equality between men and women and which will set out guidelines for reasonable accommodation. This is what we need, this is what the population wants and this is what we will present, ”concluded Bernard Drainville.
The summary of comments received on the Quebec Charter of Values is available on the Webnosvaleurs.gouv.qc.ca site.
Consult the summary table presenting the results of the 26,000 comments received on the Quebec Charter of Values: http: //go.pq.org/dkq
