Quebec - At a press conference this morning, the Member for Charlevoix and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pauline Marois, and the Member for Chicoutimi and House Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, described the work carried out by the Charest government during the last parliamentary session. The MP for Joliette, Véronique Hivon, the MP for Gouin, Nicolas Girard, the MP for Marie-Victorin, Bernard Drainville, and the MP for Verchères, Stéphane Bergeron, were also present at this press conference.
“The integrity of government has been severely tested this fall. The Duchesneau report on corruption and collusion in the construction industry as well as the report of the Auditor General of Quebec on the partisan allocation of child care spaces dealt a severe blow to the Charest government by confirming its mismanagement ”, declared Pauline Marois, adding that the Liberals have also made a mess by giving up defending our identity and our pride.
“The Charest government has completely failed when it comes to defending our language. The situation is very worrying. More and more people in businesses and businesses are forced to work in English. Even within the Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec, unilingual executives impose English as the working language. We cannot tolerate such a drift. French must once again become the only official language in Quebec, ”added Pauline Marois, pledging that the Parti Québécois rectify the situation by adopting a new law 101 when it is in power.
“The defense of Quebec&#39;s interests against Ottawa is another failure of the Charest government. Quebec has lost all along the line. Whether it is the abolition of the firearms registry, the crime bill, the reduction of Quebec&#39;s weight within Canada, the loss of nearly $ 8 billion in contracts for the construction of federal ships, the appointment of unilingual Anglophones to high positions or the return of the symbols of the monarchy, Quebecers no longer recognize themselves in the values that the Harper government imposes on us, noted Pauline Marois. Jean Charest&#39;s inaction vis-à-vis the federal government is totally unacceptable ”.
“The management of our natural resources is a major issue where our vision is diametrically opposed to that of the Liberals. At the Parti Québécois, we want the profits from our natural resources to benefit the entire community. We want royalties to be higher and for companies to process raw materials in Quebec. Unlike the Liberals, we refuse to sell our natural resources at a discount. This wealth belongs to all Quebecers and they must all benefit from it, ”she argued.
“During the fall, the work of the official opposition was constructive on several fronts. We have tabled two important bills, one on language and the other on land use and decentralization. We have made notable improvements to Bill 16 concerning seniors and facilitated the adoption of the law on pharmacists that we have been calling for more than two years, ”added Stéphane Bédard, recalling that the hard work of the opposition in the construction industry file will have finally enabled Quebecers to obtain the public inquiry demanded by all.
“Through his mismanagement, Jean Charest places Quebec in a position of weakness by refusing to defend our interests and our values. Whether it is with regard to its integrity, the defense of our identity or the management of our natural resources, it is Quebeckers who are the big losers under the Liberal regime. The Parti Québécois has ideas for advancing Quebec and defending our values, our identity and our language, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
