Quebec, December 6, 2019 - This session will have been the “fall of mistakes” of the Caquist government, according to the parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois and member for Matane-Matapédia, Pascal Bérubé, who took stock of the work this morning. parliamentarians in recent months.
IN SHORT
First, the Minister of Immigration, Francization and Integration, and Minister responsible for the French Language, Simon Jolin-Barrette, launched the fall by promising actions for French. “The session ends today and we are still waiting… It was supposed to be the fall of the language; it has become the fall of mistakes. Simon Jolin-Barrette also suffered a major setback by presenting an improvised reform of the PEQ, the Quebec Experience Program. The Prime Minister had to force him to back down! The Caquista government was also forced to correct the situation with regard to its bill on parental insurance, because it broke a promise made to adoptive parents. So many errors, so many interventions by the Parti Québécois which helped to bring them to light, ”explained Pascal Bérubé.
The parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois believes that another serious mistake of the government is the stubbornness it shows in many cases. “Despite the staggering explosion in the costs of 4-year-old kindergartens, the government continues to sink in with this project, which answers a question that no one asks. At over $ 1M per class, that&#39;s a poor priority. The Caquists also managed to create unanimity against them with their bill on electricity tariffs; they are also preparing to impose a gag order on us that will cost consumers $ 600 million, without being reimbursed for overpayments! &quot;, he added.
All in all, the work of the members of the Parti Québécois will have been constructive and yielding results for the citizens. “The recent economic update was marked by the decision to make automatic the payment of the solidarity tax credit to poor people; it was a fight led by the Parti Québécois for several months! And whether it is about pesticides, ADHD or data leaks, we have also led the government to hold public hearings on issues that are important to Quebecers. It remains to ensure that these parliamentary committees lead to concrete recommendations, to which the CAQ seems resistant. So there is still work to be done, and Quebecers can count on us! », Concluded Pascal Bérubé.
