Salaberry-de-Valleyfield– “Ms. Pauline Marois became the first woman elected premier in Quebec history on September 4, 2012. Her government&#39;s first year in office is marked by listening, courage and determination. After bringing order, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain pride. The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, and identity and measures to live better together. Thus, the Parti Québécois government is committed to making Quebec stronger, ”said the member for Beauharnois, Guy Leclair, when taking stock of year 1 of the Parti Québécois government.
At the same time, the member was particularly pleased with the impressive amount of good news that had been announced for the riding of Beauharnois during this first year.
The member first mentioned that the attentive listening and speed of action of his colleagues sitting on the Council of Ministers made it possible to bring the trilogy of bridges to Salaberry-de-Valleyfield to fruition. In fact, work is already underway on the Salaberry and Fabre bridges, while the preparation of plans and specifications is in full swing for the Mgr Langlois bridge. In the latter case, the work can begin, as planned, in the spring of 2014. &quot;In the bridges file, in less than 6 months we unblocked files that the Liberals had not been able to settle for years&quot;, he added. observed Guy Leclair.
The PQ member also underlined the role played by the government in diversifying the economy of the riding. &quot;The government is very intensely involved in several major projects that will bring hundreds of jobs and millions in economic benefits to our riding,&quot; he said. The deputy notably cited the cases of CSX (350 jobs, 600 during construction) and Nemaska Lithium (120 direct jobs), which chose to set up in the riding and which received a boost from the PQ government.
Guy Leclair then recalled the exceptional response of the Cabinet of the Parti Québécois to its requests for financial assistance for community organizations in the riding. In all, 17 organizations were able to share $ 64,500 for the pursuit of their activities, thanks to the contribution of 15 different ministers. These amounts were added to the budget of the Support for Volunteer Action (SAB) program through which the member for Beauharnois already gives more than $ 85,000 per year to non-profit organizations in the riding. &quot;This exceptional harvest has enabled us, for this year, to almost double the financial assistance offered by the government in support of volunteer action to community organizations in the riding,&quot; said the member for Beauharnois.
Finally, Guy Leclair highlighted the fact that the CSSS du Suroît was able to benefit from an additional recurring sum of $ 500,000 in order to improve its home care offer. This amount has enabled the CSSS to hire a social worker, a nutritionist as well as many additional nursing assistants, which should considerably improve the efficiency and accessibility of home care in the region. “Our government, upon taking office, made it known that improving home care would become an essential priority. We have therefore respected our commitment in a brilliant manner and the residents of the riding of Beauharnois will be among the first to benefit from it, ”concluded the Member for Beauharnois.
