Saint-Hyacinthe - Ms. Pauline Marois became the first woman elected premier in Quebec history on September 4, 2012. Her government&#39;s first year in office is marked by listening, courage and determination. After bringing order, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain pride. The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, and identity and measures to live better together. The Parti Québécois government is therefore committed to making Quebec stronger.
The riding of Saint-Hyacinthe, in one year, benefited from an investment of $ 22,303,980. Major projects include the revitalization of the Sainte-Rosalie sector library and the installation of a new computer system at the Maskoutaine media library ($ 564,000), announced in the presence of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the occupation of new premises at Galeries Saint-Hyacinthe for the continuing education program, Synor du Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe ($ 2.8 M), inaugurated by the Minister of Higher Education and Research, of Science and Technology, Pierre Duchesne and several envelopes given by the Ministry of Transport to municipalities in order to carry out work on the road network.
The Saint-Hyacinthe Expo also benefited from the coming to power of a Parti Québécois government when a brand new exhibition pavilion which will also house the Quebec Agricultural Hall of Fame will be built. For the first time this year, and for a period of three years, the Expo is also recognized as a major tourist event in Quebec. “A first in 75 years! I was really delighted to announce to the organizers that this recognition would be accompanied by a grant of $ 110,000 per year. It was nonsense that this event, attracting more or less 200,000 people, not be recognized, ”says Émilien Pelletier.
The unemployment rate for the second quarter of 2013 was 6.6% for the Montérégie. It was 7.8% for all of Quebec. The region is slowly moving towards full employment.
In one year, the government of Pauline Marois has kept a good number of its electoral promises by adopting several laws on integrity, by putting in place a moratorium on the exploitation and exploration of shale gas as well as by putting an end to the activities of Gentilly 2. A new draft charter on the French language has been tabled and the government will present a draft charter of Quebec values this fall. “Giant steps have been taken to ensure that Quebecers get the society they deserve, a society that resembles them and in which fraud and lies have no place,” adds Mr. Pelletier.
The government has proven in one year that it is banking on solidarity and helping those who need it most in order to make Quebec stronger. The reduction in taxes for three million Quebecers and the cancellation of the liberal 20% increase in the tariffs of the heritage pool of electricity benefit the poorest citizens of society.
Across Quebec, the start of the school year was marked by the arrival on the school benches of thousands of four-year-old children. &quot;This new program, which is expected to grow in scope over the next few years, will allow clients at risk of dropping out to be taken care of earlier and, in the long term, to improve graduation statistics&quot; , says Émilien Pelletier.
The new agricultural policy presented by the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron is beneficial for the economy of the region. “Put Quebec on your plate must be more than a slogan. It must be simple when the citizen finds himself in front of the shelves of our merchants to be able to prioritize a product grown and processed in Quebec. Everyone thus benefits from the repercussions of these purchases ”.
The abolition of the 25% tightening measure of the Agricultural Income Stabilization Insurance as well as the bill on the acquisition of agricultural land will also have direct benefits for the farmers of Saint-Hyacinthe.
During this year, Émilien Pelletier listened to the needs of the citizens of his riding. He was thus able to announce that the Quebec Ministry of Transport is committed to providing the necessary funds for the realization of a feasibility study by the Metropolitan Transport Agency in order to bring the commuter train to Saint-Hyacinthe. . “In 2013, this mode of transportation is a real necessity for the citizens of Saint-Hyacinthe and the surrounding area. I hope to see the population use the commuter train quickly in Saint-Hyacinthe, ”said the deputy.
Several organizations also knocked on the door of the member for Saint-Hyacinthe to set up promising projects for the community. Among these, Contact Richelieu-Yamaska presented the Lit&#39;inérance project, which aimed to open an apartment to offer people experiencing homelessness for a short period of time. It is through the discretionary envelopes of the Minister for Youth Protection and Social Services, Véronique Hivon, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois and my Support for Volunteer Action program that the government has was able to donate nearly half of the amount needed to run the program for a period of one year.
Likewise, a group of students from Polyvalente Hyacinthe-Delorme was looking for funding to carry out a prevention project in physical and mental health. “The Joue la bonne carte project finally won the final of the Quebec Entrepreneurship Contest. Many ministers responded positively to the request for assistance. I thank them and reiterate my congratulations to the students who got involved, ”says Émilien Pelletier.
True to his habit, Émilien Pelletier took advantage of the summer to meet citizens in the field by attending various events such as the National Day festivities or festivals held in the municipalities of the riding. “I had interesting discussions with several citizens who brought me new ideas that I am eager to share with my colleagues from the Parti Québécois on current and future projects,” concluded Émilien Pelletier.
