Quebec - On the occasion of the end of the parliamentary session, the member for Saint-Jérôme and leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, gave a harsh assessment of the government&#39;s actions. As the people of Quebec have been able to take full measure, the Liberal government of Philippe Couillard has shown incompetence, injustice and inconsistency.
&quot;As the parliamentary session ends, Quebeckers have seen that the government of Philippe Couillard has no limit as to the damage it is prepared to cause to achieve its austerity program, that it will not back down. faced with no inconsistency and, above all, that the promised results are not there. Prime Minister Philippe Couillard said during the election campaign that he wanted to talk about &quot;real business&quot;. It is high time he rules for the &quot;real world&quot;, instead of making Quebecers pay for the economic incompetence and doctrinal approach of his government, &quot;said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
Incompetent: an economic slowdown that hurts the regions
The current performance of the Quebec economy does not reflect the dynamism and immense potential of businesses. Despite alarming signals, the Prime Minister is determined to maintain his austerity program, against any form of economic common sense, against the regions and in defiance of the messages sent to him by Quebeckers. And, while he persists, Quebec&#39;s economy is bogged down. The regions of Quebec are experiencing complete disorganization, concrete actions are lacking, there is no leadership. It is the return of the liberal motto: divide and conquer better.
Economic growth is declining from 2% to 1.5%. This decrease leads to a fall in own-source revenue of over $ 200 million and an increase in the debt burden to 55% of GDP, a sad first since the 1990s. In the election campaign, Philippe Couillard had promised to create 250,000 jobs. Since taking office, the Liberals have created only 28,800 jobs, or 13.7% of jobs in Canada. We are light years away from their number one promise.
“Obviously, the Prime Minister does not understand the numbers. It is still unable to revive the economy, generate growth and create well-paying jobs, when that is exactly what Quebec needs. Instead, Philippe Couillard signed a poorly negotiated $ 1.3 billion agreement with Bombardier, without demanding anything in return, which allowed the company to relocate jobs to Mexico. Moreover, we are still awaiting the disclosure of this agreement, ”insisted Pierre Karl Péladeau.
Unfair: Wall-to-Wall Cuts in Education, from CPE to University
The members of the Parti Québécois supported parents against liberal cuts in student services and to protect public schools, aware that education is the best investment a society can make. It is simply unacceptable to cut the resources that allow our children to be successful.
“The Liberals promised to invest in education. Once in power, they cut services to students in difficulty, weakened our public system and made $ 120 million in cuts that threaten the very survival of the CPE network as well as the jobs of thousands of educators. With the Liberal government of Philippe Couillard, the promises fly away and the damage remains, ”illustrated the leader of the official opposition.
Inconsistent: $ 800 million more for physicians, while insured care and services are reduced
“We denounced the introduction of ancillary fees, a roundabout way of making users pay a second time for services they already pay. It is a secret privatization compromising the principles of universality and accessibility that are the basis of our health system. Dr. Barrette&#39;s Bill 20 promised to facilitate access to a doctor. However, the work carried out in parliamentary committee and the recent outings of patient and professional groups show us that exactly the opposite is happening. Dr Barrette&#39;s reforms, like the entire government of Philippe Couillard, do not keep their promises, ”he continued.
Members of the Parti Québécois also denounced the end of public coverage of in vitro fertilization. An arbitrary decision which plunges several infertile couples in distress to achieve, according to Dr. Barrette, &quot;savings of candle light&quot;.
The Parti Québécois team: serving Quebeckers
“For the Parti Québécois, our objectives were to be present on the ground, to listen to citizens, to bring their concerns and concerns to the National Assembly. We wanted to carry out constructive and rigorous opposition work. This is what we managed to do, thanks to a team of dedicated and competent members, joined by Martin Ouellet, the new member for René-Lévesque, ”added Pierre Karl Péladeau.
Thanks to the work of this great team, the Committee on Public Finance launched a mandate of initiative on tax havens this fall, and an emergency debate was held to ensure that the reception of Syrian refugees is a success. in all respects.
“We have all been deeply touched and shaken by the courageous revelations of Indigenous women. We went there, in Val-d&#39;Or, to reiterate our support for First Nations women and, thanks to the work of Carole Poirier, Guy Leclair and Pascal Bérubé, we succeeded in obtaining the holding of a traveling parliamentary commission that will listen to the indigenous communities and make recommendations to the government, ”he continued.
&quot;We are facing a government that will seek $ 1,500 more out of families&#39; pockets, which attacks the principle of equal opportunities, which cuts services to students and dismantles childcare centers, which cuts in health and secretly privatizing our care, which wants to force social assistance recipients to move and which hurts the regions. We are facing a government that does not listen to the people. It is this same Liberal government that, on the other hand, has overpaid $ 800 million to medical specialists. It is austerity everywhere in Quebec, except for the medical colleagues of the Prime Minister and his Minister of Health. This is unacceptable. Quebeckers are outraged and they are right. Quebec deserves better than an insensitive, stubborn, incoherent and incompetent government, ”concluded the leader of the official opposition.
