Sorel-Tracy &quot;One year ago, to the day, Ms. Pauline Marois became the first woman elected prime minister in the history of Quebec,&quot; recalled, with pride and emotion, the Member for Richelieu and Minister responsible for Industrial policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb. “His first year at the head of government was marked by listening, political intelligence and determination. After bringing order under its leadership, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act to build a stronger, more proud Quebec. ” The government&#39;s priorities are clear: the economy and job creation; solidarity and help to those in need; and finally, identity and measures to live better together
Like her government, Élaine Zakaïb gave a positive assessment of her first year: “I came to politics to get things done for my region and for all of Quebec. I am proud of the results obtained: things have progressed in the riding, particularly in terms of the economy and jobs and that of improving the quality of life through actions in health, the environment and public transit. , in culture and in support of families. And that&#39;s only the beginning!&quot;
Élaine Zakaïb went on to recall the files that have resulted or made progress over the past year, estimating investments in Richelieu at a few hundred million dollars. &quot;But beyond these millions, what counts, insisted Ms. Zakaïb, are the concrete projects that we have thus supported and which contribute to our prosperity and our quality of life.&quot;
&quot;Large projects, private or public, take a long time to get started, but they are the most promising, by their ability to create sustainable jobs,&quot; Elaine Zakaïb reminded us. I have also devoted a lot of energy over the past year to advancing some of these projects and I am confident that they will soon be successful. ”
She works in particular with the CLD, its ministry and Investissement Québec to convince the Terra Nova company to come and settle in Sorel-Tracy: &quot;Things are looking good, but these are constant efforts.&quot; The minister finally promised the upcoming announcement of two projects in the food sector.
The Minister also recalled the recent announcement of the construction, in the fall of the Sorel-Tracy detention center, which everyone was waiting with growing impatience. Construction will begin this fall and the center will be ready to operate in early 2017. “This large-scale project, which represents an investment of $ 266 million, will represent 300 direct jobs for the duration of the construction and 150 more permanent jobs, once the center is in operation. It is a major contribution for the region. Ms. Zakaïb also mentioned the interministerial committee on the highway 30 corridor that she co-chairs and which must develop a strategy to develop the Montérégie.
She also wished to recall that the real job creators remained entrepreneurs. This is why she regrets that the opposition parties have rejected the project of an Economic Development Bank, a powerful and essential development tool to support entrepreneurs and promote private investment in all regions, including her own. “We believe in it and know the demand is there. A way will be found to meet this demand. Ms. Zakaïb also announced for the fall the implementation of industrial policy to revive the manufacturer, which will be one of the pillars of the government&#39;s economic policy, in order to create wealth and sustainable jobs.
She finally recalled that prosperity could also go through the environment and culture: “The Georges-Codling room, for which we maintained the aid of $ 5.2 million last October, despite the difficult financial situation of the government, will contribute to both the cultural and the economic life of the region. ”
&quot;From the perspective of sustainable development, the environment and the economy go hand in hand,&quot; said Ms. Zakaïb, citing as an example the restoration of the Saint-Louis marsh, in Baie Lavallière where half a million dollars has been invested. This project led by the Minister, jointly with the Minister of the Environment, Sustainable Development, Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet, will help strengthen the region&#39;s eco-tourism vocation.
The MP also relies on the status of Technopôle in industrial ecology of the region to develop the economy. It thus continues to collaborate with the main partners in order to strengthen this status with innovative projects that contribute to the diversification and the establishment of an economy based on sustainable development.
Élaine Zakaìb welcomed the arrival of ten new family physicians in the region, a record cohort. “This is one of the most pressing needs in the region. I am happy that we can finally answer better. She took the opportunity to remind the population to register on the list. The government has also granted the CSSS Pierre-De Saurel more than half a million dollars more for home care, another important need.
To help young families, 68 new places have been created in Saint-David, Saint-Roch-de-Richelieu and Yamaska. “This first phase aimed to meet the most pressing needs. New places will be announced soon, ”promised the MP. The government also partially funded the creation of a school park in Saint-Joseph-de-Sorel and granted the Sorel-Tracy CEGEP a new technique in childhood education. The inequity in the allocation of health amounts for the Montérégie has also been reduced by 28%, thus starting the path towards interregional balance.
Finally, recently, the MRC Pierre-De Saurel received $ 59,000 from the government to implement an inter-municipal public transport system. &quot;This is a major contribution to our region,&quot; said the member for Richelieu. This public transit is an absolute necessity in order to ensure the vitality of rural municipalities. ”
Élaine Zakaîb concluded by recalling that her office was always open and her political attachés available to answer requests on her behalf or to send them to her. She also reiterated her commitment to the region and called for the collaboration of all actors concerned by its development. &quot;It is together that we will succeed in getting things done for the region and Quebec as a whole.&quot;
