Rimouski - Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Premier of Quebec on September 4, 2012. Her government&#39;s first year in office is marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain their pride. The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, and the pride of living together. The Parti Québécois government will therefore take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger.
Taking stock of the first year in power of the PQ government and its re-election, Irvin Pelletier, Member of Parliament for Rimouski and President of the Committee on Public Finance, says he is very satisfied with the work he has accomplished both on Parliament Hill and in his constituency.
&quot;Intensive and rigorous work is being done in Quebec in parliamentary committees and, as president of the Commission des finances publique du Quebec, I can confirm that the deputies work with professionalism in the best interests of Quebec despite the differences of opinions sometimes trenchant ”, underlines the deputy.
As president of the PSC, the member recently chaired the important work on the sustainability of the Quebec retirement system. A report on this will be tabled this fall.
Reelected for a third term on September 4, the member for Rimouski is very proud to have proceeded, along with the Minister of Justice, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, to the announcement of the renovation and expansion of the Palais de Rimouski justice. This is a 72 million project expected for many years, the work of which will extend until 2018.
As for daycare spaces, two constructions are announced for a total of 158 new childcare spaces in Rimouski. The deputy is confident that the Minister for Families will soon announce one or two new projects, thus making it possible to achieve the electoral commitment of 240 places during her mandate. More than 1000 children are waiting on the BILA list in greater Rimouski.
The member for Rimouski was pleased to announce, with Minister Élaine Zakaïb, the $ 450,000 grant for the municipality of St-Narcisse-de-Rimouski. This major project for the community of the high country is an example of mobilization and perseverance worthy of mention.
The Coopérative Paradis project is progressing well and the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, maintains his willingness to contribute financially to this innovative, structuring and mobilizing project for the Rimouski cultural community.
To compensate for the lack of affordable housing, social development projects have been carried out and others are developing very positively in the riding. First, Habitations Nicolas-Rioux, a construction of six community housing units in St-Eugène-de-Ladrière, was recently inaugurated. Headed by the Rimouski Municipal Housing Office, La Conviale, a housing project for single people, will go to tender very soon. Finally, a multifunctional building that will house six social housing units in La Trinité-des-Monts is currently being studied by the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec.
In the field of health and social services, the Logement&#39;vole project, which consists of improving the living environment of people with mental health problems, has obtained three new units under the Rent Supplement Program. The MP hopes to receive four more by the end of the year to fulfill this election promise.
The fourth ice project in Rimouski has undergone changes since several groups of citizens are now asking the City of Rimouski to analyze the feasibility of a multisport complex possibly including a swimming pool and an indoor soccer field. A committee, set up by the City of Rimouski, will shortly submit the results of their reflection. The member for Rimouski will follow the progress of this file with great interest and is committed to supporting the project chosen by elected municipal officials.
According to the member for Rimouski, several actions carried out since his election have made it possible to resolve impasses or advance projects, large and small. “I work for the citizens of my riding with respect and prioritizing consultation. I am always in solution mode with the people who speak to me and I believe the results are good. We often find the right intervention in order to move the file forward, ”concludes Irvin Pelletier.
