Chicoutimi - Mr. Stéphane Bédard, President of the Treasury Board, Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region and Member of Parliament for Chicoutimi, is proud of the work that has been done in terms of transparency since taking office and presents the assessment of the interventions that have enabled it to advance many local, regional and national issues.
It should be noted that Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Premier of Quebec on September 4, 2012. Her government&#39;s first year in office is marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain their pride. The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, and the pride of living together. The Parti Québécois government will therefore take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger.
Like a change in mores, the President of the Conseil du trésor provoked the Quebec public administration at the end of 2012, with the unanimous adoption of Act 1 on integrity in public contracts. “With this law, our government has taken the means to tackle collusion and corruption. From now on, integrity, transparency and the protection of the public interest will be the foundations of government action in contract management, ”declared Minister Bédard. In addition, the Quebec government has opted for transparency by making information about the awarding of public contracts more easily accessible on the portal www.donnees.gouv.qc.ca.
The Minister distinguished himself by his openness to the digital economy, with the measures adopted to promote the use of free software, by its transparency with public access to the dashboard of IT projects on the website www.tableaudebordprojetsri.gouv .qc.ca and by its interest in the results of the Survey on the integration of the Internet into business processes.
Recently, the Grand Séminaire de Chicoutimi was acquired by UQAC with the help of funding from the Parti Québécois government of $ 6.5 million to offer physiotherapy training in partnership with McGill University in Chicoutimi. .
Last July, the deputy and the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto announced the allocation of a grant of $ 3,378,500 for the redevelopment project, in the Saint-Luc church, of the school of Florence-Fourcaudot dance.
In June, ministers Réjean Hébert and Stéphane Bédard announced the study of the project to build a device sterilization unit at the Chicoutimi hospital center. The two ministers also announced the extension until March 31, 2014 of genetic testing services for four hereditary diseases present in the region, thanks to an additional envelope of $ 120,000.
Financial assistance of $ 45,000 was granted to promote Chicoutimi&#39;s cultural heritage to the Corporation du Musée du Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean et du site de la Pulperie for the archaeological exploration of the former trading post of Chicoutimi.
In May, an announcement concerning the maintenance of buildings with six infrastructure projects at the Commission scolaire des Rives-du-Saguenay totaling more than $ 3M for schools in Chicoutimi. As for the St-Isidore / St-Denis gymnasium, the file is closely monitored by the deputy and ensures that the request from the School Board is properly processed and eventually accepted.
In January, several Chicoutimi organizations received one-off financial assistance, the member for Chicoutimi granted funding to four organizations: the Chicoutimi Curling Club, Regard sur le court métrage, the Jazz &amp; Blues Festival and the Foundation community of Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean, for a total of $ 100,990.
Also in January, the member for Chicoutimi announced financial assistance of $ 312,500 to Diffusion Saguenay for the purchase of specialized equipment for the new performance hall in Chicoutimi.
In addition, he kept his commitments concerning the Chicoutimi prison by announcing a solution in August by ensuring the maintenance of correctional services in the Saguenay metropolis with a detention center project at the Chicoutimi courthouse for the prison needs identified by the officials. actors in the field. With the Minister of Public Security, they indicated that a sum varying between 10 and 20 M $ has been reserved.
A consultation committee was set up in collaboration with the City of Saguenay for the development of Parc de la Colline, this commitment for the families of Chicoutimi North is of particular importance for the member for Chicoutimi. Professionals are currently at work to carry out a plan that will meet the needs of citizens.
In June, Stéphane Bédard accompanied by Minister Réjean Hébert announced new annual budgets of $ 3,879,800 to improve home care and services for the region. Remember that improving home care was a priority in the last election for the Parti Québécois.
Following a commitment, the Parti Québécois government took care of the tourism industry in the region. The minister responsible for Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean welcomes the decision to grant $ 6 million for the creation of sustainable snowmobile trails.
In May 2013, the three ministers of the region offered financial support of $ 22,000 for the start-up of the Institute for the History of Aluminum - North America (IHA-ADN).
The Wood Charter project, initiated by UQAC, proposed by our regional candidates from the Parti Québécois was finally presented at the end of April by the government of the Parti Québécois to promote the use of wood in construction in Quebec. A concrete gesture for the forest industry promoting a renewable natural resource.
Collaborating in the establishment of an agri-food research fund dedicated to northern agriculture dedicated to Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean, financial assistance of $ 300,000 was provided for this purpose.
Also, nearly $ 39 million was announced in April as an extension of Highway 70, a priority issue for Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean deputies and ministers.
Also in April, the Minister responsible for the Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean region was proud to announce a grant from the Quebec government of $ 400,000 to the Chair of Eco-Consulting Research and Intervention at the University of Quebec in Chicoutimi. Granted by his colleague Yves-François Blanchet, Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, the aid makes it possible to study the recovery of paper sludge in a context of the fight against climate change.
At the end of January 2013, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, on behalf of the Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, announced the allocation of financial assistance of $ 450,000 to the Consortium for Research in Mineral Exploration (CONSOREM).
In the same month, he granted an amount of $ 10,000 for the 100th anniversary of the municipality of Saint-Honoré in order to support the organizing committee in its activities.
Also in January, the Member for Chicoutimi, President of the Conseil du trésor and Minister responsible for the Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean region, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, on behalf of the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, accompanied by her four fellow MPs and ministers announced that until 2015, the region has an amount of $ 4,115,787 million to fight against poverty and &#39;social exclusion.
Finally, concerning the Dubuc bridge, the member for Chicoutimi made a commitment and asked the Minister of Transport to make public the study of fluidity and safety on the bridge, which was done at the end of August. A game plan will be developed to meet the needs of citizens before 2014 by the ministry.
“There will always be work to do, but I am proud of the results of year one of the Parti Québécois in government. By investing soundly in health, research and socially promising projects, as well as by adopting laws that meet the needs of integrity and transparency, we will eventually overcome the cynicism and irony of a mismanagement of government administration. Unlike the previous Liberal government, we will ensure that the money associated with the announced investments is available in the coffers. It&#39;s only a beginning.&quot; concluded Minister Stéphane Bédard.
