Montreal - Today, the Quebec government once again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain their pride. The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, and pride in living together. The government will therefore take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger.
The deputy for Bourget and Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, thus provided an update on his action in the riding of Bourget over the past year.
“Since September 4, 2012, in the riding of Bourget, my first concern is to ensure the collective well-being. My action is resolutely oriented towards improving the quality of life of our families, our young people and our elders, within our means ”, he underlined on the sidelines of Year 1 of the government of Premier Pauline Marois, a first year marked by listening, courage and determination.
For example, with the number of families on the rise in Bourget in recent years, it had become imperative to meet the needs of the school clientele for new classes. This is how investments of $ 6.5 million were announced last June for the expansion of the Louis-Dupire School.
“These 12 new classrooms and the interior redevelopment of the school will allow students and all staff to evolve in a more pleasant and stimulating environment. This investment marks a new stage in the life of the school, but also in that of the entire community which has shown perseverance in this project which places the school at the heart of its community ”, specified the deputy. of Bourget.
Minister Kotto makes the same observation with regard to the project to embellish the courtyard of École Saint-Donat, which benefited from a public investment in the order of $ 29,000. “The development of recreational areas with relaxation areas and islands of greenery will also contribute to the well-being of the students, but also of all the families living near this school”.
Still in the education sector, a grant of $ 773,838 was awarded to Collège Maisonneuve for new research equipment at its Center for the Study of Chemical Processes in Quebec, whose premises are located in the riding of Bourget.
In addition, with a view to a healthier environment, the extension of boulevard de l&#39;Assomption and avenue Souligny as well as improved access to the Port of Montreal, which were announced last May by the Minister of Transport will facilitate the movement of people and goods and thus reduce pollution and noise in adjacent residential areas.
The situation of elderly people struggling with health problems is also of great concern to the member for Bourget, who concretely supported the pilot project of the organization Sésame for the implementation of a home meal service for seniors in the Pointe territory. -from the island. This mobile food service would allow the elderly, many of whom are alone at home, to eat better and help maintain them in their natural living environment.
Mr. Kotto is also proud to support the project of an independent neighborhood cinema, Station Vu, which will allow the population of Bourget to enjoy a new innovative place dedicated to cinema.
In all cases, support for community organizations and numerous associations, both sports and cultural, in support of their mutual aid mission, is at the heart of the concerns of the Member for Bourget and Minister of Culture and Communications.
You will find in the appendix the list of organizations and associations of Bourget which received financial assistance from the Member of Parliament for Bourget during the last year.
