Trois-Rivières – The member for Champlain and president of the Territorial Planning Commission, Noëlla Champagne, took stock of the first year of the Parti Québécois government. The Member for Champlain took the opportunity to underline the historic moment that September 4, 2012 now represents, when Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Premier of Quebec.
According to the member for Champlain, the first major action of the Parti Québécois government was to return to financial responsibility. “Faced with the state of public finances when it came to power, the Parti Québécois government was forced to make often difficult decisions, so that Quebec finally regains its budgetary balance for 2013-2014. Moreover, in terms of expenditure control, our government delivered the goods, with growth of 1.7% in 2012-2013, the best performance of the last fifteen years. Continuing in the spiral of indebtedness handcuffed the future of Quebec. There had to be sound management of public finances and that is what the Parti Québécois government did as a priority ”.
With the slowdown in global economic growth, the Parti Québécois government faced a great challenge, particularly with its poor public finances. MP Noëlla Champagne made it clear that Quebec&#39;s economic situation is comparable to that of its neighbors, despite what the Liberals may say. “The latest employment data show that Quebec has 70,000 more jobs since the start of the year, compared to the same period in 2012. Employment growth in Quebec (1.8%) is higher than that of Ontario (1.4%), Canada (1.4%) and the United States (1.6%). In the current context, it&#39;s not that bad. It is obvious that we will be able to do better in the coming months. The Liberals claim that we are abandoning the economy and that they alone are the big bosses. Everyone remembers, however, that the Liberals inflated Quebec&#39;s debt by 33% in nine years and that they plunged Quebec into deficit. If that is to take care of the economy, the performance of the Parti Québécois government is much more honorable ”.
The Parti Québécois government has taken the decision to close the Gentilly-II nuclear power plant located in Bécancour. This difficult choice obviously had an impact on the regional economy of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. A fund of $ 200 million was therefore made available to Mauricie and Center-du-Québec in order to revive the two regions. “Obviously it was not an easy decision to make. As I have always mentioned, we have to roll up our sleeves and use this $ 200 million fund to create new jobs and stimulate our economy. I can assure you that good news is imminent and that it will have significant impacts for our region ”, affirmed Noëlla Champagne.
“The Parti Québécois government quickly intervened in matters of integrity. However, the people of Quebec have been demanding it for several years without anything convincing being achieved. The adoption of Bill 1 promoting integrity in public contracts, the adoption of Bill 2 limiting the annual contribution to a political party to $ 100 per voter, and Bill 10 allowing for the provisional relief of an elected municipal official of its functions are three concrete examples. When we discover what is unveiled at the Charbonneau Commission, it became essential to clean up and continue in this direction. We have already done more in a year than the Liberals in nine years! », Declared Noëlla Champagne.
All the nations of the world promote their identity in order to enhance collective pride. For MP Noëlla Champagne, Quebec must also act in this way, because it is a question of respecting who we are. “The Parti Québécois government has the courage to present a charter of values, which will put in place clear guidelines to allow Quebecers to live better together. Our government will also strengthen the teaching of national history at the elementary, secondary and college levels to provide Quebec students with more in-depth training and to promote Quebec&#39;s identity and culture. It is time to get to know each other, ”said the member for Champlain.
For the member for Champlain, several policies are promising. “I am thinking of the establishment of the Food Sovereignty Policy and a policy of economic development and innovation. In terms of solidarity, we must highlight the bill on end-of-life care and the White Paper on the creation of autonomy insurance. Starting this fall, the electrification of transportation will become the major ambitious project for the future of Quebec. In short, despite tight management of public finances, we can now say that the foundations for making Quebec stronger are in place ”.
“The government acted quickly. All of his accomplishments could easily have been over four years, but they came to fruition in just one year. Rarely have we seen such an exhaustive assessment in such a short time. It is the urgency of the situation with a worrying budgetary context and a constantly deteriorating social climate that pushed the government to take rapid action. Mistakes were made, of course, and a lot of work still remains to be done, but Quebec is on a good start after a difficult year, particularly for the Mauricie. After Gentilly-II, the pyrrhotite file will remain a priority file considering the scale of the situation. We can look to the future with hope, ”concluded Noëlla Champagne.
