Quebec– Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Premier of Quebec on September 4, 2012. Her government&#39;s first year in office is marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebecers regain their pride. The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, and the pride of living together. The Parti Québécois government will therefore take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger.
The MNA for Taschereau, Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions, Ms. Agnès Maltais, is proud to present the results of the first year of the Parti Québécois government in the Chaudière-Appalaches region. &quot;Through targeted interventions and responsible choices, we have succeeded in advancing many important issues for the citizens of the region,&quot; said Agnès Maltais.
Last November, the government announced the creation, by the end of 2016, of 866 new reduced-contribution spaces within the childcare network for the Chaudière-Appalaches region. “I am particularly proud to confirm that the government is keeping its commitment to complete the network of childcare services at $ 7, so that every family wishing their child to attend a childcare service can do so. It will finally be: a child, a place ”, declared Minister Maltais.
In the past year, investments of $ 55.6 million have been confirmed for school infrastructure in the region. Of this envelope, $ 9.7 million is intended for the construction of an elementary school in Lévis, Saint-Nicolas sector, while $ 2.83 million will go to the expansion of a school in Saint-Anselme, in the MRC de Bellechasse.
The government also announced financial support of up to $ 240,000 to the City of Montmagny for the development of a multifunctional synthetic surface.
The past year saw the completion of several economic development projects in the Chaudière-Appalaches region. The Parti Québécois government is committed to giving Quebec businesses the means to achieve their ambitions, to help them increase their productivity and thus promote their progress. Thus, several businesses in the region have obtained financial assistance. To support its growth, Creaform, a Lévis-based company specializing in the development of digital 3D solutions, received financial support of over $ 1 million from the Government of Quebec. These sums will be devoted to the implementation of a training plan, to research and innovation activities and to the development of new products. In addition, ADS inc. received a government loan of $ 2.5M for the acquisition of a brand new production line for its Texel division, located in Sainte-Marie. This project will have a significant economic impact on the region, with the creation of around fifteen new jobs in the long term. Baldor Électrique Canada (Baldor) was also awarded non-repayable financial assistance of $ 600,000 to modernize the equipment at its plant in Sainte-Claire and thus increase its production capacity. Finally, financial assistance was granted to Moulexpert Inc. for its modernization project, aimed at increasing its competitiveness.
In order to promote the region&#39;s economic development and diversification, the government also supported the École d&#39;Entrepreneurship de Beauce (EEB) for the development of two new programs, including the Emergence program. Financial assistance of $ 814,500 was granted for the realization of these projects.
“I am proud to support the efforts put in place by the economic partners of Chaudière-Appalaches. Through these investments, the Government of Quebec is helping to consolidate and create many jobs in the region, ”said Ms. Maltais.
After the regions of Montreal and Montérégie, Chaudière-Appalaches is the region where the Parti Québécois government invested the most heavily in road infrastructure for 2013-2015. Last May, therefore, road investments of $ 654,509,000 were announced for the Chaudière-Appalaches territory, investments of more than $ 126 million for the road network of the City of Lévis, and the continuation of the extension work was confirmed. and duplication of Highway 73.
After only 8 months in office, and while the population had been waiting for the outcome of this issue for more than three years, the Parti Québécois government gave the green light to the reconstruction of route 112 between Thetford Mines and Saint-Joseph-de- Coleraine. “This is an important announcement, because the reconstruction of this road was eagerly awaited by the community. In addition, the 112 is a vital artery for the economic development of the region. The reestablishment of this structuring link for the region can only bring benefits, as much for the traders as for the users of the road network and the residents who live near this zone ”, declared the Minister.
The government has confirmed an investment of $ 177 million for the project of a radiotherapy center at the Hôtel-Dieu de Lévis which, once opened at the end of 2018, will make it possible to unclog the much-used facilities of the Hotel. -God of Quebec. “This is great news for the community. With this announcement, Hôtel-Dieu de Lévis will be better suited to the needs of the population and health professionals. In addition to allowing greater clinical efficiency and better coordination of care, the work will generate numerous economic benefits for local businesses, ”Minister Agnès Maltais indicated.
The government has also invested considerably in Chaudière-Appalaches to provide the population with affordable housing, in particular $ 2.6 million in Lévis, Charny sector, as well as in East Broughton to the tune of $ 2.7 million. Seniors with a slight loss of autonomy in these two municipalities will now have access to 35 additional affordable housing units.
“The citizens of the Chaudière-Appalaches region can rest assured that our government will continue its work to contribute to the region&#39;s vitality, in particular by focusing on job creation. Solidarity will also continue to be at the heart of our political action. Thus, Quebecers will be able to count on a government that helps those who need it and those who support them, ”concluded the Minister.
