Québec, December 5, 2014 - The member for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, gave an overview of the last parliamentary session. What we remember is above all that the Liberal government directly attacked Quebec families, regions and workers with austerity measures and tax increases, completely breaking the promises made to Quebecers by Philippe Couillard.
“The Prime Minister broke all the promises he made to Quebecers during the election campaign, and even afterwards in his opening speech. He was not elected for that; it now has a clear deficit of legitimacy, a loss of credibility and it no longer inspires confidence. Liberal arrogance is back. I was brought up with the idea that families are the most important thing. However, the government has imposed a shock on them by modulating the prices of childcare services. It has, in addition, totally slowed down the development of places expected by parents. Moreover, while he had promised a positive liberal effect on the economy and not to raise taxes, the latest economic update will result in an increase in the price of gasoline and that of auto insurance. , as well as by the abolition of the work premium and tax credits for union or professional dues; in short, families will be taxed more. This will have a major impact on their purchasing power, it will harm our economy. It&#39;ll take some, some coffees, to make them forget that. It is a real blow to families and to the regions, ”said Stéphane Bédard.
“The government does not know where it is going except when it comes to its austerity policy and higher taxes, tariffs and taxes for middle class families. The Prime Minister and his economic trio have only one way of seeing things, one obsession: austerity. The government of Philippe Couillard, with the complicity of the CAQ, is implementing its plan for Quebecers. As a result of unprecedented centralization in regional economic development and in the health system, decisions and resources will drift away from people&#39;s reality. The government is completely disconnecting from the citizens of Quebec. Developing Quebec does not mean cutting, ”added Stéphane Bédard.
The resources for the socio-economic development of our regions have also been cut off by the Liberal government. “While jobs are being lost in the regions, the government is cutting resources: CLDs, CRÉs, CJEs. Everything that supports and helps entrepreneurs, SMEs, young people, among others, is cut. This centralization is damaging for our regions. The government must hear the voices raised everywhere, in Rouyn-Noranda, Gaspé, Baie-Comeau, Trois-Rivières, ”continued Stéphane Bédard.
Quebeckers were cheated in the election campaign and they still are, while the Prime Minister continues to put forward invented figures on the deficit to achieve his big dream: to reach the Canadian average. The masks fell when the Minister of Finance tabled the public accounts this week; 2013-2014 ended with a deficit of 2.8 billion. Not $ 5.8 billion or $ 7.3 billion, as the Prime Minister repeats every day.
No economic policy “In all regions of Quebec, more than 52,000 full-time jobs have been lost since the Liberal Party came to power. For the first time in a long time, the Minister of Finance has forecast a drop in employment for this year. The government is doing nothing to support job creation; it is not based on any economic policy. He is relying on the Plan Nord and an imaginary maritime strategy that will not create jobs for several years, ”added the leader of the official opposition.
The Parti Québécois team makes gains for Quebeckers “The Parti Québécois team is known, it is credible and talented. We defended the values of the Parti Québécois, including responsibility, but also solidarity with families and support for the regions of Quebec. In the face of liberal arrogance, we have chosen responsibility. We have made notable gains for workers in Bill 3. Thanks to our work, the government has backed down on closing conservatories. With regard to Bill 15, we have obtained that the University of Quebec network and UPAC are not subject to it. In addition, at the initiative of the Parti Québécois, a commission on violence against women will be held, ”continued Stéphane Bédard.
“We also made the voice of Quebecers heard in the Energy East project; a bill has been introduced to affirm that Quebeckers must have the last word about what happens in their territory in terms of the environment, which the Prime Minister was not even able to say today. hui. He is clearly subservient to Canada, and the Canadian energy policy he embraces is not ours. We will never accept this flattering for an equalization check, ”he concluded.
