Jonquière - Ms. Pauline Marois became the first woman prime minister in Quebec history on September 4, 2012. The first year in office of her government is marked by listening, courage and determination. After bringing order, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain pride. The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, and identity and measures to live better together. The Parti Québécois government is therefore committed to making Quebec stronger.
This first year of the Parti Québécois government has seen many commitments and projects come true for the people of Jonquière. The MNA for Jonquière, Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Sylvain Gaudreault gives an excellent assessment of the actions he has carried out for the citizens of his riding.
The repair of the Arvida aluminum bridge at a cost of $ 3.5 million, the construction of a new gymnasium at Ste-Cécile school at the cost of $ 1.65 million, works of $ 2.7 million for repairs to school infrastructure in Jonquière, the investment of $ 1.25 million for the expansion of a municipal garage in Jonquière as well as the agreement with Resolute Forest Products on pension plans resulting in a gain of 240 $ millions for the workers bear witness to the conscientious commitment made to the people of Jonquière.
Substantial social and community investments were also announced in the past year. The necessary authorizations have been granted to allow the extension of the activities of the pot rooms of the Arvida plant. Sums were also invested to develop the community grocery store in the premises of the Center L&#39;Escale de Jonquière and the Lac-Kéno solidarity cooperative. “Our government is taking concrete steps for the social and economic development of Quebec. These investments consolidate jobs for our world. We have acted to restore social peace and the economic situation in Quebec, and it is bearing fruit, ”continued Mr. Gaudreault.
The 2013-2015 road works planning demonstrates the government&#39;s desire to better manage infrastructure and pay the fair cost for public investments. &quot;The expected correction of the curves on Chemin du Quai in the Coulée Gagnon sector and the announcement of work on Highway 70 reflect my concern as a Member of Parliament and Minister:&quot; we say what we do, and we do what we do. &#39;we say,&#39; added Sylvain Gaudreault. The financial assistance of $ 6 million for the creation of sustainable ATV and snowmobile trails (ORVs) is also the demonstration of a government that listens to the population.
“I am particularly proud of the actions our government has taken to restore integrity and advance the economy. Thanks to the responsibility and determination of the entire government team led by Prime Minister Pauline Marois, the people of Jonquière know that a major shift has been initiated and that a big cleanup is underway in Quebec, ”said Mr. Gaudreault.
“For 9 months, we have been taking the necessary means to restore the confidence of the population and to ensure the proper administration of public funds. The passage of Bill 1 ensures that companies show &quot;white paw&quot; if they want to do business with the state. Our government is taking action to support entrepreneurs with integrity and anxious to respect the law, ”said the member for Jonquière.
In addition, new transitional rules on municipal political financing for the next election campaign have entered into force. They come from a law that Minister Gaudreault proposed and had adopted. “Our government stands up and defends the interests of Quebec everywhere and at all times. Since my appointment as Minister, I have felt the same sense of duty and sense of belonging that lived in me in 2007. I am honored by the trust the people of Jonquière place in me and I intend to continue to represent them with integrity for help the whole community move forward, ”concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
