Quebec - As 2015 draws to a close, the Parti Québécois family spokesperson, Sylvain Pagé, takes stock of the Liberal government&#39;s record on child care. The picture is bleak: Liberal actions directly attack Quebec families.
“The main achievement of the Liberal Party in matters of family is to have increased daycare prices by up to 174%, whereas it had promised to limit itself to indexation when it was time to be elected. With the Liberal government of Philippe Couillard, electoral promises have little importance. It is through this kind of lie that we maintain cynicism towards the political class, ”Sylvain Pagé was indignant. Let us add that the government recently published the new tariffs which will come into force in 2016: we have learned that families already affected by this year&#39;s increases will suffer new ones as of January 1!
In addition, as if that were not enough, the Liberals ended the year by announcing $ 120 million in cuts for next year - on top of the $ 74 million in cuts made this year - which will directly affect the economy. quantity and quality of services offered by the network of childcare centers. The government&#39;s message is clear: parents should pay more for fewer services. The Liberals are doing a simplistic bookkeeping operation with no regard for quality.
“In addition to directly affecting the quality of services offered to children, and even endangering the survival of certain facilities, these cuts could lead to a great many job losses, mostly occupied by women. For the president of the Fédération des femmes du Québec, Mélanie Sarazin, these are &quot;anti-women&quot; measures, because they attack them on two fronts: either women work in childcare centers, or they need these services in order to be able to remain in the labor market once they become mothers, ”added Mr. Pagé.
The spokesperson fears that the drastic increase in the costs of childcare services will encourage parents to resort to commercial childcare centers, which are not subject to the same rules. “We also learned yesterday morning that a survey conducted by the Institut de la statistique du Québec shows that the quality of services is superior in childcare centers, contrary to what the Minister said this fall. We ask him once again to consider the facts and take the appropriate measures to ensure the well-being of our little ones, ”the MP asked.
During the year, the minister succeeded in setting up her entire network against her. All the associations of educational childcare services have joined forces to denounce the price increases and the threat to services. At times, communication was interrupted between the Minister and the groups. Despite the ongoing negotiations, we can only worry about the future of educational childcare services.
“The Prime Minister indicated, during his report on the parliamentary session, that he was always looking for ways to improve his team. Please note, Mr. Couillard, that it does not matter who you choose to occupy the post of Minister of the Family, it is the &quot;wall to wall&quot; austerity doctrine that will have to be rethought. During 2016, if you do not correct things, count on us to continue to denounce the abuses of your government. Because, at the Parti Québécois, we are committed to offering an equal opportunity to all the children of Quebec, ”concluded Sylvain Pagé.
