Val-d&#39;Or– Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Premier of Quebec on September 4, 2012. Her government&#39;s first year in office is marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain their pride. The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, and the pride of living together. The Parti Québécois government will take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger.
The first woman MP for Abitibi-Est, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, who is also Minister responsible for Native Affairs, gives a very positive assessment of the work carried out during the year.
“As a government, our first year was a busy one to say the least! We have undertaken a major change of course that is already benefiting all Quebeckers. The context was difficult because of the damage left by the previous government. We have worked hard and Quebec is doing better. I can&#39;t wait for the start of the parliamentary term to continue working for my region and for Quebec! ”, Proudly declared Ms. Larouche.
Ms. Larouche underlines her involvement in the local economy with, in particular, investments by her government in the companies Technologies Élément and Technobois, investments used for employee training and the construction of a new plant. The Member also mentions the establishment, in partnership with local organizations, of paid internships in the workplace for young aboriginal people as well as the support given to the Taxibus public transport project in Val-d&#39;Or.
Élizabeth Larouche has also devoted herself to numerous files in the field of health and social services. The issue of housing, ambulance service, homelessness and the family medicine unit are just a few of the issues that the hon. It also wishes to point out the efforts made in the case of the expansion of the Vocational Training Center.
“As the Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Est, I worked with determination to carry out several important projects for the riding. At the Parti Québécois, we play politics to help families and regions. Solidarity is the basis of our political action, ”declared Élizabeth Larouche.
Minister Larouche recalls the role she played during the discussions surrounding the adoption of the new mining tax regime: “The mining industry occupies a prominent place in the regions. It is important to listen to the concerns of all stakeholders. I have also created a space for dialogue which, I am convinced, is beneficial to all citizens of Abitibi-Témiscamingue, ”said the MP.
