Québec, June 12, 2020 - The member for Matane-Matapédia and parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois, Pascal Bérubé, the member for Joliette and spokesperson for education, family and justice, Véronique Hivon, as well as the member de René-Lévesque, parliamentary leader and spokesperson for the economy and for the Conseil du trésor, Martin Ouellet, are forced to note that the boondoggles surrounding the deconfinement of Quebec as well as the odious bill 61 on infrastructure bear witness to the slow tumble of the Caquista government at the end of the parliamentary session.
IN SHORT
“We have to give that to the government: during the first phase of the pandemic, it communicated well. The Prime Minister and his team, with the collaboration of the nine members of the Parti Québécois, succeeded in gaining the support of Quebeckers for the instructions and the containment measures, ”Pascal Bérubé first declared.
“However, continued Véronique Hivon, during the second phase, it was more difficult. We realized that the government had very poorly prepared the CHSLDs, with the disastrous consequences that we know. Among other things, we have never had clear directives formally prohibiting staff travel! &quot;
The Parti Québécois believes that it was during the third phase, that of deconfinement, that the collapse of the CAQ accelerated. &quot;In several cases, we have seen boondoggles: the schools no longer know which foot to dance on, the cultural community wants actions, the tourist community is entangled in government contradictions and, while the artists waited, the government took out the checkbook. for billionaires who own Cirque du Soleil, ”illustrated the member for Joliette.
Then, unfortunately, the government lost a lot of credibility when the experts followed one another in parliamentary committee to demolish its bill 61 on infrastructures. “Corruption, collusion, discretionary powers, a state of health emergency prolonged indefinitely… This bill, as presented, is unacceptable. The government must do its mea culpa and admit that it was a serious mistake to want to assume all the powers, ”claimed Pascal Bérubé.
For his part, Martin Ouellet wished to underline two significant gains which mark the end of the parliamentary session, and which we owe to the Parti Québécois. “With the collaboration of the three other parliamentary groups, Véronique finally obtained the introduction of parental leave for deputies, an important measure to attract and retain more parents and women in politics. In addition, after having passed two unanimous motions to this effect, we succeeded in convincing the government to introduce a bill abolishing once and for all the statute of limitations imposed on victims of sexual crimes. These are great victories, ”said the member for René-Lévesque.
In closing, the members of the Parti Québécois wanted to wish all Quebecers a very happy national holiday. “We must reinvent ourselves, of course, but let&#39;s not let the pandemic hinder our outbursts of pride! “, Launched Pascal Bérubé.
