Iberville One year after her re-election in September 2012, the Member of Parliament for Iberville, Marie Bouillé, draws up a very positive assessment of the first year of this second term. “It has been a year of hard work and, even with a minority government, we have succeeded in pushing forward with progressive measures for our citizens. Out of conviction and solidarity, I still have several projects in mind and I am confident that I will be able to carry them out with and for the people I represent, ”said the member for Iberville.
For families in the Iberville riding, there was notably the creation of nearly 400 new childcare spaces at $ 7, the construction of a new elementary school in Marieville and the opening of a classroom. four-year-old kindergarten in Saint-Georges-de-Clarenceville. “The population is increasing on the territory and the services must also follow. This is good news for families here! », Underlines the member. Not to mention that Marie Bouillé raised more than $ 17,000 for Leucan Montérégie by participating in the Shaved Head Challenge.
In addition, focusing on public transport, the Member of Parliament for Iberville, in collaboration with her colleague from Saint-Jean, announced an investment of $ 125,000 for a feasibility study aimed at the implementation of a commuter train connecting Iberville, Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu and Montreal. It should also be noted that some roads in the territory were in serious need of repair, such as route 227, whose work is being carried out this summer in Saint-Sébastien and Marieville. A new layer of asphalt has also been added on route 112 in Saint-Césaire pending major work.
This year, the Parti Québécois government proposed numerous measures aimed at improving the quality of life of Quebeckers. Whether we think in particular of the investment of $ 110M for home support, the moratorium on shale gas or the filing of a food sovereignty policy. The member for Iberville is also proud that her government has taken the bull by the horns to resolve issues of ethics, corruption and collusion with the adoption of laws aimed at integrity in the awarding of public contracts and the tightening of the funding rules for political parties.
Marie Bouillé is convinced that the future is bright for the people of her riding. For example, in order to attract new doctors, Marie Bouillé is actively working to establish a Family Medicine Unit in Iberville. This new clinic would allow medical graduates to complete their training while offering their services to the local population. “There is no doubt that there is a dire shortage of family physicians in the region. Setting up a family medicine unit is more than a need, it is a necessity. You can count on me: I will not give up! », Says the deputy. &quot;On another note, I see that everywhere in the riding, there are concrete examples of economic growth and I am proud of it,&quot; says Marie Bouillé.
As president of the Committee on Agriculture, Food, Fisheries, Energy and Natural Resources, Marie Bouillé has led the work of numerous energy issues. She also participated in the commission dealing with the breast milk bank for very premature babies. The MP also chaired the companion animal welfare task force and succeeded in establishing a climate of healthy collaboration between the multitude of stakeholders on this committee. &quot;The overpopulation of abandoned cats and dogs, as well as the existence of puppy factories and the mistreatment of domestic animals must be resolved,&quot; concludes the member for Iberville.
