Montreal - Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Premier of Quebec on September 4, 2012. Her government&#39;s first year in office is marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain their pride. The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and pride in living together. The Parti Québécois government will therefore take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger.
The member for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques says he is proud of his first year in government: “A year ago, more than 36% of you elected me. I presented myself with the deep conviction of making this district an unequaled living environment and of making our nation a Country ”,
&quot;After a year spent at your service in addition to being in charge of the parliamentary assistant file to the Prime Minister (electrification of transport), I am still highly honored to represent you at the National Assembly of Quebec&quot;, supported the deputy.
In a minority government context, the deputy argued: “During this mandate I focused on the real issues facing my neighborhood: health, education, fight against poverty, social exclusion and improving quality. life of residents ”.
“As soon as I arrived on September 5, 2012, I noticed the loneliness, isolation and lack of support for young gays and lesbians, students, families and seniors. This observation, which did not reflect the values of respect defended by Quebec, made me redouble my efforts in my work. I therefore met several heads of community organizations. Thanks to their knowledge of the field and their expertise, we have formed a solid nucleus. It is essential for me to go and meet people in the field in order to fully understand the concerns in order to bring these files to the attention of my colleagues, ”Daniel Breton recalled.
The member for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques is delighted with some of his government&#39;s achievements in Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques in the area of health and education.
“The very first: the creation of a Birth House. This accessibility process was very important to me, given that more and more women and families now call on the services of a midwife. This birth center will allow mothers who wish to have their child in an intimate and personalized setting, while benefiting from an environment specifically designed for natural childbirth. This additional offer of first-line perinatal services will take the pressure off the hospital environment. This project, I believe, shows how our government listens to people about their concerns and their needs. The citizens of Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques and the east of Montreal have been asking for this birthplace for a long time and I am happy with its realization. &quot;
“The second: the establishment of student residences in the heart of the Latin Quarter. The realization of this first student residence offers a future to Îlot Voyageur. This revitalization and these new housing units will revitalize an entire sector. This innovative solution will allow more than a hundred students to have a room and allow solidarity cooperatives and community groups to settle there in addition to creating jobs. This vision of sustainable growth will ensure that Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques continues to be a great place to live, work and raise a family, ”said the MP proudly.
He has the social and economic development of his neighborhood at heart. On the social level, let us think of home care, for which an additional $ 100 million per year is injected. The government has proposed an ambitious, responsible and necessary policy with autonomy assurance. In addition to working for seniors, the government is working for children and young families by moving forward with kindergarten to age 4 in underprivileged areas and creating 28,000 child care spaces. Not to mention the ambitious transport electrification project.
“The colossal work carried out by Madame Marois after only a few months in power is impressive by the nature of the initiatives taken. We members of the Parti Québécois are building the future and we fully intend to stay the course in this direction. As for me, I am in action and I am working hard to leave a lasting legacy in this neighborhood, ”concluded the Member of Parliament for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Daniel Breton.
