Îles-de-la-Madeleine - Ms. Pauline Marois became the first woman elected premier in Quebec history on September 4, 2012. Her government&#39;s first year in office is marked by listening, courage and determination . After bringing order, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain pride. The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, and identity and measures to live better together. The Parti Québécois government is therefore committed to making Quebec stronger.
The Member of Parliament for Îles-de-la-Madeleine in the National Assembly, Jeannine Richard, is proud of the work accomplished for the Magdalen Islands and for Quebec during the first year of her mandate. “First of all, I am proud to represent my fellow citizens of the Islands and to work to improve their living conditions. During the year, I met hundreds of citizens, promoters and representatives of associations and gave them special attention in order to find solutions to the financing and advancement of their projects. Since the election of September 4, 2012, the Islands&#39; files have received good attention in Quebec. Hundreds of thousands of dollars have been invested in economic, community and cultural projects from government programs, discretionary budgets available to ministers and the County Volunteer Support Budget. », Says Jeannine Richard.
In addition to having been appointed &quot;parliamentary assistant for fisheries&quot; in September 2012, Jeannine Richard is a member of the parliamentary committee on Transport and Environment and, more recently, was appointed on the parliamentary committee on Health and Social Services which will study, at the fall, the Bill on end-of-life care, which follows the special committee Dying with Dignity.
“As a Member of Parliament for the Islands and parliamentary assistant for fisheries, I have worked actively on issues related to fisheries. The specific action plan for commercial fisheries and aquaculture 2013-2018 was announced in Cap-aux-Meules by Minister François Gendron. This action plan benefits from a budget of $ 12.5 million this year, an increase of 20% over the previous year. Financial assistance of $ 290,000 was granted to the Association of Fishermen and Owners of the Islands for the eco-certification of lobster. The Islands&#39; main processing plant, Cap sur Mer, has been granted a $ 5 million loan to save the 400 jobs attached to the Grande-Entrée and Gros-Cap plants and has received a clear signal from government to change the way of managing the company with the arrival of an expert in business turnaround whose mission is to present a new business plan that will ensure the viability of the two factories. Special financial assistance of $ 1.5 million intended to support the Quebec lobster fleet is available this year to support businesses that are experiencing difficulties because of the low price of lobster on the markets this year. », Explains Jeannine Richard. As for the seal resource, financial support was granted to the Seal Hunters Association and the 2013 Rendez-vous du loup-marin.
“In the Islands, files concerning environmental issues are of great importance. I am pleased with the visits of the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet, and the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, on our archipelago. In addition to the holding of public hearings of the BAPE last June and the recent announcement of the presence of the Commission on Quebec&#39;s energy issues in the Islands on September 23, these visits made it possible to sensitize the ministers to the reality insular and fragile of our territory and to allow constructive exchanges on various files with the actors and organizations concerned. », Continues Jeannine Richard.
Among the highlights of this year, there was the issue of the federal government&#39;s employment insurance reform, which clearly penalizes communities with seasonal economies. Supported by the great mobilization of the population and socioeconomic actors of the Islands, Jeannine Richard denounced the impacts of the reform on several forums. A motion denouncing the federal government&#39;s attitude, presented by Minister Agnès Maltais on November 13, 2012, received the unanimous support of all parties in the National Assembly. &quot;I am delighted that the Parti Québécois government has taken concrete action to protect the interests of Quebecers by creating the National Review Commission on Employment Insurance Reform, which visited the Islands last week and which will table its report this fall with the Quebec government. », Declared the Member of the Islands.
At the level of government of Quebec, the Member of the Islands underlines that her Party has succeeded in reducing corruption, restored social peace, changed the funding rules for political parties, brought order to public finances, breathed new life into families, allowed young people to vote in educational establishments and defended the interests of Quebec in all forums. As the Premier says: “Quebec is back on track. &quot;
The Member for the Islands continues: “We have also implemented the Food Sovereignty Policy so that we consume more food from home, which will help our fishermen, our producers and our economy. We had the courage to get Quebec out of asbestos and nuclear power. We are preparing an ambitious transport electrification project. We have a new Timber Charter, a Northern Development Secretariat, a new royalty regime and a mining bill that promotes processing in Quebec. We have put in place tax incentives to attract private investment. We have reduced the taxes of three million Quebeckers by eliminating or reducing the health tax. We have eliminated the Liberal 20% increase in electricity rates and the 82% increase in tuition fees. In terms of solidarity, things are going better in Quebec! &quot;
The Member for the Islands in the National Assembly is confident that the next session will advance all of Quebec and the Magdalen Islands in particular. “Several projects that we worked on during the first year of the mandate will come to an end in the coming months. The government development strategy for the Gaspésie - Les Îles region will be implemented in a concrete manner in order to recognize certain specific projects of the Islands. », Concludes MP Jeannine Richard.
