Quebec - The Parti Québécois spokesperson for public security, Pascal Bérubé, draws up a gloomy government record of 2015 in this area. Throughout the year, in fact, ministers have left room for doubt and refused to act on several key issues.
Since the arrival of the Liberals, for example, UPAC has been sluggish. After a disappointing first year, the boss of UPAC and the minister both promised us a bang in 2015, including in the political world. “This promise is a resounding failure. At least two inquiries into the financing of the Liberal Party are unsuccessful, ”said Pascal Bérubé.
Then, after refusing, last year, that the boss of the SQ be appointed by the National Assembly, the government added more by opposing the idea that the number one of the UPAC, which is currently investigating on the Liberal Party, be appointed by elected officials “The Liberals are maintaining a situation that causes great unease. They need to assess the work of the UPAC boss, when his investigations could put people in their own government in jail. It is impossible to guarantee the independence of UPAC under these conditions, ”said the member for Matane-Matapedia.
In terms of the fight against radicalization, the minister procrastinated for months, while young Quebecers are being indoctrinated. She even went so far as to say that the jihadists are radicalizing to &quot;save lives&quot;. “These words are unacceptable for a Minister of Public Security. We also remember that the Prime Minister himself said that fundamentalism &quot;is part of everyone&#39;s personal choices&quot;, &quot;continued the deputy.
The minister and her ministry also disseminated contradictory information, in particular during the release by mistake of Francis Boucher, the son of Maurice &quot;Mom&quot; Boucher. &quot;Stratagem or administrative error, the uncertainty of the Minister during the escape of the son of Maurice&quot; Mom &quot;Boucher was worrying,&quot; added Mr. Bérubé.
It should also be noted that in addition to refusing to ban quotas for contraventions of the SQ, the government even denied the existence of them, even though internal directives had demonstrated it. &quot;The Liberals see tickets more as a cash cow than as an instrument to secure our roads,&quot; lamented Pascal Bérubé.
Finally, the government has refused to small municipalities the financial assistance necessary to train their volunteer firefighters, even if this training avoids tragedies like the one that occurred in Isle? Verte.
“In short, the Liberal government is going from crisis to crisis; its indecision and contradictions have only contributed to worrying Quebeckers, who are demanding clear information and concrete actions. In addition, the minister has always found a way to lay the blame on her officials when she finds herself in embarrassment. Unfortunately, the arrival of Pierre Moreau has not changed the cavalier attitude of the government, which prefers to minimize the concerns of Quebecers rather than respond to them, ”concluded the deputy.
