La Baie - Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Premier of Quebec on September 4. His government&#39;s first year in office was marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain their pride. The priorities were clear, and still are: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, and pride in living together. Over the past year, the Parti Québécois government has taken all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger, and it intends to continue in this direction over the coming months.
At the end of his first year as Member of Parliament for Dubuc, Mr. Jean-Marie Claveau is proud of the legislative record of the Parti Québécois government, whose action has been strongly oriented towards solidarity and job creation. He underlined, among other things, the program for the implementation of childcare centers, announced by Minister Léger, which made it possible to fill significant gaps in early childhood services in the county, and the adjustments made to the Régie du bâtiment which allow the maintenance of the last gas stations in small municipalities, thanks to remote monitoring. He also mentions the mining policy, led by Minister Ouellet, which guarantees promising spinoffs in Dubuc, where the main mining projects in the region are concentrated. According to the wording of this new law, no royalty will henceforth be required on the stone, sand and gravel extracted from a sand pit or a quarry for the construction or maintenance of roads built or maintained by the many ZECs of the constituency.
“From a regional point of view, it is necessary to invoke the publication of the decree allowing to start the construction of the railway which will serve the port of Grande-Anse and the announcement of the Minister of Transport to relaunch the site of the highway. Alma – La Baie. These are crucial economic assets for my riding and for the entire region, which rely on such infrastructures to facilitate the operation of our mines and the export of our production, ”notes Mr. Claveau with enthusiasm.
In addition to major regional issues, the results of year 1 of the Parti Québécois government must also take into account the multiple interventions of its deputies who ensure the well-being in each of the small communities that make up their constituency. In this regard, the list of achievements of the member for Dubuc is long.
“As I have mentioned on several occasions, my way of proceeding is first of all to listen to my community, to be available to the people of my riding and, then, to select the good government channel to help them. My constant concern to support the communities in my riding, some of which are facing devitalization, has allowed me, among other things, to save the development officer positions in the various municipalities in the riding, to relaunch the Valibois sawmill in Saint- David-de-Falardeau, to improve the facilities of the Coop du Cap-Jaseux by equipping them with a drinking water treatment system, to release substantial sums to support numerous SMEs such as the Bistrot de L&#39;Anse -Saint-Jean and the businesses of the artisanal park of Petit-Saguenay, to make unparalleled investments for the general improvement of the rural road network, to smooth out the difficulties for the advancement of structuring projects in different environments, such as establishment of a food cooperative in Petit-Saguenay or the restoration of the Val-Menaud inn in Saint-Charles-de-Bourget ”, enumerates the member for Dubuc.
The boroughs of Ville de Saguenay which are found in the county of Dubuc were not left out. Mr. Claveau has stepped up his efforts to finalize files that remained incomplete under the previous government so that the Laterrière multisport center and the Shipshaw multiservice center are finally built, and the La Baie multisport center is improved. By working on an agreement with the riparian owners concerned, it also made it possible to unblock the issue of the extension of the La Baie cycle path in the Barachois sector, a case that had stagnated for nearly ten years. He also took care of everything so that mobile classes were set up in Laterrière in order to avoid a change of establishment for local students, while waiting for the necessary funds to be released for the expansion of the École des Jolis- Near.
“The help I was able to provide to the various social and community organizations in the county is just as decisive as these major announcements. I am thinking, among others, of the Maison des families de La Baie, the ABCS association for the disabled in Saint-Ambroise, the Petits Marais de Laterrière, the ZIP-Saguenay which operates over a large part of the riding. Members of Parliament must also support the festivals and celebrations organized in their riding; what I did for the International Kite Festival of Saint-Honoré dans l&#39;vent, for the Shipshaw Forest Festival, for the Grandes Veillées de La Baie, for the 175th anniversary celebrations of L&#39;Anse Saint-Jean , for the celebrations of the 100th anniversary of Saint-Honoré, the international exhibition of crèches in Rivière-Éternité, ”adds Mr. Claveau with a smile.
By adding the modest one-off interventions, carried out in their respective constituencies, to the major legislative reforms voted in the National Assembly, the members of the Parti Québécois can draw up an enviable record after a single year at the helm of the State and in a context of government. minority. Imagine a real mandate of majority government!
