QuebecPauline Marois became the first woman elected Premier of Quebec on September 4, 2012. Her government&#39;s first year in office is marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebecers regain their pride. The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, and the pride of living together. The Parti Québécois government will therefore take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger.
The MNA for Taschereau, Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions, Ms. Agnès Maltais, is proud to present the results of the first year of the Parti Québécois government in the Capitale-Nationale region. &quot;Through targeted interventions and responsible choices, we have succeeded in advancing many important issues for the citizens of the region,&quot; said Agnès Maltais.
Last November, Minister Agnès Maltais, along with Minister for Families, announced the creation, by the end of 2016, of 782 new reduced-contribution places within the network of childcare services for the region of the Capitale-Nationale. “I am particularly proud to confirm that the government is keeping its commitment to complete the network of childcare services at $ 7, so that every family wishing their child to attend a childcare service can do so. It will finally be: a child, a place ”, declared the Minister.
The school boards of the Capitale-Nationale region will share $ 37 million for the construction of two elementary schools, the expansion of a few schools and the addition of several new classes as part of the major investments planned in education in the region by the Government of Quebec. “These infrastructure investments will have direct spinoffs on services to the population of the Capitale-Nationale, as well as on the well-being and quality of life of families in several neighborhoods. By meeting the significant needs for premises and space for students and school staff, our government is showing a real vision for the future for Quebec, ”added Minister Maltais.
Last August, Minister Agnès Maltais confirmed the allocation of an amount of $ 20 million over 6 years to the National Capital Commission of Quebec for the consolidation and maintenance of the New Barracks in Old Quebec. This major investment is the first step in a larger project aimed at enhancing the New Barracks, giving them a new vocation and, above all, allowing the population to finally have access to this jewel of our region. patrimony. “The revitalization of this extraordinary site was a necessity for Old Quebec, but unfortunately the former government only announced an investment in this site, without budgeting for the sums promised. It is therefore with pride that I announced this investment in order to bring a sustainable vocation to this extraordinary site. As it is now the rule since our arrival in the business, the source of the financing is clearly identified and this project will be carried out ”, mentioned the Minister.
The Parti Québécois government has also confirmed the funding of $ 103 million required for the expansion of the Musée national des beaux-arts de Québec. This major project is considered the most important project in the cultural sector in Quebec.
Finally, the government has given the Quebec Cultural Heritage Council the mandate to hold a public consultation in order to establish a conservation plan for the Sillery heritage site. This announcement responds to one of its commitments.
As early as 2003, the Member for Taschereau got involved in favor of the Hydro-Quebec burying project in the Limoilou and Saint-Roch neighborhoods and the dismantling of old lines and substations. The optimized routes of the underground line necessary for the permanent connection of Hydro-Québec&#39;s Limoilou substation were unveiled last June. The underground line will be in service in the fall of 2015. “For more than 10 years, I have worked actively with citizens to arrive at a socially acceptable solution to eliminate the horrors of iron and rust that are the pylons in Limoilou. Their dismantling is a good complement to the revitalization work on the Saint-Charles River and the Saint-Roch district, also designed and carried out under the leadership of the Parti Québécois, ”declared Ms. Maltais.
In the spring, the government of Quebec, in collaboration with the City of Quebec, set up a committee to monitor port activities in Quebec. This committee was set up to allow greater transparency and better knowledge of the environmental impacts of port activities in Quebec City, thus responding to the concerns of the population.
The past year saw the completion of several economic development projects in the Capitale-Nationale region. As part of the ACCORD Capitale-Nationale initiative (Concerted action for regional development cooperation), the government has announced financial support of $ 215,000 for the establishment of a research platform in the field of organic production of vaccines and other treatments. “I am proud to be able to say that our government is respecting its commitments and investing in research and innovation in the Capitale-Nationale. This R&amp;D synergy will strengthen the region&#39;s scientific and industrial leadership in bioproduction at the international level. It is important to remember that the region&#39;s strategic positioning in this area is the result of structuring decisions taken more than ten years ago by a government of the Parti Québécois, ”declared Minister Maltais.
Still in terms of research, the government announced a government contribution of $ 198,400 to the Cégep de Sainte-Foy in order to materialize its project selected under the last competition of the College-Industry Fund for Innovation (FCII) and which aims to acquire forest remote sensing research equipment for the Forestry Education and Research Center (CERFO) at Cégep de Sainte-Foy. This new equipment will enable the research team to strengthen its partnerships with forestry companies.
The Parti Québécois government is also committed to giving Quebec businesses the means to achieve their ambitions, to help them increase their productivity and thus promote their progress. Several companies in the region have thus obtained financial assistance, notably Fibrotek, FruitSélect inc., Systèmes Pavemetrics inc. and Groupe Domedic inc. who collectively received over $ 1.8 million. Through these investments, the Government of Quebec is helping to consolidate and create many jobs in the region.
It is also with pride that the government participated in the creation of the first microfinance mutual in Quebec, an innovative project that will contribute to the economic and social development of the region. “By participating in the creation of this new type of institution in Quebec, our government is contributing to the emergence of new businesses and to the richness of the Quebec economy. Thanks to this community and solidarity commitment, we are working to build a better future for the citizens of our region, ”added Minister Maltais. The government has also confirmed the allocation of non-refundable financial support of $ 736,420 to Femmessor Capitale-Nationale, a non-profit economic development organization dedicated to female entrepreneurship in the region.
The government also announced the renewal of the regional tourism partnership agreement for Quebec in the amount of $ 3,943,750 and the regional tourism partnership agreement for Charlevoix in the amount of $ 117,000. These agreements will allow the completion of several tourism projects in the region by 2015. Finally, the Government of Quebec has announced an investment of $ 10 million for the Massif project, which will be used in particular for the rail shuttle service and for upgrading to standards. the new La Ferme hotel and the multifunctional room.
During the last year, the government confirmed the accreditation of a family medicine group (GMF) in Quebec, the GMF Duberger. “With this gesture, the government is clearly showing that access to a family doctor for all Quebecers within four years is one of its priorities. The deployment of family medicine groups across the province is part of the solutions to achieve our goal, ”said the Minister.
The government has also given its approval to the University Institute of Cardiology and Pneumology of Quebec (IUCPQ) so that it goes ahead with its project to expand and modernize the Electrophysiology Service. This project, estimated at nearly $ 32.7 million, was duly included in the Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI), thus making it possible to reserve the sums necessary for its completion. The Institute will thus be able to improve the services offered to people with heart rhythm disorders and better respond to the increased demand for these services.
Finally, the Prime Minister confirmed the construction of the new Baie-Saint-Paul hospital at a cost of 376 million. The new facility, which should be operational at the end of 2018, will include an emergency room, an operating theater with two operating rooms and clinics with 16 rooms. It will also have 103 beds in long-term care accommodation.
“The citizens of the Capitale-Nationale can be assured that our government will continue its work to contribute to the vitality of the region, in particular by focusing on job creation. Solidarity will also continue to be at the heart of our political action. Thus, Quebecers will be able to count on a government that helps those who need it and those who support them, ”concluded the Minister.
