Ste-Agathe-des-Monts– The member for Bertrand and vice-president of the National Assembly, Claude Cousineau, is very satisfied with this first year in office of the new government of the Parti Québécois.
Elected deputy for the first time in 1998, the role of deputy holds no secrets for Claude Cousineau. “For 15 years, I have met my fellow citizens and worked for them. There are many issues and we are trying to resolve them, to find satisfactory solutions to the issues. The best possible decisions are always sought, taking into account the regulations and laws that govern us. &quot;
The deputy, who became vice-president of the National Assembly during this year, must now work with a duty of reserve in the face of certain decisions and positions of the government. “I must be attentive to sensitive subjects and not get involved or speak out too ardently on hot issues. I must maintain the confidence of all my colleagues in the National Assembly. That said, it is not because I am not in the public arena that I cannot work on the files of my riding. &quot;
Moreover, the member mentions that several infrastructure projects are underway in the county thanks to the decisions taken by the responsible ministers. “We worked together on the files and it is bearing fruit. &quot;
The deputy mentions in particular the construction of a fire station in Ste-Anne-des-Lacs, the renovation of the church of Val-des-Lacs into a community and cultural center, the construction of the Théâtre du Marais, the expansion of the Val-David library, as well as water and sanitation network projects in various municipalities.
“This week, we inaugurated in Val-David a new residence with 26 affordable units intended for seniors with a slight loss of autonomy. Then, in Sainte-Adèle, a visit to the site of 40 affordable housing units that will be rented as a priority to families and workers in this municipality. Other projects are currently on the table in other municipalities and we are working on them, ”said the MP.
On the other hand, the member mentions that he is asking his fellow ministers to obtain financial assistance for projects from organizations in the county. “I knock on the doors of the various ministers in order to have additional money to support the organizations. To our county budget of $ 95,000 for the support of volunteer action, is added roughly the same amount on the part of my fellow ministers ”, indicates Mr. Cousineau.
Always so passionate and stimulated by his work, the member also says he is looking at the hottest issues that affect the citizens of the county. “Whatever the file or the project, when people ask me to share their concerns, I work to find solutions to situations, win-win solutions”.
Finally, Claude Cousineau ends by thanking his fellow citizens for their confidence expressed throughout these years and assures them of his desire to support and represent them in the National Assembly and to the government.
