Quebec, December 8, 2017 - The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, surrounded by the team of members of the Parti Québécois, presented the results of the parliamentary team of the official opposition, describing the many gains made for the benefit of Quebecers, families, seniors, regions and Quebec SMEs.
IN SHORT
Gains for Quebeckers
“Alexandre Cloutier fought against the cost of school materials, and against the astronomical fees required for the supervision of students at noon. Result: the government was forced to move. He decided to donate $ 100 per child. We wanted $ 150. With Carole Poirier, we made sure that the government abandoned its very bad idea of a commission on racism. Philippe Couillard even changed ministers! In the ambulance file, it is very much the responsibility of Diane Lamarre and Agnès Maltais who made the government act. Result: 22 more ambulances! Then, for patients, superclinics add nothing to access; Quebecers got it right when Diane Lamarre denounced Gaétan Barrette&#39;s subterfuge, ”recalled Jean-François Lisée.
“The president of the Autorité des marchés publics will be appointed two-thirds of the way through the Assembly. We owe this gain to Nicole Léger. In the cannabis file, with Sylvain Pagé, we proposed the creation of a Crown corporation. The finance minister initially scoffed at this proposal, but the government eventually reconsidered its position. And we will not give up; the cannabis consumed here must be produced in Quebec. Finally, unlike Philippe Couillard, Maka Kotto, me and all the colleagues, we did not find it ridiculous to invite traders to use &quot;hello&quot; instead of &quot;hello / hi&quot;. The Liberals are now ashamed of having said that French is the common language in Quebec, while we in the Parti Québécois are proud of it, ”he added.
“If Quebecers want to put an end to permanent austerity and move towards independence, if they want a real green shift and a government that looks to the future, there is only one option. A party with ambition, a history and renewed ideas. A party with a solid plan, supported by a competent team which will defend our values such as our economic nationalism, and which will never find it ridiculous to defend our language. A party that will work for the world, that will stand up for Quebeckers and for Quebec. This party, this team, is that of the Parti Québécois! », Concluded the leader of the official opposition.
