Longueuil - Ms. Pauline Marois became the first woman elected premier in Quebec history on September 4, 2012. Her government&#39;s first year in office is marked by listening, courage and determination.
“After bringing order, the Quebec government once again has the means to act so that Quebecers can regain their pride. The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need and identity and measures to live better together. Thus, the Parti Québécois government is committed to making Quebec stronger, ”declared with one voice Mrs. Marie Malavoy, Member of Parliament for Taillon, Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport and Minister responsible for the region of Montérégie, Ms. Martine Ouellet, Member of Parliament for Vachon and Minister of Natural Resources and Mr. Bernard Dainville, Member of Parliament for Marie-Victorin and Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation.
The Parti Québécois government has announced decisive progress for Longueuil since September 4, 2012:
In order to increase the power of attraction of the Agglomeration of Longueuil and increase its development, the government set up a Working Group on the Agglomeration of Longueuil and created a Ministerial Committee on economic development along from the A-30 corridor. “We have taken steps for the future to make our region more attractive to new investments that create jobs. We are listening to community stakeholders in order to identify solutions, ”said Marie Malavoy.
The installation of an anti-noise wall by the City of Longueuil along Route 116 as of this fall, which will significantly reduce the noise impact of traffic, rejoices Martine Ouellet. She had also made a point of meeting with the regional directorate of the Quebec Ministry of Transport on this file. “This noise barrier will allow Longueuil residents to benefit from a more humane and pleasant living environment. Ville de Longueuil has already indicated its intention to extend the noise barrier. She can count on my support and my full collaboration, ”added Martine Ouellet.
The member for Marie-Victorin was also delighted with the achievements of the past year for Longueuil: the Gérard-Filion school soccer field; the hemodynamics room at the Pierre-Boucher Hospital; the Place Charles-Le Moyne revitalization project, which will guarantee better access to the Longueuil metro; support for the development project of the Sainte-Claire school yard as well as that of the Petits Explorateurs school, Maison St-Jean-Vianney. “We made commitments for the people of Longueuil and we deliver,” added Bernard Drainville.
The Parti Québécois is entering the second year of its mandate with the objective of making energy a powerful lever for economic and social development for Quebec. The new energy policy will focus on energy efficiency and make the electrification of transport a real economic hub, just like multimedia and aeronautics. &quot;With the electrification of transport, both collective and individual, we will develop a whole new economic sector, consolidate the presence of emerging companies in electrical components and ensure the growth of transport vehicle companies,&quot; said Martine Ouellet.
The Parti Québécois also wants to give itself a long-term vision for wind power in its future energy policy. “By making a long-term commitment to the wind energy sector, we will maintain more than 2,000 structuring jobs for the regions of Quebec and will support manufacturing activity in the long term,” added Martine Ouellet. With the new mining bill, the Parti Québécois government is giving itself the tools to maximize transformation in Quebec. Knowing that processing creates 3 to 4 times more jobs than simple extraction, we want Quebec to give itself the means to achieve its ambitions. With the adoption of the Wood Charter, for greater use of wood in construction, the Parti Québécois is consolidating and creating new jobs in the regions and promoting a tangible contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gases. The establishment of the Northern Development Secretariat will, for its part, allow communities and businesses to be supported in the creation of promising projects for Quebec. In this regard, the 100% financial guarantee required of companies that has been adopted ensures that it is no longer possible to have orphan mining sites in Quebec.
After years of Liberal scandals, the Parti Québécois government has made integrity and ethics a priority. “Quebecers had lost confidence in their institutions and their elected officials. Although there is still work to be done, through our actions we have helped restore integrity and trust. We adopted the anti-nominee bill, which limits donations to political parties to $ 100, the bill allowing voting on the campuses of CEGEPs, universities and vocational training centers, and the bill establishing fixed-date elections in Quebec. Three bills adopted unanimously. Our government has also changed the funding rules for municipal political parties, imposed new rules on the awarding of government contracts and allowed citizens to demand the suspension of a mayor who is criminally accused, ”added Bernard Drainville.
