Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu– Madame Pauline Marois became the first woman elected premier in the history of Quebec on September 4, 2012. Her government&#39;s first year in office is marked by listening, courage and determination . After bringing order, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain pride. The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, and identity and measures to live better together. The Parti Québécois government is therefore committed to making Quebec stronger.
In this regard, the Member of Parliament for Saint-Jean in the National Assembly and Deputy Government Whip, Dave Turcotte, is pleased with the results of the first year of his mandate as Ministerial Member, and wishes to underline his contribution to the government&#39;s results. by sharing with us the work accomplished in various sectors of activity over the past year, with the support of the government.
In fact, Dave Turcotte has settled, since becoming a Member of Parliament in 2008, many files and even more during this last year in government by working with the partners involved. &quot;Things are getting better and better in Saint-Jean and I have worked with the community to give tangible results for our fellow citizens and it is clear that we have results for Saint-Jean with the support of a government. listening, ”said Dave Turcotte.
For education, the deputy supported the establishment of Zone pro études and the Big Brothers, Big Sisters program, the promotion of vocational training and adult education, but also the cooperation of the region in order to give the a taste for reading for our young people and thus fight against illiteracy, a fight encouraged by the granting of $ 97,463 to the Open Door, a literacy and francization center in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu. Education also means maintaining our infrastructure with an investment of $ 3 million for 29 school infrastructure projects in 19 establishments, as well as other investments for schools in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, i.e. $ 2.2 million for a new gymnasium at École Aux-Quatre-Vents, in addition to the start of construction of 8 new classrooms, $ 2.03 million for the addition of 5 new classes at École St- Johns. For Cégep Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, it is an approved technical study program, the Agricultural Business Management and Technologies program, as well as a $ 50,000 grant for the acquisition of new equipment. For the Chanoine-Armand-Racicot vocational training center, a new professional study program will be implemented, Contemporary catering pastry. So, we are really at work for education!
Whether it is for families where 276 new childcare spaces in the riding have been granted and more than 300 new spaces will be created in the region, whether it is to support and support our community organizations which are at the heart of our social development. to whom $ 82,482 was distributed as part of the Support Program for Volunteer Action or for the establishment of two community gardens in buildings of the Office municipal d&#39;habitation Haut-Richelieu with a grant from $ 5,000, the deputy is present! For our immigrants, it is $ 54,600 granted to the Right to Employment organization in order to work to live better together. For our young people, it means supporting the Youth Complex project to give our young people a real multi-purpose center as well as the right to vote in schools, which will allow 4,000 students to benefit from it. The involvement of MP Dave Turcotte for young people is reflected, in addition to his presence at many activities, by his participation in the Tournée québécoise de consultation jeunesse. He also won the political implication prize in the “Je take ma place” contest of the Forum Jeunesse Montérégie Est, for his involvement in his community and his living environment, thus setting an example for our young people.
For health, it is our government that authorized the expansion of the Haut-Richelieu Hospital, an investment of $ 105 million. Health means encouraging the development of healthy lifestyles with the inauguration of the new sports complex in Saint-Blaise-sur-Richelieu and support for the health credit program of Cégep Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu. It also means investing in the region more than $ 260,000 in support for natural caregivers in order to help build a local health system that listens to people, this is 66 more beds in CHSLDs in Saint -Jean-sur-Richelieu and the inauguration of the birth center of the Haut-Richelieu-Rouville Health and Social Services Center. So, we are at work for health!
Culture is at the heart of Dave Turcotte&#39;s actions. Let&#39;s count the partnership with the ZOOM competition on my city, the book Atours et environs, on our regional built heritage, the book What should not be said, on our urban legends, the light boxes in the heart of Vieux-Saint-Jean , the procedures for the monument in memory of Félix-Gabriel Marchand, the granting of a grant of $ 7,500 for a heritage study on the Feller Heritage in Saint-Blaise-sur-Richelieu, not to mention the constant support to cultural organizations in the region and the signing of a $ 210,000 cultural development agreement between the City of Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, the Haut-Richelieu MRC and the Government of Quebec.
For road safety, we repair our infrastructure! The site of the urbanization of Saint-Luc Boulevard is well underway, the installation of traffic lights at the intersection of Grand-Bernier North and Deland Road in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, the replacement of the road culvert 223 in Saint-Blaise-sur-Richelieu and that of L&#39;Acadie have been completed, as well as the paving of highway 35. For Saint-Blaise-sur-Richelieu, these are investments of $ 39,266 for the improvement of the road. municipal road network and $ 12,356 for the maintenance of signage at level crossings and for Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, it is $ 25,278 for the road network in L&#39;Acadie and $ 24,713 for crossings at level, in addition to $ 1.3 million for public transit, not to mention the announcement of the reconstruction of the Gouin Bridge, a major project of nearly $ 80 million for the revitalization of Old Saint-Jean. So, we are really at work for the safety of citizens!
The economy is also about developing our SMEs and stimulating the next generation, it is talking with our entrepreneurs to get to know them better and support them. It means investing $ 626,326 to support two of our businesses, Logistik Unicorp and Protec-Style. It is also the establishment of a Business Transfer Center with us, an investment of $ 198,000 over three years, as well as financial assistance of $ 635,000 to the International de montgolfières de Saint-Jean-sur. -Richelieu, an event that generates annual economic benefits of $ 18 million. It is also the Member&#39;s initiative to hold a Forum on the economic and employment situation in order to draw up a portrait and establish priorities for action. Job creation and economic development are priorities for MP Dave Turcotte.
The deputy distributed 3,000 trees in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu and obtained a feasibility study, with assistance of $ 125,000, for the installation of a commuter train connecting Saint-Jean- sur-Richelieu in Montreal. With this mobilizing and sustainable project, we are at work for the environment!
“You see, the riding of Saint-Jean is heading in the right direction, I am convinced. Every day, the region experiences success with these many job-creating projects, which has already resulted in a 5.66% drop in the unemployment rate in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu since 2012. This first year, this is only the beginning, to see all that one accomplished in one year, imagine four years! With the integrity and sovereignty at the base of our political action and with all these concrete actions accomplished, we are truly at work for Saint-Jean and for all of Quebec ”, concludes Dave Turcotte.
