Quebec - Ms. Pauline Marois became the first woman elected premier in Quebec history on September 4, 2012. Her government&#39;s first year in office is marked by listening, courage and determination. After bringing order, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain pride. The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, identity and measures to live better together. The Parti Québécois government is therefore committed to making Quebec stronger.
“Last year, at this date, Quebec was bathed in a climate of social crisis and a fetid atmosphere of embezzlement and impunity; state finances were in disarray and the budget deficit was widening; public investments were announced without even being budgeted. The only thing that worked at full capacity was the Liberal Promise Machine. We have cleaned up this mess and repaired the pots broken by the former government, ”declared the Minister of Public Security, Stéphane Bergeron.
“In just one year, the Parti Québécois government has put forward several measures and taken many actions to advance Quebec. On all these fronts, our efforts have been crowned with success, ”added Mr. Bergeron.
Moreover, in the area of Public Safety, the Parti Québécois government has in particular:
Finally, let us mention the efficiency and speed with which Civil Security took charge of the management of the event, the concertation of partners, the deployment of support measures for the citizens of Lac-Mégantic affected by the tragedy of 6 last july. The consequences of this tragedy are extremely serious, particularly with regard to the loss of human life. The Ministry of Public Security, under the coordination of the Premier, quickly orchestrated the development of the assistance plan, which was immediately adopted by the government of the Parti Québécois and implemented to meet the pressing needs of the community. disaster in Lac-Mégantic.
&quot;The achievements and advances that have marked this busy year reflect the desire, shared by all members of the personnel of the Ministère de la Sécurité publique and its agencies, to face the problems and advance the strategic issues under their control. responsibilities. I would like to congratulate them warmly. Such results are the fruit of the work of a passionate and dedicated team of people who have chosen to use their expertise and know-how for the benefit of the safety of Quebecers. I am particularly proud of the results of this first year of teamwork, ”concludes Stéphane Bergeron.
