Quebec– Diane Lamarre, Member of Parliament for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, called on the Minister of Health this morning on the results of the two years of Liberal government and austerity in health. “The only observation we can make is that once again, it is the patients who suffer. And the only answer the Minister has to offer them regarding the lack of access is to wait another two years, in case things get better, ”said the MP.
“With an announcement in the 2016-2017 budget of new investments of $ 88 million for care and services, we have barely made up for 13% of all the Liberal cuts made over the past two years, which amount to nearly $ 700 million. For patients, this has translated into a degradation of access and an even greater gap to be made up than it was when this austerity government arrived, ”said Diane Lamarre.
“This is without counting the minister&#39;s refusal to let independent experts assess the effects of his reforms and his arbitrary decisions. He listens neither to the Auditor General&#39;s criticisms, nor to those of the Québec Ombudsman, and he recently announced the unjustified abolition of the Health and Welfare Commissioner. In addition, since May 9, the Minister has in hand the most recent report of the Commissioner on the performance of the health network; what is he waiting for to make it public? If his choices and decisions are so good, why is he afraid that others will evaluate them? Added the spokesperson.
“Today, we called on the Minister to discuss the needs of patients and the access problems they experience on a daily basis. We talked to him about the patients - not the structures, not the doctors, on whom the minister is trying to place all the responsibility for improving access, while front-line work and patient care is not should not rest solely on the shoulders of doctors. It is high time to harness the skills of other healthcare professionals, to develop solutions that put the patient first. And that goes through, among other things, nurse practitioners who are given the means to put all their skills to good use, pharmacists who can vaccinate, as is done everywhere else, and more psychologists in the public system ” , concluded Diane Lamarre.
