Quebec - The member for Saint-Jérôme and leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, as well as the member for Chicoutimi and parliamentary leader, Stéphane Bédard, accompanied by members of the parliamentary team of the Parti Québécois, gave an overview of the parliamentary session, during which the official opposition was constructive, efficient, serving the citizens and defending the interests of Quebec.
“This parliamentary session was very busy, and of a unique and singular intensity. Today, I am particularly proud of this great political formation that is the Parti Québécois. Our results are up to our ambitions for Quebec and the objectives we set for ourselves, ”declared the Leader of the Official Opposition at the outset.
“Contact with citizens is what inspires us, what gives meaning to our commitment and what motivates us to offer responsible, constructive and effective opposition. Several times during the session we have reached out to the government and offered to cooperate. In particular, we proposed the creation of a post of observer of religious fundamentalism, which would allow us to act effectively to prevent the radicalization of our young people, ”he continued.
“We also proposed to the Prime Minister to bring together all the social actors in connection with the economy and employment. We remain convinced of the need to hear, consult and unite all the forces to provide Quebec with ambitious policies and vision that the government currently lacks, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“This parliamentary session has shown that the Parti Québécois is the only possible and plausible alternative to the current government. We have proposed bills stuck to the concerns of citizens: the one on the creation of the post of parliamentary budget officer, the &quot;zero emissions&quot; bill, simple and promising, which could make Quebec a leader of the green economy, the one aimed at asserting the primacy of Quebec&#39;s environmental jurisdiction, and so on. We should also mention that the Law proclaiming Nelson Mandela Day was adopted today, an initiative of our colleague Maka Kotto. &#39;unanimous adoption of the motion recognizing cultural genocide against indigenous nations, tabled by our leader, also represents a particularly solemn and significant moment in this parliamentary session which is coming to an end, ”said Stéphane for his part. Bedard.
The parliamentary leader also recalled the mandates of initiative that we owe to the Parti Québécois. &quot;We want parliamentarians to look at the living conditions of indigenous women, those of adults housed in CHSLDs, the resale of daycare permits, and tax evasion and tax havens, among other things&quot; , he added.
“During the session, we started a promising job. The results are encouraging and indicate that we are moving in the right direction. We are building on solid foundations, with a team of dedicated and knowledgeable Members of Parliament, as well as enthusiastic activists. We build with the objective of working for the well-being of all citizens of Quebec. They, moreover, can count on the Parti Québécois team; we will continue our work so that austerity gives way to ambition, success and hope, ”concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau.
