Quebec - At the request of the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, the Office of Public Hearings on the Environment (BAPE) is releasing its report today public inquiry and consultation on the Biodiversity reserve projects for seven territories and aquatic reserve for one territory in the administrative region of Abitibi-Témiscamingue *. This mandate began on September 27, 2012. The commission of inquiry, responsible for examining the project, was chaired by Anne-Marie Parent, who was assisted by commissioner John Haemmerli.
At the end of the public consultation on the project of biodiversity reserves of the marshes of Parent Lake, Wetetnagami Lake, Saint-Cyr Lake, Dunes-de-la-Rivière-Attic, Wanaki, Basses-Collines-du -Ruisseau-Serpent and Vallée-de-la-Rivière-Maganasipi, as well as on the Rivière-Dumoine aquatic reserve project, and their extensions, the BAPE commission of inquiry concludes that the attribution of a permanent protection status by the government of Quebec for the eight proposed reserves would contribute to the government&#39;s objectives of protecting biodiversity by consolidating the network in the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region.
Following the commission&#39;s analysis, it appears that these protected areas add a marked contribution to the representation of the physical environments of the physiographic complexes in which they are located without, however, making it possible to obtain satisfactory regional coverage with regard to the target. 12% protection of biodiversity in Quebec by 2015.
Each of the proposed reserves must be the most coherent and the most ecologically relevant in order to ensure the maintenance of the ecological integrity of each of the ecosystems that are protected. Although some are opposed to the simultaneous approval of the expansions and the territories currently benefiting from a provisional protection status, they also mentioned the small surface areas of certain reserves and mentioned wanting to build around the territories currently set aside. Under these conditions, two years from the government deadline for reaching its target, and given the timeframe for proceeding, the expansions should not be postponed to a later stage. The Ministère du Développement durable, de l&#39;Environnement, de la Faune et des Parcs should therefore include in the reserves, with a few exceptions, the expansions that it is proposing.
The Minister should consider, among other things, the inclusion of the proposed expansions in the Parent Lake Marshes Biodiversity Reserve to ensure the protection of the marshes, the main objective of its set-aside, and the inclusion of the three lakes and the most land. surrounding in the Lac Saint-Cyr biodiversity reserve to improve its configuration and protection. The extensions presented by the ministry should be part of the Wanaki biodiversity reserve as soon as permanent status is granted, mainly to ensure better representativeness of the network and increase the size of the conservation core. In addition, the extensions proposed by the participants to link it to the Rivière-Dumoine aquatic reserve have ecological and cultural characteristics that justify the analysis of the possibility of including them, in whole or in part, in the reserve.
Given the gains they offer in terms of protection of the Dumoine River watershed, the potential expansions presented by the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks should also be incorporated into the aquatic reserve. de la Rivière-Dumoine upon granting permanent status. In addition, the extensions proposed by the participants deserve a more in-depth analysis to assess the relevance of including them, in whole or in part, in the reserve. An assessment of the frequentation of the Dumoine River and its capacity to support it is quickly required to verify whether this frequentation is likely to degrade the environment and compromise the achievement of the conservation objectives of the proposed Rivière-Dumoine aquatic reserve. . This assessment should also be used to determine whether activities on the river should be better supervised. Since it is the responsibility of the Ministère du Développement durable, de l&#39;Environnement, de la Faune et des Parcs to develop the network of Québec national parks and as it has the expertise to do so, it is up to it to assess the request of certain participants to establish a national park there.
Regarding the socioeconomic repercussions, a study relating to the establishment of biodiversity reserves and the aquatic reserve should be produced by the Ministry of Natural Resources and the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks. and be available for public consultation.
Finally, the implementation of the conservation plan, following the granting of permanent protection status, requires that the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks define, in an action plan, the management measures it intends to take to achieve its conservation objectives. In addition, the ministry intends to include regional partners in the management of reserves, some of which could be developed. In view of the imminent deadline, the ministry should quickly adopt a plan that will enable it to respond, when the time comes, to the required technical and financial needs.
Remember that during the first part of the public hearing, the commission held three public sessions in Val-d&#39;Or, as well as in videoconference rooms in Ville-Marie and Gatineau. In the second part, three public sessions held in Val-d&#39;Or, Témiscaming and Campbell&#39;s Bay enabled the commission to hear the presentation of twenty-two briefs and one oral opinion. A total of thirty-seven briefs were submitted to it by individuals, groups, organizations and municipalities interested in this project.
The survey and public consultation report on the Projects of biodiversity reserves for seven territories and of an aquatic reserve for one territory in the administrative region of Abitibi-Témiscamingue is now available. You can consult it in the BAPE documentation centers, in the consultation centers open in the target environment as well as on the BAPE website at www.bape.gouv.qc.ca. You can also make a request at the BAPE office, either by emailing communication@bape.gouv.qc.ca, or by dialing 418 643-7447 or, toll free, 1 800 463-4732 .
