Carleton-sur-Mer– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, today announced his intention not to support the choice of the Saint- Michel for the creation of one of the organic matter treatment centers by biomethanization and composting on his territory. He invites the City of Montreal to favor a site other than this one.
“We recognize the efforts made by the City of Montreal to identify suitable sites, but it is clear that social acceptability is not there in the case of the Saint-Michel Environmental Complex. I do not wish to support a project that was very clearly rejected by the population and by elected officials in the sector, ”said Minister Blanchet. He specified that the other sites selected did not present, in his opinion, any major obstacles to their realization.
The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities, Minister responsible for the Charter of the French language and Member of Parliament for Crémazie, Mrs. Diane De Courcy, welcomes this position, which responds to the legitimate concerns of the citizens of her constituency. “As Member of Parliament for Crémazie, I supported citizens in their dealings with Minister Blanchet, who showed openness, listening and transparency in order to achieve concrete results for the good of the population. of Crémazie. I would like to salute the members of the Ahuntsic Committee against the composting plant in Saint-Michel Park, which gave a voice to those who do not have one, ”said Ms. De Courcy.
Minister Blanchet calls on the federal government, whose financial participation, which could represent a third of the costs, is conditional on the completion of the entire project within a prescribed period. Since the change of site will likely result in an additional delay, Minister Blanchet asks the federal government to maintain its funding within the same parameters, but with an extended delay. &quot;I intend to challenge my federal counterpart in the coming days to make sure,&quot; said Minister Blanchet.
It should be remembered that the Program for the treatment of organic materials by anaerobic digestion and composting provides for the payment of financial assistance to municipal and private applicants for the establishment of treatment facilities. The City of Montreal&#39;s project provides for the construction of five infrastructures, including four organic waste treatment centers. The costs of this project are estimated at nearly $ 240 million and the facilities could be in service as of 2016.
