Forestville - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, and the Member for René-Lévesque, Chief Government Whip and responsible for the Côte-Nord region, Marjolain Dufour, announce the allocation of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 394,800 to the company OPCO Technologie inc., specializing in research and development in the forestry sector and, more recently, in the bioenergy sector.
The financial assistance will be used to develop a forest biomass generator that will produce heat and electricity. The markets targeted by this new product are those for low-power generators. The operating principle retained for the system is that of the “organic Rankine cycle”, which consists of a closed circuit using an organic liquid to drive a turbine and a generator.
“More than ever, Quebec must count on companies that place innovation at the heart of their business strategies in order to prosper and stand out internationally,” declared Élaine Zakaïb. “The OPCO Technology project is an eloquent demonstration of this visionary and innovative spirit that drives our entrepreneurs. By developing a new technology that will enhance forest biomass, the company shares with us the vision of a Quebec focused on sustainable development and positioned as a leader in the green technology sector. &quot;
&quot;The Government of Quebec is proud to support OPCO Technologie in carrying out its project that will generate significant economic benefits for the North Shore,&quot; added Marjolain Dufour. “This project is a fine example of collaboration and partnership between Quebec companies, as some in the region will manufacture and market the forest biomass generator developed by OPCO Technology. &quot;
OPCO Technologie is a company specializing in the research and development of urban and forestry mobile equipment. It develops sophisticated products (vehicles and attachments) with a technological advance that cannot be found on the market. The company carries out research and development in the forestry and bioenergy sectors.
&quot;Thanks to this project, we want to increase our market share in a promising sector of activity, that of forest biomass,&quot; said the president of the company OPCO Technologie, Mr. Guy Gaudreault. “The support from the Quebec government will allow us to have a technological and competitive advantage in this booming sector. &quot;
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
