Quebec - This morning at the National Assembly, the member for Taschereau and official opposition spokesperson for health, Agnès Maltais, tabled a petition signed by 7331 Quebecers demanding better access to the various places of birth, in particular birth centers.
“While many expectant mothers do not have access to adequate pregnancy monitoring, the Minister of Health and Social Services, Yves Bolduc, is slow to accelerate the development of birthing centers and midwifery services in Quebec. However, the needs are pressing and midwives are available. The Minister has a duty to act now, ”said the Member for Taschereau.
“Since the filing of the perinatal policy, the development of birth centers has slowed down. Three years ago, the Charest government made a commitment that 10% of births in Quebec be carried out by midwives, over a period of ten years. However, currently, it is barely 2%. Since the filing of the perinatal policy, only two new birth centers have seen the light of day, which is totally insufficient, ”said Agnès Maltais.
The Department of Health and Social Services refused to fund 100% of new birth center projects, which had the effect of slowing down development. Moreover, on April 13, the member for Taschereau asked the minister to change the funding method. This morning, in response to a question from the Leader of the Official Opposition, the Minister of Health gave in to the opposition&#39;s arguments by announcing 100% funding for new birth center projects.
“We welcome the commitment of the Minister of Health to 100% fund projects for new birth centers. I only wish that the minister will truly fulfill his promise. We have freshly remembered an announcement from the Minister concerning the free, in hospitals, of injections of Lucentis, a drug necessary to fight against wet macular degeneration. However, the gratuity promised by the Minister in this file is still pending. Let us hope that the financing of birth centers will not suffer the same fate, ”concluded Agnès Maltais.
