Quebec - The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane De Courcy, said she was deeply disappointed at the breakdown of negotiations with the Coalition Avenir Québec on Bill 14. The purpose of this bill was to amend the Charter of the French language, the Charter of human rights and freedoms and other legislative provisions in order to strengthen the use of French in various spheres of activity in Quebec society.
The government had agreed to discuss with the Coalition all aspects of the bill that the latter deemed unsatisfactory. Minister Diane De Courcy believes that she has shown openness to the concerns expressed by certain actors of civil society during public hearings in parliamentary committee last spring.
“Although I considered our initial proposal to be balanced and responsible, I approached this exercise with a lot of openness, because I believe deeply in parliamentary work. I was firmly convinced that at the end of the process, we would find solutions to enshrine the right of all Quebeckers to live and work in French in Quebec. I was therefore prepared to make certain compromises, but not to the point of emptying the bill of its substance. However, the Coalition members approached the negotiations without a comprehensive vision and constantly changing their minds throughout our 13 hours of discussion. As for the Liberals, I remind you that they chose, as soon as the bill was tabled, to do as in 1977, that is to say to reject everything en bloc and to systematically obstruct ”, lamented the minister.
Following the general consultation, Minister Diane De Courcy announced to the CAQ her intention to adjust the bill to eliminate some irritants. For example :
“In order to create a climate conducive to reasoned negotiations, we have from the outset demonstrated our good faith,” explained the Minister.
It should be remembered that the heart of Bill 14 consisted in particular of strengthening French, the language of work. Among the points on which the discussions stumbled, let us mention the rejection of the most important provisions aimed at generalizing the use of French in companies with 26 to 49 employees. The bill proposed that these companies participate in the collective effort to francize workplaces, taking into account their reality, in particular the region where they are located and their sector of activity.
&quot;We were already proposing a flexible formula, whereby small businesses should have ensured that French is the normal and usual language of work, but without having to obtain a francization certificate as businesses with 50 or more employees must do. . We were even ready to accept that the application be done gradually, starting with the most sensitive regions and sectors of activity. It was too much to ask of the Coalition Avenir Québec which, despite its rhetoric, preferred the status quo and the generalized bilingualization of workplaces, ”declared the Minister.
Another contentious element concerned the provisions of the bill relating to CEGEPs. Several anglophone CEGEPs admit more students than their budget provides, and Dawson College has even become the largest college in Quebec. In this context, Bill 14 provided for protecting the right of anglophone students to attend anglophone colleges. This would have made it possible to maintain a healthy balance between the Francophone and Anglophone networks without depriving Anglophones of the possibility of attending Anglophone colleges if they so wish.
The Coalition opposed the fact that the admission requirements to English-speaking CEGEPs favor English-speaking students. “We made a commitment that these measures would only come into effect in five years, after making sure to enrich the teaching of English and French in the two networks. Strengthening language learning and maintaining a balance between the networks were part of our approach: the Coalition preferred to let it go, which is irresponsible both linguistically and in terms of public finances ”, denounced the Minister. , noting that the Coalition&#39;s approach could lead to expansions of English-speaking CEGEPs, while French-speaking CEGEPs in the same territory would have vacant premises. &quot;Here again, the CAQ prefers the status quo, or even the development of the English-speaking college network to the detriment of the French-speaking network,&quot; said the Minister.
Moreover, the government unsuccessfully argued with the Coalition that municipalities are major players in the promotion of French as the language of work and the language of public use. The Coalition objected to the fact that certain municipalities currently enjoying the status of bilingual city could lose this privilege insofar as they no longer meet the conditions of departure.
However, Minister Diane De Courcy proposed that this withdrawal could not be done without the local will being expressed and that a committee of experts, comprising three members of the English-speaking community, was consulted by the government. “The withdrawal of bilingual status would thus have been marked out and limited to the most critical situations. This has always been our intention, said the minister, but our proposals reassured those who feared a wall-to-wall approach by ensuring that local representatives were involved in the reflection. Despite everything, the Coalition Avenir Québec demanded that each municipal council have a right of veto. Once again, the Coalition advocated the status quo and the impossibility for the government to intervene, ”deplores Ms. De Courcy.
The Minister insisted that with these negotiations, “the Coalition Avenir Québec had the opportunity to rise above partisanship and take concrete action to reaffirm the use of French in all spheres of society. public life in Quebec. While the Coalition had supported the principle of strengthening the Charter of the French language and had publicly and repeatedly expressed to Quebecers the importance it attached to French, it is clear that its deputies and its leader did not have not been able to move from words to deeds. Do I need to clarify that Bill 14 was not just simple legislation? The measures represented so many concrete actions to ensure the future of the French language, the maintenance of our identity and our heritage, ”she declared.
Despite her disappointment at the outcome of the negotiations surrounding Bill 14, Ms. De Courcy remains committed to concrete actions in favor of French, particularly with regard to the integration of immigrants into the labor market. The Minister recently announced an investment of $ 57 million for the next three years, including an additional $ 13.5 million devoted in particular to the diversification of francization services offered to immigrants, abroad and in Quebec. This flagship measure of the Québec strong in immigration action plan is one of the 24 measures intended to maximize the contribution of immigration to the economic, cultural and social development of Québec, as well as the increased importance accorded to French since August 1. in the selection grid for immigrants.
“We are acting for French, with the powers that we have as a government. However, to succeed in slowing down the decline of French, a strengthening of the Charter of the French language remains necessary. Also, when we have a majority, we will, ”concluded the Minister.
