Québec - The MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and official opposition spokesperson for international relations, Carole Poirier, and the MNA for Verchères and spokesperson for ethics and integrity, Stéphane Bergeron, denounce the many partisan and ideological appointments of the Liberal government.
“The good old Liberal Party is back! We are terminating the mandate of competent people who have proven themselves and, above all, who were not partisan. They are recalled to Quebec at great expense to appoint two former ministers and a former member of the Liberal Party. How much are these decisions costing taxpayers? The government is cutting services to the people in the name of austerity, but is spending thousands of dollars breaking contracts, repatriating people earlier than planned and sending Liberal friends abroad. This is absurd! », Indicated Carole Poirier.
The member for Verchères did not fail to point out, for his part, that the name of the former Minister Line Beauchamp was mentioned during the work of the Charbonneau commission. “The least thing, in Ms. Beauchamp&#39;s case, would have been to wait until the commission&#39;s report was tabled before making an appointment. In a context of budget rationalization, the greatest caution is required before making changes that involve unnecessary costs. After having loudly called for more transparency in appointments, it is surprising to note that the Liberal government does not seem to want to apply the conclusions of the Perrault report. Obviously, the Liberals are absolutely incapable, with both hands in the pot, not to use it happily and not to share it with their friends, ”added Stéphane Bergeron.
Remember that yesterday, the government made several partisan appointments. In addition to having appointed Line Beauchamp (UNESCO), Christos Sirros (London) and Éric R. Mercier (Mexico) as Quebec representatives, the Liberals have assigned the position of President and CEO of the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec to Michel Gagnon, and that of Deputy Minister of Tourism to Marc Croteau, respectively former chiefs of staff of Marc Bellemare and Jean Charest. Since 2003, the Liberal Party has made more than 527 partisan appointments.
