Quebec - In light of Bombardier&#39;s most recent financial results, the leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, has asked Premier Philippe Couillard to renegotiate the bad deal his government struck with the company.
“The results show a very difficult situation. Bombardier announces the loss of 7,000 jobs, including 3,000 in the aerospace sector. The Liberal government has decided to invest US $ 1 billion in a transaction relating solely to the CSeries project. He is prepared to take all the financial risks associated with this project, as experts say this deal is poorly put together. Already the initial agreement was bad, it is even worse today if we take into account the jobs lost. The former Minister of the Economy did not even see fit to include a clause ensuring the maintenance of jobs in Quebec. The government must renegotiate this bad deal before it is finally signed. I ask the Prime Minister to protect all Bombardier jobs here in Quebec, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
An economic and industrial policy
“The aeronautics industry is a key sector of the Quebec economy, and it is in difficulty. Bell Helicopter has cut 1,000 jobs over the past two years, CAE has also announced the abolition of 350 positions. In the meantime, here in Quebec, we are waiting for the implementation of a real economic and industrial policy from the government. When will the Prime Minister finally do his job? Added the leader of the official opposition.
“The Prime Minister must renegotiate the bad agreement in principle and the letter of intent he signed with Bombardier. But he must also pick up his phone and call the Prime Minister of Canada to participate in Bombardier&#39;s recovery effort. For three months, nothing has happened. However, let us remember, the federal government did not hesitate so much when it came to saving the auto industry in Ontario. Can Premier Couillard intervene so that the federal government stops procrastinating, and before it is too late? », Concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau.
