Lévis - The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron is proud to announce $ 6 million in enhancements to the Diversification Support Program and to the regional development of La Financière agricole du Québec (FADQ). The second registration period for this program will begin on March 10 and will continue until May 9, 2014.
Nine million dollars invested to diversify, develop and facilitate access to Quebec products Remember that when the program was put in place last fall, the Quebec Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food ( MAPAQ) as well as the FADQ wanted to support the development of nearly 300 agricultural businesses. By virtue of the broadening of the eligibility criteria and the enhancement of the program, it will now support more than 600 of them. In addition, the financial assistance granted now translates into an interest reimbursement of up to $ 15,000 per company. , rather than $ 10,000.
On this subject, Minister François Gendron affirms: “Without the success of those who have a passion for the land, Quebec agriculture cannot have a future. The improvement announced today is part of the government&#39;s desire to support our entrepreneurs in their desire for expansion, diversification and improvement in order to better nourish Quebec as a whole. &quot;
On the other hand, Mr. Robert Keating, President and CEO of La Financière agricole du Québec, maintains: “By participating in the diversification and development of our agricultural businesses, we are acting as a responsible organization that plays its role of leader in the economic development of the agricultural sector. &quot;
Its objective is to promote the diversification and productivity of the company&#39;s agricultural activities by targeting the exploitation of new products and services. To be eligible, projects must meet the following criteria:
Its objective is to promote the improvement of the agricultural territory of Quebec, for example by aiming to carry out drainage works or recultivation of fallow land. To be eligible, the company must demonstrate:
Its objective is to promote greater availability as well as a better diversity of Quebec products throughout the year. To benefit from this program, the company must demonstrate:
Any other greenhouse company can apply to participate regardless of a maximum gross income. However, this characteristic remains specific to the greenhouse component of this program.
The diversification projects submitted will be evaluated in collaboration with the MAPAQ. Finally, more information about the new Regional Diversification and Development Support Program is available at the following address: www.fadq.qc.ca
By offering quality products and services in terms of financing, insurance and income protection, La Financière agricole du Québec promotes the development and stability of more than 25,000 agricultural and forestry businesses in Quebec. Moreover, it places the next generation of farmers at the heart of its priorities by offering direct financial assistance adapted to its reality. With insured values of $ 4.7 billion and a loan guarantee portfolio of $ 4.4 billion, it actively participates in the economic development of Quebec and its regions.
