Sept-Îles - The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, accompanied by the MP for Duplessis, Ms. Lorraine Richard, today announced investments totaling more than $ 16 million for two projects in vocational training which will be carried out at the Commission scolaire du Fer.
“Thanks to these major investments in vocational training, we are encouraging the attraction, retention and graduation of young people from here, while contributing to the development of skills and know-how essential to the economy of the region of Sept- Islands, ”said Minister Malavoy.
The government is first investing $ 5 million in the redevelopment of the A.-W.-Gagné vocational training center to modernize it and make it compliant with the requirements of the welding and assembly (5195), Electricity (5295) and Mechanical programs. industrial construction and maintenance (5260). The project will also make it possible to reorganize the facilities for certain study programs in the administration and health sectors.
&quot;If vocational training in Quebec enjoys an excellent reputation internationally, it is because our study programs are regularly updated and our centers have the necessary equipment to offer training that meets the highest standards. high quality standards. The investments that will be made here will have repercussions on the regional economy and, of course, on the quality of life of the population ”, declared Ms. Richard.
In addition, Ms. Malavoy made public an investment of $ 11 million for the construction of a multifunctional center near the A.-W.-Gagné vocational training center.
This new center will be equipped with two multi-purpose large-area workshops, administrative spaces as well as the premises required for student services, over an area totaling nearly 2,800 m2. Thanks to the new facilities, the study programs offered in the workshops will be able to be modified over time according to manpower needs.
These announcements are part of the Economic policy: Priority employment, published on October 7 and intended to create jobs in all regions of Quebec, in the short and medium term. This government policy aims in particular to make improvements to vocational training establishments and to invest in the development of northern Quebec.
“The people of Quebec recognize the importance of obtaining solid qualifications. For many, this helps to awaken and fuel the desire to learn. We must ensure that each student, whatever their age, can reach the end of their abilities, by offering them accessible and diversified training paths. A strong and prosperous Quebec needs to rely on women and men who have been given all the opportunities and support necessary to obtain a diploma or qualification, ”concluded Minister Malavoy.
