Quebec - The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Mrs. Marie Malavoy, offers her best wishes for success to nearly a million young people and adults in Quebec who are entering or returning to the benches of school in this new school year. She also wishes to wish a good start to the school year to the teachers and staff of schools and school boards.
&quot;I wish the students that they develop a taste for learning new things, that they have on their way teachers who will cultivate their curiosity and who will help them to better understand what is happening around them&quot; , said the minister.
The Minister takes the opportunity to underline the arrival of 4-year-old children who are starting full-time kindergarten in underprivileged areas. This new service, which is part of the fight against dropping out of school, was made possible following the unanimous adoption by the National Assembly last June of Bill 23. school boards will open a new 4-year-old kindergarten class to more than 600 students.
“I would like to recognize the sustained effort of school boards, school administrators, teachers and parents, who only had a few weeks this summer to enroll young people in kindergarten. It is thanks to our joint efforts that we were able to initiate this promising project, ”continued Ms. Malavoy.
This re-entry is also a major event for children with precarious immigration status. Following administrative changes announced last June, the government facilitated access to Quebec schools for these children.
“No government before ours had acted to tackle this problem. Today, thanks to our action, children previously excluded from school will be able to have access to it, ”added the Minister.
“Everyone had to show great solidarity to set up kindergartens for 4 years and to facilitate access to school for all children. It is with this solidarity in mind that characterizes us that I would like to wish the best of the back to the students, teachers and staff of the Lac-Mégantic schools who have had a difficult summer. Know that we are with you wholeheartedly, ”concluded the Minister.
