Quebec - The Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation, Mr. Bernard Drainville, and the Government House Leader, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, condemn the Liberal Party&#39;s attitude to democratic integrity. Today, the party of Mr. Philippe Couillard refused to give its consent for the National Assembly to adopt a motion on the abolition of severance bonuses paid to resigning deputies. Remember that since the bill was tabled on March 20, Liberal MPs have systematically blocked Bill 33, which would put an end to this practice strongly denounced by Quebeckers. “The Liberals refuse to withdraw the bonus from a member who does not respect the moral commitment contracted to the population. Already, two of theirs have resigned in less than a year. Each with a bonus of over $ 100,000. Clearly, for Philippe Couillard and his deputies, it is the liberal interest before the public interest, ”lamented Minister Drainville.
Here is the wording of the motion presented today by Bernard Drainville:
&quot;That the members of the 40th legislature undertake to renounce their transition allowance if they leave during the present mandate unless there is a medical or family reason&quot;.
The motion presented by the Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation was rejected out of hand by the Liberal Party.
“The Liberals are not respecting the mandate given to them by the people. The departure bonus should allow elected officials to make the transition while they find a new job once public life is over. If you don&#39;t complete the term, you shouldn&#39;t be entitled to a bonus. It is clearly a lack of respect for the voters who voted for you. The rejection of our motion shows once again that the Liberal Party has not really changed ethically, ”said Bernard Drainville.
Government House Leader Stéphane Bédard, for his part, deplores the strategy of systematic blocking to which the Liberals have engaged each time the bill has been called and debated in the chamber: &quot;We called for its adoption in principle. six times, while one or two sessions are usually sufficient. In all, we debated during 11:33 am the principle of Bill 33. From that time, 9:45 am were taken by the 30 Liberal MPs who intervened to oppose it ”. Running out of arguments, the Liberals even used an adjournment motion to end the debate as well as a motion to postpone the debate, which proposed to postpone the adoption process of this bill to three months later. law. &quot;We can legitimately ask ourselves what hides Philippe Couillard&#39;s stubborn refusal to discuss severance bonuses now,&quot; concluded Mr. Bédard.
Are you in favor of Bill 33? Share this image on social media! You can download it at the following address: http: //bit.ly/GLw85B
