Quebec - The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, confirmed the entry into force of the four amendments to the Regulation respecting assistance to individuals and families and unveiled the Services Commitment for Employment and “No One Else”. This commitment aims to intervene quickly and proactively with recipients of last-resort financial assistance in order to enable them to take advantage of the opening up of the labor market and to integrate a job to improve their financial situation.
“Last resort financial assistance is a gesture of great solidarity, the sustainability of which must be ensured. The fight against poverty requires additional efforts which do not exclude the need to adapt to reality. One of the deepest convictions of our government is that the best way to fight poverty is employment, and we have decided to do everything in our power to get there. We have the courage to make this political decision and to commit ourselves to taking continuous action with social assistance recipients in order not to escape anyone, ”explained Minister Maltais.
The service commitment provides that each of the service providers affected by the regulatory changes will be met so that they can be offered a personalized intervention plan to promote their integration into employment. As soon as the service provider signs up for this course, he will benefit from the planned employment assistance allowance. If participation in an active employment measure does not lead to employment, claimants who so wish will be offered other measures to promote their employability.
Particular attention will be paid to young people. Emploi-Québec will support all young people under the age of 25 who seek last-resort financial assistance. They will be met regularly in order to support them on an ongoing basis in their efforts to integrate into employment.
For the sake of transparency, the government also intends, starting in the fall, to publish national data on a quarterly basis with regard to the interventions carried out with the people concerned to monitor the progress of the process. The Minister will also ask the Advisory Committee for the Fight against Poverty and Social Exclusion to produce an opinion on the follow-up of this service commitment.
Quebec is experiencing significant demographic changes that have an immediate impact on its labor market. The combined effect of retirements and job creation linked to economic growth will ensure that 700,000 jobs will be available by 2016. This number will reach 1.4 million in 2021.
“Quebec is changing and we must adapt our financial assistance programs accordingly. Several challenges lie in wait for the job market and we will need all of our workforce to meet them. People who have the potential and the desire to work will be able to do so, which is why I decided to go ahead with the regulatory changes proposed in February, ”said Minister Maltais.
She indicated that she had taken note with interest of the various positions expressed during the consultation period and made adjustments to the final draft amendments to the Individual and Family Assistance Regulation. The Minister also recalled that no provider will see his basic service affected by the changes.
Thus, the Regulation which will come into force on July 1 provides for:
All those affected by the changes to the monthly allowance for temporary constraints will be contacted and met. These individualized meetings will also make it possible to identify the most vulnerable people, to offer them measures adapted to their needs, taking into account their potential for integration and, where applicable, their limitations. Some people could then be granted an additional allowance due to health problems or due to severe employment constraints.
The objective is to help these people improve their situation and participate more in the social and economic life of Quebec. Several people concerned are isolated and have not met an agent for a long time. This is a new impetus to fight against poverty and social exclusion.
