Quebec - The MP for Gouin and official opposition spokesperson for transport, Nicolas Girard, wonders about the seriousness of the Minister of Transport, Sam Hamad, in the Champlain Bridge issue.
“Over the past few months, I have demanded on several occasions, in the House and in the media, that the pre-feasibility studies be made public. Each time, the minister said it was impossible because they were not completed. However, the document made public yesterday by the company Les Ponts Jacques Cartier and Champlain Incorporée dates from March. This shows that Sam Hamad lied, misled the House and was an accomplice of the Conservative Party during the election campaign and in the following weeks by refusing to make this study public. What is the minister playing? Why did he support this refusal of transparency when the Quebec government was assuming 40% of the bill? By doing this, it is certainly not protecting Quebeckers as it should, ”said the member for Gouin.
“The authors of the pre-feasibility study unveiled in the media yesterday estimate that the construction of a new bridge will take at least a decade. The current bridge is in a very bad condition and requires huge investments. Meanwhile, the Minister of Transport of Quebec is playing hide and seek with Quebeckers and refuses to act, ”added Nicolas Girard.
“Despite repeated requests from all stakeholders in the field, elected officials, business people and citizens, the federal government persists in refusing to build a new bridge. Sixty million vehicles travel on the Champlain Bridge each year. It is also a fundamental transport route for the economy of the metropolis. It is pitiful that the federal government is so insensitive to the need to build this new bridge! Added the deputy.
Sam Hamad&#39;s attitude also raises questions in the Mercier Bridge case. Indeed, the Minister of Transport of Quebec once again refuses to make public the inspection reports that motivated the emergency closures of traffic lanes in recent weeks, closures that have caused significant headaches to motorists and truckers. To justify his refusal, let us recall that he affirmed last June 30 in the daily newspaper The Gazette that Quebecers “would not understand” the reports.
“We hope that Minister Hamad will have learned a lesson from the Champlain Bridge file and that he will finally demonstrate transparency by unveiling the Mercier Bridge inspection reports. He must show transparency and not paternalism towards Quebecers, ”concluded Nicolas Girard.
