Quebec - The Minister of Health and Social Services, Réjean Hébert, the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the Minister of Culture and of Communications, Maka Kotto, announced the establishment of a committee to look into the reuse, outside the health and social services network, of buildings that will soon become surplus at the Center hospitalier de l&#39;Université de Montréal (CHUM ) and at the McGill University Health Center (MUHC), following the completion of each of the modernization projects. This interministerial committee will be led by the minister responsible for the Montreal region, Jean-François Lisée.
“With the construction of the new facilities at Montreal&#39;s two large university hospital centers, it is clear that a good number of buildings will no longer be required by the two establishments. These buildings are valued at over $ 200 million, and it is essential to find the best ways to enhance or dispose of them. Our government is also aware of the remarkable heritage value of several of these buildings, which calls for the greatest discernment in the search for their new vocation, ”declared Minister Hébert.
An interministerial committee has been set up to define scenarios for the disposal of these surplus assets. There are represented, in addition to the Ministry of Health and Social Services, the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology of Quebec, the Ministry of Culture and Communications, the Secretariat for metropolitan region, the Société immobilière du Québec as well as the City of Montreal. The Treasury Board Secretariat attends the proceedings as an observer.
“This is an important issue for the future of the metropolis and its built heritage. We are therefore going to consider it by giving ourselves a global vision and avoiding making hasty decisions individually. The ministerial committee will take all the necessary steps to assess all the possibilities while taking into account the specific context of each building, and to make the appropriate recommendations ”, for his part specified Minister Jean-François Lisée.
“I am delighted with the formation of this committee, because it is clear that this project requires significant collaboration and consultation with all the stakeholders involved. We recognize the emblematic character of these heritage buildings and these historic sites, very dear to Montrealers and Quebecers, ”added Culture and Communications Minister Maka Kotto.
To help it define the best way to optimize this approach, the committee will mandate a group of experts from different backgrounds: economic, social, heritage, environmental, real estate. The expert group may seek and receive opinions from interested parties and carry out consultations. Its recommendations must be made to the interministerial committee no later than December 31, 2013, so that decisions on the disposal of surplus buildings can be announced in 2014.
