Québec, February 26, 2018 - Presenting the demands of the Parti Québécois for the federal budget, the official opposition spokesperson for finances and Québec-Canada relations, Nicolas Marceau, calls, among other things, for the end of fiscal injustice. “Of course, the current tax treaties with tax havens must be canceled and the agreement with Netflix torn apart. But, in addition, the federal government must institute concrete measures for the electrification of transport, fund cellular coverage in the regions, offer Quebec fishermen fair support and make firm commitments for the Davie shipyard ”, he said. it listed.
IN SHORT
Restore tax justice: the Parti Québécois proposed a solution
Nicolas Marceau underlined that the Trudeau government recently signed two new agreements with tax havens, Grenada and Antigua-and-Barbuda, in addition to having concluded another, odious, with Netflix, whose products are exempted from taxes. “We are submitting two concrete measures to Justin Trudeau to restore tax justice, since he claims to defend the middle class. First, by canceling the tax treaties that bind us to recognized tax havens, we will stop making tax evasion legal. Then, by tearing up the deal made with Netflix and forcing the multinational to collect taxes, like any local business, the &quot;double standards&quot; regime will end, &quot;he detailed.
The spokesperson recalled the zero-cost solution for taxpayers that he proposed: establish the mandatory collection of taxes on all goods and services (tangible or intangible) purchased on the Internet, while offsetting the effect on the burden tax with an equivalent reduction in the overall tax rate. &quot;Just by applying this simple measure, the rules of the game would be much fairer for our traders,&quot; continued Nicolas Marceau.
Regions, investments, environment: Quebec must be treated fairly
The Parti Québécois is also calling on Ottawa to treat Quebec fairly and to commit to the regions. “The Trudeau government has set up a $ 400 million fund for the fishing industry, but only Atlantic fishermen have access to it. This injustice towards Quebec fishermen must be corrected. In addition, in 2018, all regions must be served by an adequate cellular network; it is essential for the security of the population and economic development. In Charlevoix, it was not until the G7 was held for the federal government to provide cellular coverage. However, although there will probably not be a G7 in Abitibi or the Gaspé in the foreseeable future, Ottawa must devote funds to ensure the development of the network. Finally, Justin Trudeau hinted that the Davie shipyard would possibly get a contract for four icebreakers. But words are not enough; the budget must contain a firm and quantified commitment in this regard, ”insisted the member for Rousseau.
Finally, Justin Trudeau, who likes to present himself as an environmental champion, does not, in fact, encourage the growth of electric vehicles. “Ottawa must put in place three concrete measures for electric vehicles. First, offer, as Quebec already does, a discount when purchasing such a vehicle. Then, give Quebec its fair share of investments for the installation of charging stations - because we currently only receive 9%. Finally, correct the aberration of the Innovation Fund for the automotive sector, which only helps manufacturers in Ontario, while the Quebec industry is full of innovative SMEs that only require a little support from the government, ”concluded Nicolas Marceau.
