Quebec - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, reaffirmed, on the occasion of the tabling of the 2014-2015 budget, that the government is in action to ensure the prosperity of the regions and that it maintains its support for municipalities.
“Quebec&#39;s economic performance is directly dependent on the growth of each of its regions, and it is by focusing in particular on measures to support investment that all regions of Quebec are enriched. The scale of the actions put forward over the past few months clearly testifies to the State&#39;s commitment to develop their full potential, ”declared the Minister.
The government of Quebec has clearly shown that it intends to continue on the path of regional development as part of its Economic Policy Priority Employment. Concrete actions are planned to promote the development of sectors directly linked to regional economic development.
These include targeted initiatives for the forestry and petroleum sectors, the investment tax credit at subsidized rates in resource regions, measures for the development of Northern Québec and measures to promote tourism in the region. region.
“Since last October, the Quebec government has contributed to the completion of $ 1.8 billion in private investment projects in the resource regions. These interventions will create or maintain around 2,500 direct jobs, ”the Minister indicated.
As part of the 2014-2015 budget, the government is planning specific initiatives for the regions of Quebec.
In addition, the Minister of Finance and the Economy announced, in the 2014-2015 budget, initiatives for regions affected by forest fires and support for the training of volunteer and part-time firefighters.
Since 2001, Capital régional et coopératif Desjardins (CRCD) has played an important role in the financing of Quebec cooperatives and SMEs, particularly those located in the resource regions.
In order for CRCD to continue its financial interventions in the various regions of Quebec, with an additional effort with companies located in territories experiencing economic difficulties, the government announces that CRCD will be able to issue $ 150 million in shares for the year. 2014 and invest at least $ 10 million over four years in economically struggling territories.
All regions of Quebec benefit from the efforts devoted to job creation and investment. In regions of Quebec where economic activity is more moderate, the government is working to start the public investment projects provided for in the Quebec Infrastructure Plan as quickly as possible.
In October 2012, the government created the Center-du-Québec et de la Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund, with a budget of $ 200 million. In November 2012, the government launched the Economic Diversification Fund of the MRC des Sources, in the Asbestos region. In May 2013, the Premier released the Government Intervention Strategy for the Development of the Gaspésie – Îles-de-la-Madeleine region. The government launched the National Rurality Policy last December. The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy has just released the National Strategy for Sustainable Mobility, which gives transport companies a solid financial boost.
Under the current arrangements, the Local Investment Funds (FLI) would have expired on December 31, 2014, so that the local development centers (CLD) would no longer be able to grant financial assistance from of January 1, 2015.
Given the importance of FLIs in supporting local entrepreneurship, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, on the occasion of the 2014-2015 budget, provides for the deferral of reimbursement of FLIs for a period of five years, this which will make it possible to free up liquidity in order to ensure the maintenance of CLD interventions in the regions. Added to this is the relaxation of the terms and conditions of the FLIs in order to support future entrepreneurs in their efforts to acquire businesses in all regions of Quebec.
&quot;With these changes and this postponement, the CLDs will be able to make additional annual investments of $ 25 million from 2015-2016 to 2019-2020, from the current capitalization,&quot; said the Minister.
FLIs aim to stimulate local entrepreneurship by promoting access to capital for the start-up or expansion of traditional businesses and the social economy. They are the main tool available to the 120 CLDs to support businesses in their territory.
The government is investing a lot in Montreal. The administrative region alone will receive $ 34.2 billion in investments by 2023, as provided for in the Québec Infrastructure Plan, which corresponds to its economic weight.
“The government recognizes Montreal as a true metropolis, with all that that implies as specific responsibilities. I thus confirm the reinstatement of the annual payment of $ 25 million to the City of Montreal, in order to help it assume the responsibilities resulting from its status as the metropolis of Quebec ”, indicated the Minister.
In 2017, the metropolis will celebrate its 375th anniversary. This will coincide with the 50th anniversary of the 1967 Universal Exhibition. In order to leave a tangible mark on this event, the government will support promising projects making it possible to contribute to the city&#39;s influence.
To this end, the Minister of Finance and the Economy has confirmed government support in the order of $ 125 million for the implementation of four major capital projects on emblematic sites of the city as government legacies: the redevelopment of Place des Nations and construction of a waterfront and panoramic promenade in Parc Jean-Drapeau, enhancement of the activities offered on the Espace pour la vie site, a new pavilion at the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts and a new phase expansion of Pointe-à-Callière, the Montreal Museum of Archeology and History.
The City of Quebec must also assume the specific responsibilities arising from its status as national capital.
In addition, Quebec City plays a leading role in the development of tourism in Quebec. &quot;I therefore confirm the government&#39;s financial support for the redevelopment project of the Dalhousie site, on the shores of the St. Lawrence, and the government&#39;s support for the construction of a covered ice ring in Quebec, the Gaétan ice ring. -Boucher, ”said the minister.
Quebec is a heritage city with multiple treasures, at the same time as a great place of culture. Thus, the Minister of Finance and the Economy also announced the upgrading and conversion of the historic Chapelle du Bon-Pasteur, in order to make it accessible to the public as part of a project compatible with the historical character and architectural building.
Forest biomass is a renewable, available and often abundant source of energy. The use of residual forest biomass to produce energy is an option to reduce the consumption of fossil fuels and thus help achieve our goals of energy independence.
&quot;As part of the 2014-2015 budget, the Quebec government is committed to investing $ 10 million in a new fund aimed at accelerating the development of the residual forest biomass sector,&quot; said the Minister.
In this regard, the government will work with Fondaction and the Fédération québécoise des coopératives forestières (FQCF) to set up a fund with a minimum capitalization of $ 20 million.
The refundable tax credit promoting the modernization of the tourist accommodation offer was put in place in the 2012-2013 budget in order to accelerate and intensify investments in infrastructure for accommodation establishments located in the regions of Quebec. Quebec.
In order to allow tourist accommodation companies to better plan their work and move forward more quickly in carrying out their renovation or improvement projects, the government announces that the minimum investment threshold of 50,000 $ will no longer be applied on an annual basis, but rather for the entire duration of the tax credit, from March 2012 to December 2015.
To know everything about the Quebec budget
Consult all the following press releases
Masters and prosperous with us
Successful expenditure control and good management of public finances
More than 280 million dollars to strengthen solidarity
Patient-Focused Funding in Health Care: Expert Panel Report Welcomed by Government
Culture: both a reflection of our identity and an economic driver
Publication of the report of the Task Force on the Protection of Quebec Businesses
See also the document &quot;The Budget at a Glance&quot;
Visit the website of the Ministère des Finances atbudget.finances.gouv.qc.ca
