Québec, February 27, 2018 - Following the tabling of the federal budget, the official opposition spokesperson for finances and Québec-Canada relations, Nicolas Marceau, can only note the indifference of Justin Trudeau when it is about the interests of Quebecers. The budget tabled today completely ignores the needs of local people and businesses, which confirms to what extent the Canadian Prime Minister and his Minister of Finance, Bill Morneau, are out of touch with the reality of Quebec.
IN SHORT
“Today, Justin Trudeau missed another opportunity to meet the needs of Quebecers. While they are calling for tax justice, Ottawa replies that it will continue to promote the use of tax havens. Because it is the laws, conventions and tax regulations that must change to combat tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance; adding resources has only a marginal impact, because the use of tax havens remains legal. Another example of Justin Trudeau&#39;s government insisting on protecting ultrarichs and multinationals is the deal with Netflix, which is being maintained. The company will still not have the obligation to collect the taxes, ”lamented Nicolas Marceau.
The Parti Québécois had also called for specific measures to support the regions of Quebec. Unfortunately, the federal government has turned a deaf ear. “First of all, there are our fishermen who, not having access to the $ 400 million federal fund, will continue to suffer unfair competition from the Atlantic provinces, who can benefit from it. Then, the Davie shipyard must always be satisfied with the crumbs offered by the federal government, while Halifax and Vancouver have shared tens of billions in contracts. Yet hadn&#39;t Justin Trudeau hinted recently that good news was coming for the Davie? Finally, several of our regions have glaring needs in terms of improving the cellular network, but remain empty-handed, ”continued the Member for Rousseau.
With regard to the electrification of transportation, Ottawa continues to lag behind. “In Canada, 45% of electric or hybrid vehicles are driven in Quebec, but the Trudeau government is not doing its part to develop the network of charging stations there. It is doing nothing, either, to increase the number of these vehicles on the roads - it could, for example, have introduced a financial incentive to purchase, as Quebec is doing, but preferred to stand idly by. In addition, federal investments, already clearly insufficient in Quebec, will continue to be unfair compared to the millions that Ontario receives from the Innovation Fund for the automotive sector, ”he added.
“Note that the government of Philippe Couillard had asked for practically nothing, except for the TGF. However, far from confirming the realization of the project, the federal government is only announcing the financing of a study and even takes the trouble to specify that no additional sum is foreseen for the replacement of the cars on the Windsor-Quebec line. In short, this budget is one of the many missed opportunities for the Trudeau government, ”concluded Nicolas Marceau.
