Quebec - &quot;To accelerate economic growth, the government is acting by focusing on private investment,&quot; said the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, on the occasion of the tabling of the 2013-2014 budget. Government of Quebec. “A prosperous economy is arguably the most successful way to improve the lives of all. It is now up to private investment to take over from public investment. Public investments play an important role, but we must agree that the effort made by Quebec taxpayers has reached its limit. We must therefore redouble our efforts to create the conditions conducive to private investment. To this end, the budget provides for a series of initiatives. &quot;
In order to maintain and improve the attractiveness of Québec&#39;s tax environment with regard to private investment, the Minister has presented two important measures. He first announced the introduction of the tax holiday for major investment projects, the C2I. It will apply to companies that will approve new investment projects of at least $ 300 million within three years. These projects must fall within one of the strategic activity sectors that are the manufacturing sector, including the transformation of mining and wood resources, value-added distribution centers or the processing and hosting of data.
This measure will allow businesses to benefit, for a period of ten years, from a corporate income tax holiday and from a contribution holiday to the Health Services Fund in relation to their investment project.
In addition, the Minister announced that the investment tax credit, available for all regions, will be extended for two years, ie until December 31, 2017. In addition, the rates will be increased by five percentage points. for businesses in certain resource regions.
“This tax credit will allow 3,000 businesses in all regions of Quebec, including more than 2,500 SMEs, to invest in cutting-edge machinery and equipment. They will thus be able to increase their productivity and stand out in the markets, ”said the Minister.
So that Quebec businesses can obtain flexible financial and technical support adapted to their needs, the Minister announced that the government will set up the Banque de développement économique du Québec.
“The creation of the Bank will improve the State&#39;s action in the area of economic development. Better coordination will optimize the support offered by the government. It will be easier for businesses to get help. It will serve as a lever for all regions of Quebec. Businesses will have easier access to the full range of services intended for them, ranging from support to financing solutions, ”explained the Minister.
The Bank will manage the regionalized development fund, which will have an envelope of at least $ 500 million annually for the development of all regions.
To these recurring sums, a total of $ 250 million will be added for the two economic diversification funds intended to support the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec and Asbestos.
&quot;I am working with the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, on the implementation of these initiatives,&quot; said the Minister.
The Minister noted that to ensure sustained growth of the economy, it was necessary to revive exports. To promote access to foreign markets, the government will actively participate in negotiations surrounding the free trade agreement with the European Union. &quot;This agreement will give Quebec companies new perspectives in a market of 500 million people,&quot; he said.
The Minister recalled that the manufacturing sector was a pillar of the economy and a symbol of Quebec inventiveness. “To support investment in a strong and modern manufacturing sector, the government will adopt an industrial strategy that will place particular emphasis on SMEs. This policy will be based on the niches of excellence already developed in Quebec as well as on the development of transport and clean energy, a promising path for the future ”, he indicated.
In order to support the development of a greener industry, he announced the creation of a fund of 200 million dollars which will be intended for the development of clean technologies and the electrification of transport.
“Over the years, Quebec has created favorable conditions for the development of the biopharmaceutical sector. However, in recent years, the industry&#39;s business model has undergone profound changes. The Quebec government&#39;s support for this sector must adapt to this new context, always with the objective of promoting research activities in Quebec, ”said the Minister.
He pointed out that the 15-year rule, introduced in 1994, has greatly contributed to the development of the biopharmaceutical sector in Quebec. However, large pharmaceutical companies are adopting new ways of doing research outsourcing. This situation leads to the closure of several research centers and, consequently, a significant reduction in research spending in Quebec as well as the loss of high value-added jobs. In this context, the 15-year rule no longer meets the objective of promoting research in Quebec. That is why the minister announced its abolition.
In addition, in order to support research activities in Quebec, he announced that research and development tax credits for large biopharmaceutical companies will be increased from 17.5% to 27.5%. In addition, the government will put in place a matching envelope of $ 125 million over five years. This envelope will be used to finance research partnership projects with pharmaceutical companies, in the main niches for which Quebec has strengths.
&quot;We are thus ensuring that companies in this sector will pursue their development and the creation of quality jobs in a key area of innovation in Quebec,&quot; said the Minister.
Investment in innovation is central to the government&#39;s economic vision. He wants to make Quebec one of the most innovative companies in the world, a company devoting at least 3% of its GDP to investments in research and development. To do this, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, will announce in 2013 a national research and innovation policy. One of its objectives will be to promote the results of public research for all Quebecers.
In order to facilitate the transition to the future national policy, the government will set aside an amount of $ 69 million, which will make it possible to continue in 2013-2014 the activities of the Québec Research and Innovation Strategy, which will come to an end. in March 2013. This sum will contribute to the overall funding of research and development carried out in the higher education sector by various partners, and whose value is more than $ 2 billion per year in Quebec.
“Quebec&#39;s mining potential is immense, and several companies, Quebec and foreign, want to exploit it. However, the basement belongs to all Quebecers. We are therefore going to make changes to the regimes governing the exploitation of these non-renewable resources, so that Quebeckers derive the maximum wealth from them, while respecting the environment and communities. However, we want to make these changes in an orderly and responsible manner to ensure the stability of the mining sector. We will consult the industry as well as the stakeholders concerned about this issue so that the changes that will be made are for the benefit of all, ”said the Minister.
&quot;With the collaboration of the Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, we will continue the work to propose a plan that optimizes the return on these resources for Quebecers,&quot; he added.
The Minister also stressed that the exploitation of natural resources should be a lever of economic development for all regions of Quebec. This is why the government intends to promote the local transformation of natural resources. To this end, it will adopt a wood charter which will promote the use of wood in value-added products.
In addition, the Minister pointed out that the improvement to the investment tax credit will also support the forestry sector. In order for help to be available more quickly, he announced that Investissement Québec and, when it is created, the Banque de développement économique du Québec, will pre-finance 85% of the value of the tax credit.
&quot;I would also like to express today my intention to call on the federal government to finally do its part, which has shown a profound injustice by abandoning the forest industry, its workers and the communities. affected by the crisis ”, declared the Minister.
“Our economic vision is based on the conviction that we must invest to ensure the enrichment of the Quebec nation. This vision implies that Quebec offers a stimulating business climate, favorable to projects creating wealth and jobs, and guaranteeing entrepreneurs predictable government action free of surprises. To accelerate growth, the government must act by promoting private investment and innovation in strategic sectors. We are committed to maintaining a competitive tax system in Quebec that encourages private investment. Our government is today laying the foundations for solid and lasting prosperity for all, ”concluded the Minister.
