Quebec - Reacting to the tabling of the federal budget, the spokespersons of the Parti Québécois in matters of Quebec-Canada relations as well as finances and revenue, Stéphane Bergeron and Nicolas Marceau, can only deplore the heartbreaking result of the flat-out -Liberal Ventrism in Quebec.
“Not having fought for gains in Ottawa, the government of Quebec is getting, unsurprisingly, absolutely nothing for Quebec. Whether in terms of economic measures, health transfers or employment insurance, the budget tabled yesterday confirms it: Quebec is still being ignored. Forty Liberal MPs were elected in Quebec on October 19, including Prime Minister Trudeau himself, and they bring nothing back for Quebeckers, ”declared Stéphane Bergeron.
The federal government continues to dangle investments of $ 120 billion over 10 years, but in fact, only $ 4 billion will be invested this year. “Federal commitments for massive investments in infrastructure are not there. The promised El Dorado remains a mirage, and the Government of Quebec has still not obtained an agreement guaranteeing that our fair share will be paid en bloc and without conditions. On the contrary, this budget increases interference in Quebec&#39;s jurisdictions, whether in education or health, ”added Nicolas Marceau.
While the federal government is allowing itself these new encroachments, no change has been announced to the Canada Health Transfer (CHT): Ottawa&#39;s share of healthcare funding will continue to decline. “After promising to resolve the shortfall in health transfers, the Liberal government is adopting the same course of action as its Conservative predecessor. It is written in black and white in the budget: the cuts to the TCS are maintained. Worse still, the Quebec government, in its budget tabled last Thursday, stepped back even before having started to negotiate, by giving the federal government a period of 10 years to catch up, although it is necessary now. With the status quo for the CHT and equalization, the fiscal imbalance between Ottawa and Quebec remains as pronounced as it was before the budget was tabled. The Trudeau government also intends to follow up on the Conservative plan for a pan-Canadian securities commission in Toronto, to the detriment of our financial sector, ”continued Nicolas Marceau.
The federal budget also includes improvements to employment insurance, extending benefits in a few regions, but none in Quebec. “It&#39;s an excellent budget for Saskatoon or Fort McMurray, but there is no additional week if you live in Gaspé, Shawinigan or Chicoutimi. In addition, the government of Quebec remains the only one to assume the risks of the investment in Bombardier, the budget containing no announcements on this subject, whereas measures of assistance to the Ontario automobile industry are there. And, as if this were not already enough, Minister Daoust suggests that if the federal government were not to contribute, Quebec could organize itself. He capitulates even before having fought a battle! That&#39;s quite a negotiating position, sir! », Concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
