Québec, March 10, 2020 - The member for René-Lévesque, parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois and finance critic, Martin Ouellet, deplores, upon reading the 2020-2021 budget, that the government is spending without counting the surpluses budget of Quebecers in its obsessions that had been poorly planned at the base.
IN SHORT
The poorly planned promises of the CAQ continue to cost Quebecers dearly. Having inherited historical surpluses, the government of François Legault is investing headlong in kindergartens for 4 years and in homes for the elderly. “The more we learn about the homes of the seniors of Marguerite Blais, the more it costs,” says Martin Ouellet. The budget confirms that the 2,600 places promised will cost no less than an additional $ 495 million! However, while the CAQ is spending lavishly on this expensive project, our seniors are still waiting for their situation to improve, especially in CHSLDs. &quot;
The CAQ also continues its hiding places on the cost of 4-year-old kindergartens. “Once again, the government refuses to write down the cost of building the new classrooms in black and white. In addition to hiding information from us, we now learn that the simple deployment of its 4-year-old kindergartens will cost another $ 136 million. It is starting to be time for costs to stop skyrocketing, ”added the spokesperson.
As these costs increase, the CAQ, for a second consecutive year, is reducing capital expenditures to build new childcare centers. “Parents want CPEs but, out of sheer stubbornness, the CAQ has been putting all its efforts and all our surpluses into the deployment of a parallel network for two years, neglecting the one that is already working very well,” laments Mr. Ouellet.
The MP is also concerned about the lack of quantified amounts for the third link. “The government is increasing the Quebec Infrastructure Plan - the PQI - by 15 billion, but is still not able to say how much its electoral tunnel project between Quebec and Lévis will cost. In addition, the government claims that the share of the PQI allocated to public transit exceeds that allocated to the road network, but it is based on hypothetical, unbudgeted amounts. The reality is that the share of public transport actually budgeted remains equivalent to only half of that which is for roads. As long as this situation persists, the government cannot say that its budget is &quot;green&quot;, &quot;he argued.
Currently, the government is struggling to spend all the amounts provided for in the PQI. &quot;By adding 15 billion, without counting the always hidden cost of the third link, the CAQ risks creating an overheating in the costs and aggravating the shortage of manpower&quot;, warns Martin Ouellet.
The government encourages our businesses and SMEs to invest in new technologies, but is not announcing any bonus for the deployment of high speed Internet in the regions. &quot;The CAQ prides itself on giving tax credits for the digital transition in the regions, while in the whole brick of the budget, there is no mention of the deployment of high speed Internet in the regions,&quot; said Mr. Ouellet. How can an SME in a remote region invest in new technologies if it cannot use them, having no access to high speed Internet? &quot;
In addition, for the sixth year in a row, the government is announcing a balanced budget for the fiscal year just beginning. At the end of the last five, reality has instead shown huge surpluses. “The CAQ continues with the liberal method: hide surpluses at the start of the year, to accumulate a nest egg at the end of the year. Quebecers have a right to the truth: what is the government&#39;s real room for maneuver? Considering the instability of the markets and COVID-19, full transparency on the state of our public finances is necessary. The Prime Minister mentioned the possibility of putting Quebec in deficit. We must have access to real figures to assess our nation&#39;s level of preparedness in the face of the challenges that we risk having to face, ”added Martin Ouellet.
Finally, the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois is disappointed with the absence of real nationalist demands in the budget. “A government that claims to be nationalist is expected to use the budget to win against Ottawa. Unfortunately, it is not the case. For example, we would have hoped to see the Minister of Finance request the repatriation of cultural budgets, as well as the transfer of tax points, ”he illustrated.
Despite everything, Martin Ouellet wishes to point out that the 2020-2021 budget includes significant sums for shelters for women victims of violence. “Véronique Hivon and Méganne Perry Mélançon have been fighting a battle for several months so that victims of acts of violence are better supported and better equipped. These investments represent a good first step in ensuring that victims of domestic violence have access to the services they need. Hopefully other announcements will supplement these amounts, ”concluded the MNA for René-Lévesque.
