Quebec - On the occasion of the tabling of the 2014-2015 budget of the Government of Quebec, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, reacted very favorably to the report of the Task Force on the Protection of Quebec Businesses, released today.
“Being masters and prosperous here also means protecting the head offices of Quebec companies. The presence of head offices in Quebec is both a mark of wealth and a strategic factor in decision-making defining economic development, ”he declared.
&quot;This is why we very favorably welcome the recommendations of the working group which aim to promote the maintenance and development of Quebec head offices as well as to allow Quebec public companies to protect themselves against unwanted takeovers&quot;, mentioned the minister.
“I intend to quickly propose legislative changes to the Business Corporations Act to include provisions giving adequate defenses to companies wishing to avail themselves of them. The report recommends allowing joint-stock companies to adopt variable voting rights depending on the length of time the shares are held and to prohibit certain transactions for companies that are the subject of a takeover bid not approved by the board of directors, ”he added.
The Minister also specified that he endorsed the position of the Autorité des marchés financiers on the issue of legal regimes and that he would proceed, if necessary, with the necessary amendments to the Securities Act, while taking into account the Canadian context, where greater harmonization is required.
&quot;I would like to thank Mr. Claude Séguin and the members of the group for their excellent work,&quot; concluded the Minister.
The report of the Task Force on the Protection of Quebec Businesses can be viewed on the website of the Ministère de Finances et de l&#39;Économie, at www.finances.gouv.qc.ca.
To know everything about the Quebec budget
Consult all the following press releases
Masters and prosperous with us
Successful expenditure control and good management of public finances
More than 280 million dollars to strengthen solidarity
Ensuring the prosperity of the regions
Patient-Focused Funding in Health Care: Expert Panel Report Welcomed by Government
Culture: both a reflection of our identity and an economic driver
See also the document &quot;The Budget at a Glance&quot;
Visit the website of the Ministère des Finances atbudget.finances.gouv.qc.ca
