Québec– The member for Rousseau and official opposition critic for finance and revenue, Nicolas Marceau, as well as the member for Sanguinet and spokesperson for the Conseil du trésor, Alain Therrien, denounce the budget tabled today hui by the Minister of Finance, which is far from balanced and accentuates liberal austerity. In fact, the government is cutting services massively now, but offering nothing for economic growth, other than measures promised for later.
“We are far from balanced when, in order to achieve a zero budget balance, we slow down the Quebec economy and severely cut services to the population. We are far from balanced when we are told an increase in the tax burden for families and we are promised relief for 2017 only. We are very far from balancing when making dramatic cuts in health and education. We are far from balanced when we increase the tax for very small businesses in order to lower that for large companies, ”declared Nicolas Marceau.
Far from balanced spending: cuts now
“A freeze on education spending and an increase of barely 1.4% in health care means massive cuts to come in these networks; we can fear that they are twice as bad as those imposed this year. If Quebecers thought that the cuts had hurt last year, they had seen nothing. We will have to face the most important cuts of the last 15 years. How can we claim that education and higher education are essential to our economic development, when an increase of only 30 million is devoted to them? Obviously, middle-class and most vulnerable families are still paying for liberal austerity, ”added Alain Therrien.
Increase in health spending: more than half for the remuneration of doctors
“Of the 535 million increase in health care spending, more than half, or 329 million, is devoted to increasing the remuneration of physicians. What remains for accessibility to care, patients, health professionals or home care? A meager 200 million, which will result in a decline in services and access to care for patients, families and seniors in Quebec, ”continued the member for Sanguinet.
On the education side, Alain Therrien notes the additional cuts of 67 million in the funding of universities, while they are already having to deal with significant cuts.
No economic growth plan
“The budget confirms that the economy is down, as are job creation and private investment. Income growth will not be there. Symbol of the imbalance of the Liberal budget, the Minister is lowering the tax on large companies, while he is cutting services and taxing citizens, ”denounced Nicolas Marceau.
“We are far from balanced when we note, first of all, that a balanced budget only exists on paper for the moment. We will only get there at the end of the fiscal year. The financial framework is stretched to the limit. The government lives on optimism; he overestimates income and underestimates expenses as much as possible, ”he added.
Far from balance for seniors
“In a context of an aging population, increasing the age of eligibility for the tax credit because of age (from 65 to 70) is total nonsense. On the backs of the elderly, by directly attacking their living conditions and their disposable income, we want to save an amount of 77 million, ”lamented Alain Therrien.
The Liberal government partially corrects its mistakes, but cuts tax credits in the regions
The member for Sanguinet also notes that the government has restored the level of certain tax credits that it had cut in 2014-2015, in addition to providing for the abolition of the health contribution, but only in 2017. The regions, already seriously affected by the Liberal cuts, will once again suffer major cuts in their tax credits. Obviously, local and regional development will suffer ”, he added.
Nicolas Marceau wondered, moreover, what had become of the reserve of 1.077 billion, recently updated by the Auditor General. “This reserve is not found anywhere in the budget. Has it been spent? The Minister of Finance was talking about caution this week when I asked him about this; where is his prudence? », He continued.
“What all Quebecers will see when reading this budget is that we are far from achieving a balance for families, regions and for equal opportunities. It is easy to present a budget with a zero balance when you are not concerned about the real consequences for the citizens and the economy of Quebec. This year, the government is announcing cuts, an increase in austerity, and economic measures, perhaps, for the future, ”concluded Nicolas Marceau.
