Quebec– The member for Rousseau and official opposition critic for finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, as well as the member for Terrebonne and critic for family matters, Mathieu Traversy, deplore the inequality contained in the budget of the Liberal government, which chooses to financially favor parents who use non-subsidized childcare services, at the expense of those who use the CPE network.
In fact, the tax shield, put in place by the Liberal government in its last budget, only protects parents who send their children to the network of non-subsidized private childcare services against part of the tax increase that results from &#39;an increase in their income.
“If, for example, two families receive a salary increase, the one who sends their children to the non-subsidized private network will be protected against the reduction in their tax credit for childcare expenses, while the one who sends them in a childcare center will not be protected against the increase in its modulated tariff which results from an increase in its income. Remember that parents who use subsidized child care spaces are not entitled to the tax credit for child care expenses. This demonstrates the liberal desire to favor the private sector to the detriment of childcare centers and the family environment, ”declared Nicolas Marceau.
Mathieu Traversy cannot understand why the Minister of Finance gave confused answers to the population, especially since the Minister of Families did not answer questions from the official opposition.
“However, the increase in childcare services fully applies to families who send their children there! The Minister of Families must defend the public and subsidized network of childcare services, which she refuses to do since her arrival. Not only has the government adjusted the tariffs, but it is also imposing new cuts of more than 70 million to the network this year, and 129 million next year. With the Liberals, parents in Quebec will pay more for less service! », Concluded Mathieu Traversy.
