QUÉBEC, March 21, 2019 -The member for René-Lévesque and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of finance and the economy as well as for the Treasury Board, Martin Ouellet, observes, on reading the 2019-2020 budget, that the government of the Coalition Avenir Québec (CAQ) had huge surpluses, but that it made several bad choices regarding their use.
IN SHORT
First, we remember that the party of François Legault, in campaign, had promised to make education its highest priority. “Once in government, the CAQ chose instead to rush headlong into its billion-dollar kindergarten project. One thing leading to another, it is reducing the budget devoted to the construction of childcare centers and only plans to renovate half of the dilapidated schools in 10 years. In addition, no significant new measures are planned to address the teacher shortage; However, if we impose kindergartens on a billion, do we not only run the risk of further aggravating this already alarming problem? Martin Ouellet said at the outset.
Another billion will be spent on seniors&#39; homes. “Here again, the CAQ made a choice. And this implies that no commitment is made as to the sums to be invested to renovate the already dilapidated CHSLDs where the elderly currently live. In addition, the recurring amounts added for the hiring of health professionals and the addition of hours of home support service, even if they constitute progress, remain insufficient to meet the needs, ”continued the Member for René-Lévesque.
And for the environment? “While we were promised that the CAQ would finally take an interest in the fight against climate change, the result is very disappointing,” Judge Martin Ouellet. For example, the CAQ government is increasing the envelope granted to the Quebec Infrastructure Plan by $ 15 billion, but not including any additional investment in public transit. Roads, asphalt and concrete, meanwhile, get 5 billion more, ”he argued.
The spokesperson also said he was shocked by the fact that the CAQ broke its promise to connect all regions to high speed Internet in 4 years. &quot;This measure, however essential to the economic vitality of the regions, is now stretched over 7 years&quot;, he noted.
“Two other major promises of the CAQ are also in the process of being broken,” he continued. The government is cheating with the figures by not fully budgeting for the improvement in the family allowance and the standardization of the school tax. The minister must tell us the truth: is there a hidden deficit, or hidden cuts? &quot;
Despite everything, the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois wishes to welcome certain measures contained in the budget, with which the political party agrees. “The one concerning the exemption of maintenance payments from the calculation of social assistance, although incomplete, constitutes important progress; it is, moreover, directly following a motion presented last fall by Harold LeBel and adopted unanimously. Likewise, the financing of social housing - announced by the Liberals, but never materialized - finally seems on the way to becoming a reality, ”said the member for René-Lévesque.
