Quebec - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, said he was very disappointed with the federal budget tabled today. “Once again, the federal government is acting unilaterally and announcing new measures that break with existing agreements, without prior consultation. In addition, this budget contains measures that are harmful to Quebec. It is a frontal attack on Quebec that goes against our interests and our way of doing things, ”lamented the Minister.
First, the minister expressed his incomprehension of the federal decision to cut $ 70 million per year in transfers to the Government of Quebec for the Labor Market Agreement in order to create a new program that will complicate the labor market. &#39;access to training measures for people looking for a job.
“In the wake of the employment insurance reform, the Harper government&#39;s decision to renegotiate labor market agreements with Quebec is hampering our efforts to reintegrate workers into the labor market. The new job grant announced today will require the Quebec government and employers to spend $ 70 million each per year to access their share of federal funds. Why does Canada want to duplicate what Emploi-Québec is already doing and, in doing so, force workers to knock on two doors rather than just one? », Indicated Mr. Marceau.
With regard to infrastructure, the Government of Quebec is disappointed to note that the federal government has not committed to disburse funds in the form of a &quot;block&quot; transfer, which would have made it possible to accelerate the implementation. under construction of projects and, consequently, to promote better support for economic growth. “Instead of proceeding efficiently, the federal government prefers to renegotiate new agreements, choose projects itself, impose conditions, micromanage and duplicate work,” added the Minister of Finance and the Economy.
What the federal government has called a “new” infrastructure plan follows on from the Building Canada plan, which will expire in 2014. “While Quebec and the municipalities have significant infrastructure needs, the federal funding is not up to par, ”the minister said.
He also indicated that the Government of Canada again missed a great opportunity to quantify its participation in the new Champlain Bridge.
The Minister pointed out that the announcement of the abolition of the federal tax credit relating to a labor-sponsored venture capital company, namely the Fonds de solidarité FTQ and Fondaction CSN, is seriously damaging to important tools that have emerged. endowed Quebec to promote its development.
“Quebec taxpayers, businesses and workers are the main beneficiaries of this measure because of the significant contribution from labor-sponsored funds. Moreover, the abolition of this measure will create a brake on savings which will cost Quebecers $ 312 million over five years out of the $ 355 million that the federal government will save by abolishing the tax credit, ”he added. indicated Mr. Marceau.
While the federal budget today confirmed technical changes to the equalization program, Mr. Marceau recalled that Quebec requested the removal of the ceilings imposed on the program since 2009. “These ceilings have generated substantial financial losses for Quebec of $ 7.6 billion since 2009-2010. Added to the shortfall resulting from the 2011 unilateral decisions of the federal government in health, Quebec will be deprived of $ 8.6 billion between 2014-2015 and 2024-2025. Taken together, these unilateral changes have a major negative impact on Quebec&#39;s public finances. The government of Quebec is asking the federal government to reverse these unfair decisions, ”Minister Marceau emphasized.
Moreover, the minister does not understand the federal government&#39;s relentlessness in wanting to set up a pan-Canadian securities commission despite the clear decisions of the Quebec Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court. He also said he was surprised by the extension of the mandate of the federal government&#39;s Canadian Securities Transition Office. &quot;It is out of the question to let the federal government interfere in the regulation of securities, an exclusive jurisdiction of Quebec,&quot; he concluded.
