Quebec - “To govern is to choose. The Liberal government chose to tax middle class taxpayers and today it is handing out election candy. The Liberal Party deliberately chooses to manage appearances rather than tackle the major issues facing Quebec. This budget confirms, once again, that the Liberal government is perpetuating injustice while Quebec is stagnating. &quot;
This is what the member for Rousseau and official opposition critic for economic development and finance, Nicolas Marceau, said in reaction to the budget speech presented today by the Minister of Finance, Raymond Bachand.
In fact, after reading this budget, the government is trying to please everyone by sprinkling numerous measures. “It&#39;s a small budget filled with small measures, but the bigger challenges are ignored; there is nothing for dropping out of school, nothing for accessibility to a family doctor, and the debt is rapidly swelling. Jean Charest retains his title of premier who will have the most indebtedness to Quebec, ”said Mr. Marceau.
Despite the avalanche of tax and tariff increases imposed by the Liberal government in recent years, taxpayers will now find that their government has lost control over its spending. “The ministers of the Charest government had promised that the State would do the most to restore a balanced budget. It&#39;s wrong. Balancing the budget will be achieved because the government transfers its spending increases to the debt. This sleight of hand is shameful, deceptive and irresponsible, ”Sylvain Simard, for his part, lambasted the member for Richelieu and official opposition spokesperson for the Treasury Board.
The official opposition also points out that the Auditor General pointed out three weeks ago that the Liberal government was going to spend $ 9.3 billion more than when it presented the plan to return to a balanced budget. However, we learn today that in three weeks, this gap has just increased by $ 1 billion and will reach $ 10.3 billion more than the initial forecasts.
For his part, the member for Rousseau notes that if the budget is balanced by 2013-2014, it is in particular thanks to the agreement on the harmonization of taxes. “For 2014-2015, Minister Bachand is still seeking $ 1 billion. It is therefore a sign that in two years there is a great risk that Quebec will still find itself in deficit, ”he warns.
Nicolas Marceau also notes that Minister Bachand is missing his own target for debt control. “In 2010, the minister predicted that the gross debt would reach $ 192 billion in 2015. The Auditor General told us three weeks ago that it would ultimately be $ 202 billion. We are told today that it will be $ 203 billion. Clearly, the government can claim to control its spending, but it remains fictitious: it is increasing the debt to get there, ”reproached the deputy.
He also deplores the inability of the Liberal government to reinvigorate our economy. “The figures from the Ministry of Finance confirm that economic growth is lower in Quebec than elsewhere in Canada. This situation will continue for the next two years. We need a real economic vision, a real strategy that will put Quebec back on track, ”added Mr. Marceau.
The Parti Québécois denounces the way the Liberal government operates, which wants to believe that it is doing its utmost to get the most out of the exploitation of our natural resources. “Despite an orgy of words, he hides an implacable fact: the royalties will bring only 350 million to 400 million dollars per year within five years. Meanwhile, standing in front of the mining lobby, the Australian government is making the courageous choice to tax the super-profit of mining companies that exploit non-renewable resources. Jean Charest&#39;s marketing plan for the North is not the right strategy to enrich Quebec, ”noted the member for Rousseau.
The Parti Québécois is particularly surprised and worried to see that the Minister of Finance announces in his budget that the Caisse de dépôt et placement will embark on the development of a railway line. “Notwithstanding the dubious nature of this orientation, how can the Minister explain this proximity between him and the fund when he continues to claim independence? », Wonders Nicolas Marceau.
For his part, MP Sylvain Simard notes that the Liberal government claims to deploy multiple measures for employment assistance. “We can consider that these will only be wishful thinking; one need only read the schedules to see that the Liberal government is cutting $ 25 million. It frankly lacks consistency, ”said the member for Richelieu.
Astonished that the government is embarking on the VRSP before the conclusions of the D&#39;Amours report, the official opposition is worried about the few guarantees provided on the costs of administering such plans managed by the private sector. “Why not have financial institutions and investment fund managers as well as government managers not have to compete in a call for tenders? Asks the member for Richelieu.
He adds that Quebec must take a real turn to improve the quality of life of our seniors. “Investing in home support means modernizing our health system and helping our seniors to live better at home. The Bachand budget completely misses this major issue. Increasing the tax credit by $ 93 per year to support a natural caregiver is laughable, ”said Sylvain Simard.
“This budget characterizes the failure of the Liberal government, incapable of having courage and making decisions. We have reached the 8th plan to curb the forestry crisis, the 4th working group to advise the government on health financing. It&#39;s getting ridiculous, ”Nicolas Marceau concluded.
