Quebec– Quebec&#39;s identity is reflected in large part in our culture. In addition to distinguishing us and allowing us to shine in the world, culture is a powerful engine of our economy. On the occasion of the tabling of the 2014-2015 budget, the Minister of Finance and the Economy announced a series of measures that demonstrate the government&#39;s unwavering support for the cultural sector.
For cultural organizations, the digital revolution represents a crucial challenge of adaptation to new means of information and communication. The government will therefore invest $ 150 million to support cultural organizations that must take the technological turn. The sums invested will be used in particular to replace current equipment with digital equipment.
The Digital Culture Strategy will be made public shortly by the Minister of Culture and Communications.
In October 2013, the Minister of Culture and Communications announced the enhancement of the Mécénat Placements Culture program. This initiative followed one of the recommendations of the Task Force on Cultural Philanthropy, chaired by Mr. Pierre Bourgie, whose report was tabled last June.
&quot;In order to meet a large part of the funding needs of cultural organizations, a levy of $ 5 million per year from the specific tobacco tax will henceforth be allocated to this program to ensure its sustainability&quot;, declared the Minister. Marceau.
The government confirms that it will renew the agreement between the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications and Loto-Québec for the financing of the Orchester symphonique de Montréal. The terms of the agreement will be unveiled shortly by the Minister of Culture and Communications.
In recent weeks, there have been several announcements of funding for cultural infrastructure. In this regard, the Premier recently kicked off the expansion of the Musée d&#39;art contemporain de Montréal, a project that will benefit from a government contribution of $ 18.9 million.
In Quebec City, the government has allocated $ 30 million to Robert Lepage&#39;s Le Diamant theater project. The upgrading of the historic Chapel of Bon-Pasteur will benefit from government assistance to allow it to reopen to the public. &quot;A contribution of $ 20 million will be made for the construction of the Longueuil cultural complex,&quot; announced Minister Marceau.
The government recently made public its position in the debate on the selling price of books. In this regard, the government will introduce a bill regulating the price of new printed and digital books.
This measure will help protect Quebec&#39;s identity and culture, in addition to supporting a cultural industry sector on which 12,000 jobs and close to $ 800 million in annual spinoffs depend.
“The foundation of Québec identity, an instrument of influence throughout the world and an important sector of activity that creates jobs and wealth, culture plays an essential role in the development of Québec,” Minister Marceau reminded us.
To know everything about the Quebec budget
Consult all the following press releases
Masters and prosperous with us
Successful expenditure control and good management of public finances
More than 280 million dollars to strengthen solidarity
Ensuring the prosperity of the regions
Patient-Focused Funding in Health Care: Expert Panel Report Welcomed by Government
Publication of the report of the Task Force on the Protection of Quebec Businesses
See also the document &quot;The Budget at a Glance&quot;
Visit the website of the Ministère des Finances atbudget.finances.gouv.qc.ca
