Quebec - “Here we have the budget for the pre-election year. After three years of demolition, the Liberals promise to patch things up. After cutting services and increasing the tax burden by $ 1,500 per family, the Liberal government is today promising partial reimbursements to patients, seniors, students and families. Let’s not be fooled; it only partially repairs the damage done in the education and health networks, in the pockets of families and in the regions of Quebec. Big cuts, then partial repair: this is the liberal recipe. This budget is clearly an admission of guilt on the part of the Liberals, but their apologies are insufficient, ”declared Nicolas Marceau, official opposition critic for finance.
Disappointing findings
Incomplete reinvestment in education and health
During the election campaign, Philippe Couillard had pledged to maintain a rate of 3.5% increase in education spending, and 4% in health. If he had kept his promise, there would be, in addition to the reimbursements announced, $ 1 billion more allocated to education this year, and $ 1.4 billion to health. Patients and students will still suffer from this shortfall.
&quot;Why would we believe the Minister of Finance this time? The electoral promises of investment in education were broken, the promised reinvestments were not observed in the field, despite all the announcements. This fall, the Liberals promised a 4.6% increase in education, a target that they never reached, ”the Parti Québécois spokesperson added.
A year without services for a student in difficulty is a year lost forever. The same goes for daycare services; the Liberals cut about $ 300 million and are not even reinvesting half of that amount. After cutting with a chainsaw, they reinvest in small amounts.
Another example of the liberal smokescreen: 2,000 specialist nurses have been promised. Over the next two years, an amount of $ 10 million is expected. In 24 hours, we went from a pledge worth $ 1.4 billion to a sum of $ 10 million. It&#39;s a joke! Doctors can sleep peacefully, their monopoly is not in danger; It is not tomorrow the day before that the specialized nurses will take up more space in the network.
This year, the budget for patient care increases by 3.6%; it is below the target set by the Prime Minister. But, even worse, it will only grow to 1.7% if doctors keep their privileges. There are two budgets for health: the priority budget, that is to say the salaries of doctors, and the budget for the remainder, that is to say that for patient care.
The member for the Parti Québécois also deplored the very low investment for community organizations: only $ 10 million is planned this year. “We also proposed to increase the solidarity tax credit, initially by $ 100 immediately, in order to offset the increase in the cost of the food basket. The government preferred to lower taxes for the rich. &quot;
Lower economic growth than that of our neighbors
“Despite the rain of small measures announced, the Liberals still forecast slower economic growth than that of Ontario, Canada or the United States. In 2016, non-residential business investment fell 2.6%. Exports stagnated at 0.2%. The promise to create 250,000 jobs goes even further away. On average, the Liberals will create just over 28,000 jobs annually. We are still far from the promise to create 50,000 per year, ”added the member for Rousseau.
“The Prime Minister made a commitment, on December 8, to give loan guarantees to the lumber industry if the federal government did not do so. However, there is still nothing for our 60,000 jobs at risk; this is another breach of promise on the part of the Liberal government, ”he also lamented.
The tax burden increases further
“Despite the abolition of the health tax, the Liberal government itself has observed that since taking office, Quebeckers have suffered an increase in the tax burden of $ 900 million per year. Including last year, they will cumulatively pay $ 4.3 billion more out of their pockets. The budget specifies it in black and white: the tax cut will be only $ 55 per person. The increase will represent another $ 1,000 per family, ”he continued.
Confirmation of concerns for REM
“The concerns we had for the Metropolitan Electricity Network project are confirmed. Not only is profitability not there and will require operating subsidies, but, in addition, a return of 8% is guaranteed to the Fund, at the expense of taxpayers. Through this dubious accounting, which the Auditor General should look into, the investment of $ 1283 million by the Government of Quebec is in reality a debt that should appear on its balance sheet. The increase in project costs from $ 5 billion to $ 6 billion was known; we now have confirmation that it will be paid off by the citizens of Quebec. The federal share is also missing; we still do not know when it will arrive, ”concluded Nicolas Marceau.
