Québec, March 23, 2017 - A few days before the tabling of the Québec budget, the member for Bonaventure and Parti Québécois spokesperson for forests, wildlife and parks, Sylvain Roy, and the member for Rimouski and porte- responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Chaudière regions? Appalaches, Harold LeBel, urge the Quebec government to assume its responsibilities and announce assistance measures in the lumber and epidemic files of spruce budworm in private forest.
“Yesterday, with its budget, the federal government literally let down forest communities. Nothing has been announced so that Quebec forestry workers can deal with the softwood lumber crisis. We have been calling Philippe Couillard&#39;s government on this subject for over a year. In December, after several questions and press briefings, the Prime Minister made a commitment to create a loan guarantee program if the federal government did not do so. The federal response arrived yesterday: nothing is planned for the 60,000 forestry workers in Quebec! This illustrates the failure of the Liberal government to assert our interests in Ottawa, ”Sylvain Roy first reacted.
“There are a few days left before the Quebec budget is tabled. The government has only one thing to do: announce the establishment of a loan guarantee program for Quebec businesses which, as of April, will suffer financial penalties ”, demanded the spokesperson. .
Spruce budworm in private forests &quot;Regarding the spruce budworm epidemic in private forests, we have also been asking the Minister of Forests for more than a year to set up a sustainable strategy. to help small forest owners. More than 14,000 homeowners are affected by the epidemic in Saguenay – Lac? Saint? Jean, Côte-Nord, Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie. They must fight the destruction of their assets on their own, while the epidemic continues to grow. Our request is clear: the Quebec government must announce, in Tuesday&#39;s budget, substantial assistance for the forest owners concerned, so that they are able to fight the epidemic, plan the work and, thus, ensure the sustainability of the forest, ”added Harold LeBel.
“The Couillard government has failed in its negotiations with the federal government. However, workers and forest owners do not have to pay for the Liberal inability to make gains for Quebec. The government must immediately assume its responsibilities and announce in its budget assistance measures relating to the softwood lumber and budworm epidemic files, ”concluded the Member for Bonaventure.
