Quebec - On the occasion of the tabling of the 2014-2015 budget of the Government of Quebec, the Panel of Experts for Patient-Oriented Funding submitted its report To ensure that the money follows the patient and the three accompanying technical documents to the Minister of Finance and the Economy and to the Minister of Health and Social Services. Chaired by Ms. Wendy Thomson and composed of MM. Roger Paquet and Pierre Shedleur, the expert group makes fifteen recommendations to implement patient-based funding in the health sector. The group of experts proposes an overall strategy comprising three priority intervention directions. It also proposes initiatives to create the necessary conditions and manage change, particularly with regard to clinical and financial information.
On behalf of the government, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, very favorably received all of the recommendations presented. &quot;The government immediately sets aside $ 15 million in 2014-2015 to improve clinical and financial information, particularly concerning the care provided and the results obtained,&quot; he announced.
The expert group is proposing to the government an overall strategy aimed at relying on patient-oriented funding to meet the challenges that the Quebec health system is currently facing, namely access to care, the quality of care, equity in funding allocation and spending pressures. The group of experts defines a pragmatic approach, spread over a period of three to five years starting from 2014-2015.
The expert group recommends action in three directions considered to be priorities, namely:
In the 2014-2015 Budget Speech, the Minister of Finance and the Economy announced that the government intends to act quickly on the recommendations presented by the panel of experts. He added that “the government will shortly explain in detail” the follow-up to these recommendations.
The Expert Group for Patient-Based Funding was set up in March 2012 to provide the government with the steps to take to implement patient-based funding in the health and social services sector. This mandate was confirmed and clarified in the fall of 2012 by the newly elected government.
Patient-centered funding is a method of allocating resources that establishes a direct link between the patient, the care provided and its funding. Resources are allocated according to the type and volume of services provided, which differentiates this mode from the traditional system, where resources are allocated on a historical and global basis. As the name suggests, patient-centered funding is strongly imbued with a philosophy that the choice of patients influences the delivery of care and the allocation of resources. Patient-based financing has been introduced into the health systems of most developed countries.
“I would like to thank Ms. Wendy Thompson and MM. Pierre Shedleur and Roger Paquet for their excellent work, ”concluded the Minister.
The report of the Expert Panel for Patient-Centered Funding, So the Money Follow the Patient, can be viewed on the Panel&#39;s website at www.santefinancementactivite.gouv.qc.ca.
To know everything about the Quebec budget
Consult all the following press releases
Masters and prosperous with us
Successful expenditure control and good management of public finances
More than 280 million dollars to strengthen solidarity
Ensuring the prosperity of the regions
Culture: both a reflection of our identity and an economic driver
See also the document &quot;The Budget at a Glance&quot;
Visit the website of the Ministère des Finances atbudget.finances.gouv.qc.ca
