Quebec - The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions, Ms. Agnès Maltais, presented the budget measures 2014-2015 which will support, among other things, the growth of the MRC des Etchemins.
&quot;The Priority Economic Policy employs our government and the measures announced in the 2014-2015 budget will have a positive effect on the economy of the regions of Quebec, including Chaudière-Appalaches and the MRC des Etchemins,&quot; said Agnès Maltais. “These measures represent real levers of economic development for each of them and are a pledge of prosperity for all of Quebec. I am particularly pleased with the announcement of concrete measures that will support the development of the MRC des Etchemins. &quot;
Since 2001, Capital régional et coopératif Desjardins (CRCD) has played an important role in financing Quebec SMEs, particularly those located in the resource regions, and cooperatives. In recent years, CRCD has taken part in major initiatives aimed at fostering the growth of SMEs and cooperatives and encouraging entrepreneurial succession.
With the objective of continuing its financial interventions in the various regions of Quebec, with an additional effort intended to help businesses located in territories facing economic difficulties, CRCD will invest at least $ 10 million over four years in troubled territories. .
The 40 regional county municipalities (RCMs) or equivalent territories in Quebec with the lowest economic development indices observed in recent years will be targeted for these interventions.
&quot;Thus, for a period of four years, sixteen MRCs from central regions, including the MRC des Etchemins in particular, will be added to the recognized territories for the purposes of evaluating the regional component of CRCD&#39;s investment standard&quot;, declared the minister.
Forest biomass is a renewable, available and often abundant source of energy. The use of residual forest biomass intended for energy production is an option to reduce the consumption of fossil fuels and thus contribute to achieving our objectives of energy independence.
As part of the 2014-2015 budget, the Quebec government is committed to investing $ 10 million in a new fund aimed at accelerating the development of the residual forest biomass sector.
The government will work with Fondaction and the Fédération québécoise des coopératives forestières (FQCF) to set up a fund with a minimum capitalization of $ 20.2 million. The objective of this fund will be to respond to the difficulties relating to the start-up of this new industrial sector, to demonstrate its relevance and effectiveness and to build up a critical mass of projects in this sector, such as projects for the physical conversion of heating installations. using fossil fuels or setting up processing and packaging centers.
As part of the Priority Jobs economic policy, the government announced a measure to take advantage of surplus electricity, namely the Investments-Jobs tariff offer. The objective of this measure is to use our surplus electricity in order to attract investment and create jobs, thanks to advantageous tariffs.
The Investment-Jobs tariff offer will target several sectors of activity, from the primary sector to the tertiary sector.
Local Investment Funds (FLI) aim to stimulate local entrepreneurship by promoting access to capital for the start-up or expansion of traditional businesses and the social economy. They are the main tool available to the 120 local development centers (CLDs) to support businesses in their area.
Given the importance of the FLIs in supporting local entrepreneurship, the 2014-2015 budget provides for the deferral of the reimbursement of the FLIs for a period of five years, which will make it possible to free up cash to ensure the maintenance of their interventions in the regions. In addition, the terms of the FLIs will be relaxed in order to support future entrepreneurs in their efforts to acquire businesses in all regions of Quebec.
With these changes and this postponement, the CLDs will be able to make additional annual investments of $ 25 million from 2015-2016 to 2019-2020, from the current capitalization.
The refundable tax credit promoting the modernization of the tourist accommodation offer aims to accelerate and intensify the infrastructure investments of accommodation establishments in the regions of Quebec.
In order to allow tourist accommodation companies to better plan their work and move forward more quickly in carrying out their renovation or improvement projects, the annual threshold of $ 50,000 will be replaced by a single threshold $ 50,000 for the entire period of application of the measure.
This change represents additional assistance of $ 100,000 in 2014-2015 and $ 200,000 in 2015-2016 and 2016-2017, for improving the supply of tourist accommodation in the regions.
&quot;The measures in the 2014-2015 budget are based on increased mobilization and concerted action by economic stakeholders, including businesses, institutions and ministries,&quot; added Minister Maltais. “Combined with the considerable assets of the MRC des Etchemins, such as its tourist attractions, its forests and its agricultural lands, the budgetary measures and the efforts of the partners will promote the prosperity of all the citizens of the MRC, I am convinced of it! &quot;
To consult the 2014-2015 budget, citizens can visit www.budget.finances.gouv.qc.ca/budget/2014-2015/index.asp.
