Québec - On the occasion of the tabling of the 2014-2015 budget, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, today announced that the government will invest $ 270 million for the construction of 3,250 new housing units affordable. The Minister of Finance and the Economy announced that “among the 3,250 new housing units built under the AccèsLogis program, 500 units will be reserved for people experiencing homelessness”.
The Minister also announced that “the government will invest in 2014-2015 an additional sum of $ 6 million for local services for people experiencing homelessness, particularly to provide support in the area of health and social services as well as community support ”. This announcement is part of the forthcoming publication of the first National Policy against Homelessness, as well as the action plan defining its implementation.
The main mission of the Fiducie du Chantier de l&#39;Economie Sociale is to promote the expansion and development of collective enterprises by improving access to financing for social economy enterprises.
“In order to allow the Trust to invest more, the interest holiday on the government contribution will be extended for an additional period of five years. This interest holiday represents an investment of $ 2.5 million over the entire period, ”announced Minister Marceau.
As the events in Lac-Mégantic and L&#39;Isle-Verte revealed, volunteer and part-time firefighters play a key role in small municipalities. However, just like professional firefighters, volunteer and part-time firefighters are subject to training requirements.
&quot;In order to ensure that the municipalities and the RCMs of Quebec have the capacity to intervene adequately during disasters, the government will invest $ 4 million per year to provide financial assistance for the training of volunteer firefighters and part-time, ”revealed the minister.
“Solidarity is a fundamental value of Quebecers. This is one of the pillars of government action. With the 2014-2015 budget, the government is acting to strengthen solidarity, ”he stressed.
——————————————
To know everything about the Quebec budget
Consult all the following press releases
Masters and prosperous with us
Successful expenditure control and good management of public finances
Ensuring the prosperity of the regions
Patient-Focused Funding in Health Care: Expert Panel Report Welcomed by Government
Culture: both a reflection of our identity and an economic driver
Publication of the report of the Task Force on the Protection of Quebec Businesses
See also the document &quot;The Budget at a Glance&quot;
Visit the website of the Ministère des Finances atbudget.finances.gouv.qc.ca
