Quebec - “The government will improve the lot of families. This budget will help restore tax justice that is essential to the proper functioning of our society. Middle-class families who are struggling to make ends meet will therefore see their financial burden decrease. In return, the state will require the most fortunate to make an additional effort. Within the limits of its means, the government will also help parents of young children, these families who are building the future of the Quebec nation on a daily basis, ”said the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, in the occasion of the tabling of the 2013-2014 budget of the Government of Quebec.
The Minister announced the abolition of the uniform health tax and its replacement by a progressive health contribution as of 2013.
“We have chosen to improve the situation for as many people as possible. In total, 4.4 million Quebecers, more than two-thirds of taxpayers, will pay less or will be exempt from it in 2013. In addition, the new progressive health contribution will be based on individual income. From now on, each person will pay according to their own financial capacity ”, explained the Minister.
In addition, to compensate for the drop in government income following changes to the health contribution and even better to share the effort, the Minister announced that the tax rate for income exceeding $ 100,000 will be increased by 1.75 percentage point.
&quot;All income from the new health contribution and the increase in the tax rate for income exceeding $ 100,000 will be paid into the Fund for the financing of health and social services establishments,&quot; he argued.
“Still with a view to helping families, we are relieving them of a significant increase in electricity rates announced by the previous government. Ultimately, this increase of 1 ¢ / kWh over five years would have resulted in an increase in the electricity bill of 20%, or $ 408 per year for an average-sized house. This increase has been abolished, ”announced the Minister.
“Like many government tariffs, the price of heritage pool electricity will now keep pace with inflation. After five years, for an average-sized house, this will represent a saving of $ 288 per year, ”he explained.
The Minister stressed that many Quebec families do not have the financial resources to allow their children to participate in sports, artistic or cultural activities, which allow young people to remain healthy, to discover talents and to flourish. .
He announced that the government will introduce as of 2013 a refundable tax credit for the physical, artistic and cultural activities of young people aged 5 to 16 years. This tax credit will reimburse 20% of eligible expenses, up to a maximum of $ 500, for a maximum amount of $ 100 per child. It will be available for families with incomes of $ 130,000 and less.
The tax credit will be implemented gradually over a period of five years, starting with the 2013 taxation year. Thus, in 2017 and for the following years, the amounts devoted to this measure will amount to 35 million. of dollars.
“As of 2014, the cumulative effects of these three measures will allow a couple with two children and an income of $ 70,000 to save $ 334 per year. For a couple with two children and an income of $ 35,000, the savings will be $ 534. Ultimately, the savings for these two families will reach $ 688 and $ 888 respectively, ”said the Minister.
“Many families are still having difficulty finding daycare spaces for their children. Nearly 222,000 places have been created, but needs are estimated at 250,000 places. For this reason, I am announcing that we will fund 28,000 new child care spaces at $ 7, which will meet these needs. We will finally be able to say with pride: one child, one place, ”said the Minister.
Many low-income families have difficulty finding housing. To help them, the minister announced the construction of 3,000 new affordable housing units.
&quot;The cancellation of the tuition fee hike decreed by the previous government and the repeal of the unacceptable provisions of Law 12 were the first two decisions of our government,&quot; recalled the Minister.
He underlined that the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, and her colleague, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, invited all the partners in the field to a reflection and a summit on university issues in February 2013.
“Our government attaches great importance to Quebec culture. This is why I am particularly happy to announce that the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Communications will be increased by 2.1%. The cultural budget will represent 1% of government program spending, ”said the minister.
In recent years, some retired workers have experienced difficult situations as their pension plans were affected by financial turmoil. This turmoil continues to put great financial pressure on pension plans. “The issue of pension plans is carefully studied by the committee of experts chaired by Mr. Alban D&#39;Amours. As soon as we receive its recommendations, in consultation with all the players concerned, we will act, ”said the Minister.
He also indicated that the government is continuing to reflect on improvements that could be made to basic public plans. In addition, for workers who do not have access to a pension plan, the government will offer them an additional means of retirement savings that they can use on a voluntary basis. To this end, it will table in the coming months a bill establishing voluntary retirement savings plans.
“These are measures that give Quebec families a break and meet their needs, within our means. These are the first milestones on which we will build to strengthen solidarity, an important value of the Quebec nation, ”he concluded.
Consult the website of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy for all the details.
