Quebec - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, expressed concern about the federal budget tabled today. “The federal government is working to protect its financial framework while the provinces, including Quebec, face multiple budgetary pressures. With the budget surpluses announced today, the federal government has no reason to justify the cuts to labor market agreements, as well as those it has made to the main federal transfers since 2008, ”lamented the Minister. .
“The federal government has just confirmed to us today that we are heading towards fiscal imbalance. While the latter will record significant budget surpluses in the short term and the provinces will continue to be under strong pressure, particularly in terms of health spending, everything is in place for a return to fiscal imbalance, ”indicated Mr. Marceau.
The unilateral decisions taken by the federal government take us back 10 years, namely a return to the fiscal imbalance which places the provinces in a precarious financial situation where they will be forced to further increase their tax burden to maintain the quality of services. offered to the population.
It is therefore essential that the federal government give back to the provinces the financial leeway it has taken away from them by its unilateral changes to the main federal transfers since 2008.
The federal government&#39;s stubbornness in upholding its March 2013 decision to cut funding for labor market agreements, in order to set up its own Canada Job Grant (CES) initiative, is completely unwarranted in this regard. the context in which all the provinces recognize the validity of the current labor market agreements and wish to see them renewed under the current terms and funding.
“The Harper government not only maintains its announcement, but it poses a thinly veiled threat to Quebec and the other provinces. The budget indicates that if a province does not come to an agreement with the federal government before April 1, it will itself pay the SCE through Service Canada, which would cause a diversion of $ 70 million intended for Quebec by through the Canada-Quebec Labor Market Agreement (EMT). This is an unacceptable encroachment into one of our areas of jurisdiction. This is an unacceptable encroachment and Quebec is demanding a withdrawal with full compensation from federal programs, ”said Mr. Marceau.
The Minister recalled that this agreement has a significant impact on the financing of employability measures intended for clients who are not eligible for employment insurance in Quebec. &quot;The measures funded by this agreement play an essential role in promoting maximum integration of Quebec workers into the labor market and in meeting the skilled labor needs of Quebec businesses.&quot; Quebec has proven itself in terms of the effectiveness of the measures offered to its population. The federal cuts are therefore completely unjustified, ”reiterated Minister Marceau.
The minister also deplored that while it balances its budget on the backs of the provinces, the federal government is continuing the numerous encroachments it makes in areas of exclusive jurisdiction of Quebec.
&quot;By creating a new research fund with funding of $ 1.5 billion, by wanting to invest in colleges to support social innovation or by dedicating $ 420 million for new graduate scholarships, the Harper government continues the great federal tradition of interfering in the field of higher education. Rather than funding new initiatives within our jurisdictions, the federal government should focus on bringing the Canada Social Transfer (CST) back to its 1994-95 level. This underfunding represents a shortfall of $ 800 million per year for Quebec to fund post-secondary education in particular, ”said Mr. Marceau.
The minister also notes that the federal government is determined to set up a pan-Canadian securities commission despite the clear decisions of the Quebec Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court. In addition, the federal government has decided to interfere in the regulation of derivatives. “Once again, the federal government is trying to get its foot in the door. There is no question of letting the federal government interfere in this exclusive jurisdiction of Quebec and we will vigorously combat any federal intrusion in this direction, ”indicated the Minister of Finance and the Economy.
Since it announced with great fanfare in March 2013 its new infrastructure plan for the next 10 years, the federal government has not said a word about the new parameters of the Building Canada Fund. “Worse, he adds in the budget that he is still in“ consultation ”mode. It is not acceptable that after a year the federal government has still not entered into negotiations with the provinces. At the rate things are going, I am worried that our partners will not be able to carry out infrastructure projects, with federal financial assistance, during the 2014 construction season ”, indicated the Minister of Finance and economy.
&quot;If the federal government had adopted the approach proposed by Quebec, namely to pay the funds of this new plan in the form of a transfer&quot; en bloc &quot;, it is clear that everything would be settled with Quebec and that the projects would be ready to start this spring. Instead of proceeding efficiently, the federal government prefers to negotiate piecemeal, micromanage and duplicate the work of Quebec, ”added the Minister of Finance and the Economy.
As has been the case for several years, the federal government is once again demonstrating that it prefers to invest in the Ontario automobile industry rather than support the forestry industry in Quebec.
&quot;Over the next two years, the federal government will allocate an additional $ 500 million to support innovation in the automotive industry while it intends to allocate only $ 45 million more for innovation in the industry. forestry. This is further proof that the Harper government has abandoned Quebec, ”concluded the Minister.
