Quebec - On the occasion of the tabling of the 2013-2014 budget of the Government of Quebec, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, announced a sounder management of infrastructure spending and new diversified sources of revenue to reduce the debt burden.
“The Liberal government has made decisions that are exploding in spending. He totally mortgaged the future. This is the case, for example, with infrastructure spending. These decisions add untenable pressure on current spending, ”the Minister stressed.
He indicated that several shortcomings had emerged with regard to the management of infrastructure projects. Some investments were not included in the Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) and therefore fell outside the management and monitoring framework. In addition, the costs of projects increased significantly between the time they were announced and the time they were carried out. There were also legitimate questions about the prioritization of certain investments. In addition, an analysis, commissioned by Infrastructure Québec, of 18 recent priority projects showed that the final costs were 78% higher than the costs initially forecast.
“Our fears about the management of infrastructure projects were well founded. We have to completely change the way things are done. We are therefore tightening up the planning and management rules for projects to make better use of infrastructure spending. We will make sure that all the projects will be included in the PQI. We will also assess the current asset base in order to have an overview that will allow us to prioritize needs. In short, we will make sure that Quebeckers get and get their money&#39;s worth, ”said the Minister.
He added that the rate at which infrastructure spending has increased in recent years has been unsustainable. “Our government is making an important shift to bring us back on a path compatible with our ability to pay. The level of all fixed asset investments will be set at a maximum of $ 9.5 billion on average for the next five years, a reduction of $ 1.5 billion compared to the levels provided for in the 2012-2013 budget. », He announced.
“We need to make sure that infrastructure investments respect our ability to pay and stop putting us in more debt. This level of $ 9.5 billion per year remains considerable and will allow us to maintain the quality of our public infrastructure, ”stated the Minister.
“I have already indicated that we intend to respect the objectives set by the law concerning debt reduction. The previous government wanted to reduce the debt by forcing Quebecers to increase their electricity bill by 20%. Instead, we will adopt a balanced approach, ”said the Minister.
Thus, he announced that the price of heritage pool electricity will be indexed annually to the cost of living from 2014. The resulting income will be dedicated to the Generations Fund. In addition, all mining royalties, an amount estimated at $ 325 million, will be paid into the Generations Fund as of 2015-2016. Revenues of $ 100 million from the increase in the tax on alcoholic beverages will also be paid there from 2014-2015. The same will apply to the revenues that will result from the increase in Hydro-Québec&#39;s earnings following the abandonment of the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant refurbishment project, which will represent $ 215 million per year to as of 2017-2018.
Finally, he noted that reducing investments in public infrastructure will help reduce debt growth.
“In addition, it seems important to us to take action to repay the debt now. In 2013-2014, $ 1 billion from the Generations Fund will be used for this purpose, ”said the Minister.
“Overall, all of the actions I am announcing today will allow us to meet the targets for debt reduction based on GDP established in the law. This means that from next year, the debt burden as a percentage of GDP will begin to decrease, ”he concluded.
