Quebec - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, today tabled the 2014-2015 budget. “The target we have set for ourselves in terms of spending is demanding. It corresponds to a conviction. We are convinced that job creation and the prosperity that it enables can only be sustainable if they are supported by a healthy financial situation. The challenge is to close the gap between spending and income that was widened during the 2008-2009 recession. Unlike the former Liberal government, we made the choice not to further increase taxes on Quebecers, ”said the Minister.
The Minister confirms the government&#39;s responsible approach to achieving a balanced budget in 2015-2016. The 2014-2015 budget maintains the anticipated deficits of $ 2.5 billion in 2013-2014 and $ 1.75 billion in 2014-2015. “The impact of these deficits on the debt will be fully offset by additional deposits in the Generations Fund, starting in 2016-2017,” the Minister specified.
&quot;Thanks to the effort shared by all my colleagues, I am proud to point out today that for the first time in ten years, the government is meeting its spending targets,&quot; said the Minister.
The efforts made have paid off. The 2012-2013 Public Accounts have shown that the government has respected its spending targets by establishing rigorous controls, while protecting services to the population. &quot;In 2012-2013, the growth of program spending was limited to 1.2%, which is the best performance of the last ten years,&quot; the Minister said.
“In addition, for 2014-2015 and the two following years, the growth in program spending is set at 2.0% per year, while under the former government, the increase in program spending was more than double, or 4.4% on average per year, ”added the Minister.
To achieve these spending targets, the minister announced that the government intends to reach an agreement with government employees taking into account the ability of taxpayers to pay. &quot;The government wants a negotiated, fair and equitable agreement for all parties,&quot; added the Minister. The government also wishes to reach a new agreement with physicians, taking into account, in particular, the maintenance of the significant advances made in terms of remuneration and its evolution compared to the rest of Canada.
The government wishes to increase the quality and efficiency of public services by implementing patient-based funding in the health network. In addition, efforts are required from public bodies in the management of their expenditure. The Minister adds that the government wishes to assess the effectiveness of the organization and the delivery methods of the services offered to the population.
In order to ensure the quality and sustainability of daycare services, as well as to continue developing the network, the Minister announced that as of September 1, 2014, the rate for daycare services will increase to $ 8 per day, then to $ 9 the following year, and that it will be indexed for subsequent years. Moreover, while recognizing the undeniable contribution of foreign students to Quebec society, the government intends to review all the exemptions and tuition fees that apply to them. The sums released will be used to finance the universities.
The fight against tax evasion, undeclared work and crime is a priority for the government. The Minister is announcing the implementation of sales recording modules in bars and restaurant-bars as of fall 2014. Additional measures will also be put in place in the construction sector.
The government&#39;s desire is to increase the efficiency of the services offered to the population, to optimize the services offered for each dollar spent by the State and to respect the citizens&#39; ability to pay. The government has chosen not to further increase taxes on Quebecers. &quot;It is by managing public finances effectively and responsibly that we will ensure that each taxpayer gets their money&#39;s worth and that we will be masters and prosperous at home,&quot; concluded the Minister.
To know everything about the Quebec budget
Consult all the following press releases
Masters and prosperous with us
More than 280 million dollars to strengthen solidarity
Ensuring the prosperity of the regions
Patient-Focused Funding in Health Care: Expert Panel Report Welcomed by Government
Culture: both a reflection of our identity and an economic driver
Publication of the report of the Task Force on the Protection of Quebec Businesses
See also the document &quot;The Budget at a Glance&quot;
Visit the website of the Ministère des Finances atbudget.finances.gouv.qc.ca
