Quebec - &quot;At the start of the 1960s, Jean Lesage and René Lévesque inspired the Quiet Revolution by making their &#39;Masters in our country&#39; resonate. It was by being daring and visionary that the Quebec government created Hydro-Quebec, like us. we know it today, and imagined the Caisse de dépôt et placement. Today, we are taking up the torch. We are following in the footsteps of these builders and taking the reins of our economy. We will develop our oil and natural resources properly, we will firmly protect our headquarters, and we will prosper our societies around the world. From today, we will not only be masters at home, but also prosperous at home, &quot;said the Minister of Finance and the Economy when tabling the 2014-2015 budget.
“The prosperity we are aiming for must benefit Quebecers. It is in this sense that our economic policy puts the interests of Quebec first. It aims to mobilize the necessary means to be masters and prosperous here, while remaining open to the world and to the development possibilities it offers us, ”added the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas. Marceau.
It is in this context that the Minister underlined the importance of the acquisition of stakes in oil exploration: &quot;To be masters and prosperous at home, it is to ensure, we Quebecers, to be the first beneficiaries of riches eventually discovered. This same goal guides the government in the mining and forestry sectors.
It is also so that we can be masters and prosperous at home that the government intends to protect our head offices. The Minister tabled the report of the working group chaired by Mr. Claude Séguin on the protection of head offices. The Minister also announced the government&#39;s intention to quickly implement the main recommendations of the report.
The Minister of Finance and the Economy also announced several good news. “Last month there were 4,058,000 jobs. There have never been so many Quebecers at work in all of our history. The Quebec economy created 47,800 jobs in 2013, which represents the best performance for three years, ”said the Minister.
The unemployment rate in 2013 was at its lowest level since the 2008-2009 recession, at 7.6%.
“The efforts made by the government since his arrival have had a significant effect. Between September 2012 and February 2014, the government provided support for private investment projects totaling nearly $ 13.5 billion. These projects will make it possible in total to create and consolidate nearly 33,000 jobs in Quebec ”, specified the Minister.
In addition, “The value of investments by Quebec companies reached $ 35.4 billion in 2013. 2012 was a good year. 2013 was an even better year. Investments are the key to job creation and future prosperity, ”continued the Minister.
The government has put order in the management of public investments. “We have adopted a rigorous management framework to do more with every dollar invested. In less than a year, and only for transport infrastructure, we have achieved savings of $ 240 million thanks to a demanding integrity policy. Over the next ten years, the Québec Infrastructure Plan provides for investments of $ 90.8 billion, ”said the Minister.
The Minister of Finance and the Economy took stock of the implementation of the Priority employment economic policy.
The deployment of the four flagship measures announced last October is already having effects on the economy and employment. The Minister successively addressed the use of surplus electricity, the acceleration of public investment, tax measures to stimulate investment, then investment in northern Quebec.
The Minister provided an update on the four policies and strategies announced under the Economic Policy Priority Employment. He thus presented the first results of the National Research and Innovation Policy, the Quebec Industrial Policy, the Foreign Trade Development Plan and the Transport Electrification Strategy.
Major projects are underway in research and innovation. At the industrial level, the program to identify and support 300 successful and promising companies, nicknamed “the gazelles”, has been officially launched.
“The sums made available to local development centers in order to promote access to capital for the start-up or expansion of businesses are renewed for five years. Also, the Anges Québec Capital fund is enhanced by $ 25 million. We are also going to allow Capital régional et coopératif Desjardins to issue $ 150 million in shares for 2014, so that it can continue its financial interventions in the regions, particularly in territories struggling with economic difficulties, ”announced Mr. Marceau.
The Priority Jobs economic policy will create 43,050 jobs by 2017, in addition to the new jobs already planned. Thus, in total, 125,000 new jobs will be created over the next three years.
In addition, regulatory and administrative streamlining efforts are starting to bear fruit.
&quot;These many measures will help ensure that we are masters and prosperous at home,&quot; concluded the Minister.
——————————————
To know everything about the Quebec budget
Consult all the following press releases
Successful expenditure control and good management of public finances
More than 280 million dollars to strengthen solidarity
Ensuring the prosperity of the regions
Patient-Focused Funding in Health Care: Expert Panel Report Welcomed by Government
Culture: both a reflection of our identity and an economic driver
Publication of the report of the Task Force on the Protection of Quebec Businesses
See also the document &quot;The Budget at a Glance&quot;
Visit the website of the Ministère des Finances atbudget.finances.gouv.qc.ca
