Quebec - The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the Minister responsible for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignist Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, are indignant at the orientations contained in the federal budget in terms of workforce training.
Since the 1997 agreement, Quebec has built a specific approach with labor market partners, thus contributing significantly to lowering the unemployment rate and the number of recipients of last resort assistance. what the Conservatives are tackling today.
“The government and the partners gathered in the Commission of Labor Market Partners have put in place effective programs. The ALL FOR EMPLOYMENT strategy, released on February 8, 2013 shows that not only the Quebec approach works, but also that it is constantly improving. Now the Conservatives, who do not understand the Quebec realities of the world of work, are interfering in an unacceptable way in our areas of jurisdiction and harming Quebec&#39;s objectives, ”lamented Ministers Maltais and Cloutier.
The two ministers deplore this measure in the Flaherty budget, which is in no way justified and which will have the effect of harming the development of the workforce in Quebec.
“The government has worked for a long time in close collaboration with businesses and the Commission des Partenaires du marché du travail. Quebec also stands out from the other provinces, in particular through the establishment of a partnership structure that yields results that exceed all the targets set by the federal government, ”said Minister Maltais.
“The last Quebec strategy aimed, among other things, to improve access to training for SMEs. With this unilateral decision, the Conservatives are reducing this access, which risks directly affecting the efficiency of our economy in the medium and long term, ”worries Minister Agnès Maltais. “In fact, the training measures in this budget will favor large companies, which goes against the interests of partners in the Quebec labor market,” added the Minister.
The measure announced in the Conservative budget denies the Quebec model of the know-how and expertise of Quebec&#39;s public employment services By depriving Quebec of this budget, the federal government is dropping more than 50% of unemployed Quebecers .
By slashing 60% of the budget allocated to Quebec, or $ 70 million, Minister Flaherty will affect Emploi-Quebec&#39;s ability to reach people without employment and without employment insurance, who are precisely groups that are under-represented on the work market. Small businesses will also be affected by the withdrawal of services offered by Emploi-Québec. About 130 school organizations, 500 organizations for employability development and hubs
Jeunesse-emploi will have to review their service offer to cope with the decrease in their funding. The impacts will be major and that is unacceptable.
“More than 116,000 Quebeckers who are not eligible for employment insurance have benefited from it, including immigrants, women and recipients of social assistance programs. &quot;We have focused our efforts on training, a priority for Quebec,&quot; said Minister Maltais.
The Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs and Sovereignty Governance, for his part, considers this budget an attack on the Quebec model.
“The training of workers is a competence of Quebec and the interference of the federal government in this sector is totally unacceptable. With these cuts, it is a step backwards of 15 years in terms of workforce training in Quebec. It is not only an affront, but also a blatant demonstration that they do not understand Quebec, ”said Minister Cloutier.
“The federal government does not take any account of the concerted work carried out by Quebec in the area of workforce training. The budget allocated under the Labor Market Agreement makes it possible to train people who are far from the labor market to prepare them for entering a job, and our government is doing this successfully. ”, Recalled Minister Cloutier.
“We have a year to make the federal government listen to reason. We will fight to preserve the Quebec model. Our government is demanding that all the sums that the federal budget devote to active employment measures be transferred to us so that Quebec can play its role in workforce training, ”concluded Agnès Maltais with determination. .
Since the objectives set by the federal government have already been exceeded by Quebec, the ministers also denounce the resulting drop in federal funding for training. In 2011-2012, 84% of the amounts from the Agreement were committed for employment measures and services aimed at training and preparing for the job market.
The Commission, largely involved in the planning of public employment services, brings together representatives of employers, the education community, union organizations and community organizations.
In concert with its partners, Quebec also launched, on February 8, the All for employment strategy: a new impetus with the partners, a vast mobilization that will make it possible to go even further to establish a true culture of continuing education and skills development.
