Quebec— The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, welcomes the report of the site president on financial assistance for studies, Mr. Pier-André Bouchard St -Lover. The Minister announces that he has chosen three measures that will be implemented next fall.
“I am very happy to unveil the conclusions of the first project resulting from the Summit on higher education. The measures adopted are fair and favor students with the greatest financial needs. I am particularly satisfied that one of them affects part-time students in the regions, ”said Minister Duchesne.
The task force on financial assistance for studies, chaired by Mr. Pier-André Bouchard St-Amant, was mandated to propose bonuses of up to $ 25 million to financial assistance programs. The Minister intends to adopt the following three measures:
The increase of $ 20 per month of study in the assistance provided for living expenses recognized to students under the Loans and Bursaries Program, which, as of fall 2013, will benefit nearly 120,000 students. They will be able to count on an additional grant of $ 160.
The improvement of the threshold from which a contribution is requested from the parents, the spouse and the sponsor of the student. This measure is in fact an acceleration of the improvement announced at the summit on higher education. Thus, for the year 2013-2014, the contribution threshold for a family whose two parents live together will go from $ 36,000 to $ 37,000, while for the year 2014-2015, this threshold will go from $ 40,000. at $ 41,000.
It should be noted that each of the bonuses emanating from the worksite had to respect the following four guidelines: be applicable within the regulatory framework, fall within the guidelines of current student financial assistance programs, be fair to all beneficiaries and ultimately, be sustainable and achievable in the long term.
The president was able to count on the participation of representatives of four student federations, namely the Federation of University Students of Quebec (FEUQ), the Federation of College Students of Quebec (FECQ), the Table de concertation student du Québec (TaCEQ) and the Federation of Quebec university student associations in continuing education (FAEUQEP). These federations gave their support to the recommendations presented.
“I take this opportunity to underline the significant effort made by the people who contributed to the work on the site. I warmly thank Mr. Bouchard St-Amand for the remarkable work he has accomplished. The implementation of this project demonstrates the confidence our government places in young people, ”said Minister Duchesne.
