Quebec - The member for Terrebonne and official opposition spokesperson for youth and student affairs, Mathieu Traversy, asks the government of Jean Charest to reconsider its position and allow young people to vote in their educational establishment in the next election.
“It&#39;s been several years since the Parti Québécois put forward this proposal to facilitate the vote of young people. This measure is also the consensus of a majority of organizations including the youth wings of all political parties, including that of the Liberal Party. It is deplorable that only the government of Jean Charest is opposed to this measure, which would increase the participation rate of young people in elections, especially since the Chief Electoral Officer has confirmed that the proposal could be carried out during the next poll. », Underlined Mathieu Traversy.
“It is our responsibility as elected officials to promote the participation of all voters in elections, including that of the youngest. Similar incentives already exist to facilitate the voting of “snowbirds”, soldiers, inmates and in some 700 residences for the elderly and CHSLDs. Why not do the same in CEGEPs and universities when we know that many students have left their region of origin to pursue higher education? Added the member for Terrebonne, referring to the letter from Léo Bureau-Blouin and Pier-André Bouchard St-Amant published this morning in Le Devoir.
“Jean Charest, responsible for youth issues, has a duty to give all the necessary tools to Quebec students so that they can participate in our democratic life. During the last elections, in November 2008, the participation rate of 18-24 year olds was only 41.2%. Less than one in two young people have taken advantage of their right to vote. The Prime Minister said that the student crisis was going to be resolved at the polls. He must stop objecting, put partisanship aside and give young people the means to participate in greater numbers, ”concluded Mathieu Traversy.
