Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, is delighted that the negotiators of the government of Quebec and the Atikamekw nation succeeded in signing, last night, the Agreement concerning the management and development of natural resources and the territory.
“For the first time in the history of Quebec, an Aboriginal nation has the possibility of concluding a bilateral agreement with the government of Quebec in the field of land and natural resources. Given the slowness of comprehensive land negotiations with the federal government, I am very proud that we have reached this pioneering agreement which allows for many advances, ”said the Premier.
The Agreement aims in particular to allow better access to natural resources for the Atikamekw, to promote the sharing of royalties or socio-economic benefits, and to establish a co-management formula on an agreed territory.
Last December, at the Summit on Territories and Resources organized by the Assembly of First Nations of Quebec and Labrador, the Premier made a commitment to continue negotiations and sign a final agreement with the Atikamekw.
“Today I salute the work carried out by the Minister for Native Affairs, Élizabeth Larouche, the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, the Atikamekw chiefs and the negotiators. Like the Paix des Braves, this agreement will perfectly illustrate the nation-to-nation relationship that is the basis of our government&#39;s vision on Aboriginal matters. We can now look to the future together to promote the economic and social development of the Atikamekw, in addition to allowing harmonious cohabitation on the territory, ”concluded the Premier.
Remember that since 1979, the Atikamekw have been negotiating a treaty that would settle their claims with the governments of Canada and Quebec. However, these negotiations have not yet produced tangible results and were suspended until very recently. Bilateral negotiations between Quebec and the Atikamekw were therefore held pending the conclusion of a possible treaty. The two parties had given themselves until October 21 to reach a final agreement. This agreement, which has just been initialed, will soon be the subject of an endorsement with a view to official signature.
