Quebec - The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce the extension until 2018 assistance offered to more than 12,800 low-income households through the Rent Supplement Program.
Thanks to this measure, the costs of which are estimated at $ 187 million, more than 7,200 households will see their subsidy immediately renewed, for a period of five years. In addition, approximately 5,600 other households, whose subsidies will expire over the next five years, will also see their rent supplement extended until March 31, 2018.
“In a context of the scarcity of affordable housing, the Quebec government is fully aware of the difficulty many low-income households experience in finding adequate housing. The Rent Supplement Program thus alleviates the financial effort required of these households, by allowing them to devote only 25% of their income to housing. Thanks to this assistance, many of them are able to stay in housing that meets their needs and their financial capacity, ”said Minister Gaudreault.
Remember that the Rent Supplement Program allows low-income households to live in dwellings that are part of the private rental market or that belong to housing cooperatives or non-profit organizations, while paying rent. similar to that of a low-rental housing. The households targeted by this measure live in buildings whose construction has been subsidized by the Rental Building Renovation Program, the Purchase-Renovation Program for cooperatives and non-profit organizations and the AccèsLogis Québec program.
The Government of Quebec is also announcing the renewal of some 800 units of the Emergency Rent Supplement Program which are still in effect today, for a period of one year. This program provides emergency assistance to households in exceptional circumstances who, without this assistance, could find themselves homeless, particularly during the period of July 1.
At the same time, the Government of Quebec is developing sustainable solutions to increase the supply of community and affordable housing. In its most recent budget, it announced a budget envelope of $ 231 million for the construction of 3,000 new affordable housing units over the next few years.
The SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Whether it is by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000 people. households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You will also be able to consult Espace Habitat, a new Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of the SHQ&#39;s interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
