Rimouski– The governments of Canada and Quebec will invest more than $ 1.5M this year to renovate 80 social housing units in Rimouski. This was reported by the Honorable Christian Paradis, Minister of Industry, Minister of State (Agriculture) and Member of Parliament for Mégantic-L&#39;Érable, on behalf of the Honorable Diane Finley, Minister of Human Resources and Skills Development and Minister responsible for the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC), and the Member for Rimouski, Mr. Irvin Pelletier, on behalf of Sylvain Gaudreault, Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land occupation, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ).
This financial assistance, which was granted under the replacement, improvement and modernization (RAM) budget, will be used to carry out the first phase of the work planned on the buildings at Place Lamoureux in Rimouski. Of this amount, $ 850,000 was granted by the Government of Canada, through the CMHC, while the Government of Quebec granted $ 680,000, through the SHQ. The City of Rimouski, for its part, contributed a sum of $ 170,000. In total, an investment of $ 1.7 million was made to improve and modernize Place Lamoureux.
“Our government is committed to strengthening communities. Considerable sums are invested in Quebec for the modernization and improvement of social housing in order to improve the quality of life of families, individuals and seniors throughout the province. As the Prime Minister has clarified, our government continues to prioritize four priorities that matter most to Canadians: their families, the safety of our streets and our communities, their pride in being a citizen of this country and, well. their personal financial security, ”said Minister Christian Paradis.
“The Government of Quebec is concerned about the future of Quebec&#39;s low-rental housing stock, which constitutes a heritage to be preserved for future generations. This is the reason why it invests significant sums to ensure the sustainability of these infrastructures. This is excellent news for families who, thanks to this major work, will benefit from a safer home and a more welcoming living environment. But this announcement is also a bearer of hope for the entire Rimouski region, since we know that by improving the housing conditions of the most vulnerable households, we are giving them the tools so that they can flourish and take part in the active life in their community, ”added MP Pelletier and Minister Gaudreault.
Managed by the Office municipal d&#39;habitation de Rimouski (OMHR) and built in 1970, Place Lamoureux comprises 80 apartments in five four-storey buildings. The financial assistance announced today will notably make it possible to replace the exterior cladding of buildings which, after more than 40 years, have reached the end of their useful life. The soundproofing of the accommodation will also be improved, providing residents with more privacy. In addition, outdoor areas will be developed to meet the needs of the many families living in this housing complex, which is the first low-rental housing project built in Rimouski.
In total, financial assistance of $ 3.05 million was granted in 2013 to OMHR, as part of the RAM budget, to carry out work on all of its building stock.
“As mayor of Rimouski, I am delighted that the buildings that are part of our community real estate assets are the subject of significant investments by the provincial and federal governments. The City of Rimouski is proud to financially support this renovation project, which will favor product suppliers and local entrepreneurs, in order to use materials produced or transformed in the region ”, declared the mayor of Rimouski, Mr. Éric. Forest.
With the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, and within the framework of the RAM budget, the investments of the governments of Canada and Quebec to maintain and renovate the social housing stock increased from $ 103.1 million in 2007 to 308 M $ in 2012. These major investments are part of the governments&#39; clearly expressed desire to improve the housing conditions of low-income households or people with special housing needs.
This year, through CMHC, the Government of Canada will invest approximately $ 2 billion in housing. Of this amount, $ 1.7 billion will be devoted to supporting nearly 594,000 households living in social housing. In Quebec, this represents some 127,150 households. These investments improve the quality of life of low-income Canadians and households living in social housing, including the homeless and those at risk of becoming homeless, seniors, people with disabilities, recent immigrants and Indigenous people.
To learn more about how CMHC supports building strong homes and thriving communities for all Canadians, contact CMHC at 1-800-668-2642 or visit www.cmhc-schl.gc.ca.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Whether by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec contributes to improving quality. life of 230,000 Quebec households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You will also be able to consult Espace Habitat, a new Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of the SHQ&#39;s interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
