Brossard - &quot;This is a new beginning for these young adults living with an intellectual disability who are now flying on their own&quot;, this is the message that the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport and Minister responsible wanted to convey. from the Montérégie region, Mrs. Marie Malavoy, today at the inauguration of Maison Jolivie, in Brossard. Built thanks to the AccèsLogis Québec program of the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), this specialized residence includes 16 supervised housing units adapted to the needs of its clientele.
Nearly $ 2.3 million has been invested by the Government of Quebec and its partners to enable this project of great importance to the community of Brossard to be carried out.
“La Maison Jolivie provides a stimulating and safe living environment for young adults with special needs. This place will allow them to flourish and realize their full potential. This is the culmination of an important project for these people, but also for their families and for the entire community of Brossard, ”said Minister Marie Malavoy, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault.
The SHQ contributed to the realization of this project by offering a subsidy of $ 900,000 and a guarantee of the mortgage loan contracted by the organization Action Integration in intellectual deficiency (AIDI) to finance the residence. The community&#39;s total contribution amounts to $ 844,000, of which $ 270,000 was invested by the City of Brossard, through the social housing fund of the Montreal Metropolitan Community (CMM), and $ 574,000 by AIDA.
“La Maison Jolivie allows people living with an intellectual disability to benefit from supported housing. This innovative living environment ensures respect for the needs of autonomy and a stable and safe living environment, which contributes to the development of residents as well as to their social integration ”, underlined Mr. Yves Gougeon, president of the AIDA Board of Directors.
It should also be noted that all tenants of the residence benefit from the Rent Supplement program, financial assistance intended for low-income people who, without this support, would have to pay more than 25% of their income for housing. This additional assistance represents an investment of just over $ 275,000 over five years, 90% assumed by the SHQ and 10% by the City of Brossard, whose contribution is reimbursed by the CMM.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec contributes to improving quality. life of 230,000 households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
