Quebec - The work of Habitations Château d&#39;Eau was kicked off today by the MNA for Berthier, Mr. André Villeneuve, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the mayor of Quebec, Mr. Régis Labeaume, and community partners.
The completion of this major housing project of 50 affordable housing units for seniors in the greater Quebec City region requires a total investment of over $ 8.5 million. Of this amount, a subsidy of nearly $ 3.6 million was granted by the government of Quebec, through the SHQ&#39;s AccèsLogis Québec program. In addition, the SHQ guarantees the mortgage loan taken out by the organization. We should also mention the participation of the City of Quebec, which contributed more than $ 930,000 to the project.
“With this project, we sincerely hope to be able to keep with us this active and resourceful senior clientele, likely to put their experience at the service of our entire community. The harmonious integration of the new buildings into the architectural fabric of the district makes this project even more interesting. I am very proud to participate in the official launch of the work ”, declared the Member of Parliament for Berthier, Mr. André Villeneuve.
“I would like to salute the efforts made by citizens to carry out the Habitations Château d&#39;Eau project on the site of an old church. In a context where the number of vacant dwellings is low, it is important for the City to improve the housing conditions of citizens who have special needs and to allow them to remain in our community ”, declared the mayor of Quebec, Mr. Régis Labeaume.
It should be noted that additional financial assistance of more than $ 430,000, spread over five years and assumed 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the City of Quebec, will allow 25 tenants of Habitations Château d&#39;Eau to benefit from the Program. rent supplement. They will thus pay a rent similar to that of a low-rental housing, or 25% of their income.
Like all projects carried out under the AccèsLogis Québec program, Habitations Château d&#39;Eau have been designed to obtain Novoclimat certification, a requirement that reflects the importance given to improving energy efficiency by the government. of Quebec. To help it achieve its goal, the project received a grant of over $ 100,000 from the Office of Energy Efficiency and Innovation at the Department of Natural Resources.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether it is by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000 people. households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.calink text. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
