Saint-Hyacinthe– Work has begun at 935, rue Morison, where a new building with 24 affordable units will be erected in the coming months for people aged 55 and over, with low or modest incomes. This project, carried out through the AccèsLogis Québec program of the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), will result in an investment of more than $ 3.2 million on the part of the Government of Quebec and the City of Saint -Hyacinthe and the Office municipal d&#39;habitation (OMH) of Saint-Hyacinthe. The work should be completed next spring.
“This project is excellent news for the people of Saint-Hyacinthe. It will allow a greater number of people to find housing in a new, high-quality environment at a reasonable cost. Projects like this clearly demonstrate our government&#39;s commitment to improving the well-being of Quebecers through the construction of affordable and community housing, ”said the Member for Saint-Hyacinthe, Mr. Émilien Pelletier.
The SHQ granted a subsidy of more than $ 1.2 million to enable this project to be carried out, in addition to guaranteeing the mortgage loan of $ 1 million contracted by the OMH of Saint-Hyacinthe, which will be responsible for the management of the project. &#39;building. We should also mention the financial participation of the City of Saint-Hyacinthe, which injected a sum of $ 1 million. Finally, it should be noted that the Saint-Hyacinthe OMH is supported by the Saint-Hyacinthe technical resources group as well as by the 8Marskoutaines group for the realization of this housing complex.
“We are very happy to be able to offer citizens the possibility of moving into one of these new affordable housing units. We will give priority to single people, but also to couples aged 55 and over who occupy accommodation with more than 2 bedrooms in a cooperative and who meet our selection criteria. This way of doing things will, by the same token, free up housing for families, ”said David Bousquet, president of the OMH Saint-Hyacinthe.
Remember that in its first budget, the Quebec government announced a budget envelope of $ 231 million for the construction of 3,000 affordable housing units in Quebec over the coming months.
It should also be noted that since the implementation of the SHQ&#39;s AccèsLogis Québec and Affordable Housing Québec programs, 3,316 affordable housing units have been built in Montérégie or are in the process of being built, representing an investment of over $ 354 million. for the region.
Société d&#39;habitation du Québec Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether it is by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000 people. households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
