Saint-Lin-Laurentides– Thanks to the joint investments of the governments of Canada and Quebec and their community partners, seniors with a slight loss of autonomy now have access to 53 new affordable housing adapted to their needs.
The third phase of the Résidence Laurier, the construction of which required an investment totaling nearly $ 6.2 million, was inaugurated today by the Minister of Finance and the Economy and Member of Parliament for Rousseau, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, at the name of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault. The Honorable Denis Lebel, Minister of Infrastructure, Communities and Intergovernmental Affairs, Minister of the Economic Development Agency of Canada for the Regions of Quebec and Member of Parliament for Roberval-Lac-Saint-Jean, on behalf of the Honorable Candice Bergen, Minister of State (Social Development), also wished to underline this inauguration which crowns many years of work.
The Government of Canada, through Canada&#39;s Economic Action Plan, and the Government of Quebec, under the SHQ&#39;s AccèsLogis Québec program, have jointly invested nearly $ 3.1 million for this project. . The community&#39;s total contribution amounts to more than $ 1 million, of which $ 640,000 was granted by the City of Saint-Lin-Laurentides and nearly $ 102,000 by the Office of Energy Efficiency and Innovation. of the Ministry of Natural Resources to ensure that the building meets the standards of the Novoclimat program.
“I am always impressed to see the inspiring projects that take shape when a community mobilizes for the well-being of its fellow citizens, as is the case here in Saint-Lin-Laurentides. These 53 dwellings are in addition to the 40 dwellings already in existence in phases I and II of Résidence Laurier. Thus, more deans of our community can evolve in a peaceful and safe living environment. This is a concrete example of what our government wants to offer seniors in all regions of Quebec, that is to say a place where they can maintain greater autonomy and maintain a healthy lifestyle and active, ”said Minister Nicolas Marceau.
“Our government is working to help those in need, which is why we are proud to have invested in this housing project located in the city of Saint-Lin-Laurentides. These new homes are more than just a safe and affordable place to live. They are the key to a better life for those who find a home there. We continue to focus on four priorities, as articulated by the Prime Minister, that matter most to Canadians: their families, the safety of our streets and our communities, their pride in being citizens of this country and, of course. , their personal financial security, ”said Minister Lebel.
It should be noted that additional financial assistance of more than $ 891,000, spread over five years and assumed 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the City, currently allows all tenants of Résidence Laurier to benefit from the program. Rent supplement. Thus, tenants spend only 25% of their income on housing, which helps to increase their purchasing power for essential goods.
This year, through CMHC, the Government of Canada will invest approximately $ 2 billion in housing. Of this amount, $ 1.7 billion will be devoted to supporting nearly 594,000 households living in social housing. In Quebec, this represents some 127,150 households. These investments improve the quality of life of low-income Canadians and households living in social housing, including the homeless and those at risk of becoming homeless, seniors, people with disabilities, recent immigrants and Indigenous people.
To learn more about how CMHC supports building strong homes and thriving communities for all Canadians, contact CMHC at 1-800-668-2642 or visit www.cmhc-schl.gc.ca.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether it is by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000 people. households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit: www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
