Québec– Le Piolet, an organization in Québec that helps young adults in situations of social exclusion or marginalization, added a string to its bow with the construction of 22 affordable housing units for its clientele. Les Habitations Le Piolet was inaugurated today by the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the mayor of Quebec, Mr. Régis Labeaume, in the presence of the president and CEO of the SHQ, Mr. John MacKay, and partners from the community.
Completion of this project required a total investment of nearly $ 4.5 million. Of this amount, a subsidy of over $ 1.4 million was granted by the Government of Quebec, through the SHQ&#39;s AccèsLogis Québec program. In addition, the SHQ guarantees the mortgage loan taken out by the organization. We should also mention the participation of the City of Quebec, which contributed nearly $ 400,000 to the project.
“Before the addition of these housing units, Le Piolet already played a leading role with young adults who are having difficulty integrating into the labor market. The 22 affordable housing units that are inaugurated today will allow Piolet to go even further in supporting its clientele, by offering young people a stable living environment, a real springboard towards successful social reintegration ”, declared the Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
“For more than 27 years, Le Piolet has supported young people who wish to regain their place in society by enabling them to acquire technical, personal and social skills. The addition of affordable housing allows them to begin an integrated process in order to become independent. Through this unwavering commitment, Le Piolet amply deserves our support, ”declared the mayor of Quebec, Mr. Régis Labeaume.
Les Habitations Le Piolet is aimed at students who follow a training course at Le Piolet restaurant or at young adults, aged 18 to 35, who frequent the “living environment” of the organization. Current and future tenants of the 22 affordable housing units will have the opportunity to spend a maximum of 2 years there on a transitional basis. Whether through training in catering, support and listening, and now accommodation, the organization Le Piolet promotes social reintegration, helps fight poverty and prevent the risk of homelessness.
“Today&#39;s inauguration is the realization of a desired project for 8 years. Thanks to this housing, we are now able to complete the circle of services we offer to young people in precarious situations, ”said the chairman of the board of directors of the organization Le Piolet, Mr. Simon Côté.
It should be noted that additional financial assistance of nearly $ 379,000, spread over five years and assumed 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the City of Quebec, will allow the 22 tenants of Habitations Le Piolet to benefit from the Supplement Program. to rent. They will thus pay a rent similar to that of a low-rental housing, or 25% of their income.
Like all projects carried out under the AccèsLogis Québec program, Habitations Le Piolet have been designed to obtain Novoclimat certification, a requirement that reflects the importance given to improving energy efficiency by the Government of Quebec. and the SHQ. To do so, the project received a grant of more than $ 25,000 from the Office of Energy Efficiency and Innovation of the Department of Natural Resources to help it achieve this goal.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether it is by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000 people. households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
