Saint-Antoine-de-Tilly– Thanks to the joint investments of the governments of Canada and Quebec and their community partners, seniors with a slight loss of autonomy now have access to a housing complex of 19 affordable units, adapted to their needs.
The Domaine Saint-Antoine, whose construction required an investment totaling nearly $ 3M, was inaugurated today by the Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. André Villeneuve , on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault. Mr. Jacques Gourde, Parliamentary Secretary to the Prime Minister, for Official Languages and for the Economic Development Agency of Canada for the Regions of Quebec, on behalf of the Honorable Candice Bergen, Minister of State (Social Development), also wanted to underline this inauguration which crowns many years of work.
The Government of Canada, through the 2011-2014 Affordable Housing Investment Agreement, and the Government of Quebec, under the SHQ&#39;s AccèsLogis Québec program, have jointly invested more than 1.3 M $ for the realization of this project. The community&#39;s total contribution amounts to some $ 437,000, of which nearly $ 185,000 was granted by the Municipality of Saint-Antoine-de-Tilly. It should also be noted that the project received an additional grant of $ 250,000 thanks to the Rénovation Québec program of the SHQ.
“Our government is working to help those in need, which is why we are proud to have invested in this housing project located in the village of Saint-Antoine-de-Tilly. These new homes are more than just a safe and affordable place to live. They are the key to a better life for those who find a home there. We continue to focus on four priorities, as articulated by the Prime Minister, that matter most to Canadians: their families, the safety of our streets and our communities, their pride in being citizens of this country and, of course. , their personal financial security ”, declared Mr. Jacques Gourde.
“Thanks to this residence, the deans of this community now have the opportunity to evolve in a peaceful, safe and affordable living environment. Domaine Saint-Antoine is a concrete example of what we want to offer seniors in all regions of Quebec; that is to say a place where it is possible to exercise autonomy for a long time while maintaining a good quality of life. This is why our government is investing considerable sums to allow the construction of a large number of affordable and community housing, ”said André Villeneuve.
Located in the heart of the municipality, Domaine Saint-Antoine is a complex intended for independent seniors or those with a slight loss of autonomy, aged 65 and over. The building includes a common dining room where meals are offered for tenants as well as a community lounge, which allows residents to socialize and receive their loved ones.
Note that additional financial assistance of more than $ 172,000, spread over five years and assumed 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the Municipality, allows 10 tenants of Domaine Saint-Antoine to benefit from the Rent Supplement program. . Thus, tenants spend only 25% of their income for housing, which in turn helps to increase their purchasing power for essential goods.
This year, through CMHC, the Government of Canada will invest approximately $ 2 billion in housing. Of this amount, $ 1.7 billion will be devoted to supporting nearly 594,000 households living in social housing. In Quebec, this represents some 127,150 households. These investments improve the quality of life of low-income Canadians and households living in social housing, including the homeless and those at risk of becoming homeless, seniors, people with disabilities, recent immigrants and Indigenous people.
To learn more about how CMHC supports building strong homes and thriving communities for all Canadians, contact CMHC at 1-800-668-2642 or visit www.cmhc-schl.gc.ca.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec contributes to improving quality. life of 230,000 households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
