Montreal - The Parti Québécois candidate in Rousseau and Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, the candidate in Saint-Jérôme, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the candidate in Montarville, Simon Prévost, describe the financial framework of the Liberal Party as Quebec of unrealistic and irresponsible.
“As he did for the employment data, Philippe Couillard arranges the numbers to create artificial income growth of $ 5 billion, which allows him to make unrealistic promises. This is the &quot;Charest way&quot;, the very one who has never succeeded in controlling his spending. Carlos Leitao, Philippe Couillard&#39;s banker, does not even meet his own growth forecasts. A few weeks ago, the economist predicted 1.8% GDP growth, while the liberal candidate is now forecasting 2.1%. Which one is true? », Wonders Nicolas Marceau.
“What is expensive in an economy is corruption. Instead of fantasizing by inventing exaggerated economic growth, the Parti Québécois will tackle the real creation of wealth, that created by entrepreneurs here. By supporting our businesses, taking control of our natural resources, including oil in Anticosti, and developing our expertise in transportation electrification, we are going to make Quebec a stronger and more prosperous nation, ”added Pierre Karl Péladeau.
Same sleight of hand for taxation. Citizens are well aware of what lies behind a liberal tax review: a tax increase. The Liberals increased them by $ 6 billion during their most recent coming to power.
“Should we recall the supposed reengineering of the State and the tax cuts promised by Jean Charest in 2003? Like him, Philippe Couillard promises everything to everyone. He takes up exactly the same merry-go-round. During the Liberal regime&#39;s nine years in power, spending grew 4.4% per year. Each time, they have failed to achieve their spending control target, while the Parti Québécois government has done better, controlling spending at 1.9% on average for two years, ”said Simon Prévost.
“Philippe Couillard promises everything at the same time: spending increases, tax cuts and a budget surplus. While he said last November that we would be in deficit for 3 or 4 years, he is now talking about a budget surplus. Nothing has changed in the Liberal Party: tax hikes and false promises. The Parti Québécois has the best team; she is competent and diverse. And we have the best plan, a realistic and responsible plan, ”Nicolas Marceau concluded.
Watch the press conference.
