Quebec - The Minister of Health and Social Services must dismiss Ms. Geneviève Fortier from her duties as president and board member of the CHUM-CHU Sainte-Justine, given the fact that this appointment, announced on the sly, just before Christmas, poses a serious ethical problem. This is what Bernard Drainville and Diane Lamarre, respectively the Parti Québécois spokesperson for ethics and integrity, and for health, demanded today.
“There really is an ethical problem, since this person, in addition to being a public office holder, is lobbying the government for McKesson, a firm specializing in the distribution of drugs and medical equipment. Ms. Fortier&#39;s situation could even pose a legal problem. Bill 56, Lobbying Transparency Act, tabled by Minister Jean-Marc Fournier last June, would make such a situation illegal if it were adopted as is, ”said Bernard Drainville.
Article 42 of this bill stipulates in fact that a holder of a public office cannot exercise lobbying activity with another holder of a public office exercising his functions within 1 ° of the same institution. public than that in which he exercises his office; 2 ° a public institution with which he has had official, direct and important relations during the past year. “In other words, the adoption of Bill 56 would make the appointment of Ms. Fortier illegal, since &#39;she is both a public office holder and a lobbyist for McKesson with Minister Barrette, according to what she herself has entered in the register of lobbyists,&#39; the spokesperson continued.
“The minister no doubt realized that his appointment went against Bill 56; that might explain why he sneakily wanted to amend the lobbying law earlier this fall through an amendment to Bill 20. This amendment sought to exempt members of boards of directors, employees and managers of health establishments from the law on lobbying. Within the meaning of the law, these people would therefore no longer be considered as holders of public office. However, the amendment was deemed inadmissible by the President of the Committee on Health and Social Services, Marc Tanguay, and was therefore rejected, ”added Diane Lamarre.
“Let us recall that with Bill 10, the Minister has given himself enormous power, in particular the power to appoint himself the independent members of all the boards of directors of the health network. It is clear that the situation in which he places the chair of the CHUM-CHU Sainte-Justine board of directors constitutes a potential permanent conflict of interest. How can the same person both try to influence the Minister of Health for the benefit of a private company that pays him, and lead the board of directors of a public establishment with a budget of more than one billion? of dollars likely to award important contracts to the same company? », Supported the Member of Parliament for Taillon.
&quot;How many other cases of potential conflicts of interest, of ethical or even legal problems are there among the hundreds of members of the boards of directors of the health establishments appointed by the minister?&quot; Today we are asking Gaétan Barrette to dismiss Ms. Fortier from her duties as president and board member of the CHUM-CHU Sainte-Justine. He must also explain this worrying situation, ”concluded the deputies.
