Quebec, May 19, 2017 - The Parti Québécois transport spokesperson, Alain Therrien, reacted to the Gagné and Doré reports, both dealing with the mess that characterized the Liberal government&#39;s management of operations on Highway 13 during the storm of March 14.
IN SHORT
“Its mandate automatically excluding the accountability of ministers and cabinets, according to the will of the Prime Minister, Florent Gagné&#39;s report completely removes the responsibility of the Liberal government. We do not even blame him for his lack of preparation, even if the storm had been announced for days! The government took no initiative, it was passive. Minister Lessard even admitted to going to bed, saying he was unaware of the gravity of the situation. Not knowing is one thing; not being proactive in finding out when the news is in all the media and preferring to go to bed is another. Leadership must come from the highest levels, not from below! », Declared Alain Therrien.
“We would like Florent Gagné to be heard in parliamentary committee before the end of the session, in order to know everything about the slippage of March 14 and so that it does not happen again. The two responsible ministers, those of Transport and Public Security, Laurent Lessard and Martin Coiteux, must also be accountable and appear in committee. It is unacceptable that at the end of one of the worst management crises in history, no minister is held responsible, ”added the spokesperson.
“With regard to the Doré report, updating intervention plans and setting up crisis units to react more quickly are steps in the right direction. On the other hand, a minister has the duty to ensure that his ministry is functional in all circumstances; it is abnormal that such a crisis was necessary for us to realize that management and coordination practices have not been updated for a long time, and that the procedures are obsolete. However, let us remember that when he took office, Minister Lessard refused to thoroughly review the governance of the MTQ, despite the allegations of Annie Trudel and Louise Boily, ”concluded Alain Therrien.
