Quebec, November 16, 2017 - Official opposition spokesperson for public health and prevention, Sylvain Pagé, calls on the government to open consultations for the cannabis bill to all citizens of Quebec .
IN SHORT
“We asked the Liberal government that consultations on the cannabis bill be open to all citizens of Quebec. Those held in certain regions did not deal with the bill since no one knew at the time what it was going to contain. That said, we welcome the fact that several recommendations of the Parti Québécois plan are found in the bill, such as the fact that a government corporation be responsible for distribution, ”said Sylvain Pagé.
&quot;On the other hand,&quot; he continued, &quot;the government seems to have abdicated in front of the federal government as regards the control of authorizations in terms of production. Now that this production is only for medicinal purposes, there is no reason for the federal government to get involved. There are jobs to be created for the regions; let&#39;s not let the federal government force us to source our supplies outside Quebec. It would be nonsense! &quot;
“There are also several aspects of the bill that will need to be improved and clarified. The lack of precision regarding use in the workplace is a source of concern, both among managers and workers. The same goes for online sales, as well as the supervision of housing and condominiums. Citizens want clearer guidelines and that is the mandate we are giving ourselves for the study of this bill, ”added the spokesperson.
“We have a clear position that cannabis should not become a source of significant profit for the government. This is why we are surprised to note that only a part of the profits made by the sale of cannabis will be devoted to prevention and research in public health and safety. Finally, it is deplorable that when the bill is tabled, the government does not have any economic scenario with regard to the price, taxation and revenue sharing, in particular with the municipalities, which will have significant costs. to assume in connection with cannabis, ”concluded Sylvain Pagé.
