Quebec - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, announce the increase in the capacity of home of the Côte-des-Neiges Family Medicine Unit (UMF), affiliated with McGill University.
“Our government is committed to improving the accessibility of care and services by consolidating the first line and increasing the number of family physicians. This announcement is precisely in line with this objective, since this increase will increase the family medicine reception capacity of the McGill University network while increasing the service offer to the population of the territory, ”declared Minister Hébert. .
This UMF will soon benefit from a redevelopment of spaces within one of the sites it occupies, that of the Parc-Extension local community service center (CLSC), located at 7085, rue Hutchison in Montreal. This redevelopment will allow it to accommodate two residents and three additional day students from July 2014, and increase its total capacity to twelve residents and three day students once the work is completed, in 2016-2017.
“In addition to contributing more significantly to the training of the next generation in medicine and the health sciences, which will benefit the entire Quebec population in the longer term, the increase in the capacity of this UMF is improving, here and now, access to high-quality local care and services, ”Minister Lisée said.
For the redevelopment work, which covers an area of 325 m2, the Department grants non-recurring financial assistance of $ 810,400, an envelope which also covers the acquisition of the necessary equipment and furniture. The Department also grants a maximum annualized allocation of $ 255,000 for human resources.
Currently, about 45% of medical students go into family medicine, while 55% go into other specialties. The consolidation of this UMF is part of the government&#39;s desire to increase the number of graduates in family medicine in order to reverse these proportions, and thus better meet the current and future health needs of Quebec society.
