Quebec - Although he welcomes the implementation of a carbon exchange, promised and announced for several years, the member for L&#39;Assomption and official opposition critic for the environment, sustainable development and of parks, Scott McKay, notes that the market for trading emissions credits will be too limited to have a real impact since only Quebec and California are participating.
“We must seriously question the fact that the carbon exchange does not include, as of now, the transport sector which, by itself, represents 40% of greenhouse gas emissions. The reasons given by Minister Pierre Arcand are not very convincing. When we have ambition, we set goals and we take all the means to achieve them. In this case, the decision to postpone the transport sector to 2015 is questionable, ”said Scott McKay.
He also criticizes the Liberal government for acting in the opposite direction of its own objectives by using 2008 as a reference year. “This is in complete contradiction with the government&#39;s Climate Change Action Plan. Quebec companies who have worked hard to reduce their GHG emissions before that date are at a disadvantage, ”said the MP.
Moreover, the member for L&#39;Assomption finds it incongruous that Minister Arcand ignores the fact that free credits will be distributed to mining companies under the Plan Nord. “The efforts of Quebec industries will therefore be canceled out by pollution from foreign mining companies. It is exactly the same phenomenon that we will see with shale gas, the fugitive emissions of which will blow up Quebec&#39;s emissions cap, ”denounced Scott McKay.
The Parti Québécois reiterates the need for a concrete plan to reduce GHGs, particularly targeting the transport sector. &quot;We must adopt an ambitious plan by developing poles of excellence in the advanced transport sector, by electrifying public and commercial vehicle fleets and by promoting, with massive investments, transport systems collective. This is how we will effectively and significantly reduce our GHG emissions, ”continued Scott McKay.
“Today, we witnessed, once again, a cosmetic announcement to allow the Liberal government to maintain a green speech when in fact, it is missing the real environmental issues. What is more, meanwhile, the federal government is stalling Quebec on the international scene. Nothing is being done to counter the threat that Quebec products will suffer a tax at the European border because of Canadian delinquency. Quebec&#39;s absence from Durban still remains suspicious, ”concluded Scott McKay.
