Quebec - The members of the Parti Québécois from the regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie call for the intervention of the Premier of Quebec, Jean Charest, so that a lasting solution is adopted and that the criteria delimiting the electoral map be reviewed .
“Bill 19 does not meet the expectations of Bas-Saint-Laurent, Gaspésie and even all regions of Quebec at all. He postpones the problem over time. However, the time to settle is now, with a lasting solution as Jean-Marc Fournier wanted last year and as also wanted by the Parti Québécois, the Fédération québécoise des municipalities (FQM) and the Coalition for the maintenance of counties in the regions ”, declared the MP for Matane, Pascal Bérubé.
For her part, the MP for Matapedia, Danielle Doyer, points out that the Parti Québécois has responded to the government&#39;s request by presenting a lasting and permanent proposal. “The Parti Québécois has reached an agreement with the Coalition for the maintenance of counties in the regions. The Action Démocratique du Québec was ready to consider it. Today, Jean Charest must affix his signature to the bottom of this agreement if he wants to resolve the impasse, ”suggested Danielle Doyer.
The Parti Québécois has a hard time understanding the Liberal attitude which too quickly rejected a solution supported by former Liberal Minister Benoit Pelletier. This proposal is based on the concept of urban and rural constituencies. “Urbanity and rurality are present in all regions of Quebec. This is not to pit Montreal against the regions. Jean Charest must pick up the phone, contact Benoit Pelletier to realize that the attitude of his current minister, Pierre Moreau, is leading us straight into a cul-de-sac, ”said the MP for Rimouski, Irvin Pelletier.
&quot; We are worried. The Liberal government gives the impression that it has given up and that it is no longer keen to save the regions. The Coalition and the FQM demand the intervention of the Prime Minister. It is one to midnight. Jean Charest must stop turning a deaf ear and realize that Pierre Moreau is part of the problem rather than the solution. Jean Charest is Prime Minister of all Quebecers: he must promote the interests of all regions of Quebec rather than take partisan considerations into account, ”concluded the member for Kamouraska-Témiscouata, André Simard.
