Gatineau– The member for Jonquière and leader of the official opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, surrounded by the caucus chair, Lorraine Richard, the parliamentary leader, Nicolas Marceau, the chief whip and responsible for the Outaouais region, Stéphane Bergeron , as well as the deputy leader, Gaétan Lelièvre, presented the priorities of the Parti Québécois team for the next parliamentary session.
“Our four priorities will be economic nationalism, immigration, health and education. Quebec has lost nearly 50,000 full-time jobs over the past two months. Quebecers&#39; taxes have increased. The Liberal government is liquidating Quebec&#39;s flagships with &quot;ok&quot;, without any accountability. With complete impunity, the Prime Minister tries to make us believe that he is acquainted with the files the same morning, while having lunch, ”recalled Sylvain Gaudreault.
“I ask Prime Minister Philippe Couillard to take responsibility for his failures. His economic trio is the biggest political farce of the 21st century in Quebec. We are seeing it more and more: the Prime Minister has no sense of the state. During the election campaign, the Liberal Party and its leader made a commitment to protect our head offices and to be the party of the economy. However, the Liberal Party is more the party of improvisation, of economic carelessness, ”added the leader of the official opposition.
Rona: the light must be shed
In the Rona file, the light has not been shed. Philippe Couillard continues to defend the indefensible and several important questions remain unanswered. Rona was a flagship of the Quebec economy and the purchase of a block of shares by Investissement Quebec, a political decision. This is why we would like to hear, in addition to Jacques Daoust and Jean-Louis Dufresne, former Minister Raymond Bachand, who was the architect of the Rona protection plan involving several Quebec institutions. He had passed a decree to this effect. Why what was good under Raymond Bachand was no longer good under Jacques Daoust? Philippe Couillard had a duty to protect Rona, just as he had a duty to tell the whole truth to Quebeckers. He failed in both cases, ”continued Sylvain Gaudreault.
Immigration
“The Parti Québécois caucus reaffirms that it is opposed to the increase in immigration thresholds. Instead, we demand that the francization, employability, integration and regionalization measures be increased. We are also determined to demand measures to promote French as the language of work, ”said the member for Jonquière.
Education
“Today, everywhere in Quebec, parents, teachers and professionals have mobilized for the quality of education. The parade of Liberal education ministers, who have succeeded since 2014, has done a lot of damage to academic success and perseverance, which should be priorities for the government. Human chains surround many schools, as they have been doing for several months. It shows to what extent people are mobilized against the cuts in our schools. They must stop, for the success of our young people, ”added Mr. Gaudreault.
Health
“During our tour in the Outaouais, we heard from groups of citizens worried about the crying health needs and the interminable wait in the emergency room. Citizens disillusioned by the miracle reforms of the Minister of Doctors, Gaétan Barrette, supposed to cure the wait, while the Outaouais region still suffers from a shortage of family doctors. One million citizens across Quebec are still waiting for a family doctor. Quebeckers, regardless of their condition or age, must have access to quality care, ”concluded the Leader of the Official Opposition.
