Saguenay - As the caucus for the re-entry of the parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois comes to an end in Saguenay, the president of the caucus, Nicole Léger, as well as the member for Jonquière and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois for the region of Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean, Sylvain Gaudreault, are satisfied with the work accomplished and enthusiastic in view of the parliamentary session which will begin soon.
“Our troops are in great shape. The deputies were happy to meet again and are more than ever motivated to bring the voice of the regions, families and vulnerable people to the National Assembly. Quebeckers can count on us, we are ready to go! », Declared the member for Pointe-aux-Trembles at the outset.
“I was particularly proud to see the entire team take part in a fruitful field trip and meet the citizens of the region. We retain that the government is completely disconnected from the population. People have clearly conveyed their concern and exasperation to us. The regions tear up, the regional offices are closing, we centralize in Quebec, we dismantle the economic development tools, including the CRÉs and CLDs, without proposing any alternative solution. In addition, the Plan Nord fell at the same time as the price of metals. Here in the region, the government has let forestry issues drag on and the consequences have been severe. Then, in the aluminum sector, we wait for investments. Electricity supply agreements have been signed, but we are looking for positive spinoffs, ”continued Sylvain Gaudreault.
The assembled deputies identified their two priorities for action for the next parliamentary session: to denounce and fight the selective austerity of Philippe Couillard, and to hound the government on the economy, job creation and services to citizens. “The Prime Minister and his ministers are so obsessed with austerity that they apply it even in terms of ideas. Since their arrival, they have in fact not proposed anything concrete to move Quebec forward. They have no economic vision, no ambition for the future of Quebec, ”lamented Ms. Léger.
The member recalled to what extent Philippe Couillard&#39;s Liberals use double standards, two measures in their way of governing. “They are tough on the most vulnerable, but generous to themselves. With the Liberal government, you win if you are close to the liberal liberal family or a specialist doctor, but you lose if you are an ordinary citizen, a community organization, a drug addict who wants to get out of it, an autistic child or a elder. It must be said that unlike the leader and members of the Parti Québécois, who go out into the field to meet citizens, the Liberals govern in their offices, insensitive to the realities of the population, ”she added.
“During the next parliamentary session, the members of the Parti Québécois will not hesitate to remind the government that the priorities must be the economy and services to citizens. We will continue to demand a change of course, ”concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
