Quebec - The member for Verchères, chief whip and official opposition spokesperson for the Outaouais region, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, is very happy to announce that the next presessional caucus of the parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois will take place on August 31 and September 1 at the Hilton Double Tree in Gatineau.
“As chief whip of the official opposition and, above all, spokesperson for our political party for the Outaouais, I am particularly proud to make this announcement, which clearly illustrates the great interest of the Party. Quebecois for this beautiful region. Hosting such a meeting on its territory constitutes a privileged opportunity for a region to benefit from significant national media visibility and to promote the projects it embraces, as well as the challenges facing it. We will therefore take advantage of our visit to the region to meet the people of the Outaouais and echo their expectations and concerns, ”stated Mr. Bergeron.
Although the caucus meetings will be held behind closed doors, it is important to point out that, on Tuesday, August 30, the members of the Parti Québécois will deploy in the region to meet citizens, organizations and institutions of the &#39;&#39; Outaouais to deepen their understanding of the realities of the region, take ownership of regional issues, present and validate proposals aimed at solving certain problems or arriving at the development of new ones. In addition, some members of the parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois, including the member for Verchères, will remain in the region to attend the launch of the Gatineau Hot Air Balloon Festival, a major event promoting the Outaouais here and beyond our region. borders.
“The Outaouais is a region too often left to itself by the Liberal Party, which literally takes it for granted. The greatest advances in the region in recent years have come under the governments of the Parti Québécois. We have always listened to the people of the Outaouais and the forthcoming visit of the Parti Québécois caucus in the region testifies to our resolute desire to continue on this path. The Outaouais is a wonderful region that I had the opportunity to discover and love when I lived there as a federal Member of Parliament and for which I have since assumed political responsibility, first for the Bloc Québécois. and now for the Parti Québécois. It deserves our attention, not as a simple pool of votes allowing five seats to be given to the Liberal Party, but first and foremost to ensure the quality of life of its population, in the same way as all of the citizens of Quebec, ”concludes Stéphane Bergeron.
