Montreal - At the end of the caucus of members of the Parti Québécois, the leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the president of the caucus, Maka Kotto, announced how they intended to strengthen the link between the caucus and the population , and make it more accessible.
“We are at the service of citizens, their voice in the National Assembly. Our priority is to listen to them and defend them. The Liberal government is in a state of constant instability; for our part, we are proposing concrete measures that we will put in place as soon as we take office in October 2018. We have proposed a robust policy of economic nationalism. Our Priorité PME team will go into the field. These are concrete examples of what we will do, just as we will relay the concerns of citizens, workers, families and regions, every day, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
For his part, the chairman of the caucus said he was ready for the new parliamentary session. “We are hard at work to take care of our fellow citizens in the National Assembly. The tour we made this week, with organizations and representatives from diverse backgrounds, is part of this state of mind, ”added Maka Kotto.
Questions from citizens and town halls
The leader of the official opposition has increased meetings with citizens since taking office. He notably participated in several public assemblies. He is now announcing his very first “citizens&#39; assembly” on the Web. Indeed, Jean-François Lisée will lend himself to an exercise of exchange with citizens, in a “Facebook live” formula, during which he will answer questions from the public. “I am happy to announce that the very first edition of the Web Citizens&#39; Assemblies will take place on Monday, February 6, at 7 pm. I can&#39;t wait to talk to you. We have to innovate to reach people, especially young people, ”he said.
The members of the Parti Québécois therefore invite citizens to send them their questions and their testimonies, which can be used in question period at the Salon Bleu. “Through yourquestion@pq.org address, people can suggest questions to us to ask the government. It is an additional step to strengthen the link between the Parti Québécois and the population, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
