Montreal - The Montreal caucus of deputies and the Parti Québécois candidate in Verdun, Richard Langlais, call on the government to act quickly to facilitate travel for the people of Verdun and to provide the children of the riding with healthy schools.
“I saw it during my visit to the field: the Verdun borough is landlocked between the construction of the new Champlain Bridge and the reconstruction of the Turcot interchange, which is causing massive congestion. A striking example is the closure of the Wellington exit from Highway 15, which prevents the residents of Île-des-Sœurs from effectively accessing Verdun. Opening at least one temporary ramp would open up Nuns&#39; Island and alleviate the permanent traffic jam on Highway 15 North, ”said the leader of the official opposition.
“This closure catches up with public transport users using the 12 bus route, the only public transport link between the island and Verdun, and who must make many detours to avoid the work. Added to this is the fact that the island is served by only two buses, which is clearly insufficient. I pledge to work on the realization of the light rail train project, and to ensure that Nuns&#39; Island is served by a station, ”said the candidate.
Schools in Verdun were abandoned by the Liberal Party
The president of the Montreal caucus, Carole Poirier, and the candidate also denounce the impacts of liberal austerity in schools in Verdun. These are overcrowded, in a poor state of repair, and their management has to contend with staff cuts. “For example, the Chanoine-Joseph-Théorêt school is in such a state that in April, facets of brick fell on a student&#39;s head. To make this school alone safe, it would take $ 6.5 million. In addition, despite the fact that this establishment has the highest rate of students from disadvantaged backgrounds, the government has cut psychology and remedial services. The government must reinvest in our schools, ”insisted the member.
“The Liberal Party has completely abandoned the riding; it is high time that the people of Verdun felt listened to and supported by someone they trust; Richard Langlais will know how to be that person, ”concluded his future colleagues.
