Quebec - In the wake of the publication of the Auditor General&#39;s report, the leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, again this morning denounced the two-tier austerity of the Liberal government.
“During the last election campaign, we had Liberal candidates who prided themselves on being great managers. However, last Friday the Auditor General exploded this myth. She said, in essence, that this government is a big deal of candy for doctors. Almost two-thirds of new health care money is spent on physician remuneration; Here is the agreement that Gaétan Barrette obtained when he was at the head of the FMSQ. But it was not enough for him. Now Minister of Health, he is now in charge of filling the dish with sweets. And, as if by chance, the sums discovered by the auditor almost entirely go into the pockets of medical specialists. How can the Prime Minister justify that it is austerity for everyone, but opulence for his medical specialist colleagues? “Asked Pierre Karl Péladeau.
&quot;Let us recall that this government is cutting aid to children in difficulty in schools, childcare positions, support for the most disadvantaged by reforming social assistance, and that it wants to freeze the salaries of all employees of the state. Why are there two kinds of citizens in Quebec: the Prime Minister, the doctors and all the others? &quot;, he added.
“The Minister of Health knew that the basis for calculating compensation agreements was significantly underestimated. Rather than correct the mistake, he had his deal locked in so that the money could not be recovered. In this context, how could the Prime Minister give him the mandate to negotiate the spreading of his own agreement? This government of doctors has led to an aberration, a flagrant injustice for all other Quebecers. The Prime Minister should consider that after two one-way agreements for doctors, it is high time to entrust the repair of these agreements to someone who is not both judge and party ”, concluded the head of the official opposition.
