Montreal - The Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today inaugurated the new continuous assistance resource at the Lucie-Bruneau Rehabilitation Center, the De Lorimier resource. It welcomes adults between the ages of 18 and 65 with a serious behavioral disorder linked to a physical disability, such as a traumatic brain injury.
“Access to adapted residential resources for people with a physical disability is a major issue, even more so when this disability leads to serious behavioral problems. I am therefore very happy to inaugurate a new living environment for them today, an adapted resource that will meet their rehabilitation needs, while promoting their social participation and maximizing their quality of life, ”declared Minister Hivon. .
The De Lorimier resource has four single rooms in two apartments (4 ½) upstairs, where residents enjoy an open environment and can enter and leave as they wish, and two apartments (4 ½) on the ground floor. pavement, with access controlled by staff. A presence at all times is ensured by the clinical team, which is made up of five educators, an auxiliary, a psychoeducational project manager and a responsible manager.
“The residents of this new resource, who may have functional limitations, communication or addiction problems, or even difficulties in organizing and using community resources, are well surrounded and well supported. For each of them, an intervention plan and an active prevention grid for behavioral disorders are established. They can also count on the care and services of a qualified and dedicated team. I take this opportunity to thank the members of this team, who provide essential support for the residents of the De Lorimier resource. They are eloquent examples of commitment and solidarity, ”added Minister Hivon.
A recurring budget of $ 734,092 was granted to the Lucie-Bruneau Rehabilitation Center by the Montreal Health and Social Services Agency for the creation of these eight specialized accommodation places, of which an amount of $ 81,095 is specially dedicated to rehabilitation services. The Center also benefited from non-recurring financial assistance of $ 50,000 from the Agency for the establishment of this resource.
Remember that the Lucie-Bruneau Rehabilitation Center assumes a role of regional coordination of accommodation in foster homes and intermediate resources for Francophone adult clients with a physical disability, and that it acts as a managing establishment for these resources. .
