Bécancour– The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, and the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Center-du regions -Quebec and Mauricie, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, made public the report of the Economic Diversification Table for the use of the $ 200 million fund, the establishment of which was announced last fall, aimed at supporting the growth of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions. The report includes an analysis of the economic strengths of the two regions, defines the main orientations, recommends a diversification plan, provides the means to stimulate entrepreneurship and presents structuring projects.
“The members of the Table have done an extraordinary job, under the co-chairmanship of Réjean Hardy and Jean-Guy Paré. The quality of this report gives us reason to want to give more powers to the regions for their own economic development, ”said Élaine Zakaïb. “The fund is the preferred tool for implementing the proposed economic diversification plan aimed at breathing new life into the economy of the two regions, as we had undertaken to do. It includes advantageous terms compared to existing programs, whether in terms of eligible clienteles, increased assistance rates or the management that is placed under the responsibility of the two regions. I am convinced that it will become a formidable lever for the realization of promising and innovative projects capable of generating, within five years, spinoffs estimated at $ 1.2 billion. &quot;
&quot;This fund now gives the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions the means to accelerate their economic diversification with structuring projects and job creators in order to build a solid and competitive economy,&quot; added Yves-François Blanchet. . “The fund, which provides new money, is created by and for the community and will revitalize weakened regions. Together, we have determined the orientations to diversify the economy by proposing, in particular, future niches and solutions aimed at generating business and investment projects. It&#39;s a lot of work that has been done and I tip my hat to the members of the Table. They have shown that our economic players are able to look ahead and start building the future now. &quot;
The creation of this diversification fund was announced by the Quebec government in October 2012 to revitalize the regions of Center-du-Quebec and Mauricie, affected by the closure of the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant. It was at this time that an economic diversification table, made up of stakeholders from both regions, was set up. His report was officially tabled today.
The Center-du-Québec and Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund is a specific, efficient and accessible financial lever, which helps to carry out structuring projects for the two regions. Its particular modalities make it more accessible. It aims to support, as recommended in the plan, the investment projects of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) linked to their start-up or their growth, the realization of feasibility studies leading to investment projects, the creation new products or processes as well as the setting up of incubation services aimed at the development of innovative companies. The fund is also aimed at foreign companies or subsidiaries of foreign companies wishing to set up in these two regions.
The fund targets business projects, including those in the social economy, from the manufacturing sector or the engine service sector, which brings together high value-added companies or those using new technologies, in particular those of information technologies. and communications. Primary sector companies that have secondary or tertiary processing projects as well as major projects of companies in the tourism sector are also targeted. Financial interventions will mainly take the form of loans, loan guarantees and equity investments.
In addition, Minister Delegate Élaine Zakaïb and Minister Yves-François Blanchet confirmed the intention of the Government of Quebec to financially support three business incubators in Shawinigan, Trois-Rivières and Bécancour. This contribution may reach 25% of the costs of projects under preparation. The implementation of a specific aid measure for business incubators is one of the orientations favored by the members of the Table de diversification économique du Center-du-Québec et de la Mauricie.
&quot;The growth and dynamism of local entrepreneurship can only have salutary effects and encourage the emergence of new businesses and the creation of jobs which will help to diversify the industrial fabric of these two regions,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. .
“Entrepreneurship must be better promoted in Center-du-Québec and in Mauricie,” said Yves-François Blanchet. “Currently, in these regions, the rate of entrepreneurship is lower than that of the rest of Quebec. Yet we have everything we need. This fund and the diversification plan that accompanies it are the expected boost. &quot;
For more information on the terms and conditions of the Economic Diversification Fund for the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie.
