Sherbrooke– The Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Seniors and Minister responsible for the Estrie region, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today announced a significant increase in the offer of ultrasound services at the Center Sherbrooke University Hospital. “In Estrie, as elsewhere in Quebec, we are keen to reduce waiting lists for ultrasound, so that patients can have access to this type of medical imaging examination within a reasonable period of time. This development also contributes to strengthening our public health network, ”explained Dr. Hébert.
The allocation of a recurring sum of $ 289,000 per year will allow the Center hospitalier universitaire de Sherbrooke to add to its professional workforce, in full-time equivalence, three technologists and an administrative agent assigned to ultrasound services. The Minister also recalled that an investment of $ 545,000 was made in 2012 for the acquisition of three new ultrasound devices. It will thus be possible to perform, each week, 110 additional examinations in general ultrasound, and around 30 more in vascular ultrasound, which corresponds to an additional volume of at least 6,000 examinations per year.
As the Minister clarified, today&#39;s announcement is part of a comprehensive plan to improve access to ultrasound, a plan that aims to increase the service offer in public establishments, and this with the active participation of network establishments and health and social services agencies. These measures aim in particular to achieve the target of a maximum of three months waiting for elective cases, during 2014. Announcements will follow soon in other regions. The formulas retained may vary according to the environment, including for example the optimization of processes, the purchase of equipment and the addition of personnel, especially in the evening.
These announced measures are part of the government&#39;s broader desire to improve the service offer in the public health system. &quot;We are resolutely relying on the resources of our public network to deploy a solid service offering, whether by improving access to ultrasound or by further developing the service offering to women and couples in Quebec who need to use assisted procreation. This is why I am also announcing that the Center hospitalier universitaire de Sherbrooke is authorized to develop its service offering for medically assisted procreation, ”the Minister announced.
In addition, Minister Hébert announced that the project for the Center Femme-Jeunesse-Famille and the emergency department at Hôpital Fleurimont had just taken a new step. In fact, the Center hospitalier de l&#39;Université de Sherbrooke was authorized to prepare the initial business case for the construction of these new facilities. The establishment will thus be able to hire the professionals who must prepare the functional and technical plan which will specify the clinical and real estate parameters of this first-rate initiative.
The expansion project provides for a construction of approximately 23,000 square meters to accommodate the inpatient services of the Center Femme-Jeunesse-Famille, outpatient child psychiatry services, the new emergency room and a new entrance hall. Construction work is valued at over $ 100 million, an amount that excludes the cost of equipment and other financial, management and risk charges associated with such a project. Several stages of the authorization process remain of course to be taken before its realization, the next consisting of the approval of the initial business case by the Council of Ministers. This major initiative is part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan.
“This is a significant enhancement of the service offer of the Center hospitalier de l&#39;Université de Sherbrooke, both for emergency care and for perinatal care. This investment confirms our desire to provide the population of Estrie and all of Quebec with the highest quality specialized care possible, ”concluded the Minister of Health and Social Services.
