Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces the allocation of financial assistance of $ 60,209,970 for the city&#39;s biogas plant de Québec, for a maximum contribution of $ 43,632,466 from the government of Québec and an amount of up to $ 16,577,504 from the federal government.
This announcement was made in the presence of the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and the Chaudière-Appalaches and Capitale-Nationale regions, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the mayor of Quebec, Mr. Régis Labeaume.
Thanks to the assistance granted under the Program for the treatment of organic materials by biomethanization and composting (PTMOBC), the City of Quebec will be able to ensure the establishment of the Biomethanization Center of the agglomeration of Quebec (CBAQ) in order to to recycle all of the organic matter generated by the population of the agglomeration of Quebec, ie approximately 551,000 inhabitants.
“I am delighted to see that more and more municipalities are choosing to invest in anaerobic digestion and composting initiatives. We have concrete proof that our awareness efforts are paying off. Within a few years, we want to make Quebec a waste-free society, where the only residual material eliminated is the ultimate residue. The Government of Quebec&#39;s 2011-2015 Action Plan, linked to the Residual Materials Management Policy, also aims to recycle 60% of residual putrescible organic matter by the end of 2015. The project of Quebec City is another step in the right direction, ”said Minister Blanchet.
The CBAQ will therefore receive and treat food residues from residential, commercial, institutional and industrial sources, as well as sludge from wastewater treatment plants, i.e. approximately 182,600 metric tonnes of organic matter per year. In addition, it will allow a reduction of 9,512 tonnes of greenhouse gases per year.
“With its project, the City of Quebec will be able to make a concrete contribution to collective efforts aimed at improving our management of organic residual materials. In addition, this project is excellent news for the people of the region since it will both boost the local economy and improve, in the long term, the quality of life of citizens, ”declared Minister Maltais. .
The mayor of Quebec, Mr. Régis Labeaume, for his part mentioned that: “The launch of the biomethanization center is great news for Quebec. At present, the incinerator is operating at near maximum capacity, which is undesirable. The future is green innovation and all citizens will be involved in the coming years. &quot;
Additional information on the PTMOBC is available on the Ministère&#39;s website at the following address: www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca.
