Quebec - The Minister of Public Security, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, is pleased to announce that he proceeded today, in the company of the mayor of Mont-Tremblant, Mr. Pierre Pilon, and the member for Labelle and responsible for the Laurentians region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, to the certification of the Emergency Call Center of the City of Mont-Tremblant.
The Emergency Call Center has obtained a certificate of compliance, since it has met the requirements of the Civil Protection Act and the Regulation respecting standards, specifications and quality criteria applicable to emergency centers 9 -1-1 and some secondary emergency call centers.
This center responds to emergency calls from more than 70,000 citizens from around 20 municipalities. About fifteen telecommunications agents respond to approximately 25,000 emergency calls per year.
“This conscientious organization has dedicated workers who have worked with the Department of Public Security to obtain the certificate of compliance. I would like to thank them for their efforts and congratulate them for this certification, ”said Minister Bergeron. The objectives of the supervision of 9-1-1 emergency centers are to ensure the quality of the services provided and the buildings, the proper functioning of the equipment and computer applications used, as well as to confirm the skills of the personnel.
&quot;Thanks to the certification of 9-1-1 emergency centers, the emergency response chain will be optimized in our region and everywhere in Quebec, thus allowing the population to benefit from a reliable and efficient service. in these critical moments when every second counts, ”explained the member for Labelle, Mr. Sylvain Pagé.
&quot;Obtaining this certificate crowns our efforts to meet the requirements of the law and especially to offer our citizens and the municipalities we serve a quality service for emergency management thanks to the facilities as well as the competence and to the commitment of our dispatchers, ”added the mayor of the City of Mont-Tremblant, Mr. Pierre Pilon.
By law, 9-1-1 emergency centers have until December 30, 2013 to obtain a certificate of compliance, issued by the Minister of Public Security and valid for two years. After this date, all municipalities in Quebec will have to do business with a certified 9-1-1 call center to answer emergency calls in their territory.
