In the company of members and candidates of the Parti Québécois in East Montreal - Carole Poirier (Hochelaga-Maisonneuve) and Maka Kotto (Bourget), as well as Jean-Martin Aussant (Pointe-aux-Trembles), Karl Dugal (Anjou– Louis-Riel), Claude Gauthier (LaFontaine) and Marie-Josée Bruneau (Jeanne-Mance – Viger), the leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée (Rosemont), presented the platform and the commitments of the Parti Québécois for the East of Montreal.
“In Montreal, the East has been the child abandoned by the Liberals for 15 years, despite clear commitments. Blue line, Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital ... we can no longer count the projects announced several times by the Liberals without them being materialized, ”recalled Jean-François Lisée.
We have to recognize the historic debt we owe east of Montreal and take the necessary steps. We must put an end to Liberal inaction once and for all; relaunching the East, that is the objective of the platform that the Parti Québécois is tabling today, ”he continued.
IN SHORT
To revive the East of Montreal, the Parti Québécois proposes, in particular, the following measures:
• Employment: promote the creation of an initiative fund and a development company dedicated to the East of Montreal, and fight against the relocation of businesses. • Housing: focus on soil decontamination for the construction of new social housing and promote renovation in existing residential sectors. • Transport and mobility: implement the Grand Déblocage, which will greatly improve traffic. • Health: focus, among other things, on CLSCs open from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., 7 days a week, and on the opening of nurse practitioner clinics. • Education: put in place, as a priority, a major school renovation project. • Seniors: invest in home care and better support caregivers, to allow people to stay in their homes longer. • Social services: review the indexing mechanisms so that they correctly reflect the expenses of the many community organizations present in the East. visible orities: fight against discrimination and focus on employment to promote integration, through better recognition of diplomas.
“Our economic recovery plan for the East will be structured around an initiative fund, an exclusive development company and an ambitious soil decontamination program. This last issue has been particularly neglected by the Liberals, who used a good part of the money to be used in the East to decontaminate soil linked to the construction of the REM in the West. By replacing the REM with the Grand Déblocage, we will be able to reinvest the necessary sums, where necessary, ”insisted Jean-Martin Aussant.
“To promote employment in the sector, we will actively fight against the relocation of agrifood companies, a real scourge that has raged for many years. Think of Molson, the Christie Cookie Factory ... and so many others who left with liberal indifference! »Added Karl Dugal. In addition, the East of Montreal suffers from an unacceptable delay in terms of public transport, both within it and in relation to the regions which surround it. “Citizens, students and workers often have to allow more than an hour to travel on short journeys. With the Grand Déblocage, we are directly tackling this problem, in particular by creating the East tramway, for which 24 stations will be set up, ”added the leader of the Parti Québécois.
In terms of health and social services, the eastern part of the city has been facing multiple issues for too long. “This situation, relatively worse than elsewhere, must change. We will resolve, first of all, the shortage of doctors caused by the numerous retirements and, above all, the inaction of Minister Barrette. However, it is by taking advantage of the many other health professionals and by putting the patient at the center of our concerns that we will be able to do better, ”said Claude Gauthier.
Doing better also applies to seniors and caregivers. “The population of East Montreal is particularly aging. And what seniors want is to be able to stay in their homes as long as possible. We have everything to gain as a society by doing this. By reinvesting massively in home care and giving respite to caregivers, we will get there, ”said Maka Kotto.
For her part, Carole Poirier promises that a Parti Québécois government will give young people back the desire to get up in the morning to go to school. “We will launch a major school renovation project to stop seeing them falling into ruin. We can do it, and it&#39;s high time! Let us think of the inspiring example of the Baril school in Hochelaga-Maisonneuve; today, it is one of the most beautiful schools in Montreal! &quot;
Finally, the integration of immigrants into the job market is a real priority for the Parti Québécois. “We have presented around 20 measures, but the Liberals have refused them all! We propose to fight against discrimination by prohibiting the requirement of a first Canadian work experience and by implementing anonymous CV pilot projects, among other things. We are also going to better recognize diplomas and promote internship programs, ”concluded Marie-Josée Bruneau.
Click here to access the full platform document!
