Québec– Mathieu Traversy, Member of Parliament for Terrebonne and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of sustainable development, the environment and the fight against climate change, once again denounces the refusal of the Liberal government to support a motion by the Parti Québécois stipulating that Quebec should have the last word on TransCanada&#39;s Energy East project.
“Is it so surprising that a Liberal government does not recognize Quebeckers their freedom to decide? I have already tabled two similar motions in the National Assembly, on October 6 and November 11, 2015; both were rejected by the government. Today&#39;s refusal is just further proof that the government is abdicating its powers and delegating them to the federal government, ”said Mathieu Traversy.
The motion, defeated this afternoon, reads as follows:
“That the National Assembly affirm that the final approval of the TransCanada Energy East project is the responsibility of the Government of Quebec;
That it demand from the Minister of the Environment that the mandate of the BAPE be able to cover all the fundamental issues of the project, in particular upstream and downstream greenhouse gas emissions, economic impacts and consultation with First Nations. &quot;
“We already knew that the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, Pierre Arcand, had not put any pressure on his colleague from the Environment, David Heurtel, to ensure that Quebec&#39;s environmental laws are respected. We also knew that Minister Heurtel had negotiated with TransCanada to launch an illegal and incomplete BAPE. Moreover, the Parti Québécois denounced for months the fact that the BAPE proposed by the Liberals was junk. Today, the government realizes it and does an about-face, condemning more than 300 briefs, a colossal job, to not be made public. Unfortunately, it is no surprise to anyone that the government rejected our motion, unable to stand up to say that it is for Quebec and Quebecers to choose, ”concluded the member for Terrebonne.
