Quebec - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, accompanied by the Minister responsible for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier , reiterated to the Minister of Infrastructure, Communities and Intergovernmental Affairs, and Minister of the Economic Development Agency of Canada for the Regions of Quebec, Mr. Denis Lebel, the official position of Quebec and members of the Bureau of partners for the replacement of the Champlain Bridge.
The Government of Quebec would like to point out that, for the first time since the announcement of the replacement of the Champlain Bridge made more than two years ago, the federal government is indicating that it will contribute financially to its construction. However, the introduction of a toll by the federal government on the new bridge will have major impacts on the other bridges as well as on the road infrastructure linking Montreal and the South Shore.
“The Champlain Bridge must be replaced due to the great negligence of successive governments in Ottawa. The Harper government must assume its responsibilities by fully funding the replacement bridge, ”thundered Ministers Gaudreault and Cloutier.
&quot;The current situation is all the more unacceptable as Ottawa does not intend to reveal the exact amount of the toll until a few weeks before the opening of the new structure scheduled for 2018. This lack of transparency on the part of the federal government will have an impact. impact on citizens and the economic life of the greater metropolitan area. It will be a surprise toll! We therefore ask Ottawa to share the studies carried out on the toll with all the members of the Partners Office - Champlain Bridge. It has an obligation to be transparent, because it is Quebec and the metropolis that will assume the impact of such a decision, ”continued Minister Gaudreault.
&quot;It is deplorable that the federal government remains silent on the proposal of the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, to set up a Joint Canada-Quebec Project Office to coordinate and coordinate public transport components and road transport on the new Champlain Bridge. This request was made directly to the Prime Minister of Canada, Mr. Stephen Harper last December. Consultation with Ottawa on the replacement of the Champlain Bridge is necessary to ensure the rapid completion of the project, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
“I am disappointed to note that the choice of a two-storey bridge, a choice that was a consensus among all the members of the Partners&#39; Office - Champlain Bridge, was not favored. We submitted to the federal government a concrete, realistic and rigorous proposal for Quebec&#39;s vision for this major project. We intend to continue promoting the definite advantages of this configuration, particularly with regard to maintenance, safety, reliability and the integration of lanes reserved for buses and emergency vehicles. The proposal set out by the federal government provides nothing in this regard, ”said Minister Gaudreault.
With a two-storey structure, the lower level would be devoted exclusively to the rail network and other modes of public transport, including buses. The upper level would be dedicated to motorway traffic, with a total of six lanes and two shoulders, in addition to a space reserved for active transport.
For Minister Alexandre Cloutier, a major project for access to the city&#39;s downtown area such as the Champlain Bridge calls for a broader discussion between Quebec and Ottawa on the financing of transport infrastructure. “We proposed to the federal government that the light rail (LRT) that we favor be financed from the merit envelope of the Building Canada Fund. Within the framework of this fund, Quebec has never had its fair share and the LRT project, which has achieved consensus among the partners, must have predictability so that we are able to serve the citizens of the South Shore. as quickly as possible, ”said Mr. Cloutier.
The two ministers agreed to Minister Lebel to come and present, in full transparency, to the members of the Office of the Partners - Champlain Bridge, the business plan that will guide the new schedule and the completion of work to replace the current structure by 2018. .
