Montreal - The Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the Parti Québécois spokesperson for education, research and school perseverance, Alexandre Cloutier, and the family spokesperson, Sylvain Pagé, invite the new ministers of education and families to listen to the call made by parents, citizens and those who work with our children on a daily basis. They ask them to focus on the quality of services and the success of Quebec children, and to reinvest massively in education. To this end, Alexandre Cloutier took part, this morning in Montreal, in a human chain organized by La Petite-Patrie elementary school and the CPE Saint-Édouard, as part of the I protect my public school movement.
“After the failures of Yves Bolduc and François Blais, Quebec no longer has the means to go around in circles, or even to go backwards, in education. Unfortunately, Minister Pierre Moreau seems to want to make the mixing of structures his priority. Rather, it should focus on the academic success of young people and the quality of public schools. When it comes to education, Quebec needs investments and a vision. It is certainly not Bill 86 that will solve the problem, ”indicated Alexandre Cloutier.
Among other things, Minister Moreau will have to find solutions to make up for Quebec&#39;s graduation delay and quickly tackle the problem of decrepitude that affects several public schools. “Only 72% of our 20-year-olds have a high school diploma, compared to 84% in Ontario. All the Liberal government has done to correct the situation since taking office is to cut hundreds of millions of dollars and hundreds of professional positions in our public schools. He would do no differently if he wished to further increase our backwardness compared to our neighbors. It can&#39;t go on any longer, ”added the Parti Québécois MP.
For his part, Sylvain Pagé asks the Minister of Families, Sébastien Proulx, to make a real change of course. “For several months now, we have witnessed a great mobilization across Quebec. In the field, we meet parents who want to be heard, because they are worried about the future of childcare centers. I am delighted that the new Minister of Families says he wants to enter into dialogue with parents. He will have the opportunity to see, like all my colleagues who are on the ground, that he has no other choice but to back down on the senseless cuts in which his predecessor and the President of the Conseil du trésor had embarked. . He must understand that educational success begins in early childhood, ”concluded the spokesperson.
