Washington - The publication of the 5th report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), which addresses the alarming situation of climate change, confirms the need for increased intervention on greenhouse gases (GHGs) ) and justifies the actions of the Government of Quebec in this regard. The Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, is also calling on all the stakeholders concerned, particularly on the international scene, to take concrete actions. and urgent.
“The international consensus is such that efforts should no longer be diverted by the sterile debate on the responsibility of the human being in global warming. Time, energy and resources must be invested in the efficient and harmonious reduction of emissions, which must result in progress rather than an economic shock. And since it is necessary, we must also invest our energies in adaptation measures to climate change, ”he commented.
Remember that this scientific summary reports that the concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere have increased to unprecedented levels for at least 800,000 years. It also indicates that global warming will continue to raise sea levels during the 21st century more rapidly than what has been observed in recent decades. According to this report, we must also expect a multitude of consequences for the entire climate system.
“The IPCC scientists produced a very rigorous report which sheds precious light on the gravity of the situation. Their findings support our decision to invest in a green, low-carbon economy. To do this, we have to reduce our consumption, we have to improve our practices to the point of being exemplary, and our target of reducing our GHG emissions by 25% below the 1990 level by 2020 must set the tone. For that, of course, we must succeed, and to succeed, the cap and trade system model (carbon exchange) must be an economic and environmental success, ”declared Minister Blanchet.
For several months now, the Government of Quebec has been acting to implement the commitment to reduce GHGs by 25% by 2020. Among the measures planned, let us recall the desire to set up a carbon market that would bring together different states. from North America. It is to promote this project that Minister Blanchet accepted the invitation of the International Emissions Trading Association, an organization dedicated to establishing an international framework to facilitate the emergence of carbon markets around the world, and that he will participate, as a prestigious speaker, at the Carbon Forum North America 2013, on October 1st. In front of an audience of more than 450 leaders from the business community, industry and governments concerned about these issues, Minister Blanchet will deliver a speech which will focus in particular on the benefits associated with the establishment of the Quebec system of caps and emissions trading and its linkage with that of California, which will create the largest carbon market in North America.
The Minister will thus promote the Western Climate Initiative (WCI) carbon market to the American political class and will meet with representatives of States which are likely to join it. “The creation of a carbon market linking California and Quebec has aroused great interest in the United States. It was in this wake that I was invited to deliver two new speeches to present our strategy to audiences of American decision-makers. By adding several meetings with high-level officials, I believe that we are advancing both the fight against climate change and the international influence of Quebec as a forward-thinking state, ”explains Yves-François Blanchet.
Among other things, the minister will take advantage of his stay in the American capital to meet with representatives of the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI), another carbon market that brings together several states in the Northeastern United States. Discussions will focus on the possible interest of linking these two markets. A meeting with the Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition is also scheduled for the Minister. This coalition brings together members of the House of Representatives in the US Congress who are interested in the various economic mechanisms available to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote the emergence of a green economy in the United States. The Minister will highlight the many benefits linked to the implementation of the WCI carbon market.
The IPCC Scientific Summary, attended by more than 200 lead authors and 650 contributors and reviewers from around the world, will certainly feed into the discussions that will take place during this conference, just as it should lead political leaders to take immediate action. to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. “The literature and certain independent studies remind us of the challenges that arise in terms of GHG emissions so that we can reconcile sustainable development and economic development in Quebec. With a 25% reduction target in 2020 on the basis of 1990, with its daring transport electrification policy and above all through its participation in a carbon market of nearly 50 million citizens, our government is asserting its leadership role. international campaign in the fight against climate change, ”concluded Minister Blanchet.
