Quebec - The government notes with concern the shift towards institutional bilingualism in municipalities, hospitals, Crown corporations, government departments and agencies. “Our institutions must set an example and return to French as a normal and usual language. Although we are in favor of individual bilingualism, our institutions must be Francophone first and foremost, ”recalled the Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French language, Ms. Diane De Courcy. , at the time of filing its proposed amendment to the Charter of the French language.
The government considers that municipalities, through their proximity to citizens, are key players in the promotion of French as a working language and a language of public use. It has been observed that some municipalities, which do not have bilingual status, resort to practices that generalize bilingualism. This is why this bill provides that the municipalities designated by the minister responsible for the Charter of the French language must adopt a language policy promoting the use and quality of the French language.
“Institutional bilingualism must once again become the exception rather than the norm,” said Minister Diane De Courcy. Municipalities with established bilingual status will be able to continue to operate in both languages. However, we can ask the francophone municipalities that have slipped towards institutional bilingualism to correct the situation. &quot;
In the health and social services network, health professionals sometimes write their clinical notes in English, which is problematic for French-speaking patients who wish to read their file. As a solution to this problem, the government suggests modifying the law so that health or social services establishments provide, if necessary and free of charge, a French version of any document filed in a patient&#39;s clinical file.
Our proposal will have the effect of improving the mastery of French for certain professionals. It also adds the obligation that the content of the documents in the file be quickly communicated in French when the situation so requires.
Since taking office, Minister Diane De Courcy has met with nearly 300 groups and individuals from all walks of life to hear their thoughts on the status of the French language in Quebec. These ideas inspired the bill tabled today. Subject to the support of the Members of the National Assembly, the Minister now wishes to invite Quebeckers to make their point of view heard on the means to be taken to give new impetus to the French language in Quebec.
To find out more about this bill: spl.gouv.qc.ca/projetdeloi
