Quebec - The proposed amendment to the Charter of the French language tabled today by the government proposes to enrich the teaching of French in preschool, elementary, secondary and college, both in the French-speaking and English-speaking sectors . To obtain their diploma, in high school and college, Anglophone students will have to pass a French test, as is already the case for Francophones. The rules governing the requirement to master French to access a professional order will also be tightened.
“The strength of a language is reflected by its status and the use made of it. This is why we are going to make sure that young Quebeckers leave school with an excellent knowledge of French, and throughout their journey, we will support them so that they succeed. The objective is for learning French to be a source of enrichment and pride for all, ”explained the Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French language, Ms. Diane De Courcy.
In daycare services, the new bill adds activities to familiarize them with the French language in order to ensure a smooth transition to school. In addition, the various daycare services will have to demonstrate their ability to communicate in French with parents in order to obtain or renew their license. &quot;Of course, we will make sure to offer the necessary support, in particular to those responsible for home childcare services who do not have a command of French, so that they can perfect their knowledge of French, when necessary&quot;, insisted on clarifying Minister Diane De Courcy.
Moreover, the Minister has listened attentively to parents who want their children to be bilingual and even to acquire knowledge of a third language. &quot;This aspiration is completely understandable&quot;, maintained the minister. This is why the offer of courses in English will also be on the rise in French-language secondary and college schools. “Optional courses will be added to make it possible to improve knowledge of English in French-speaking schools,” she added.
Anglophone college educational establishments were created to serve the Anglo-Quebec minority as a priority. “However, as leaders of the Anglophone community have pointed out to me, strong demand is depriving some young Anglophones of access to their establishments,” explained Ms. De Courcy. For the sake of fairness and to guarantee their rights, English-speaking colleges must first give priority to English-speaking students.
The bill tabled today closes the door to bypass roads, in particular the detour to an English school located outside Quebec to then access the English-speaking network here.
In the current state of affairs, non-subsidized private schools allow a non-English speaking student to circumvent the law on condition of having completed an “authentic course”. “It is completely unacceptable that we can, in Quebec, buy a constitutional right for our children. This is an issue that deserves to be treated separately. A bill will be tabled to this effect during the next parliamentary session, ”said Minister Diane De Courcy.
To find out more about this bill: spl.gouv.qc.ca/projetdeloi
