Quebec - &quot;The Liberal government of Philippe Couillard should present a real economic development plan instead of placing the weight of its incompetence on the most vulnerable people in our society,&quot; declared the leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau .
Let us remember that the Liberal government intends to use the hard way to reduce access to social assistance. “The government of Philippe Couillard multiplies the improvisations. A few days ago, it was in the unconditional allocation of $ 1.3 billion to Bombardier. This week, it is the opposite: the Prime Minister imposes his abusive conditions for the attribution of the last resort aid to the most deprived. Two weights, two measures. The Prime Minister is fabricating a crisis from all parts of social assistance, ”he continued.
On this subject, moreover, the member for Saint-Jean, Dave Turcotte, tabled a motion this morning, which was rejected by the Liberals. It reads as follows:
&quot;That the National Assembly ask the government to set up an itinerant parliamentary commission in all regions of Quebec on the follow-up to be given to the National Strategy for the Fight against Poverty and Social Exclusion, instituted by the Act to fight against poverty and social exclusion;
That it ask the government to wait for the tabling of the next National Strategy to Fight Poverty and Social Exclusion before moving forward with Bill 70, An Act to allow better alignment between training and employment and to promote employment integration. &quot;
Dave Turcotte does not manage to grasp the motivation of the Liberals either. “They are working the reverse of common sense. Consultations on the plan to fight poverty and exclusion must take place before moving forward with changes to social assistance. Support measures towards reintegration into employment have so far given good results. In recent years, we have seen the number of social assistance recipients decline. Moreover, the will announced by the government is all the more ironic as it is simultaneously making cuts to job search assistance programs. Minister Hamad claims to fight against poverty but, in fact, he only contributes to creating poverty, ”denounced the member for Saint-Jean.
“This government has no economic strategy. In fact, its strategy is to cut education and cut employability measures. He even slashed programs specifically aimed at getting young people out of social assistance, such as Alternative jeunesse. Instead of imposing his authoritarian vision, the Prime Minister should act as head of state and seek consensus by listening to citizens, ”concluded the leader of the official opposition.
