Ottawa - The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, reacted strongly following her brief meeting with her counterpart, the Federal Minister of Human Resources and from Skills Development, Ms. Diane Finley. “Quebec is more determined than ever to continue the fight for the viability of its thousands of businesses, for its workers and the survival of its regions. The Government of Canada refuses to suspend its reform and take the time to measure its impacts. This is unacceptable. &quot;
Minister Maltais stressed that the employment insurance reform, put forward by the federal government, is counterproductive and risks destabilizing entire sections of the Quebec economy, in particular fisheries, forestry, agriculture, construction, culture and tourism. Several stakeholders in the business world share these concerns and anticipate very negative repercussions from a reform that does not take into account the reality of certain employers.
“The stake is far too great to improvise a reform without having measured the consequences beforehand. Following my meeting with Minister Finley, I seriously wonder about the federal government&#39;s understanding of the Quebec job market reality. It is with determination that we will continue this battle for all those families who do not deserve to be treated in this way, ”continued Ms. Maltais.
It should be remembered that Quebec has repeatedly asked to be consulted on the changes made to employment insurance before they are made public and put into effect. This position is also shared by the other provinces and territories.
The changes were implemented despite the discontent they aroused, and despite two unanimous motions from the National Assembly, on June 8 and November 13, 2012, asking the federal government to abandon its intentions, which will have serious consequences. negative effects in Quebec.
“The Conservatives display an insensitivity rarely seen. They must suspend this reform to avoid destabilizing the labor market and leading to several people in precarious situations, ”added the Minister.
Despite the short duration of the meeting, the Minister was able to find the time to reiterate the importance for Quebec of being able to fully exercise its responsibilities in terms of workforce training and development, which requires renewal. funding for the Labor Market Agreement beyond its imminent expiry date, March 31, 2014, and through the transfer to Québec of all sums intended for employment integration measures.
“The Government of Quebec adheres to the principle of bringing workers closer to available jobs. The best way to do this is to take a pragmatic approach and avoid duplication. I asked Ms. Finley that negotiations begin now and that a commitment to this effect appear in the next federal budget, ”concluded Minister Maltais.
Consult the press releases issued by the Parti Québécois government concerning the reform of employment insurance
