Québec, October 20, 2017 - The official opposition spokesperson for the environment and the fight against climate change, Sylvain Gaudreault, and the spokesperson for the economy, Alain Therrien, presented the plan strong leadership of the Parti Québécois to combine economic growth and the fight against climate change.
IN SHORT
The Parti Québécois has a solid plan to tackle climate change while developing our economy. This plan has 4 main objectives:
“The Liberal government talks about the environment, but has done nothing new since 2014 to fight climate change. As for the CAQ, we simply do not care about the environment. At the Parti Québécois, we have put in place, through consultations with representatives of several industrial sectors, a solid plan to tackle climate change while developing our economy, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
The spokesperson maintains that when GHGs declined under the Liberal government, it was because factories closed. This is notably the case for several major emitters, such as the Shell refinery in eastern Montreal, and Norsk Hydro and the TCE plant in Bécancour. “On the Parti Québécois side, we do not want to close factories to reduce our GHG emissions; we want to increase investments to modernize them and put in place the necessary protocols so that the environmental improvements of our companies become sources of income for them! », He continued.
The Parti Québécois is in favor of extending the carbon market after 2020. However, it wants to tackle the flight of capital to the United States that the Liberal government refuses to recognize. “Rather than paying millions of dollars in carbon taxes to buy the right to pollute just as much, we want to allow our companies to invest this money in optimizing their processes and in technological innovation, which will really improve their carbon footprint as well as their commercial performance, ”said Alain Therrien.
“Currently, Quebec companies cannot monetize their GHG reductions, as California is doing with the issuance of offset credits. For example, the Liberal government is not taking advantage of carbon capture in our forestry sector to market our own environmental gains. We are also aiming to introduce a tax credit for marketing which would apply as an extension of the tax credit for research and development, ”continued the spokesperson.
“We also want to target certain key areas of the energy transition and financially support a few players so that they become international champions in these areas, export their know-how and conquer international markets. We will set up a constant technological watch by industrial sector to identify the best marketable low carbon technologies. In addition, we want each industrial sector to be able to benefit from a process transformation research center, in order to modernize our economy in the medium and long terms. Finally, the state must lead by example. We suggest that ministries, organizations, public and parapublic networks and municipalities adopt criteria in public calls for tenders favoring the acquisition of clean technologies, ”indicated Sylvain Gaudreault.
