Quebec - The Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation, Mr. Bernard Drainville, wishes to point out that Quebecers who wish to express themselves on the Quebec Charter of Values, via sitenosvaleurs.gouv.qc.ca, still have a week to do so. The website will still be active, but it will no longer be possible to leave comments on it after midnight on Tuesday, October 1. The comments collected will be taken into account by Minister Drainville for the final drafting of the bill he will present in order to affirm the religious neutrality of the State, regulate requests for religious accommodation and affirm certain Quebec values, including equality between women and men.
“In just two weeks, more than 130,000 Quebeckers have visited the nosvaleurs.gouv.qc.ca site, and more than 16,000 people have expressed their views. It is frankly remarkable! I would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who shared their comments with us and invite Quebeckers to continue the debate, with respect for each other. What we are proposing is a real project for society, a project for the future for Quebec, so that we can live in a society where there will be more equality, harmony and cohesion. A project to unite us around our common values, ”said Bernard Drainville.
We propose to include in the Charter of human rights and freedoms the values of Quebec society, including gender equality, the religious neutrality of the State and the secular nature of public institutions, and of mark out requests for religious accommodation. This modification will make it possible to affirm the values of Quebec society and to define what reasonable religious accommodation is. From now on, accommodations will have to take Quebec values into account. They can only be granted if they cause real harm, respect gender equality and state neutrality, and if they are reasonable.
<//sub>
We propose to establish, in law, a duty of reserve and religious neutrality for the personnel of the State in the exercise of their functions. This duty will make it possible to reflect the neutrality of the State and its separation from the religious. Civil servants are already subject to a duty of neutrality and reserve with regard to their political opinions. They must henceforth refrain from any proselytism in the course of their duties.
We propose to ban the wearing of conspicuous religious symbols for government personnel in the exercise of their functions. This framework will make it possible to reflect the neutrality of the State. The affected employees will be:
However, in the case of CEGEPs, universities, the health network and municipalities, the board of directors or the municipal council may adopt a resolution allowing its staff to wear religious symbols. This authorization will be valid for five years and renewable.
We suggest that government services should be given and received with their face uncovered. This obligation will make it possible to establish the general rule according to which the provision of State services is carried out with the face uncovered, both for the person providing the service and for the person receiving it.
All government departments and agencies must adopt an implementation policy to ensure their religious neutrality and to manage requests for religious accommodation. This policy will allow each organization to ensure the application of the law, while respecting its specific missions. Accountability mechanisms will also be provided for.
