Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, and the Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation, Bernard Drainville, today tabled in the National Assembly Bill n ° 60: Charter affirming the values of secularism and religious neutrality of the State as well as equality between women and men and framing requests for accommodation.
“Our charter project makes it possible to affirm the common rules that we want to give ourselves in order to live diversity in harmony. We are thus asserting our desire to build a Quebec in which we can live better together. In Quebec, the equality of all citizens, equality between women and men, the separation of Church and State, these are fundamental values, ”declared the Premier.
“This charter marks an important milestone in our history. It affirms what we are and defines the Quebec in which we want to live together, regardless of our origin or our religion. 40 years ago, we established the primacy of French as a common value of Quebecers. Today, we affirm the common values of secularism, religious neutrality of the State and equality between women and men. These values are our glue; this is what brings us together, beyond our individual differences. The charter of values will be a source of harmony and cohesion for Quebec. It is part of the secularization process that began during the Quiet Revolution, ”said Bernard Drainville.
The project tabled by the government amends the Quebec Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms to define accommodation requests. He affirms that equality between women and men, the primacy of French, the separation of religions and the State as well as the religious neutrality and secularism of the latter constitute fundamental values of the Quebec nation.
The bill creates a duty of discretion and a duty of religious neutrality for State personnel and prohibits them from wearing ostentatious religious symbols during working hours. Employees already in office will have one year to comply with this ban. On the other hand, new employees, hired after the sanction of the law, will not be able to wear ostentatious religious symbols.
To this one-year implementation period could be added four years for employees of institutions in the health and social services network, municipalities, CEGEPs and universities. This transitional period, of five years maximum, replaces the withdrawal clause contained in the proposals of last September.
It provides for the adoption by public bodies of an implementation policy so that the objectives of the State&#39;s religious neutrality and the supervision of requests for religious accommodation are integrated into the daily functioning of these institutions.
Finally, Bill 60 amends the Act respecting the National Assembly to clarify the rules surrounding the presence of religious symbols within the Assembly and the wearing of religious symbols by Members. The government wishes to arrive at a consensual decision on these questions which are the responsibility of all parliamentarians.
The minister responsible for the charter, Bernard Drainville, considers that this bill could not have seen the light of day without the exceptional contribution of Quebeckers to the debate on the charter of values. “If we have stood firm, if the government was able to weather the storm of recent months and arrive today with a solid, undiluted bill, it is thanks to the support of Quebeckers. On behalf of the Premier and the whole government, I thank them from the bottom of my heart ”.
“We are now at a new stage: that of action. Now is the time to act. This is what Quebeckers expect from us, elected officials. We&#39;ve been talking about it for years, and now is the time to assume our responsibilities and show leadership, ”added the Minister.
“The government had promised to table a bill: it is done. We live up to our commitment. We owe it to Quebeckers to undertake the study of the bill in a spirit of openness and dialogue. I invite all parties to work together in good faith to move Quebec forward, ”said Bernard Drainville.
“Today we are affirming the values that unite our people, for now and for the future. We must be proud of the road we have traveled, but we still have a lot to do, ”concluded Bernard Drainville.
A link to Bill 60 is available on sitenosvaleurs.gouv.qc.ca.
