Quebec - The Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation, Bernard Drainville, today presented the government proposals in terms of religious neutrality of the State and the framework of religious accommodation.
“Almost a year ago, the Prime Minister gave me the mandate to present to Quebeckers solutions to define requests for religious accommodation and ensure the religious neutrality of the State. This is what we are doing today by making our proposals public. These are measured and balanced proposals. They are the bearers of harmonious relations and social cohesion in an increasingly multiethnic, “multireligious” Quebec; a plural Quebec, ”said Bernard Drainville.
These five proposals are based on major Quebec values, including, in particular, equality between men and women as well as the religious neutrality of the institutions of the Quebec state. They are defined as follows:
Define accommodation requests in the Quebec Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms. Also include in it the separation of religions and the State, the religious neutrality of the State and the secular character of its institutions, taking into account our common historical heritage;
Establish, in law, a duty of reserve and religious neutrality for State personnel in the exercise of their functions;
Supervise the wearing of ostentatious religious symbols for State personnel during working hours (this proposal is accompanied by a right of withdrawal for a period of up to five years, renewable for certain sectors);
Make it compulsory to have the face uncovered when giving or receiving a state service;
<//sub>
“The time has come to unite around clear rules and common values that will put an end to tensions and misunderstandings. Our proposals will be a source of better understanding, harmony and cohesion for all Quebecers, regardless of their religion or origin, ”explained Bernard Drainville.
Quebeckers will have the opportunity to make their views known on the proposals presented today through a website and a dedicated telephone line. Later this fall, the Minister will table a bill in the National Assembly, which will reflect the proposals presented to the population while taking into account the comments received.
“Throughout its history, Quebec has always been able to find a point of balance between respect for the rights of each person and respect for our common values. These proposals are part of this deeply democratic tradition, ”concluded Bernard Drainville.
Government proposals are available on the site: www.nosvaleurs.gouv.qc.ca.
