Quebec - Drummond MP and official opposition language spokesman Yves-François Blanchet today introduced Bill 591 in the National Assembly to confirm the subjection of subsidiaries of government agencies to the provisions of the French Language Charter applicable to the Administration and to attach the Charter to a reporting mechanism to the National Assembly.
We recently learned that two senior executives from Ivanhoé Cambridge, a real estate subsidiary of the Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec, were unilingual anglophones. Employees of this subsidiary have also complained to the Office québécois de la langue française. “Thirty-four years after the adoption of Bill 101, it is completely unacceptable that such situations persist. It is therefore necessary to remedy the false interpretation made by the Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec of the Charter, under the complicit eye of the government, ”explained Yves-François Blanchet.
This bill also provides that the minister responsible for the application of the Charter of the French language must, no later than February 1, 2013 and every four years thereafter, submit a report to the government on the application of the Charter and table it in the National Assembly so that it can be studied by the competent parliamentary committee.
“It is completely incongruous and abnormal that on two subjects as sensitive as the language and the application of the Charter of the French language, the responsible minister does not have to report to the National Assembly. We want to make sure that this is now the case, ”explained the MP.
“The Parti Québécois program is clear. A sovereignist government will adopt a new law 101. The linguistic situation continues to deteriorate in Montreal. The anglicization of the metropolis is obvious and this situation now tends to spread oil in the neighboring regions, ”added the deputy. The spokesperson for the official opposition recalls having recently demonstrated to the minister responsible for the application of the Charter of the French language, Christine St-Pierre, during an interpellation, that the situation is deteriorating rapidly, in particular with regard to the display language and in particular in his own constituency.
“Faced with this situation, we have a government that is taking no measures to consolidate our language, that does not consider it necessary to invest more in the francization of immigrants, even going so far as to give up making an effective selection, and that dishonor by imposing by gag order a bill to legitimize the bridge schools, the sale of the right not to respect the law ”, added Yves-François Blanchet.
“Only the Parti Québécois has the will and the credibility to defend our national language. The liberals and the Caquistes-ADQ passively watch French folkloreize so as not to displease anyone. It is obvious that the government of Jean Charest and Minister Christine St-Pierre have no desire to apply the laws regarding the protection of our language and are showing irresponsible negligence in this matter. We are acting now. This bill is only the first step, ”concluded the member for Drummond.
