Montreal - The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane De Courcy, and the Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation, Mr. Bernard Drainville, met today hui representatives of the media from the diversity of the metropolitan region to present to them the government proposals in matters of religious neutrality of the State and the framework of religious accommodation.
“Our government is committed to presenting Quebecers with solutions to resolve the issue of reasonable accommodation and ensure the neutrality of the state. These proposals are addressed to all Quebecers and aim to affirm the values that unite us: the equality of all citizens vis-à-vis the State and, in particular, equality between women and men. , the religious neutrality of the State and respect for a common historical heritage. These are proposals that promote social cohesion and harmonious relations in an increasingly multi-ethnic, increasingly multi-faith Quebec, ”explained Minister Bernard Drainville.
<//sub>
This meeting was held at the initiative of the Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French language in order to clarify, with the media, the diversity of the metropolitan region, the objectives targeted by the Quebec Charter of Values.
&quot;The contribution of immigrants to the development of Quebec is essential, as was that of our builders who forged, with the waves of immigration that marked our history, the essence of what modern Quebec is. and its values ”, underlined Ms. De Courcy. “Those selected by Quebec must also sign a commitment to respect these values, and the vast majority do so in good faith, knowing that an immigration project involves adapting to a new living environment. The Quebec Charter of Values, presented by my colleague to the National Assembly, will allow us to build together, in a perspective of mutual listening and openness, a united Quebec, strong in its immigration, to which we all aspire ” , she added.
Five government proposals are thus presented to the people of Quebec in order to set guidelines for religious accommodation and affirm the religious neutrality of the State.
“These proposals aim to unite us around clear rules and common values and to put an end to the tensions that can separate the different faiths. We can make Quebec a society that knows how to draw its limits with regard to religious accommodation and choose the neutrality of the State, with respect for each and everyone. The difference should not be considered as an asset to be preserved, but rather as the starting point for an enriching cultural mix, ”concluded the Minister.
Quebeckers have the opportunity to make known their opinion on the proposals that have been presented by using the Internet site or the telephone line available to them. Subsequently, the Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation will table a bill in the National Assembly which corresponds to the proposals presented to the population and which will take into account the comments received.
“Throughout its history, Quebec has always been able to find a point of balance between respect for the rights of each person and respect for our common values. These proposals are part of this deeply democratic tradition, ”concluded Mr. Drainville.
Government proposals are available on the site: www.nosvaleurs.gouv.qc.ca.
