Quebec - The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Mrs. Agnès Maltais, makes public the results of the actions carried out during the second year of the implementation of the plan. action of the Quebec Charter for a healthy and diversified body image (CHIC). This report was presented to the members of the CHIC committee, co-chaired by Mr. Howard Steiger, head of the eating disorders program at the Douglas Institute, and Ms. Marie-Claude Savard, host, columnist and journalist. The document can be viewed on the website of the Secretariat for the Status of Women.
“It is important to make young people aware of bodily diversity and to make them critical of the images conveyed in the media. Many of them experience the social pressure to correspond to a unique model of beauty, which can harm their self-esteem and even lead to eating disorders, ”said Ms. Agnès Maltais, Minister responsible for the Status of Women.
Mr. Steiger and Ms. Savard said they were satisfied with this report and the actions that fueled it. They also mentioned that it is the very essence of what is implemented that motivated their involvement:
“It is important for me to help change mentalities, particularly with regard to the cult of thinness. I am pleased to see that the fashion, advertising and media industry increasingly prioritizes the dissemination of healthy and diverse images of the body, ”added Mr. Steiger.
For Ms. Savard, the image of women presented in the media can play an important role in self-esteem: “I believe that every man, woman and child must understand that beauty comes through self-acceptance. Instead of wanting to transform, you have to devote your energy to discovering yourself, and learning to love yourself and to find yourself beautiful and beautiful ”.
Among the actions that have been put in place, let us mention the third body diversity parade featuring the fifteen winners aged 14 to 17 of the “Défilez sans cliché” competition, produced by the organization ÉquiLibre. This competition, presented on the occasion of the Fashion and Design Festival of Montreal 2012, brings young people to express themselves on the representations of the body they wish to see in the fashion, media and advertising industry.
We should also note a workshop designed by the Quebec Women&#39;s Health Action Network, which made it possible to educate students in the Fashion Design and Fashion Marketing programs of the importance of promoting a healthy and diverse body image.
In addition, the various players in the image industry have been mobilized around body diversity, which has led many to choose, for example, models of various sizes, sizes and ages during fashion shows. Some designers have even designed clothes for different figures. Designer Anne de Shalla, for her part, promoted CHIC and a healthy and diversified body image through the Grande Braderie de mode québécoise and the Signatures québécoises boutique.
“During the past year, the CHIC has shone in Quebec and even internationally thanks, in particular, to the mobilization that we have managed to achieve in different communities. I hope that these advances may inspire others, ”concluded Minister Maltais.
Launched in October 2009, the CHIC&#39;s objectives are to promote a healthy and diverse body image and to foster engagement in the world of fashion, advertising, media, video, music, health, education and government. In addition, it encourages the mobilization of society around a healthy and diverse body image, problems related to excessive preoccupation with weight, anorexia nervosa and bulimia.
The CHIC action plan was launched in December 2010. The actions it supports aim to raise awareness among young people aged 14 to 17, primarily young girls, on the issue of body image in addition to mobilize the image industry around concrete actions in favor of bodily diversity.
To date, more than 23,000 people have adhered to the principles of CHIC surJeSigneEnLigne.com.
