Quebec - In this budget week, Parti Québécois family spokesperson Sylvain Pagé calls on the Liberal government to immediately put an end to the senseless cuts inflicted on the network of childcare centers and to put back the education of our children at the top of his priority list. Alongside representatives of the CSN, including the vice-president, Véronique De Sève, he held a press briefing this afternoon to make the government aware of the harmful consequences of its austerity policies; 25,000 postcards signed by citizens were deposited at the Prime Minister&#39;s office to support the action of the central labor union.
&quot;There are two things, one: either the Liberals are doing a simplistic accounting operation, without any regard for the consequences, especially on the quality of services, or the government knows very well what it is doing and is seeking to cut the legs off the public network, ”said Sylvain Pagé.
“The data is convincing; the network of childcare centers has proven its relevance, even acting as an example all over the world. It contributes to the integration and academic success of our children, especially those with disabilities or special needs, in addition to allowing thousands of women, sometimes single parents, to enter the labor market. The CPE network is undoubtedly the network par excellence to promote equal opportunities for all children in Quebec and to prepare them well for educational success. Why sacrifice a network that has proven itself for years? Is it to benefit the private network? », Continued the spokesperson.
In addition to the cuts, there are the effects of the modulation of tariffs, which means that thousands of families could be tempted to entrust their children to the private sector for financial reasons, without taking into account the fact that the CPEs offer an unequaled quality of service. . &quot;Is society, as the Liberals understand it, really what we want?&quot; On the one hand, children from wealthier families in the private sector and, on the other, children from low-income families in early childhood centers? We will not give up, we will not be silent, we will continue to denounce these ideological cuts which undermine equal opportunities and the future of our children, ”concluded Sylvain Pagé.
