Quebec - Following the publication of investigation results by the Québec Ombudsman, the member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, Jean-François Lisée, denounced the government&#39;s inaction Liberal and its Minister for Rehabilitation, Lucie Charlebois, to provide access to rehabilitation services to the hundreds of children who hang out on a waiting list.
“The case examined by the Québec Ombudsman in its investigation illustrates that of many other young people with autism spectrum disorder (ASD), who must wait, on average, two years to receive services. . The child concerned by the Protector&#39;s investigation waited for four years; four years during which this young person received no support, despite the fact that all the interveners and the Minister herself recognize that the intervention at an early age is the most likely to give convincing results. And that&#39;s not to mention that the Ministry of Health and Social Services has set itself a 12-month target for access to services, a target that it is visibly unable to meet, ”said Jean- François Lisée.
“The cuts of nearly $ 600 million in 2015-2016 in the health and social services network are hurting. As proof, the budget for services for intellectual disabilities and autism spectrum disorders has only been increased by 0.74%, which translates in concrete terms into service cuts in establishments, since the sums granted are not do not even cover the cost of indexing. This is unacceptable! The minister must stand up in front of her leader and refuse to allow autistic children to bear the brunt of austerity, ”he added.
While the government is cutting health and social services, the autism spectrum disorder prevalence rate, which stands at 1%, continues to double every four years. The number of young people in need of services is always greater; despite this situation, the Liberal government turns a blind eye and seems to be waiting for the problem to resolve itself.
“In another report published last March on access to services for young people with an intellectual disability or autism spectrum disorder, the Québec Ombudsman demanded the filing of an action plan by the Minister, no later than June 19, 2015, to follow up on its recommendations and reduce waiting lists. Where is this plan? What is the minister waiting for to take concrete action to improve access to services? “Asked the deputy.
It should be remembered that since the launch of the first action plan by a Parti Québécois government in 2003, the measures necessary to prevent an increase in the prevalence rate and an increase in waiting lists, which were nevertheless predictable, have not not implemented during the liberal reign that followed. “All Quebecers, especially young people with ASD, are paying the price for liberal laxity today,” concluded Jean-François Lisée.
