Quebec - The member for Rousseau and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, coldly welcomes the electoral proposal of the Coalition Avenir Québec (CAQ), which talks about sending every Quebecer earning less than 150 $ 000 a year check for $ 500. The problem is that the sums required to honor this commitment would be added to the debt, which future generations will have to repay.
The head of the CAQ indeed announced this morning that he intended to dismantle the Generations Fund and use the money to give $ 500 to each Quebecer who meets certain criteria. “Quebec&#39;s financial credibility rests precisely on the rigor with which we make payments to the Fund to repay our debt. It is a commitment that we must absolutely respect. By launching such ideas, the CAQ is once again demonstrating its irresponsibility. Think about it: the CAQ is proposing to shovel $ 1.75 billion more in current spending on the debt. This is the perfect recipe to take a discount! », Declared Nicolas Marceau.
&quot;Debt our children of 1.75 billion to win a few votes, it&#39;s indecent to have even thought about it!&quot; Where did the head of the CAQ go who, in April 2014, cut up a credit card, claiming that debt reduction was a priority? Did he conclude that by putting the two pieces of the map back together, he would win votes? Because what he is proposing today is to simply increase the balance on our children&#39;s credit cards, ”the spokesperson continued.
According to Nicolas Marceau, anyway, this short-sighted measure would not stimulate our economy in a sustainable way. “To reduce taxes while remaining responsible, we must first generate sustainable economic growth, and this requires, among other things, education, innovation and the productivity of our businesses. However, nothing to the extent proposed by the CAQ makes it possible to develop the economy in a structural way. Clearly, the CAQ brings us directly back to the time of Réal Caouette, who said that if we ran out of money, we just had to print it! », He concluded.
