Quebec - Following the publication today of the Québec Ombudsman&#39;s annual report, the member for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, the member for Rosemont and social services and home care spokesperson, Jean-François Lisée, and the member for Richelieu and spokesperson for seniors, Sylvain Rochon, have expressed their deep concerns.
For Diane Lamarre, it has never been clearer that the government must change course. “In mental health, for example, the Québec Ombudsman is categorical: accessibility problems, for people with pressing needs, generate psychological and social costs for patients and their loved ones. The report also mentions several other shortcomings: waiting times are too long, laws are poorly enforced, service delivery is poor. Not only were the targets set by the 2005-2010 Mental Health Action Plan not met, but their update, which was promised for last year, has still not been achieved. It is disturbing, since the news reminds us every day that the needs are growing and urgent, ”she said.
In the case of home care, the report confirms our fears: the services offered are insufficient, constantly reduced, often poorly adapted, and their availability varies greatly from region to region, which leads to inequities. “Unfortunately, the situation risks deteriorating even further, given the cuts the government is imposing in health and social services. The report clearly mentions that due to lack of resources to meet all of the demand, a CSSS has established a maximum number of hours per person; it&#39;s rationing! We give a little to everyone, while not giving enough to none, can we read in the report. However, Quebec must focus on home care; in the long term, this is the most advantageous solution. The Parti Québécois government understood this well, ”added Jean-François Lisée.
The situation of adults accommodated in CHSLDs is not rosier, according to the Québec Ombudsman. “The report indicates that in some establishments, residents never take a bath due to a lack of space or adequate equipment. In 2015, some CHSLDs did not have a bath! This observation is not only overwhelming, it is shameful and unacceptable! What does the Minister of Health intend to do now and concretely to ensure an adequate living environment and basic care for the elderly in CHSLDs? ”Sylvain Rochon concluded.
