Quebec- The MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and official opposition spokesperson for seniors, Carole Poirier, is proud to have demanded from the minister responsible for seniors, Marguerite Blais, a complete rewrite of Bill 22. “Initially, this bill was purely cosmetic. By asking the minister to make amendments to make her bill really useful, we have succeeded in making it really useful for the elderly ”.
“Thanks to the interventions of the Parti Québécois and the comments of the groups heard during the consultations, Marguerite Blais had to face the facts and had no other choice but to return to her homework, in order to respect the commitments made to her. seniors with a loss of autonomy who must move quickly. Now, seniors who have to quickly terminate their lease for medical reasons will have to pay a maximum of two months rent rather than three months as was the case previously. In cases where landlords and tenants agree to an agreement, payments can be completely avoided, ”said MP Carole Poirier.
“Our demands and those of the major associations of seniors will finally have made it possible to break with the expression“ the dead eat ”. From now on, during a move or in the event of death, the expenses required for meals, or those related to a bath, can no longer be charged. I still have difficulty in understanding why this amendment was not contained in the initial version of Bill 22 tabled by the Minister. It is high time we put an end to these abusive practices, ”continued the official opposition spokesperson for seniors.
“It is at the request of the Parti Québécois that the Minister for Social Services, Dominique Vien, and the Minister responsible for Seniors, Marguerite Blais, had to modify their recent bills in order to harmonize the designation of foyers d &#39; accommodation mentioned in the articles of the Civil Code. It is important to modify it in order to better represent the current reality in CHSLDs, intermediate resources and private seniors&#39; residences in the Act respecting health and social services ”.
“Almost four years after the commitments made by Minister Blais, it is finally today that we are finally taking a step forward to better defend the rights of Quebec seniors. I also remind the Minister responsible for Seniors that there are several other important files that must be resolved without delay. In this regard, I reiterate my wish to see, by the holiday season, the filing of regulatory changes to the Régie du bâtiment to limit the maximum temperature of hot water in CHSLDs, ”concluded Carole Poirier.
