Baie-Comeau– The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Bank for Economic Development of Quebec, Élaine Zakaïb, accompanied by the Member for René-Lévesque, Chief Government Whip and responsible for the Côte-Nord region, Marjolain Dufour , announced the allocation of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 400,000 to the company Nova-Pro Développement inc. de Havre-Saint-Pierre, specializing in energy research and development.
The company&#39;s plan is to develop a new type of turbine that converts industrial steam emissions into electricity, and can thus help reduce greenhouse gas emissions, depending on the initial energy source. The financial assistance will be used to complete the procedures leading to the protection of intellectual property, to plan and evaluate the commercial potential of the project as well as to optimize the system by carrying out in-company tests of an experimental prototype.
“Quebec draws its strength from the presence of dynamic and efficient companies, which rely on innovation to prosper with a view to sustainable development,” declared Élaine Zakaïb. “Nova-Pro Développement is one of those promising companies that carry out research and development activities to develop clean technologies. Thanks to its turbine project, the company contributes to the influence of a Quebec turned towards the future. &quot;
&quot;Nova-Pro Développement&#39;s innovative and structuring project will increase the energy efficiency of businesses in the Côte-Nord region, and throughout Quebec,&quot; added Marjolain Dufour. “This project will also ensure the company&#39;s competitiveness on the global market, while being the bearer of significant economic benefits for our region. &quot;
Nova-Pro Développement is a research and development company specializing in the manufacture of engines, turbines and power transmission equipment. It develops innovative products in the energy field.
&quot;Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we will be able to improve our turbine prototype by carrying out tests in companies,&quot; said the President and CEO of Nova-Pro Développement, Mr. Bobby Boucher. “We will also be able to file patent applications that will allow us to protect our technology and distinguish ourselves in markets on an international scale. &quot;
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
