Passing through the Musée du Fjord in La Baie, the leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, the candidates from the Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean region, Sylvain Gaudreault (Jonquière), Mireille Jean (Chicoutimi), Marie- Annick Fortin (Dubuc), William Fradette (Lac-Saint-Jean), Thomas Gaudreault (Roberval), as well as the members of the environment team, Marc Bourcier (Saint-Jérôme), Daniel Breton (Saint-Hyacinthe), Normand Beauregard (Louis-Hébert), Jacques Tétreault (Johnson) and Cédric Gagnon-Ducharme (Borduas), presented the most ambitious plan ever unveiled by a major political party to face the climate crisis. “Above all, you have to have the political will to implement it. And we have it, indisputably, ”said the leader of the Parti Québécois from the outset.
IN SHORT
The Parti Québécois&#39; ambitious plan to fight the climate crisis is based on 7 main pillars:
Governance: Prime Minister, Jean-François Lisée will retain responsibility for sustainable development. He will pass a law affirming the primacy of Quebec&#39;s jurisdiction in environmental matters, and a “climate deficit” law. The programs of the Green Fund will be reviewed in depth.
Transport: We will focus in particular on electrification, Grand Déblocage, teleworking, carpooling, carsharing as well as public and active transport to significantly reduce GHG emissions.
Land use planning: The Parti Québécois government will ensure that urban planning and the development of our living environments are compatible with a healthy environment.
The circular economy: The government of the Parti Québécois will include environmental factors in the parameters of public calls for tenders and will obstruct the linear cycle &quot;manufacture, consume, discard&quot;.
Industry: We will actively support innovative companies that contribute to the green economy.
Buildings: We will relaunch the Wood Charter and save Quebecers money through more energy efficient homes.
Hydrocarbons: No new hydrocarbon project will be authorized, and exploration and exploitation permits will be gradually withdrawn.
“Never has a government been so serious, so determined to fight effectively against the climate crisis, to slow down the degradation of our environment as the next government of the Parti Québécois. Our first budget will definitely be that of going green. Beyond speeches which are too often incantations to mask inaction, we affirm our real political will to bequeath to future generations a greener Quebec, a Quebec leader in the preservation of the environment and clean technologies, ”added Jean-François Lisée.
For his part, Sylvain Gaudreault specified that all the measures contained in the Parti Québécois plan will have reduced GHG emissions by 12.7 million tonnes in 2025; this is 23% less than the 1990 rates. “Responding adequately to global warming is the challenge of our century. No effort should be spared to achieve our targets. It is not only the quality of life of our children and theirs, but also the very survival of our species. The time has passed for the &quot;scoops&quot; to which the Liberals have accustomed us. As for the CAQ, it does not even take it into account; the subject is absent from its financial framework, ”he lamented.
“As an entrepreneur, I have always attached great importance to our collective ecological footprint. One of the reasons I am here with the Parti Québécois is because we are the most serious when it comes to the environment. We have been in our fight against the energy east pipeline. We were so when we courageously chose to turn our backs on nuclear power. We are again today, with our firm commitment to ban any new hydrocarbon project on Quebec territory, ”Mireille Jean also indicated.
Particularly enthusiastic about the plan presented today, Daniel Breton is categorical: “Finally, courage, ambition! Each of the measures in our plan will accelerate the energy transition, which has become an emergency. It also includes the adoption of a &quot;climate deficit&quot; law, which will henceforth oblige all successive governments in Quebec to answer for their environmental actions before an independent entity. Finally, there will be no more escape possible, ”he said.
“It&#39;s simple: what we are offering Quebeckers today is a change in mentality, the transition to a new era. From now on, all government actions will be considered from the angle of energy transition or the fight against global warming. We will make it an obsession. It is our duty towards future generations, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
The Parti Québécois climate platform is available at:
https://fichiers.pq.org/election2018/plateforme/PQ-Plateforme-climat7.pdf
