Québec, February 21, 2019 - Sylvain Gaudreault, the member for Jonquière and spokesperson for the second opposition group on the environment and the fight against climate change, presented the bill to the National Assembly this morning. titled An Act to ensure compliance with Québec&#39;s obligations relating to climate change. He is now calling on the government and other opposition parties to immediately call the study in parliamentary committee.
IN SHORT
“The objective of an anti-climate deficit law is simple: to ensure that our climate obligations are met. Among other things, the creation of a &quot;carbon budget&quot; - presented and tabled annually, like the Quebec budget - would force us to carry out an overall assessment of our greenhouse gas emissions and ensure that a action plans aimed at reducing them will be followed up, ”the spokesperson first mentioned.
According to Sylvain Gaudreault, it is also time for Quebec to set up an independent body, stemming from the Office of the Auditor General, to assess the government&#39;s work in the fight against climate change and GHG reduction. “It&#39;s a question of consistency,” he continues. We must not simply recognize the existence of the climate crisis; we must also face it, tackle it, with concrete and effective means. &quot;
The member for Jonquière is delighted that the idea of an anti-deficit climate law - which he raised at COP22, in 2016, and then publicly proposed to the government on the occasion of the March for the climate held in the last fall - today obtained the unanimous support of the parties to be seized of the National Assembly. “I have thought about the issue of our climate deficit for a long time. I have studied similar laws that exist across the world. This approach led me to the presentation of this bill, the principle of which is in line with the objectives put forward by the Transition Pact and all the experts who sound the alarm about the climate crisis. It is time for Quebec to take action; I therefore invite all parliamentarians to call for the study of this bill in committee now, ”he concluded.
