Saguenay– The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, as well as the MNA for Dubuc, Jean-Marie Claveau, today inaugurated the new premises of the Bagotville Accommodation Center, a facility of the Cléophas-Claveau Health and Social Services Center, after nearly $ 10.8 million in expansion and redevelopment work.
“This project has made it possible to add value to a building constructed some forty years ago, by modernizing it and bringing it into conformity with the standards that apply today in long-term care. In addition, the project has made it possible to transfer to the accommodation center 22 people who had so far been accommodated at the hospital center, ”explained Minister Hébert.
The Bagotville Residential Center now has 55 beds, including 8 in prosthetic units, for people with significant cognitive problems. There are also newly furnished common areas, as well as a day center.
In terms of real estate, the building was extended by approximately 1,300 square meters, while the existing premises of some 2,950 square meters were redeveloped. The project was jointly funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services ($ 5,852,000), the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Health and Social Services Agency ($ 3,143,000) and the Center of health and social services Cléophas-Claveau ($ 1,763,000).
In addition, Dr. Hébert underlined the recent opening of the CT scan service at Hôpital de La Baie, another component of the Cléophas-Claveau health and social services center. This was the only health establishment in Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean not to have this type of medical imaging equipment, which makes it possible to examine organs by cross-sections and to diagnose pathologies with a high precision.
&quot;It is estimated that around 4,000 computed tomography examinations can be performed here, which will promote a better balance of diagnostic services across the region as well as a reduction in waiting times for clients&quot; , explained the minister.
An expansion of the hospital center by 82 square meters, combined with the redevelopment of premises with an area of 115 square meters, made it possible to install the tomodensitometer near the radiology department, while installing a waiting room and a post. &#39;reception. The premises for the new service were built and equipped at a cost of approximately $ 1.8 million, with funding coming from the agency ($ 1,349,500), the establishment itself ($ 47,820) and his foundation ($ 407,625).
The deputy for Dubuc, Mr. Jean-Marie Claveau, for his part declared: &quot;These two projects have very positive effects on the 22,000 people served by our health and social services center, who are seeing significant improvement. the quality and accessibility of essential services. &quot;
