Quebec - On the initiative of the Parti Québécois, the National Assembly today adopted a unanimous motion to force compliance with the law adopted by the federal Parliament to maintain jobs in Montreal, after the privatization of Air Canada .
“The concern has been real for months. The closure looks like a duly planned closure as evidenced by the liquidation of assets. Everything must therefore be done to ensure that the law is respected and prevent this liquidation, not only to preserve this essential economic activity for the metropolitan region, but also for the 1,800 families affected by this decision, which is as dubious as it is brutal ”, declared the deputy. de Gouin and official opposition transport critic, Nicolas Girard.
Thus, the deputies of the National Assembly unanimously adopted the following motion:
The member for Gouin recalled that on April 19, 2011, Avéos workers presented themselves to the National Assembly to express their concerns. “Liberal inaction is costly, 1,800 workers have lost their jobs. They need help today. Passing a motion is good, but it is not enough. The ball is in the Charest government&#39;s court to force Ottawa to enforce the law, ”continued Nicolas Girard.
For the Parti Québécois, the attitude of the Conservative government is totally reprehensible. “When Air Canada workers want to exercise their right to strike, Ottawa steps in and it becomes a national issue. When 1,800 workers lose their jobs in Montreal, Ottawa remains unmoved and does not intervene! It&#39;s double standards, double measures, ”said the member for Marie-Victorin and spokesperson for Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Bernard Drainville.
He insisted that the adoption of this motion be followed by a concrete gesture on the part of the totally reckless and insensitive Harper government. &quot; Enough is enough. Federal Transport Minister Denis Lebel is hiding in his office while 1,800 workers are on the streets, left to fend for themselves. The law gives him the power to intervene; it is his duty and his responsibility. Unlike the Conservatives, we will not let them down, ”concluded Bernard Drainville.
