Quebec - The Parti Québécois spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, denounces the Liberal government&#39;s inaction on the issue of drug addiction resources.
“While ministers Hamad and Charlebois had known for nearly three months that their drastic cuts to social assistance placed drug addiction rehabilitation centers in an untenable situation, they made the choice not to come to their aid and to let it close, leaving at the same time the people who were undergoing therapy there, ”lamented the deputy.
“In three separate reports on the financial situation and management of the centers, commissioned by MTESS and of which we have obtained a copy, it is stated that mismanagement is not the cause of their financial problems, but that they are indeed well the cuts to social assistance which have placed them in a very precarious situation. The various reports recommend that the government increase the financial support it grants to these centers and warn it that they are at risk of closure. Despite this, for nearly three months, the Liberal government has turned a blind eye, ”added Jean-François Lisée.
“I have called on the government five times in the past year and yet the government has always denied the problem. Even today, he continues to show a glaring lack of empathy towards the people who are suffering the consequences of his cuts. It is time for Minister Hamad to come out of his vacation and explain to Quebecers why his government did not take into account the information provided to him by the experts he himself appointed to analyze the finances and the management of the centers and, above all, that it stop the bleeding in order to prevent further closures, ”concluded the member for Rosemont.
Here are some excerpts from the reports in question:
“When the new regulations came into force, the AFDQ service clientele left the centers en masse, either to have access to their full service or due to a lack of income to cover the costs of therapy. (...) This situation could force several centers to review their offer with the option of ceasing to offer their drug addiction service with accommodation. »Report from the Caroline Roy Center (Gestion-Conseil Optim&#39;Hum), page 5.
“The impacts of the recent measures implemented in May 2015 are: voluntary flight of customers, (...) staff breathless and worried, (...) operations that have become loss-making. »Report from Toxi? Co? Gîtes (Gestion-Conseil Optim&#39;Hum), page 40.
“The reductions in income (...) resulting from the government decisions of May 1, 2015 seriously jeopardize Mélaric&#39;s financial situation. »Mélaric&#39;s report (Évolia Strategies), page 5.
“We recommend that the government come to the aid of Mélaric in one or more of the following ways: (…) Increase the reimbursement of accommodation costs by approximately $ 10 per day per resident. »Mélaric&#39;s report (Évolia Strategies), page 44.
