Quebec - Alexandre Cloutier, MP for Lac-Saint-Jean and official opposition critic for Aboriginal affairs, Marjolain Dufour, MP for René-Lévesque, and Lorraine Richard, MP for Duplessis, are calling for the urgent intervention by the Premier of Quebec, Jean Charest, to prevent the situation from degenerating on Route 138.
“On Monday, the leader of the Innu of Pessamit, Raphaël Picard, wrote to the Prime Minister to demand a summit meeting with Mr. Charest and the senior management of Hydro-Quebec. Due to the lack of response from the government, the Innu undertook this morning an intermittent blockage of Route 138 which could turn into a total blockage over the coming weeks. The Prime Minister must take this situation in hand and meet with Chief Picard to resolve the impasse before the situation escalates, ”said Alexandre Cloutier.
In his letter, Chief Picard stated: “[...] we see that the government of Quebec disregards the rights and interests of the Innu First Nation of Pessamit. This situation, which is taking on disproportionate proportions with your Plan Nord, must change ”.
“It&#39;s been two times in three days that the Parti Québécois questioned the Prime Minister in the National Assembly on this issue and that the latter refused to rise to answer. Since the unveiling of the Plan Nord, the Prime Minister has been trying to convince the public that he has come to an understanding with all the Aboriginal communities living in the territory covered by the Plan Nord. Obviously, this is not the case. Because of the government&#39;s negligence, it is the population that finds itself held hostage in a conflict between the Liberal government and the Innu of Pessamit, ”added Marjolain Dufour.
“Through inaction and the Prime Minister&#39;s refusal to take the situation in hand, the entire population of the Côte-Nord will have to live with the effects on social peace and the region&#39;s economy. A complete blockade of Route 138 could cause significant damage to the La Romaine project. Consequently, the Prime Minister must act without delay to prevent the already tense situation from becoming unbearable for the North Shore people, ”concluded Lorraine Richard.
