Montreal - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, accompanied by the Mayor of Montreal, Mr. Denis Coderre, and the Mayor of Longueuil, Ms. Caroline St-Hilaire , announced the addition of seven measures to mitigate the impact of the closure of a second lane on the Champlain Bridge.
&quot;A two-lane traffic management scenario in each direction at all times was unanimous,&quot; said Minister Gaudreault. This configuration of the tracks on the Champlain Bridge ensures the mobility and safety of users in the context, ”he added.
The reserved bus lane in the Champlain Bridge corridor, although cut from the section on the infrastructure itself, offers users a choice alternative. This reserved lane allows easy access, reducing congestion points on either side of the bridge.
In the coming days, the Agence métropolitaine de transport, in collaboration with Les Ponts Jacques Cartier and Champlain Incorporée, will extend the reserved lane between rue Marc-Cantin and the old toll booth, giving even more direct access. and fast at the bridge during the evening rush hour. On the South Shore, patrollers will be added to facilitate the insertion of buses at the bridge after the reserved lane, which extends from the Chevrier parking lot to Highway 15, avoiding a whole section of recurring congestion.
Also, CIT and RTL ticket holders will be able to use them on suburban trains on the Mont-Saint-Hilaire and Candiac lines to which cars were added last week. Let us also remember the addition of cars on the yellow metro line.
&quot;Motorists must consider public transit when planning their trip,&quot; said Minister Gaudreault. The additional cars have not reached full capacity and can accommodate new passengers. Without the support and participation of the population, regardless of the measures put in place, there will be no possible improvement in traffic. &quot;
The partners of Mobility Montreal are continuing their work with a view to implementing new measures, if necessary.
In order to facilitate the mobility of people and goods in the coming weeks, everyone&#39;s collaboration is requested. Public transit and carpooling therefore represent winning solutions to facilitate travel between the South Shore and Montreal.
Regularly consult the Mobilité Montréal section of the sitequebec511.info to follow the implementation and range of measures in place and thus better plan your trips.
Public transport and reserved lanes
Increase in capacity on other bridges
