Shawinigan - Following the announcement of the shutdown of aluminum production at Usine Shawinigan by the management of Rio Tinto Alcan (RTA), the member for Saint-Maurice, Luc Trudel, assured his full collaboration and that of his government to the employees and the company in order to support them in this process: “This is the end of a great great adventure. It is a difficult time for the workers and their families, for the subcontractors, as well as the whole community ”.
“We were aware that this could happen at any time, given the current situation in the aluminum market. It is a great shock, of course, but unfortunately it is not a surprise. I had been holding my breath since last winter, as the signals accumulated. But this is true! »Said the deputy. &quot;We will be there and we will do everything in our power to support the workers of the factory who lose their jobs, but also the company in this process of stopping production of the factory as well as the City in its economic diversification initiatives, ”he added.
Well aware of the matter, the deputy has increased the number of meetings and interventions since last fall. Plant management, union, senior management, City of Shawinigan and ministers. &quot;The objective that we must set is to establish all the stakeholders directly concerned to reduce the impact of this end of production on workers, their families, subcontractors, and the City,&quot; explained Luc Trudel. .
The deputy unveiled the establishment of an action committee formed by representatives of the union, the company, the City and himself. The mandate of this committee will be to establish an action plan to monitor the production shutdown file and to support Shawinigan in its industrial diversification projects. The government of Quebec assures us that it will work in concert with the committee.
The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, will meet with the management of the company and has already mandated Investissement Québec to support Rio Tinto Alcan in its site conversion projects.
The Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Ms. Agnès Maltais, also ensured her full collaboration in the file and confirmed the deployment of Emploi Québec resources in order to ensure maximum reclassification of employees from factory.
For Mr. Trudel, “this is difficult news, but Shawinigan has the potential to recover from this hard blow with flying colors. Several projects are already in the works. We could see more workers in 5 to 10 years than we currently find on this industrial site. It&#39;s a great challenge, ”he said optimistically.
