Saguenay– Jonquière MP and Parti Québécois candidate Sylvain Gaudreault bitterly deplores the definitive closure of the Novelis plant in Jonquière, which will result in the loss of some 160 jobs.
&quot;The Liberal government has failed to find the arguments necessary for Novelis to review its position and while it must be admitted that it has tried, it must also be recognized that it has failed and in this regard, the closure of Novelis must also be attributable to him, believes the member of the Parti Québécois. And that leads me to conclude that we need to provide more supervision for foreign companies that want to buy Quebec companies in order to prevent wild closures like the one at Novelis do not happen again all the time. The Liberal government has no strategy to prevent such situations from happening. With the number of businesses that have come to us and have decided to close, it seems to me that he should have understood that we have to act before the business closes, not after the jobs are lost. It is a laissez-faire government and this is not the first time that workers have paid the price. &quot;
Obviously, Sylvain Gaudreault intends to work in collaboration with all the players concerned in order to find a way to relaunch the company. “Relaunching Novelis and safeguarding jobs affected by this savage closure will be my priority once the elections are over. Once again, I am convinced that it is the solidarity and creativity of Quebeckers that will enable us to resolve the situation as best as possible for workers. &quot;
“While the Liberals claim to be champions of the economy, they are starting their election campaign with a major shutdown which clearly demonstrates the Liberal government&#39;s refusal to support the transformation of raw materials. Saguenay and aluminum, it seems to me that our reputation is well established and yet the Liberals were not able to convince Novelis that investing in Quebec was worth it. It is time to assert yourself, to help each other and to enrich yourself. It is time to better defend Quebec workers and to stand up. It&#39;s time to change government! Added Nicolas Marceau, Parti Québécois spokesperson for finance and economic development.
