Quebec - The MNA for Richelieu and official opposition spokesperson for seniors, Sylvain Rochon, and the MNA for Taillon and spokesperson for health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, denounce the closure of the centers day care for seniors and the forced transfer of services provided by the health and social services network to the community.
“The Minister of Finance said a few months ago that“ community organizations can deliver social services, it costs less ”. His prime minister had disowned him the very next day. However, we learn that health establishments have recently been relieving themselves of the activities of day centers for the elderly by transferring them to community organizations. The day centers offer quality care to our seniors. They support families by giving them essential respite and represent, for the most vulnerable among us, a way out of isolation. Community organizations that are already overwhelmed will therefore receive massive requests to offer an additional service, but without being provided with the necessary resources or funding, ”said Sylvain Rochon.
“The Minister is disconnected from the needs of citizens, from what seniors and their family caregivers experience on a daily basis. It does not take any initiative to make the necessary corrective measures, both for patients and for employees who report service failures affecting our health system. For the past few months, in the Outaouais, a flying team has been offering services in three day centers. In Montérégie, day centers were closed in five municipalities: Cowansville, Farnham, Lac-Brome, Bedford and Sutton. Everywhere, we are cutting, while the needs are crying and growing. The Minister must step back and keep the day centers for seniors open, ”added Diane Lamarre.
“Not only is the network forced to abandon its responsibilities because of the liberal cuts but, in addition, it should not be known. Indeed, in Rivière-du-Loup, a nurse and a recreation technician were suspended for a week without pay for having supported users and their families in their efforts to maintain the services of the day center. It is surprising that the Minister of Health declared that he was not aware of this situation made public yesterday by the president of the Interprofessional Health Federation of Quebec. This is unacceptable; the law of the gag order in the health network must end, ”concluded the deputies.
