Quebec - The Parti Québécois spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care, public health and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, and the spokesperson for employment, d he social, anti-poverty and solidarity economy, Dave Turcotte, noted with dismay that the concerns raised over the past year have materialized with the closure, announced today, of the Mélaric dependency intervention center.
&quot;These are 75 people on the road to reintegration who will be thrown into the streets or returned to detention facilities because of liberal austerity, not to mention the 16 workers who lose their jobs,&quot; lamented Jean-François Lisée.
Last winter, the Parti Québécois denounced the cuts to social assistance made by the Liberal government; these measures, it should be remembered, have been qualified as “discriminatory” and “regressive” by the Human Rights Commission. “The Liberal government has cut resources, despite the unfavorable opinion of all those involved in the fight against drug addiction. It thus compromised the rehabilitation of 7,000 people staying in an intervention center, their services having been cut by 80%. In addition to the 75 people left behind by the closure of the Mélaric center, there are nearly 1,000 others who, between May and October 2015, had to give up therapy because of the selective austerity of the Liberal government. It is regrettable, and we cannot stand idly by in the face of such a situation. Where is the aid promised to intervention centers by Sam Hamad? »Asked Dave Turcotte.
&quot;Where is the Minister for Rehabilitation, Youth Protection and Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, today, when she must come to the aid of the 75 people left behind by the closure of the center? Melaric? Will she continue to stand up for the indefensible and claim that liberal cuts have no impact on people trying to break free from addiction? Added Mr. Lisée.
“We are asking the government to intervene now to prevent the closure of the Mélaric center and that of the quarantine of other centers that are threatened by the Liberal cuts. Why insist on putting the burden of austerity on people who, despite their great vulnerability, find the courage to try to get out of it? », Concluded the deputies.
