Quebec - “After significant progress, the weight of French has decreased in Quebec and particularly in the Montreal region. Bill 14 is necessary in order to reverse this trend and strengthen the use of French in all spheres of Quebec society, ”declared the Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French language, Ms. Diane De Courcy, following the closure of the public hearings on the bill.
During a press briefing, the Minister reported on the main issues raised by various participants (see information in the appendix). She also expressed her intentions with respect to several of the issues.
The francization of businesses remains, for Ms. De Courcy, the heart of Bill 14. She will meet in the short term with the economic representatives who spoke during the commission. Several have also submitted recommendations to operationalize the bill to which the Minister will pay particular attention.
Thirty-five years after the adoption of the Charter of the French language, Minister Diane De Courcy is determined to find a mechanism to review the bilingual status of certain cities in the light of demographic changes. Above all, it wants to ensure that municipalities contribute to the integration of immigrants into French and to the French face of Quebec, while respecting the rights of English-speaking communities. According to the minister, the detailed study of the bill should make it possible to identify the adjustments necessary to reconcile these objectives.
Bill 14 aims to prevent the possibility of granting a permanent right to public education in English for the children of French-speaking Quebec soldiers, a right which is transferable to siblings and descendants. Based on her recent experience in the school environment, Minister Diane De Courcy affirms that this measure will not result in the closure of English-language schools.
The hearings of the commission revealed certain problems of perception with regard to the articles on the powers of the Minister and the OQLF. The Minister intends to make the necessary adjustments and to approach discussions on these issues in an open and constructive spirit. Ethnic minorities or cultural communities
The legal consultations carried out by Ms. De Courcy before the bill was tabled enabled her to affirm that this amendment was of a very technical nature which in no way reduced the level of protection enjoyed by all citizens of Quebec. It intends to redo the necessary checks and, if necessary, to propose an amendment to the bill.
Ms. De Courcy said she was very satisfied with the citizen participation in the public consultation on the bill to amend the Charter of the French language, the Charter of rights and freedoms and other legislative provisions. Since the opening of proceedings on March 12, the committee has heard from 75 of the 87 people and organizations who submitted a brief. In addition, some 4,300 people took part in the online consultation that had been taking place on the National Assembly&#39;s site since February 12. This is a participation record concentrated over a period of barely ten weeks.
“Several spokespersons for organizations have supported the government&#39;s approach to promote and strengthen French at work and in services, and others have taken a more critical look at certain provisions of Bill 14. But in the together, everyone agrees on the importance of the French language and the role that “Bill 101” played 35 years ago in this regard. Today, society must make an additional effort to strengthen French in Quebec and I am convinced that in a few years, we will all recognize the merits of Bill 14, ”added the Minister.
The public hearings held as part of the consultation made it possible to hear a large number of people and groups on their main concerns with regard to Bill 14 (PL14). For clarification, here is some background on these issues. Right to live and work in French - PL14 strengthens the right to live and work in French in Quebec. - Non-unionized workers who feel aggrieved may be supported by the Commission des normes du travail. - PL14 ensures that the French language remains the common language of Quebec society. It affirms the French face of Quebec while respecting the rights of the English-speaking community.
