Trois-Rivières - The National Youth Committee of the Parti Québécois (CNJPQ) gives a mixed report of the annual meeting of the Youth Commission of the Liberal Party of Quebec.
Meeting in Trois-Rivières, the National Youth Conference of the Parti Québécois questioned several of the orientations proposed by the young liberals and called on them to demand from their leader answers on themes which are nevertheless at the heart of the news.
“We are also concerned about the sharing economy and family policy, but at a time when we are in the midst of the federal election campaign, it is essential that the government assume its responsibilities to clarify its positions on energy and social issues that concern Canadians. Quebecer. The silence of the young liberals on the context of the federal campaign, the absence of a call to order on employment and the effects of austerity, as well as their deafening silence on energy issues and the recent Canadian energy strategy are just as many elements that show the decline in the influence of young people within the Liberal Party. Fighting climate change doesn&#39;t happen by turning a blind eye to western oil! », Says Ariane Cayer, president of the CNJPQ
The members of the NYC also welcome the recent commitment of their leader Pierre Karl Péladeau, leader of the official opposition and leader of the Parti Québécois, to hold a debate on accessibility and free education. They also welcome his recent interventions at the INM Summer School concerning the presence of young people on the boards of directors of state-owned companies as well as the end of the hiring freeze in the public service. . “It is this kind of approach that we must offer to Quebec youth, an assumed leadership. Young people who evolve in political formations have historic responsibilities to intervene with their leader and to demand adjustments or changes in orientations when government decisions cause concern or affect citizens, as is d elsewhere the current case in Quebec. That&#39;s what stirred up the cage! ”Indicates the president.
The young people of the Parti Québécois are currently finalizing the preparations for an unprecedented tour of educational institutions, youth groups and civil society for the fall. Young people will also be more active in promoting Québec as a country and the possibilities opened up by this major project to further shine the creativity of Québec citizens here and in the world.
