Montreal - The MNA for Chambly and Deputy House Leader of the Official Opposition, Bertrand St-Arnaud, the MNA for Vachon and critic for mines and shale gas, Martine Ouellet, and the MNA for Hochelaga Maisonneuve and spokesperson for seniors and secularism, Carole Poirier, join their voices to appeal to the population on the eve of the launch of the Coalition for the Future of Quebec (CAQ). “Watch out for the mirage! », Warned the deputies, mentioning that the CAQ has very few solutions to meet the real challenges of Quebec.
&quot;At the Parti Québécois, we have very interesting ideas to offer the population, thoughtful ideas that meet their needs,&quot; said Bertrand St-Arnaud, recalling that they were adopted last April by the delegates of the Parti Québécois. after months of debate and reflection. We invite Quebeckers to carefully examine each other&#39;s ideas and when they compare, they will quickly realize that the CAQ&#39;s proposals do not pass the test of reality, that it is a mirage, ”he continued. .
“By speaking only of four themes, François Legault shows us that he has few solutions to respond to the real challenges of modern Quebec. The CAQ is silent on a host of subjects including the environment, transport, forests and water. It is unthinkable in 2011 to offer a political program without addressing the issue of reducing GHGs and global warming, which are a concern not only in Quebec but for the entire planet. Mr. Legault is playing politics from another time. It is not only the money that counts, as Mr. Legault presents it, but also the quality of life and the quality of the environment. In Quebec, the issue of reducing greenhouse gases is an environmental issue and a great opportunity for economic development with the electrification of transport and renewable energies which will at the same time allow us to reduce our oil consumption. Mr. Legault is already overwhelmed by these issues, ”added Martine Ouellet.
“The CAQ has no solution that directly affects people. He does not talk about families or our elders. These are, however, subjects at the heart of Quebecers&#39; concerns. How does he plan to resolve the shortage of child care spaces? How much does he want to increase child care costs to? What solution does he propose to help the elderly to be able to age at home? At the Parti Québécois, we have proposals to help families and seniors. We suggest that each child has a place in daycare, we offer increased home care for the elderly, ”continued Carole Poirier.
“Integrity is also another theme that François Legault has avoided talking about. On the public inquiry commission, he changed his mind three times! At first, he didn&#39;t even want an investigation! What does he propose to clean up political mores? At the Parti Québécois, we are proposing to reduce the contribution of individuals to political parties to $ 100 and we have ideas for renewing our democracy such as fixed-date elections, ”added Bertrand St Arnaud.
The deputies also raised the lack of coherence of François Legault when it comes to defending the interests of Quebec. &quot;By promising to put aside the national question for ten years, the CAQ promises not to lead any fight against Ottawa even if decisions are taken against our values,&quot; they added, referring to the abolition the gun registry and Bill C-10 on crime. What does François Legault intend to do to defend Quebec? Ask the deputies.
