Quebec - The MNA for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the MNA for Rosemont and Parti Québécois spokesperson for social services and youth protection, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the member for Lac-Saint-Jean and spokesperson for education and school perseverance, Alexandre Cloutier, demand that the government reinstate students expelled from special schools due to a lack of resources, and that it is committed to providing autistic children and their families with all the services they need. In this sense, the member for Rosemont tabled today in the National Assembly a petition signed by more than 3,000 people.
“Last May, Prime Minister Philippe Couillard demonstrated to what extent he lacked compassion by affirming that services would be restored once the budget is balanced. Now, what does he reply now to the Ombudsperson, who affirms in her most recent annual report that &quot;major issues are not on the radar screen of public authorities, while they are fraught with social consequences and This is the case […] in the field of education, where services should be better adapted to the needs of pupils in difficulty, in particular those with an autism spectrum disorder &quot;? What corrections does he intend to make following this severe criticism? When will children excluded from their school be reintegrated? What concrete solutions will his government provide to put an end to this practice? Asked the leader of the official opposition.
“In recent months, the media have reported a number of cases of children with disabilities, learning difficulties or struggling with adjustment problems having been expelled from their school. They are offered a few hours of home schooling each week, but this is clearly insufficient. This practice must stop; the development and success of these children require their reintegration into school, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
The member for Lac-Saint-Jean points out the recent cuts made by the Liberal government. “The cuts imposed on the education sector directly affect services to students, especially the most vulnerable. Lacking specialized resources, schools must resolve to expel the children who require the most attention, leaving them with some five hours of homeschooling per week. Obviously, this is not enough for the children or their parents, who quickly find themselves out of breath, ”added Alexandre Cloutier.
When the petition was filed at the Salon Bleu, there were parents of autistic children as well as artisans from the Fédération québécoise de l&#39;Autisme (FQA), who initiated the petition. &quot;I would like to underline the commitment of the FQA and all the other groups with young people and families who must live daily with the challenge of being different and deal with the painful liberal cuts in social services&quot;, concluded Jean. -François Lisée.
