QUébec - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food of Quebec, Mr. François Gendron, and the Minister Delegate for the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, announce the creation of an Interministerial Committee for the relaunch of the School of Fisheries and aquaculture du Québec (ÉPAQ), located in Grande-Rivière, in the Gaspé.
This decision is part of the Government&#39;s intervention strategy for the development of the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region unveiled last May. The purpose of this intervention plan is to support the region&#39;s economic development by highlighting its multiple resources.
For Minister Pierre Duchesne, the issues surrounding the Quebec School of Fisheries and Aquaculture go well beyond the Gaspé Peninsula: “This institution is national in scope and it is around it that the future of Quebec&#39;s marine fishing industry. Our government is determined to ensure its sustainability. The interministerial committee will have as objectives in particular to identify the issues and challenges of the ÉPAQ and to examine its development prospects. &quot;
The ÉPAQ houses premises equipped with state-of-the-art technological equipment: navigation workshops, fishing gear and marine mechanics, biochemistry laboratories, a fish processing plant and, in addition, a laboratory and a greenhouse. aquaculture where molluscs, fish and crustaceans are raised. In the hands of experts, students receive practical training adapted to the reality of the maritime environment.
Minister Gaétan Lelièvre welcomed this announcement for his region and for Quebec as a whole: &quot;It is now clear that our government will take all possible means to ensure the revival of the Quebec School of Fisheries and Aquaculture. , a vital institution for the people of the Gaspé and for the entire maritime fishing industry in Quebec. &quot;
“Sea fishing is an important component of economic activity in eastern Quebec. I am convinced that the Quebec School of Fisheries and Aquaculture can and must become an important center for the development of fishery resources. We must give it the necessary means to become an asset for our fishermen, ”concluded Deputy Prime Minister François Gendron.
The mandate of the Interministerial Committee is to propose creative solutions in order to determine how the School can contribute to regional development and be in synergy with the fishing and aquaculture industry.
It will be made up of the following ministries and bodies: the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology (MESRST), the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (MAPAQ), the Ministry of Education, Leisure and Sport (MELS), the Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity (MESS), the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy (MAMROT- Sector Regions), the Minister of the Executive Council (Secretariat of the Ministerial Committee of the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region) and the Commission des Partenaires du marché du travail (CPMT).
The work of the Committee, which will be under the responsibility of MESRST, will begin in June 2013. The submission of the final report is scheduled for October 2013.
