Montreal - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is proud to announce the construction of a new multifunctional pavilion that will house the Student House. This new building will bring together many services for students of the École de technologie supérieure (ÉTS), part of the University of Quebec network. In addition to considerably improving the living environment for students, this project will make it possible to offer new services to the community. It is estimated that construction will be completed in 2015.
“This project is much more than a new construction. It represents the vision that the École de technologie supérieure is developing for the future, which encompasses two important elements: to continue to offer quality higher education, in a quality environment. This vision will help attract students from here and elsewhere, ”said Minister Duchesne.
The Minister also said he was happy to note that in addition to the contribution of ÉTS in the financing of this project, the Student Association has decided to participate financially in its realization.
It should be remembered that the government authorized ÉTS to carry out studies and preparatory work with a view to carrying out the construction project of the Student House in 2012. At the end of this exercise and the analysis of the documents submitted by ÉTS, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, gave the green light for this project to be carried out last May.
The ÉTS project consists of constructing, on land it owns and located on its campus, next to its main building, a 130,000 square foot building. This complex will have five floors, to which will be added two parking floors with a capacity of 185 spaces. The cost of the project is estimated at $ 36.35 million.
“The Student House will unify the urban campus of ÉTS. It will be a place of exchanges and activities that will offer a unifying, inclusive and friendly living space for the students. It is intended to optimize the quality of the experience lived by the students while strengthening their feeling of belonging. This is an important project for ÉTS, which aspires to be a school of international caliber, ”said ÉTS Director General Yves Beauchamp.
The building will include spaces for student services, the Student Association, the Professional Development Department, an ÉTS Network lounge and a café. It will also include an atrium, a public square and rental spaces, in which, among other things, a pharmacy, a financial institution and a medical clinic will be installed.
