Montreal - “A 25-ton concrete beam collapsed last Sunday and Transport Minister Sam Hamad is trying to make us believe he is not responsible. Does the concept of ministerial responsibility exist in this government? The reality is that the Charest government and Sam Hamad have been lax on this issue. The Ville-Marie tunnel is a key road infrastructure for transport in Montreal and it is the government that is responsible for it, both in terms of the safety of motorists and the management of the public funds devoted to it for its maintenance ”, declared the official opposition spokesperson for transport and MNA for Gouin, Nicolas Girard.
“While an inspection report in 2008 indicated the critical state of the Viger tunnel, a road infrastructure that accommodates more than 100,000 motorists per day, the Ministry of Transport has entrusted consulting engineering firms with the preparation plans and specifications without ever validating them, in a context where user safety could be involved. Also, who authorized the contractor to thin the wall supporting the collapsed beam? In addition, how is it that no monitoring of this important project was carried out by the Department of Transport, a fact which was recognized by the Minister today? », Asked Mr. Girard.
“In light of the Johnson commission and the warning made by engineers to Jean Charest in 2008 on the loss of expertise at the Ministry of Transport, the government should have taken action from that moment to remedy the problem. situation when billions of dollars are invested in the development and maintenance of our road infrastructure. We have proof today that the loss of expertise in the field of inspection and monitoring of the construction sites of our road infrastructures can compromise the safety of citizens. The government, which guarantees the safety of motorists on the road network and the proper use of public funds, must regain this strategic expertise in the very short term. Thus, it could assure Quebecers and Montrealers that the road infrastructures to which they contribute are developed and maintained under the responsibility of the government, ”concluded Mr. Girard.
