Quebec - Sensitive to the particular situation of certain students who attended the Night Hawk Computer College, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, made known by letter a series of measures intended for them, pending an administrative reassessment of their file. Under the Law on financial assistance for studies, the Minister decided in particular to suspend, as of June 1, 2013, the calculation of the applicable interest on the balance of the student debt who were cheated in this case.
“In this story, honest students have been scammed. It was important for me, and my duty, to remedy this situation: that those who defrauded be punished, but that those who, in all good faith, wished to pursue higher education, do not pay the consequences unfairly ” , said Minister Duchesne.
Thus, as of June 1, 2013, in addition to suspending the calculation of the applicable interest on the balance of the student loan debt of the students concerned, the Quebec Revenue Agency will no longer allocate the repayments of this debt to the payment of this debt. provincial tax or solidarity tax credits. In addition, for those of them who would consider returning to school, eligibility for a financial assistance program will not be conditional on the repayment of debt related to their studies at Night Hawk College of Computer Science.
In addition, the files of these students, excluding those subject to legal proceedings in this case, will be examined for a complete assessment of the financial assistance granted during their studies. At the end of this assessment, the Ministère will contact each student concerned in order to report on the decision rendered with regard to his student debt.
In May 2008, the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport asked the Sûreté du Québec to conduct an investigation into the activities of the private college Night Hawk. Opened in 2004, this computer science college closed its doors in 2007 following the non-renewal of its license by the Ministry. The investigation showed that the leaders of this college had, as part of a stratagem, illegally withdrawn sums of money allocated and guaranteed by the Ministry as part of the application of the Financial Assistance Act. studying. By means of this deception, the leaders of the college, in connivance with false students, received without right sums of the Ministry. In early May 2013, the college principal pleaded guilty to fraud charges. Sentencing is scheduled for September 2013.
