Gatineau - Concerned about the particular situation of 34 former students of the Night Hawk Computer College, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, decided to use his discretionary power in their favor and grant them debt relief equivalent to the amounts of tuition fees paid to them under the Student Financial Assistance Act. These 34 debt forgiveness totals more than $ 360,000.
“I was particularly touched by this sad story where students were cheated when they chose to go back to school to build a better future. I felt that it was my duty to act as soon as the situation was brought to my attention in the spring of 2013. Today, I am relieved for these people who will be able to find, I hope, their serenity. I sincerely want to thank them for their patience in this matter, ”Minister Duchesne emphasized.
Remember that on May 15, 2013, the Minister communicated in writing with certain students who attended this college to inform them of the exceptional measures applicable to their recovery file as of June 1, 2013, pending an administrative assessment of their file. . Under the Act respecting financial assistance for education expenses, the Minister decided in particular to suspend the calculation of the interest applicable on the balance of the debt in certain cases.
The Minister also decided to suspend the allocation by Revenu Québec of the repayment of amounts due under a tax law to the payment of student debt, such as provincial tax refunds and solidarity tax credits. In addition, it is once again possible for those who plan to return to school to benefit, under the Act respecting financial assistance for studies, from financial assistance that is not conditional on the repayment of the debt contracted. following their studies at Night Hawk Computer College. No debt recovery is made from financial assistance payments.
Following an administrative evaluation by the Department, Minister Duchesne then decided, under the discretionary power granted to him by the Act respecting financial assistance for studies, that certain students will receive a remission of their equivalent debt. to the amounts of the tuition fees paid to them under this law, during their stay at the Night Hawk Computer College. These people will be notified in writing of this debt forgiveness.
Students who have received a letter from the Minister dated May 15, 2013, but who do not benefit from debt forgiveness, will be informed of the Minister&#39;s decision in writing and will be invited to provide their comments to the Financial aid for studies.
Those who benefited from the exceptional measures announced in May 2013 will be informed that they will cease to have effect as of February 1, 2014.
Due to the rules surrounding ongoing proceedings (sub judice), it is not appropriate to comment further on the records of those who studied at Night Hawk College of Computer Science. A civil liability lawsuit, brought by the Attorney General of Quebec against certain administrators of the College, is currently pending before the Superior Court. The hearing in this case is scheduled for March 3-18, 2014.
Finally, the Minister underlined the considerable contribution and support of Ms. Sophie Miron, from the Carrefour jeunesse emploi de l&#39;Outaouais, and Ms. Mélanie L&#39;Heureux, from the Association coopérative familial (ACEF) de l&#39;Outaouais. These have provided significant help to former students who have been cheated.
Remember that in May 2008, the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport asked the Sûreté du Québec to conduct an investigation into the activities of the Night Hawk Computer College. This computer science college closed its doors in 2007 following the non-renewal of its license by the Ministry.
The police investigation made it possible to demonstrate that the leaders of this college had, as part of a stratagem, illegally withdrawn sums of money allocated and guaranteed by the Ministry within the framework of the application of the Law on financial aid for studies. By means of this deception, the leaders of the college, in connivance with false students, received without being entitled to them sums of the Ministry. In early May 2013, the college principal pleaded guilty to fraud charges. On November 6, he was sentenced to thirty months in prison for fraud. There are reports that he has announced his intention to appeal his sentence.
