Montreal - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today announced that a new step has been taken to allow pharmacists to exercise new professional activities , such as ordering and interpreting laboratory tests and prescribing medications for minor conditions.
In fact, the Collège des médecins du Québec (CMQ) and the Ordre des pharmaciens du Québec (OPQ) adopted regulations stemming from Bill 41, one year after the unanimous adoption of the new Pharmacy Act.
“Pharmacists will soon be able to contribute even more effectively to the monitoring of patient drug therapy and thereby promote better access to primary health care. Patients will thus benefit more from the expertise of pharmacists, ”declared Minister Hébert.
“The Order of Pharmacists and the College of Physicians had only one priority: to do more and do better for patients. This is what Quebeckers expect from us and soon, they will have more access to pharmacy care and services. Pharmacists will assume these new responsibilities with competence and availability, ”said OPQ President Diane Lamarre.
“I would like to salute the excellent collaborative work of the Order of Pharmacists and the College of Physicians in this matter. Interdisciplinarity is undoubtedly one of the essential keys to providing Quebec with a strong and accessible first line of care, and this example of consultation is certainly a fine manifestation of this, ”added Minister Hébert.
&quot;The adoption of the regulations today makes it possible to lay the foundations for an innovative interprofessional collaboration in the field of health in Quebec,&quot; added Dr. Bernard. It now remains to write the guidelines to explain to pharmacists and doctors how to apply these new regulatory provisions. In addition, the two orders will set up a joint monitoring committee to monitor the implementation of regulations and better protect the public, ”continued Dr. Charles Bernard, CEO of the CMQ.
The new Pharmacy Act adopted last year provides for the addition of the following professional activities:
In addition to these activities, it is planned to allow pharmacists to exercise two other activities: the prescription of laboratory tests for community pharmacists and the prescription of drugs when the diagnosis and treatment are already known.
Pharmacists will be able to exercise all of these new activities as soon as the regulatory process surrounding the adoption of the regulations necessary for this exercise has been completed, i.e. by summer 2013.
