Montreal - “The collapse of a major structure in the Ville-Marie tunnel worries Montrealers; the Charest government and the minister must be transparent. The Parti Québécois therefore demands that the government make public all inspection reports of road infrastructure in the Montreal region, and more particularly the one concerning the Ville-Marie highway. We must put an end to this government&#39;s culture of secrecy, ”declared the official opposition spokesperson for transport and MP for Gouin, Nicolas Girard, who was accompanied by the MP for Sainte-Marie at a press briefing. -Saint-Jacques, Martin Lemay.
“Recently, Minister Sam Hamad told The Gazette that he refused to make public inspection reports on the condition of the Mercier Bridge. In the Ville-Marie tunnel issue, will the minister adopt the same attitude towards Quebeckers or will he face the fact that transparency is necessary to reassure Montrealers and Quebeckers about the state of our road infrastructure? ”indicated Mr. Girard.
In 2008, in a letter addressed to Premier Jean Charest, engineers from the Ministère des Transports indicated that they could no longer guarantee an acceptable level of safety to the population given the scale and number of projects underway in Quebec. . &quot;Fortunately, the collapse of the beam in the Ville-Marie tunnel did not claim any victims and to avoid another such incident, the Minister of Transport must tell Quebecers whether his department has sufficient resources to ensure the safety of Quebec motorists on our road network ”, expressed Mr. Girard.
“This new incident on our road network, after those affecting the Champlain Bridge and the Mercier Bridge, has inevitable impacts on the lives of Montrealers and particularly for those residing in my riding. Today we find ourselves with serious traffic congestion problems and rather worrying safety problems. These are the consequences of the poor management by the Charest government for eight years of road infrastructure in the Montreal region, ”concluded the Member of Parliament for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Martin Lemay.
