QUÉBEC, Oct. 18, 2013 / CNW Telbec / - The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, today released the report of the Advisory Committee on Family Law on the advisability of a comprehensive reform of Quebec family law.
This committee of experts was set up by the Minister of Justice in April 2013, in the wake of the Lola v. Eric. Based on a legal analysis and on socio-demographic data, the committee concludes that there is a significant gap between the family model recognized in the Civil Code, whose entry point is marriage, and the different forms of marriage. unions and families that make up Quebec today.
“I would like to thank the members of this committee for this preliminary report, which bears witness to remarkable work as well as constructive and rigorous reflection on the issues involved and the challenges that await us. It is with confidence that I invite them to continue their work in order to offer us avenues that will allow us to better meet the needs of couples and families, ”said Bertrand St-Arnaud.
This report follows up on the first part of the mandate entrusted to the Advisory Committee, namely to assess the advisability or otherwise of reviewing all of Quebec family law.
The Committee will now begin the second part of its mandate by focusing its analysis on two major themes, namely the rights and obligations of spouses (“conjugality law”) and children&#39;s rights (“rights of filiation and marriage”). parenthood ”). The work of the Committee will be spread over a period of 12 to 18 months.
The report of the Advisory Committee on Family Law on the advisability of a comprehensive reform of Quebec family law can be consulted on the website of the Ministère de la Justice: www.justice.gouv.qc.ca.
The Advisory Committee on Family Law is chaired by Maître Alain Roy, notary and full professor at the University of Montreal, and is made up of the following experts (in alphabetical order):
The work is coordinated by Me Renée Madore, director of orientations and policies at the Ministry of Justice. In carrying out its mandate, the committee is also supported by lawyers and professionals from the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Family.
