Quebec - The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Mrs. Agnès Maltais, announced the position of the Government of Quebec regarding the coming next September to Montreal, radical Islamist preachers. The principles of equality between men and women are a consensus in Quebec, as evidenced by the unanimous motion adopted by the National Assembly in October 2011.
The Minister makes public the attached letter, sent to the Federal Minister of Status of Women, Dr. Kelly Leich.
Quebec, August 21, 2013
The Honorable Dr. Kelly Leich Minister of Status of Women 23, rue Paris Alliston (Ontario) L9R 1J3
Madam Minister,
We have been informed of the coming to Montreal next September of radical preachers from Europe. These individuals, one of whom identifies as a “Sharia graduate”, will speak at conferences organized by the “Independence Collective” which bring together young Montreal Muslims. An article published this morning in La Pressey refers to. These preachers convey values that go completely against the principles of equality between men and women defended in Quebec.
On October 18, 2011, in a similar case, the National Assembly of Quebec unanimously adopted a motion demanding that the federal government &quot;refuse entry to Canada to two individuals considering their homophobic remarks and their trivializing speeches. violence against women ”.
On this occasion, the National Assembly affirmed that these backward positions have no place in a democratic society and go against the fundamental values of Quebec society, namely equality between men and women and respect. the physical integrity of people.
These new conferences organized by the “Independence Collective”, due to their retrograde character, have no more their place in our society than those of the fall of 2011. Also, in connection with the motion of the National Assembly and as a as Minister responsible for the Status of Women in Quebec, I ask you to take the necessary measures to prevent the spread of remarks that are unacceptable to women in Quebec.
Pending rapid action on your part, please accept, Madam Minister, the expression of my best feelings.
The minister,
Agnes Maltais
