Montreal - The Parti Québécois denounces the composition of the committee appointed by the Conservative minister, Rob Nicholson, to choose the new Supreme Court judge who will represent Quebec. Former federal Liberal leader Stéphane Dion will sit on it.
“This committee is made up of a mixture of individuals who ignore the Quebec reality and federalists who have fought Quebec&#39;s aspirations all their lives. It includes the father of the Clarity Act, Stéphane Dion, Jacques Gourde, whose expertise can be questioned, a member from Ontario, a member from British Columbia and the centralizer Françoise Boivin, former member. from the PLC passed to the NPD. If this committee has to propose a judge to the Supreme Court, it is not the interests of Quebec that will prevail. What will prevail is Canadian multiculturalism, the moral right and the weakening of Quebec, in short, Canadian values, ”believes Alexandre Cloutier, MP and Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Lac-Saint-Jean.
“This Supreme Court recently struck down a law on bridging schools, which had been adopted unanimously by the deputies of the National Assembly. Quebec has been asking for decades for the power to appoint the three judges from Quebec. This is the Canada of today: judges appointed by Trudeauists, without the agreement of Quebec, are based on a Constitution that we have neither negotiated nor approved to invalidate the laws we want. There is a solution: a Quebec Supreme Court in a country called Quebec, ”added Jean-François Lisée, Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Rosemont.
“Do Jean Charest, who had asked to be consulted on the appointment of the judge representing Quebec, and François Legault agree with the composition of this committee? Do they agree to Quebec being once again silenced, in order not to displease the Conservative government? Voters have the right to know. In the Parti Québécois, we are clear: we reject this committee and demand that the government of Quebec have a right of veto over the appointment of the judge who must represent Quebec on the Supreme Court, ”concluded Alexandre Cloutier.
