Longueuil - The Parti Québécois spokesperson for mines and shale gas, Martine Ouellet, was present yesterday at the second public meeting of the Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) Committee in Longueuil. “The consultation work of the SEA Committee got off to a very bad start. Meetings announced at the very last minute, by means of the Internet, in the middle of the holiday season, it doesn&#39;t sound so serious. It is an insult to the intelligence of citizens! », Indignant the member for Vachon.
“The SEA Committee must redo its homework. If the approach is serious and not simply a patent aimed at silencing citizens, the committee will have to make three requests to the government, that is to say, immediately establish a complete moratorium on the exploration and exploitation of shale gas; review the composition of the committee; review its mandate, ”she continued.
Currently, gas is advancing slowly, but surely. Yesterday, the Commission for the protection of agricultural land in Quebec gave a favorable opinion for the construction of a gas pipeline to join the two shale gas wells of Saint-Édouard and Leclerville. The gas companies will now be able to switch to the sale of shale gas to Gaz Métro and therefore to exploitation. Several gas companies have their fracking and drilling licenses and are just waiting for the right time to proceed. “During the meeting I attended yesterday, a citizen asked committee members if they would agree to have a shale gas well next to their home and each member replied that he would not. interested, added the member of the Parti Québécois. It seems to me that it is quite clear! &quot;
“In addition, it is unacceptable that the gas industry is found on the committee. No member directly or indirectly linked to the industry should sit on this committee, since they are clearly biased or even in conflict of interest. The committee&#39;s code of ethics should not tolerate such a situation. It is simply indecent. The representative of Talisman must withdraw from the committee. A citizen asked that each member make public any potential conflict of interest with the gas companies and we think it is a very good idea, ”continued Martine Ouellet.
A document was given to citizens last night. Here is an excerpt that says a lot about the committee&#39;s mandate: Why conduct a strategic assessment on shale gas in Quebec? To fill the knowledge gap and dispel uncertainties.
In our opinion, the mandate should rather be as follows: Based on environmental and health impacts, social and economic impacts and also in a global energy vision, is it desirable to develop the shale gas industry in Quebec? ?
