Montreal - Following the publication of the first recommendations of the Permanent Program Review Commission, the member for Sanguinet and official opposition spokesperson for the Treasury Board, Alain Therrien, considers that the sum invested to carry out this ideological work should have been done elsewhere. According to him, the president of the Treasury Board, Martin Coiteux, should assume his responsibilities instead of having them carried by a commission clearly disconnected from reality.
“This commission is doing work that should be done by the chairman of the Conseil du trésor. This farce has gone on long enough; Martin Coiteux must take his responsibilities, instead of comparing his proposals to others that are even more unreasonable. Distancing oneself from completely disconnected recommendations in order to pass his own, which he has already announced, is not the right way to go. It is, no more and no less, a failed communication exercise; the petticoat sticks out, ”said Alain Therrien.
Purely ideological
“Why did you target 8 programs among all those of the government? It is not known why some were targeted, while others were not. There is no overall ranking of all the programs. We deliberately choose to attack regions, the agricultural world and families. For example: why not have addressed the most important budget item of the State, health, and the increase of $ 2.5 billion in the remuneration of physicians? This work is purely dogmatic, without impact analysis or taking reality into account. What does the Liberal government intend to do with these recommendations? », Continued the spokesperson.
A frontal attack on families, the agricultural world and the regions
The deputy also considers the report to be totally disconnected from the reality of families, the agricultural world and the regions. The Robillard commission proposes in particular to freeze the development of childcare spaces, when they are lacking everywhere in Quebec. It also recommends cutting $ 300 million in agriculture, and nearly $ 1.3 billion in transfers to municipalities.
“With such a measure, the government is dumping its deficit into the backyard of the municipalities. Lucienne Robillard applies a formula proven by the federal government: the transfer of financial responsibilities to another level of government. She practiced it so well when she was at the federal level! Ottawa is racking up budget surpluses and, instead of tackling them, the Liberal government is sending its own deficit to municipalities, which are already grappling with cuts of $ 300 million, just for this year. The worst part is that this will result in tax increases for taxpayers, ”added the MP.
“Quebec is on the way to becoming a Canadian province like any other. All the elements that distinguish us from the rest of Canada, such as food sovereignty, decentralization, childcare services and occupation of the territory, the commission considers that they must be cut, ”lamented Alain Therrien.
“Lucienne Robillard&#39;s recommendations are at odds with the principle of food sovereignty and the importance of agriculture in the economy. We will stand alongside farmers to defend the place they must occupy in the economic recovery, ”concluded the spokesperson for the official opposition.
