Terrebonne– The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, today launched work to develop a program of studies leading to an attestation of professional specialization (ASP) in aeronautical composite materials at the Commission scolaire des Tributaries.
“With this new certificate, not only is the Quebec government strengthening aeronautical training at the Commission scolaire des Affluents, but it also supports the aeronautics sector, a flagship of our economy. This program will allow young people from here and the region to be well trained and ready to take on quality jobs, ”declared the Premier.
The preparatory work for the creation of the new certificate will begin this fall and will take place over more than a year. This is a long-term investment in the order of $ 925,000 in equipment, two-thirds funded by the Government of Quebec, the other third being assumed by the school board. The amounts required for the realization of this project have been reserved. &quot;This approach, once completed, will lead to the establishment and recognition of the study program developed at the Center de formation professionnelle des Moulins, in close collaboration with the industry, and will promote the expansion of aeronautical training. in Terrebonne, ”said Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Marie Malavoy, who could not be present during the announcement.
It should be noted that the Commission scolaire des Affluents is already authorized to offer the study program Implementation of composite materials (5267), leading to a vocational studies diploma, which mainly targets the manufacture and assembly of parts in composite materials. It has also adapted this training to the context of the aerospace industry and already has some of the equipment necessary to implement the new program.
“The government is pleased to support the Commission scolaire des Affluents and the Center de formation professionnelle des Moulins, which will thus be able to better meet the training needs of their students. This recognition will encourage them to continue their education in order, ultimately, to participate in the economic development of the region, ”added the member for Terrebonne, Mathieu Traversy.
