Quebec - The parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois wants to hear in public hearing the leaders of the Solidarity Fund QFL at the public finance committee (CFP) and insists on the importance of clearly defining this mandate.
“The Fonds de solidarité FTQ is responsible for assets worth several billion dollars. It is the woolen stocking of thousands of Quebecers. As parliamentarians, it is important that we carry out responsible and rigorous work in the interest of the population, without taking the place of the work of the Charbonneau Commission. In this sense, we insist that the commission be well defined to avoid any slippage of a basely partisan nature likely to affect the confidence of investors ”, explained the deputy of Sanguinet and parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Alain Therrien.
In reaction to the request of the Coalition d&#39;avenir Québec (CAQ) for the PSC to be given a mandate of initiative on the governance and management of the fund, members of the government were critical of the lack of supervision of the fund. approach. “The mandate of initiative proposed by the CAQ is too broad and opens the door to abuses. It does not determine any of the conditions that could guide the process. It is out of the question for us to start a commission without first having determined the process, ”said Gilles Chapadeau, Member of Parliament for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue, parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Labor and member of the commission.
The parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois wants all parliamentarians to vote on the mandate through a motion that it will table tomorrow in the National Assembly. “Recent events require us to take our responsibilities and carry out a transparent process in which the leaders would be summoned. We have questions to ask about the institution&#39;s management and governance processes, ”concluded the deputies.
Pursuant to the adoption of this motion, the PSC would have the mandate to summon the leaders of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ for a public hearing.
