Quebec - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, follows up on the commitments made by the government following the Summit on Higher Education and announces investments of $ 5 million in the college network to strengthen support services for students with special needs.
Of the $ 5 million announced, $ 3 million is allocated to strengthen services to students with special needs and $ 2 million comes from the Special Needs Allowance Program (PABP) - Adult component.
“In the wake of the Summit on Higher Education, the government is committed to providing additional support to the college network. Today&#39;s announcement is proof that the government is keeping its promises. More and more young people with special needs are admitted to college and it is important to support them in pursuing their studies. With this investment, the colleges will be able to meet their needs more adequately. This is excellent news that will promote their academic success, ”said Minister Duchesne.
Minister Pierre Duchesne announces investments of $ 5 million in the college network to strengthen support services for students with special needs. // (c) MESRT
Starting in 2013-2014, a sum of $ 3 million will help strengthen support for students with special needs and develop new initiatives.
On the one hand, these investments will allow establishments in the college network to strengthen support for students with disabilities. Thanks to these sums, they will be able to improve the organization and the offer of services intended for them, in order to promote their perseverance and their academic success.
On the other hand, these investments will allow CEGEPs to develop new structuring initiatives intended for Aboriginal students and those with an immigrant background. Initiatives aimed at Aboriginals could, for example, focus on tutoring and personalized support measures. To this end, establishments will be invited to submit their projects to the Ministry before the end of 2013.
As for young people with an immigrant background, the addition of new resources could allow CEGEPs to target their needs according to their specific characteristics and the programs in which they study, and to propose initiatives that are adapted to them. Training could also be offered to CEGEP staff.
From left to right: The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, the Member of Parliament for Sainte-Marie – Saint-Jacques and Parliamentary Assistant to the Prime Minister (electrification section des transports), Daniel Breton, Director General of the Cégep du Vieux-Montréal, Ms. Murielle Lanciault, the Coordinator of the Collegial Center for Integration Support (CCSI) and responsible for the visual interpretation service at the Cégep du Vieux-Montréal, Ms. Émilie Boulet-Lévesque and the CEO of the federation of cégeps, Mr. Jean Beauchesne. // (c) MESRT
The Cégep du Vieux Montréal, which is the Collegial Support Center for Integration (CCSI) for educational institutions in western Quebec, has developed extensive expertise with students with disabilities. &quot;This addition of resources could make it possible, in particular, to improve specialized educational support services for students who have many needs and who require continuous individualized follow-up for the development of certain skills related to their personal and social integration. or for the development of their autonomy in their learning activities ”, underlined Murielle Lanciault, general manager.
In 2014-2015, the sum of $ 2 million from the Allocation Program for Special Needs - Adults Component, of Student Financial Assistance, will further improve the organization and offer of services to students and students with disabilities.
“Over the years, the college workforce has diversified and we must put in place measures to promote academic success and perseverance for everyone. I am convinced that the amounts allocated will have a positive impact on academic success and perseverance and that they will be, for college staff, an additional lever that will allow them to successfully fulfill their mission! ”Said Minister Duchesne.
