Quebec - The Minister for Native Affairs, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, expresses her solidarity with the Native people who have suffered the consequences of their stay in Indian residential schools. She will speak and listen to testimony today, starting at 4 p.m., at the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which is holding its hearings in Montreal this week. The Secrétariat aux affaires autochtones helped organize the Montreal event by granting $ 50,000 in assistance.
“This approach sends us back to our duty to remember and feeds our collective reflection on the inadmissibility of such injustices. We have to take an interest in it. This is the opportunity or never for us to learn more about the Indian residential school system, the experience of former students and their families, and the legacy that these establishments have left in the aboriginal communities of Quebec, ”declared the Minister. .
Earlier this week, Minister Larouche tabled a motion in the National Assembly, together with the members for Jacques-Cartier, Montmorency and Gouin. This motion, which was adopted unanimously, demonstrates the solidarity of the Government of Quebec with regard to Aboriginals who have suffered cultural, linguistic and identity repercussions linked to attendance at residential schools.
Ms. Larouche is also committed to going much further in bringing peoples together. Work by the Secrétariat aux affaires autochtones will begin soon to develop an action plan to counter racism and discrimination against Aboriginal people. In addition, the Minister will oversee the establishment of an Aboriginal History Month to highlight the culture and history of First Nations and Inuit.
The Commission was established as a result of the 2007 Indian Residential Schools Settlement Agreement. Its purpose is to inform all citizens of what happened in Indian Residential Schools, as well as to guide and engage them in a process. a process of reconciliation and renewal of relationships based on mutual understanding and respect. In Canada, starting in 1870 and for more than a century, approximately 150,000 children of Aboriginal descent were taken from their families and placed in residential schools. Ten of these residential schools had been established in Quebec, the last of which closed in 1980. The Truth and Reconciliation Commission is in Montreal from April 24 to 27, 2013.
