Trois-Rivières - The leader of the Parti Québécois and MP for Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, promises to adopt a policy of food sovereignty if the Parti Québécois is brought to power in the next general election. This is the commitment she made today when she visited the MCF Leclerc farm in Trois-Rivières with the MP for Champlain, Noëlla Champagne, the MP for Kamouraska-Témiscouata, André Simard, the candidate. de Laviolette, André Beaudoin, and the candidate from Bellechasse, Clément Pouliot.
“In almost 25 years, the proportion of food consumed and originating in Quebec has dropped by almost half, from 78% in 1985 to 33% in 2009. If each Quebec consumer bought $ 30 more food by each year, sales would swell by $ 1 billion in five years. It is for this reason that we must reverse this trend, ”she said.
The main objective of the Parti Québécois&#39; food sovereignty policy will be to reduce the proportion of Quebec food that we consume from 33% to 50%. The advantages of such a policy are numerous. It allows the creation of several jobs, significant private investments in all regions as well as the pride of consuming products from home. Buying locally also has other advantages. Food is fresher, it requires less preservatives and packaging. Transport costs are reduced and in total, less greenhouse gases are produced.
To do this, the Parti Québécois proposes:
“A food sovereignty policy has only advantages for Quebec and its population. In addition to promoting land use and the economy of all regions, it will develop the pride of people everywhere in what we are capable of doing, ”added Pauline Marois.
The leader of the Parti Québécois is also committed to reviewing the protection and ownership of agricultural land in Quebec. “The Law on the Protection of Agricultural Land and Activities and the Law on the Acquisition of Agricultural Land by Non-Residents were both adopted by a Parti Québécois government in the late 1970s. The time has come. to adapt them to new realities to allow our farmers to remain owners of their land and to avoid land speculation. There is also a need to better protect agricultural land from urban sprawl. &quot;
To do this, a Parti Québécois government undertakes to:
“If we are to cultivate our lands to feed and enrich ourselves, we must protect them. In recent years, foreign consortia have expressed their intention to acquire Quebec farmland. This demand comes from emerging countries which lack agricultural land. This is an issue that was addressed by the Pronovost commission and on which the Liberals have taken no action. It is worrying to see a government refusing to act and also worrying to see the CAQ being in favor of tenant farming, ”said Pauline Marois.
“Our farmland is our wealth and our pantry. To protect these lands and achieve food sovereignty, it is with a government of the Parti Québécois and a team competent in agriculture that we will achieve these objectives. Our agricultural lands must remain our property and serve to enrich us collectively, ”she concluded, recalling that the Parti Québécois is the most important political force in Quebec with its 90,000 members.
