Montreal - The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of transport, maritime strategy, transport electrification and digital strategy, Martine Ouellet, is uneasy about the fact that the government is inviting the leaders of a company that makes illegal transport in parliamentary committee to the National Assembly.
“Respect for our institutions requires that the speakers invited to parliamentary committees do not flout our laws. Minister Daoust must use all the means necessary to suspend the illegal transport of UberX during the commission, as requested by the taxi drivers, the Parti Québécois, the mayor of Montreal and the CMM. The government must uphold the law and require UberX to demonstrate its good faith in the process, ”said the MP.
In addition, the Parti Québécois is surprised at the content of the working document. “It is very clear that the working document is incomplete and biased. Several elements are missing, such as the portrait of the seizures, the denunciations to the Commission des transports du Québec, the class action against the abusive tariffs of UberX, the injunction against Uber and the government, the decision of the court in California to consider Uber drivers as employees and not as self-employed workers. In addition, the cities selected as examples all wish to accommodate Uber. No city that has stopped UberX&#39;s activities, by injunction or otherwise, such as Calgary, Vancouver, Paris and many others, is presented, ”explained Martine Ouellet.
Finally, the Parti Québécois is disappointed by the refusal of the Liberal government to listen to all the players involved. Of the 19 groups identified by the Parti Québécois, only 7 will be invited to the committee. &quot;On the side of the choice of speakers, we also feel a desire to favor a single point of view,&quot; added the spokesperson.
“The goal that we must pursue is to work to put an end to illegal taxis and unfair competition. The improvement of the taxi service is already underway but, on its own, it will not be able to compete with a competitor who does not respect any rules and who does not pay QST, no GST, no tax or allowed. The government must clearly demand a truce from UberX. Let&#39;s not wait for things to degenerate, as is currently the case elsewhere in the world, ”concluded Martine Ouellet.
