Quebec - The Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, launches the Commission on Quebec&#39;s energy issues: From greenhouse gas reduction to Quebec&#39;s energy independence. Quebecers are called upon to engage in a collective reflection aimed at defining Quebec&#39;s new vision in the field of energy.
A series of public consultations will be held throughout Quebec to reach out to citizens. Mr. Normand Mousseau, professor in the physics department at the University of Montreal, as well as Mr. Roger Lanoue, who worked for more than 20 years at Hydro-Québec as vice-president of strategic planning and development of affairs, will be the two co-chairs of this committee. The consultation document, outlining the energy situation in Quebec and defining the framework for public consultation on the new energy policy, was tabled today.
“Let’s be bold. It is up to all of us to take up the challenge of making Quebec, thanks to its green energy, a cutting-edge society. The energy shift goes hand in hand with economic development and environmental protection. Quebec has all the tools to become a world leader in the fight against climate change, ”said Martine Ouellet.
To get Quebec to go further, the government wants to adopt an energy policy. The energy sector has been changing for the past ten years in Quebec, North America and elsewhere in the world. With the fight against climate change, the increase in the price of oil and the upheavals associated with the exploitation of non-traditional hydrocarbons, Québec must more than ever take a position as a society on the vision of its energy future.
“This new energy policy will be part of a perspective of reducing greenhouse gases. We want to make energy a powerful lever for economic and social development for Quebec. With the electrification of transportation, we will develop a whole new economic sector that will allow a significant reduction in greenhouse gases in Quebec, ”said Martine Ouellet.
In addition to promoting energy efficiency through vigorous programs for all forms of energy, the future policy will focus on the production of traditional and emerging renewable energies. It will aim to reduce the consumption of fossil fuels, in particular through the electrification of transport. The government thus wishes to create a new industry and make the electrification of transportation a real economic hub for Quebec, just like multimedia and aeronautics. Despite the efforts to reduce the consumption of fossil fuels, there will be a period of transition. With $ 14 billion in the purchase of imported oil, Quebec has a definite economic advantage in examining the potential for oil exploitation. It will be necessary to consider all the environmental impacts, to work in dialogue with the communities and to ensure to maximize the collective economic benefits.
Public consultations will be held from September 4 to October 9, 2013. The Commission will travel to the regions of Quebec: Joliette, Thetford Mines, Gatineau, Rouyn, Lebel-sur-Quévillon, Saint-Hyacinthe, Montreal, Saint-Jérôme, Gaspé, Rimouski, Sept-Îles, Quebec, Saguenay, Shawinigan and Sherbrooke.
The participation and support of all Quebecers are desired to make this project a success. This is why citizens and interested groups are invited to present their brief during the Commission&#39;s public works in their region or to submit it on the consultation site. The consultation document is available at consultationenergie.gouv.qc.ca.
Based on the comments received, the government will subsequently be able to table, in 2014, a whole new energy policy for Quebec.
Throughout the consultation, you will be able to follow the proceedings of the sessions and the activities of the Commission on Twitter.
If you would like to discuss the public consultation on Twitter, we invite you to use the hashtag # ÉnergieQC.
