Quebec - Sylvain Pagé, the member for Labelle and official opposition spokesperson for healthy lifestyles, leisure and sports, asks the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Yves Bolduc, to &#39;&#39; take action and present measures to prevent, detect and ensure the follow-up of concussions as soon as possible.
Last January, the former Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Marie Malavoy, set up a working group made up of experts to examine the issue of concussions in the context of practice. sports or recreational activities. The conclusions were to be filed six months after its creation.
“In addition to the conclusions of this report, Minister Bolduc has empirical data and expertise on safety in the practice of sport within his department. There is no longer any reason to wait; he must now act, ”said Sylvain Pagé.
The Parti Québécois government had also published a green paper to prepare a future national policy on sport, leisure and physical activity comprising four issues, including that of the “quality of the experience”. In this chapter, it is a question of safety and the specific orientations that could be devoted to it during the practice of sports or recreational activities. This is a component of the success of people adopting an active lifestyle over the long term.
&quot;We sincerely hope that Minister Bolduc will respect his word, given last spring, and that he will quickly present the said policy with an ambitious action plan involving as many departments as possible,&quot; added Sylvain Pagé.
Remember that the Liberal MP for Notre-Dame-de-Grâce and current Minister of Immigration, Kathleen Weil, herself tabled Bill 496, An Act to prevent and reduce the consequences of head trauma or to a concussion in a student participating in a school sports activity.
“Consistency with the position adopted by his own party requires Minister Bolduc to quickly address the concussion problem and announce measures as soon as possible. With the new school year starting, the Minister must act and send a clear message to the effect that we are concerned about the health and safety of our children, ”concluded the Member for Labelle.
