Quebec - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister responsible for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, said they were shocked by the announcement made today by the federal, ontarian and british columbian governments of an agreement to establish a canadian securities regulator.
“The federal government&#39;s persistence in creating a Canadian securities commission goes against the constitutional division of powers, three unanimous motions from the National Assembly and judgments of the Quebec Court of Appeal and of the Supreme Court of Canada. With the project unveiled today, the federal government is trying to do indirectly what it cannot do directly, ”said Nicolas Marceau.
“In addition to being unconstitutional, the federal desire to centralize securities regulation in Toronto would have significant negative consequences on Quebec&#39;s financial industry. The federal government&#39;s real objective is clear: to take the 154,000 jobs in the financial sector located in Quebec and move them to Toronto, ”added Minister Marceau.
Quebec considers, as numerous international studies show, that the current passport system is very efficient and effective. It appears essential to preserve in Montreal the activities of the Autorité des marchés financiers, whose existence is threatened by this project which aims to centralize the regulation of financial activities in Toronto.
“This deal will undermine the securities passport regime which allows an issuer to do business only with its local regulator. The new federal structure will complicate the processes that are already well established between Quebec and the other provinces, ”said Minister Marceau.
“This federal project is based on the adoption by Ottawa of securities legislation. The Attorney General of Quebec will examine this new federal attempt. If we have to go back to court, we will. The last time the federal government tried to legislate in this area, recourse to the courts made it possible to prevent an unconstitutional law from being adopted by the Canadian Parliament, ”concluded Alexandre Cloutier.
