Mont-Saint-Grégoire - “We have a duty to take better care of our seniors. The aging of the population is an important issue that must become a real priority in Quebec. We need to humanize the way we look after our world. We have a responsibility to help seniors live as long as possible at home by providing quality, varied and accessible home care. &quot;
It is in these terms that the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, presented her party&#39;s commitment to our seniors. On this occasion, she was accompanied by the Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Saint-François, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and other candidates from Montérégie.
Quebec will experience a significant aging of its population which will result in exorbitant costs if a change is not made now. To meet this challenge, the Parti Québécois is proposing the establishment of a national policy for home care and services, as well as autonomy insurance.
“This shift will ease the burden on families and caregivers. Thousands of people, mostly women, become family caregivers who all too often lack the training and support they need. It then becomes difficult to reconcile work, family life and helping aging parents, ”explained Pauline Marois, stressing that the Parti Québécois proposals provide concrete solutions to the real problems experienced by many people.
This shift will also allow the Quebec government, particularly our public health system, to meet the financial challenge associated with the aging of the population. For example, an elderly person who waits in the hospital for lack of anything better costs $ 200,000 a year; in a CHSLD, $ 60,000. The costs for intensive home care can be around $ 25,000 per year.
The national policy on home care and services will ensure that a greater number of seniors and people with loss of autonomy will be able to stay at home, close to their families, as the vast majority of them wish. They will be able to receive the care and professional services they need no matter where they live.
“To finance this shift, we are proposing to create autonomy insurance. This fund would allow funds to be reserved exclusively for seniors and caregivers. It is a smart investment that will benefit everyone. Other states have done so successfully. We must make this shift without delay, ”added Réjean Hébert, who co-chaired the public consultation on the living conditions of seniors in 2007.
“A crucial debate on the future of our seniors must take place between now and election day. The Liberals are making promises that are contradicted by their record, while the fate of our seniors is totally absent from François Legault&#39;s speech.
For our part, we have clear and solid proposals which demonstrate that a Parti Québécois government will make our seniors a priority, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
