La Prairie - Parti Québécois leader Pauline Marois pledges to adopt a new mining royalty regime. &quot;Unlike the government of Jean Charest, which has chosen to sell our natural resources at a discount to enrich a privileged minority, the Parti Québécois is determined to develop our natural resources in order to enrich all Quebecers in a sustainable way&quot;, a- she declared, surrounded by the economic team of the Parti Québécois.
“Our objective is to ensure that the exploitation of non-renewable natural resources in Quebec, including mines, brings maximum wealth to Quebecers. To achieve this, a Parti Québécois government will implement two major changes to the mining regime. We will impose a mandatory minimum royalty on the gross value of production, to ensure that all miners pay a minimum each year for the ore mined. We will implement a 30% super-profit tax to ensure that a significant portion of this additional revenue goes to Quebecers who are the only real owners of the resource, ”explained Pauline Marois.
The leader of the Parti Québécois also recalled that in 2010, 10 out of 19 mining companies paid no royalties to the Quebec state. Worse still: the current regime of mining royalties put in place by the Liberal government means that the mining companies will pay less royalties in 2012-2013 than last year. &quot;The mandatory minimum royalty on gross production value aims to give Quebecers the assurance that a mining company will never again be able to exploit our resources without paying anything,&quot; she added.
“Based on 2011, the new mining royalty regime proposed by the Parti Québécois would have brought in hundreds of millions of dollars more to Quebecers. Only by applying a mandatory royalty of 5%, there would have been 388 million dollars more in the coffers of the State in 2011 ”, explained Pauline Marois, insisting on the fact that what belongs to Quebecers must first and foremost serve to enrich all Quebecers.
“On September 4, Quebecers will have to make a choice between the Liberal Party and the CAQ, who want to keep the current royalty regime while it is foreign companies that are enriching themselves with our resources, and the Parti Québécois, which wants to change the royalty regime so that Quebecers get richer. With the Liberals and the Caquists, it is the companies first. With the Parti Québécois, it is Quebecers first, ”she concluded.
