Quebec - In the presence of many distinguished guests, chiefs and former Indigenous chiefs, former prime ministers and former ministers of Indigenous and parliamentary affairs, the government of Quebec tabled a motion this morning in the National Assembly highlighting the progress made since the last thirty years in terms of relations with Aboriginal nations.
The tabling of this motion marked the 30th anniversary of the adoption, by the Council of Ministers, of the 15 principles guiding relations between the Government of Quebec, the First Nations and the Inuit, on February 9, 1983.
The resolutions of the National Assembly of 1985 and 1989, as well as the 15 principles adopted by the Council of Ministers in 1983, are still used today as the basis for government action in Aboriginal affairs.
&quot;The gesture made by the government of René Lévesque was intended to be the friendly expression of recognition of the aboriginal peoples of Quebec as distinct nations possessing rights, including that of directing the development of their identity themselves&quot;, declared Premier Pauline Marois.
The current regional chief of the Assembly of First Nations of Quebec and Labrador (AFNQL), Ghislain Picard, as well as the Grand Chief of the Huron-Wendat Nation and former Quebec regional chief of the AFNQL, Konrad Sioui, have spoke with the Premier during a reception in the Legislative Council Chamber following the tabling of the motion.
“Young and inspired by an ardent desire for change in its relations with other levels of government, including Quebec, our Aboriginal leadership was perfectly in line with this approach proposed by Premier René Lévesque 30 years ago. We believed then that our ancestral rights, our treaty rights and our territorial rights could henceforth be discussed and affirmed in a spirit of peaceful coexistence which would become the best guarantee of respect among all our nations. Filled with hope, we continue our walk more united than ever around the Grand Cercle, paying homage to all those who blazed the trail and with particular regard to all of our children and the generations that follow us. », Added the Grand Chief of the Huron-Wendat Nation, Konrad Sioui.
This commemoration was also an opportunity for the government to reaffirm the commitments made at the Summit on Territories and Resources, organized by the AFNQL, which was held in Montreal on December 3.
“Government policy is based on these principles, which are intended as a lever for those who have the progress of Quebec and the development of communities at heart. A Quebec for all is a Quebec that includes Aboriginals. We all have an interest in continuing to move forward together, and we are on the right track, ”said Élizabeth Larouche, Minister responsible for Native Affairs.
