Quebec - Attached you will find a copy of the letter that Mr. Daniel Breton, Member of Parliament for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, sent to the attention of the President of the Committee on Transport and the Environment, Madam Fatima Houda-Pépin, following the invitation to appear in relation to the mandate granted to shed light on the events of October 24 concerning the allegations of interventions by the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and parks.
_Madame President,
On March 22, the deputy secretary of your committee summoned me to proceed to my hearing on April 24, before my peers, as part of the mandate to shed light on the events of October 24, 2012, i.e. concerning the visit I made to the BAPE, while I was Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks.
It is an article by journalist Régys Caron, published on Thursday, November 15, 2012 in the pages of the Journal de Québec, relating my visit to the BAPE, which is at the origin of this mandate. According to what his sources told him, Mr. Caron maintains that by my visit to the BAPE, I &quot;transgressed the partition which is supposed to separate&quot; the BAPE from the political. The journalist also affirms that, still according to his sources, I would have personally asked for the telephone numbers of the commissioners. These same sources told him that I threatened to call them personally if one of their decisions did not please me. It is important to note here that no other media has been able to confirm this so-called &quot;information&quot; since.
On several occasions, I said in the room that I had never asked for the telephone numbers of the BAPE commissioners or asked anyone to do it for me; which has also been confirmed by the people of the BAPE. I have also said, over and over again, that I have never even seen this list of phone numbers.
Moreover, on March 13, the five commissioners who testified before you and all confirmed under oath, as I have always maintained in chambers, that my visit was one of courtesy and that at no time was I intimidated anyone or interfered with anything. Rather, I expressed my wish that the BAPE regain its independence.
Allow me, Madam Chair, to question the relevance of the summons sent to me. I repeated my version of the facts over and over again each time I was asked questions on the subject, particularly during the question periods of November 15, 20 and 21.
Despite my version of events which, over the months, has never changed, it is increasingly evident that members of the official opposition refuse to take my word for it. However, I would remind you of the words of the President of the National Assembly during his decision on the admissibility of the motion. &quot;[T] he cannot be tolerated that the conduct of the Minister is not attacked or that one refuses to accept his word&quot;.
In addition, in his decision, the president specifies the nature of this mandate, which is one of strict parliamentary control since I was then minister in title. I&#39;m not anymore. The member of the executive targeted by this parliamentary oversight mandate is therefore the current minister who, in good faith, testified before you. You also ask a member to testify in front of other members. It then appears to me that the terms of the mandate have lapsed.
This is why I wonder: after having repeated my version of the facts to you several times, I do not know what new elements could be brought to light during a possible hearing. And I wonder if any version will ever satisfy the official opposition.
This mandate, which was supposed to shed light on my visit to the BAPE, now seems to take on the appearance of a court. However, Madam Chair, I remain convinced that it is up to the voters of Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques alone to be the judges of my actions.
The reasons given in this letter explain why I do not understand the reasons which push you to summon me.
I said everything.
I was most transparent.
I did not interfere.
I did not bully.
So, for me, everything has been said on the subject.
I am now awaiting your details as to the binding nature of this convocation.
Please accept, Madam President, the expression of my best feelings.
Daniel Breton Member of Parliament for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques_
