Quebec - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, who was President and CEO of the FTQ&#39;s regional funds from 2004 to 2012, wishes to respond to the telephone conversation held in 2009 and broadcast as part of the testimony of Mr. Jean Lavallée before the Charbonneau Commission. The appeal from Mr. Michel Arsenault, then Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ, sought a list of Regional Fund investments in the construction sector. Ms. Zakaïb took the opportunity to inform Mr. Arsenault of a practice that had taken place, before her arrival, in one of the stages of the due diligence process of the Regional Funds and that she put an end to as soon as she arrived. has been informed.
&quot;This step aimed to ensure with the unions that the employers of the companies approached in the field of construction respected the rules of the Commission de la construction du Québec and the collective agreements&quot;, explained Élaine Zakaïb. “The FTQ Construction was responsible for collecting this information. For a short time, the president&#39;s office took advantage of this access to the projects studied in the greater metropolitan area to prevent possible investments in companies competing with those of Mr. Tony Accurso, in which the Fund had significant interests. These are the projects I refer to in the conversation. As soon as I was informed of this practice, I took the means to put an immediate end to this interference in the projects under study. &quot;
Élaine Zakaïb also specifies that when she makes the remark to the effect that the less she knows, the better she feels, she refers to the conflict that had just erupted at the time - we must look back to 2009 - between two leaders of the FTQ Construction, which did not concern her at all.
Finally, she adds that the other refused files she talks about during this conversation are not part of the construction sector. They were refused for business reasons and as part of the Fund&#39;s audit process.
In addition, she recalls that during the entire period when she acted as President and CEO of the Regional Funds, none of the projects presented by MM. Jean Lavallée or Jocelyn Dupuis was not accepted.
“I acted with complete integrity on this occasion and throughout my tenure at the head of the regional funds. My priority has been, and remains, the economic development of the regions, ”concluded Ms. Zakaïb.
