Montreal - The day after the start of the electoral campaign, the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, took advantage of the announcement of the candidacy of the president of the Montreal School Board, Diane De Courcy, in the riding of Crémazie, to present the commitments of the Parti Québécois for the success and perseverance of students.
“The Parti Québécois places academic success and perseverance at the forefront of any action affecting the school system. All our decisions must be motivated by this objective, knowing that the future of Quebec depends on an educated and educated youth ”, affirmed Pauline Marois.
According to the latest figures available from the Ministry of Education, in 2010-2011 the dropout rate was 17.4%, if we take into account private schools, where the dropout rate is 6.6%, which greatly lowers the average. Without private establishments, the rate is 20.1% for the 72 school boards. When comparing the situation by sex, there is a significant difference between boys (24.8%) and girls (15.6%).
“In 2003, the Prime Minister promised, with his hand on his heart, to reduce dropping out of school in five years. What we notice nine years later is that the Liberal government changed the calculation method to give the impression of having reduced the dropout rate. In addition, the difference between girls and boys is still as important and in some school boards, the dropout rate is still very high, reaching even 40%, she added, specifying that Quebec is located. 7th among the provinces in terms of the graduation rate, all levels of education combined, with a rate of 77.9% according to Statistics Canada data. Quebec is below the Canadian average (78.3%), well behind New Brunswick (in the lead with 86.5%) and our neighbors in Ontario, which occupy 4th place with 83.2%. &quot;
Quebec ranks poorly compared to other Canadian provinces when it comes to the graduation rate. This is why the Parti Québécois will do everything to ensure that we are among the best, so that our children finish their school career by obtaining a diploma.
To do this, a Parti Québécois government:
Hire 600 additional professionals by 2015;
Analyze the relevance of implementing full-time four-year-old kindergarten in disadvantaged areas, while ensuring that close consultation is established between the childcare centers and the school so that children receive the appropriate services as soon as they start school. to their needs;
Will strongly encourage the mobilization of all sectors of society in the fight against early school leaving. The regions of Quebec are already mobilized thanks to regional consultation bodies on school perseverance and educational success. Perseverance Days are held in each region in February, the symbol of which is the white and green ribbon. The Parti Québécois will continue to support these initiatives;
Strengthen the autonomy of institutions in order to ensure that school administrators are educational leaders in their environment and the first interveners in the success and perseverance of students;
Improve the quality of French lessons at primary level and improve the teaching tools for teachers;
Offer any young drop-out from 16 to 18 years of age a training or apprenticeship solution;
“Nine years after the Liberals came to power, dropping out of school is still just as important and Jean Charest has not kept his promises. As for the CAQ of François Legault, it chose to engage in a debate of structures by promising the abolition of school boards. This idea of the CAQ taken over from the ADQ will make us waste years and further increase the bureaucracy in Quebec. The choice of the Parti Québécois is different. For us, it is children before structures, ”concluded Pauline Marois, recalling that she had halved the number of school boards when she was Minister of Education.
