Quebec - “The Quebec government has abandoned the forestry industry. However, he has in his hands all the tools to intelligently and sustainably help forestry companies and workers and he must use them to act as soon as possible ”, declared Denis Trottier, Member of Parliament for Roberval and spokesperson for the official opposition in forestry, after an interpellation where he questioned Minister Clément Gignac.
The official opposition took advantage of this inquiry to question the minister on several difficulties experienced by the forestry sector, in particular the lack of money; the delay in announcing the amounts for silvicultural work; the refusal of banks to finance forestry companies; poorly adapted programs, etc.
The official opposition has also presented cases of workers affected by the crisis that has raged since 2005. “These people deserve all our support and our admiration. They believe deeply, like our party, in the future of the lumber industry in Quebec. But in this time of crisis, the government must provide assistance to these workers, which has not been done since 2005, ”continued the deputy.
Denis Trottier also proposed solutions to the crisis so that it does not worsen as forecasts seem to indicate. “We are proposing a real timber charter that will promote 2nd and 3rd processing. We have introduced a bill aimed at promoting the use of wood in construction, which would help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We also want to launch a vast forestry development project that could double forest value and production within 25 years. We would also add the establishment of a forest savings plan that would allow workers and citizens to invest in their businesses in order to help revive the forest environment. To all this, loan guarantees for companies and the participation of the State in the most innovative companies would be added ”, explained the deputy.
“To implement these solutions, we need real political will and this is what is lacking in the government of Jean Charest, which has remained insensitive since the start of the forestry crisis in 2005. It is time for that to change! », Concluded Denis Trottier.
