Quebec - The member for Terrebonne and official opposition spokesperson for families, Mathieu Traversy, is concerned about the incompetence shown by the Minister of Families, Francine Charbonneau, who is quicker to implement cuts draconian in the network than to work to offer Quebec families accessible and quality childcare services.
This morning, we learned how the cuts of $ 74 million that will be imposed on Quebec child care services were to be applied. The players in the network had nevertheless proposed other solutions which would have made it possible to offer more places, but none was adopted by the Minister. “Once again, the Minister is completely disconnected from the network and from the reality of Quebec families. Across Quebec, hundreds of parents are waiting for a place for their child, but the minister has made her choice: cut instead of developing, ”said Mathieu Traversy. “This ideological decision will obviously favor the private sector. Clearly, the government is strangling the public network and promoting commercial day care centers, ”he continued.
A disastrous toll
Remember that last February, the two main childcare associations, the AQCPE and the AGPQ, in a historic joint outing, asked for the resignation of the Minister of Families, who has lost the confidence of the community. . In addition, Bill 27, supposed to &quot;optimize&quot; the network, died on the order paper without being replaced. Finally, last week, the government and the CAQ refused to look into the sale of subsidized daycare permits, even though some media reported that organized crime could have infiltrated the network. “It is very worrying. It is absolutely necessary that all the light be shed on this phenomenon. Why is the Liberal Party refusing? Asked Mathieu Traversy.
Safety first
In recent weeks, several cases of abuse or neglect in private daycares have come to light. “I see that the Minister is very quick to cut down on the network, but when the time comes to take concrete action to improve it, to ensure the safety of children, she is in no hurry at all. On several occasions, I have already demanded that the minister tighten up the framework and the safety rules, following all the scandals reported by the media. But, as usual, she remained vague, indicating only that she was going to &quot;do a spin on the safety and backgrounds of the people inside (sic)&quot;. Yet there is still nothing on the table! Added the spokesperson.
“Does the minister dare to do nothing because the Prime Minister has left the possibility of a cabinet reshuffle hanging over? If so, she should know that families and the network do not have to pay the price for her insecurity, ”concluded Mathieu Traversy.
