Montreal - Here is a letter sent today by the Director General of the Parti Québécois, Sylvain Tanguay, to the Chief Electoral Officer:
“Montreal, March 4, 2014
Mr. Jacques Drouin The Chief Electoral Officer of Quebec René-Lévesque Building 3460, rue de La Pérade Quebec (Quebec) G1X 3Y5
Mr. Director General,
The Parti Québécois wishes to file a complaint regarding an advertisement published in the March 4, 2014 edition of the daily newspapers La Presse, Le Soleil, La Tribune, Le Droit, Le Nouvelliste and Le Quotidien, a copy of which you will find attached. The content of this is the same in the six dailies.
You will see that this advertisement entitled &quot;We must say the real business&quot; is signed by four individuals, Louis Audet, David Forest, Jan Peeters and Luc Villeneuve and explicitly relies on the slogan of the Liberal Party of Quebec for the campaign. 2014 namely “Together, we take care of the real business”.
The similarity is so striking, all combined with concerted action (publication in six dailies on the eve of a possible general election), that it is difficult not to conclude that it is a gesture for political purposes aimed at favoring the Liberal Party of Quebec.
Although this advertisement was made outside the election period, its cost estimated at several thousand dollars and its obvious intention to promote the electoral slogan of the Liberal Party means that it falls under the influence of article 88. of the Election Law and that it must therefore be considered as a contribution made to a political party for political purposes. However, section 91 of the Election Act provides that contributions from voters cannot exceed $ 100 for a given political party. Obviously, since there are only four signatories to the advertisement, it would be a question of contributions exceeding this amount and consequently of illegal contributions.
For these reasons, we therefore consider that this advertisement is contrary to the Election Act, more particularly to the articles which govern the contributions of electors and we therefore ask you to investigate.
Please, Mr. Director-General, accept my best regards.
The Director General,
Original signed
Sylvain Tanguay ”
