Quebec - In anticipation of the upcoming adoption of the draft by-law amending the Regulation respecting compensation for municipal services provided to ensure the recovery and reclamation of residual materials, the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and des Parcs, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, met the main stakeholders in the field involved in this issue in order to listen and reconcile points of view.
“The challenges of the compensation program are important financially, but they are also important in environmental terms. Businesses and municipalities are competent, motivated and rigorous partners, and the ultimate issues concern the reduction of the very volume of materials to be recycled, the awareness of citizens and the creation of a model that places Quebec at the head of the pack in terms of sustainable development. Our government is listening, without creating delays in the implementation of equitable and lasting solutions, ”declared Minister Blanchet.
Meetings were held in two stages. The Union of Quebec Municipalities (UMQ), the Quebec Federation of Municipalities (FQM), the City of Montreal, the City of Quebec and the Association of Municipal Bodies for the Management of Residual Materials (AOMGMR) are stakeholders in the municipal sector. who participated in these meetings. In the business world, the Minister had discussions with Éco Entreprises Québec (ÉEQ) and met with members of the Agri-Food Processing and Consumer Products Council (CTAC), A. Lassonde Inc., Cascades Groupe Tissue, Olymel , members of the Retail Council of Canada (RCC), Sobeys, the Loblaws group, Hudson&#39;s Bay, Métro Richelieu Inc. and Costco.
Based on the principles and orientations of the Québec Residual Materials Management Policy, the compensation regime obliges people who market containers, packaging and printed matter of all kinds to assume the major part of the costs of collection. selective recyclable materials. This plan is therefore intended to offset the costs assumed by the municipalities for the provision of recovery and reclamation services for the products concerned.
Additional information is available on the Ministère&#39;s website at the following address: http: //www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca/matieres/regime-compensation/index.htm.
