Quebec - The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, kicks off the third edition of the “Equality at Work” competition . This competition aims to promote egalitarian models and behavior among young people through artistic creations.
The song will be in the spotlight this year. Professional artists are invited to create a song to share their vision and educate young people aged 14 to 17 about the importance of healthy and egalitarian romantic relationships and the denunciation of violence.
“Violence in romantic relationships is a major social problem and can appear as early as adolescence. It is fundamental to make young people aware of this reality as early as possible, ”said Minister Maltais.
The author, composer and performer Sophie Vaillancourt, president of the jury and spokesperson for the competition, is convinced that in words and in music we can touch teenagers. “The first romantic relationships should always be magic. Young people, including young girls, must know that they have a right to respect at all times, ”said the artist.
Artists have until November 22, 2013 to participate in the competition by submitting a model.
Each of the three songs selected by the jury will earn its creators a grant of $ 2,500 for the recording of their work which will then be broadcast on the Web.
The names of the winners of the popular vote will be revealed in spring 2014 at a gala where the three songs will be presented. On this occasion, an amount of $ 10,000 will be awarded as the first prize and $ 5,000 will be awarded to each of the other two finalists.
This competition is part of the implementation of the government action plan for equality between women and men 2011-2015. Complete information and the registration form are available on the website of the Secretariat for the Status of Women: www.egaliteoeuvre.gouv.qc.ca.
According to a survey by the Institut de la statistique du Québec carried out in 2010-2011 among high school youth, 30% of students have suffered at least one form of violence from their partner. In addition, data from the Ministère de la Sécurité publique indicate that young people between the ages of 12 and 17 show the greatest increase in the rate of offenses against the person committed in a conjugal context for the period from 2002 to 2011.
