Montreal - The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane De Courcy, is pleased to announce an investment totaling nearly $ 1.4 million for the implementation of concrete measures that facilitate the access of immigrants trained abroad to the professions of occupational therapist, judicial officer, speech therapist, physiotherapist and social worker.
“The work carried out in collaboration with our partners gives tangible results and makes it possible to use the skills of immigrant professionals who settle in Quebec. By practicing their profession, these people help meet manpower needs in fields which, according to Emploi-Québec, will present favorable professional prospects in the coming years. The vitality of our economy and the quality of our services will be all the better for this, ”declared Minister Diane De Courcy.
This investment will facilitate the process of recognizing the skills of professionals trained abroad and speed up obtaining their license to practice.
The projects carried out by the Ordre des ergothérapeutes du Québec, the Ordre des orthophonistes et audiologistes du Québec and the Ordre professionnel de la physiothérapie du Québec will improve access to refresher training and facilitate the acquisition of skills related to context of the practice of these professions in Quebec. As for the projects of the Chambre des huissiers de justice du Québec and the Order of Social Workers and Marriage and Family Therapists of Quebec, they aim to design assessment tools adapted to the recognition of skills acquired abroad.
“The partnership with professional orders helps to facilitate the rapid integration of newcomers into the workforce. Recently, the Department also enhanced its online francization service by adding an advanced level course and modules focused on specific professional fields. Access to this knowledge is very important for immigrants who have the necessary skills and who want to practice their profession in Quebec, ”concluded Minister Diane De Courcy.
For more information on the projects carried out in collaboration with the professional orders of Quebec: www.micc.gouv.qc.ca/fr/dossiers/professions-metiers.html.
Access to the profession of occupational therapist: design of a refresher training program
The project: The Ordre des ergothérapeutes du Québec will develop, in collaboration with the School of Rehabilitation of the University of Montreal as part of the occupational therapy program, refresher training for occupational therapists trained in foreigner with a view to full recognition of the equivalence of their training and the issue of a permit by the Order.
What is changing: This refresher training will offer courses tailored to the needs of internationally trained candidates. They will thus be able to more easily acquire the knowledge, skills and competencies necessary for the practice of their profession in Quebec.
Timeline: The training should be offered to candidates as of winter 2014.
Subsidy awarded: The Department of Immigration and Cultural Communities provides a subsidy of $ 350,000 for the development of this refresher training.
Access to the profession of judicial officer: design of tools for the assessment and recognition of skills
The project: The Chambre des huissiers de justice du Québec will develop a skills framework as well as tools enabling it to assess the skills of candidates trained abroad.
What it changes: A transparent, fair and efficient skills recognition process will be put in place. The training and experience of candidates can be more easily assessed and the Chamber can prescribe refresher training better suited to the needs of candidates.
Timeline: The tools should be designed by summer 2014.
Grant awarded: The Department of Immigration and Cultural Communities grants a grant of $ 130,145 for the design of these skills assessment tools.
Access to the profession of speech-language pathologist: adaptation and posting of a refresher training program
The project: The Ordre des orthophonistes et audiologistes du Québec will adapt and put online a refresher training program for foreign-trained speech-language pathologists with a view to full recognition of the equivalence of their training.
What that changes: Putting refresher training online will allow easier access to additional training that may be required by the Order. Candidates will be able to take this training according to their availability and before their arrival in Quebec.
Timeline: The online publication will begin in the fall of 2013.
Subsidy awarded: The Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities provides a subsidy of $ 103,450 for the adaptation and posting of this refresher training.
Access to the profession of physiotherapist: design of a refresher training program
The project: The Professional Order of Physiotherapy of Quebec will design, in collaboration with the School of Rehabilitation of the University of Montreal as part of the physiotherapy program, refresher training for physiotherapists trained in the field of physiotherapy. foreigner with a view to full recognition of the equivalence of their training and their admission to the Order.
What is changing: This refresher training will offer courses tailored to the needs of internationally trained candidates. They will thus be able to more easily acquire the skills necessary to practice their profession in Quebec.
Timeline: The program should be offered for the first time in winter 2014.
* Grant awarded: The Department of Immigration and Cultural Communities grants an additional grant of $ 743,145 for the design of this refresher training.
Access to the profession of social worker: design of a professional activity repository and skills assessment tools and upload of a self-assessment tool
The project: The Order of Social Workers and Marriage and Family Therapists of Quebec will design skills assessment tools based on a professional activity benchmark that was developed during the first phase of the project. These tools include an assessment interview and an internship. A self-assessment tool will also be put online.
What that changes: The proposed tools will allow a better evaluation of the training and experience of candidates trained abroad. They will be able to better understand the steps they will have to take to become a member of the Order, even before their arrival in Quebec.
Timeline: All tools are expected to be designed by the end of 2013.
Grant awarded: The Department of Immigration and Cultural Communities grants an additional grant of $ 33,540 for the design of these skills assessment tools. For the entire project, the grant awarded amounts to $ 215,700.
