Magog– The member for Sherbrooke, Mr. Serge Cardin, announced, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation of non-refundable financial assistance of over $ 324,000 to Groupe Domax in Sherbrooke, which specializes in the design of intelligent car washes. This government support will promote the completion of a technology showcase project of nearly $ 1.2 million aimed at demonstrating the functionality of a new smart car wash concept with a Magog partner.
“Groupe Domax is one of those young, innovative and visionary companies that contribute to the economic development of our regions and to the growth of Quebec entrepreneurship,” said MP Serge Cardin. “Quebec needs their contribution to prosper and continue to distinguish itself as one of the most innovative and competitive companies in the world. It is with great pride that we support the efforts of this dynamic and talented team who have developed an innovative product while taking environmental issues into account. &quot;
Groupe Domax has designed a self-supporting car wash that has its own wastewater recovery, filtration and treatment system. It is the first car wash to completely reuse water collected from the ground and maximize the use of rainwater. In an industry where each car wash requires around 300 liters of water, this new car wash concept is one of the most ecological solutions. The company&#39;s product also has automatic controls to save heating and lighting during less busy times.
&quot;Our government&#39;s economic vision for Quebec is based on the principles of sustainable development as well as the growth of regions and entrepreneurs,&quot; said Minister Delegate Élaine Zakaïb. “Our government is proud to encourage promising entrepreneurial projects that take into account current environmental concerns. It is in this spirit that we are working to put in place, as of next fall, a powerful lever for economic development: the Banque de développement économique du Québec. This will meet the needs of entrepreneurs and build on the strengths of each of our regions. &quot;
“Our innovative car wash recycles all of the water that falls to the ground when washing cars. It also stores rainwater and uses it as the primary source of supply, ”said Domax Group co-founder, Mr. Maxime Surprenant. “Our concept differs from traditional car washes and allows customers to have a unique experience, thanks in particular to its eco-responsible aspect and the incomparable quality of car washing. The support of the Government of Quebec will therefore allow us to introduce our innovative technology to the market. &quot;
