Quebec - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, announces the addition of the Paul-Gérin-Lajoie Prize and the Guy-Rocher Prize to the Minister&#39;s Prizes as of 2013-2014 edition of the competition. These new awards aim to highlight teaching excellence in Quebec colleges and universities.
“I consider it important to pay tribute, each year, to those who, through their constant efforts, contribute to the success of young people in the pursuit of their college and university studies. The Minister&#39;s Awards are the embodiment of this duty of recognition. During last year&#39;s edition, I saw the great vitality of our higher education networks. I am happy to announce that this year, in addition to awarding educational works, we are going to crown the colossal work that teachers do every day, ”explained Minister Duchesne.
To mark the 50th anniversary of the Parent Report, two prizes were created to reward the quality of teaching as well as the inventiveness of the methods of transmitting knowledge at college and undergraduate level. The Paul-Gérin-Lajoie award will recognize the excellence of the work of a college teacher, while the Guy-Rocher award will recognize the skills of a member of the teaching staff at the undergraduate level. Those who win these two awards will each receive a cash prize of $ 10,000. These two new marks of honor are added to the already existing prices.
The administration of each college and university in Quebec has until February 14, 2014 to submit the candidacy of an educator who has distinguished himself by excellence and innovation in his teaching practices.
Remember that the Minister&#39;s Awards also include a component on the quality of educational works published in French and intended for college and undergraduate students. Each of these prizes carries a cash prize of $ 5,000. A reward of $ 1,500 will also be granted to authors of works who receive a mention from the Minister.
For this part of the competition, those wishing to apply have until January 31, 2014 to submit their works in one of the following five categories: Volumes, Complementary material for a course, Multimedia works, Distance learning courses and Educational Research Reports.
The 2013-2014 Minister&#39;s Awards ceremony will be held in May 2014.
For more information on the competition, including how to apply, visit www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca/commun/prix-du-ministre.
