Quebec City, October 17, 2016 - In light of the information released this morning concerning the miserable living conditions of the residents of the Denis-Benjamin-Viger Accommodation Center in Montreal, the Parti Québécois, through its spokesperson- word for the elderly, Harold LeBel, and his spokesperson for health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, denounce the situation, which he describes as &quot;completely unacceptable&quot;.
“The portrait that the nursing staff paints us is overwhelming, especially since it was already known to the government. And this one did nothing! A report from the MSSS, dated February 2015, concluded that in this accommodation center, precisely, the meals as well as the cleanliness were problematic, that it was necessary to act. After cutting nearly a billion dollars in health care and services over the past two years, which hurts seniors very much, Minister Gaétan Barrette instead sends the member for Crémazie to make a second tour of the establishments, while we knows very well that it takes reinvestment and more staff to take care of our seniors. For months we have been denouncing the aberrant conditions in which our seniors live, who often have to eat powdered potatoes and be content with one bath per week. We must act now, that&#39;s enough! », Protested Harold LeBel.
“In her report, the Québec Ombudsman has already clearly demonstrated the impact of the cuts on the most vulnerable; we have another sad example of that this morning. The Prime Minister said, not so long ago, that &quot;speeches about vulnerable people, speeches about solidarity, with unbalanced public finances and chronic indebtedness, it is nothing but the wind&quot;. Is six minutes to feed a vulnerable person a blast to him? Everything must be done to ensure that the exact situation is known and that the problems are resolved quickly, ”added Diane Lamarre.
The staff of the Denis-Benjamin-Viger Accommodation Center will demonstrate today to demand that work be done and that help be provided. “Employees want to be able to care for seniors properly, in a healthy and safe environment. Let&#39;s give them the resources they need. This is also what Quebeckers want: that their government ensure a fair distribution of budgets to guarantee respect for the elderly, ”the spokespersons concluded.
