Quebec - As the 21st Annual Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21) draws to a close in Paris, the Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the Part of the Parti Québécois on the environment and the fight against climate change, Mathieu Traversy, recalled that Quebec can remain a leader in the fight against climate change. To achieve this, however, it must adopt a clear and inconsistent approach, specific initiatives as well as the means to implement them in order to show leadership and contribute to the achievement of the objectives set by the organization. the COP21.
“Unfortunately, the past being a guarantor of the future, the government of Prime Minister Philippe Couillard does not pass the test of credibility in the fight against climate change. He missed the Kyoto targets and is in the process of missing the 2020 targets. Once in Paris, the Prime Minister changed his words. His government&#39;s unconditional support for the Canadian Energy Strategy, like the Energy East project, is at odds with his rhetoric. However, the incoherence of the Liberal government should not prevent us from moving forward, ”insisted the leader of the official opposition.
The Parti Québécois spokesperson for the environment underlined the government&#39;s lack of transparency with regard to the management of the Green Fund. “We learned, in Paris, that the government will be strict with the essential partners, the municipalities, but without any other indication. Yet we need a clear and effective management framework. The government must also release amounts from the Green Fund as quickly as possible to finance the improvement of the public transport offer. This is essential for achieving the 2020 and 2030 greenhouse gas reduction targets. Then there is the zero emission standard; it is time for the Prime Minister to act on this issue. His too timid plan on the electrification of transport was in fact only a reflection. We ask him to quickly table, at the start of the parliamentary term, a bill to this effect, ”he added.
Concrete measures
Pierre Karl Péladeau and Mathieu Traversy recalled some concrete measures already proposed by the Parti Québécois so that Quebec becomes a true world leader in clean energy:
Free Quebec from its dependence on oil, which contributes to impoverishing its economy and damaging its environment. To achieve this, the Parti Québécois proposes in particular to reduce Quebec&#39;s oil consumption by 40% in the transport sector by 2030, using the following means:
In opposition to the Liberal government&#39;s public relations campaign, the positioning of the Parti Québécois is rather to bet concretely on actions and means. &quot;This position is based on our commitments in terms of the environment, sustainable development and the fight against climate change, which target opportunities for concrete action to improve the quality of our environment, develop the green economy and liberate the Quebec for its dependence on oil, ”continued Mathieu Traversy.
Pierre Karl Péladeau finally underlined “that an independent Quebec could easily become the cleanest state in terms of greenhouse gas emissions in North America. An independent Quebec would promote a Quebec strategy, in which the fight against climate change and the energy strategy go hand in hand rather than in opposition. Independent, Quebecers would be freed from the Canadian oil industry. Quebec could finally deploy its own energy strategy and bet on renewable energies ”.
