Sherbrooke– The Conference of Federal, Provincial and Territorial Ministers Responsible for Sport, Physical Activity and Recreation concluded today in Sherbrooke, after two days of discussions. The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, took advantage of this meeting to discuss with the other ministers Quebec&#39;s concerns regarding issues related to sports excellence. It also announced its intentions regarding the development of its new national policy on sport, recreation and physical activity.
“As the Canada Summer Games get ready to take off, Sherbrooke was becoming the perfect destination for the Conference of Federal, Provincial and Territorial Ministers Responsible for Sport, Physical Activity and Recreation. It is with great pleasure that we hosted this meeting and introduced our visitors to the beautiful Estrie region, ”Minister Malavoy declared at the end of the meeting. “All the participants expressed their desire to increase the practice of physical activity in their respective populations. In Quebec, we have already undertaken to adopt a new national policy on sport, recreation and physical activity that will take into account the realities with which we must face, ”continued the Minister.
The discussions surrounding the Priorities of the Federal-Provincial-Territorial Governments for Concerted Action 2012-2017 presented at the Conference led Quebec to reaffirm its willingness to collaborate with other governments and to continue to share the results of its initiatives with them. efforts to promote physical activity, healthy lifestyles and recreation.
The government of Quebec is delighted that, in accordance with the recommendation it made in 2011, the issue of hosting international sporting events is one of the priorities of the federal, provincial and territorial governments for concerted action in 2012. -2017.
He also took advantage of the meeting to remind his counterparts that he was not participating in pan-Canadian initiatives in the area of physical activity and leisure, considering that this is a responsibility falling within his remit. exclusive competence and that it has its own programs, action plans and objectives in this regard. However, he indicated that he would remain open to collaboration with other governments and that he would continue to share information and best practices with them.
In closing, Minister Malavoy wished to underline the work of the various sports delegations present in Sherbrooke. “I wish the best of success to all the athletes who will participate in these Games. May their results live up to their expectations, ”she concluded.
