Halifax, Nova Scotia - The Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade (MRIFCE), Mr. Jean-François Lisée, participated in Halifax on July 14 and 15 at the 6th Annual Conference of the Alliance of Southeastern United States and Canadian provinces (SEUS-CP), accompanied by a delegation of Quebec companies. In the aftermath of the Lac-Mégantic tragedy, the six Southeastern US states and the seven Canadian provinces agreed that they will look into the issue of rail safety at their next meeting.
This was announced on Monday in Halifax by the host of the conference, the Minister of Economic Development of Nova Scotia, Mr. Graham Steele, in response to the concerns raised by Minister Jean-François Lisée. Mr. Steele read out a statement which received the agreement of all representatives and stressed the importance of ensuring safety in rail transport. Several of the Alliance representatives gathered in Halifax for their 6th Annual Conference expressed their solidarity with the inhabitants of Lac-Mégantic.
The presence of Minister Lisée at this economic forum was intended in particular to consolidate Québec&#39;s relations with the states in the Southeastern United States and to showcase all the creative, innovative and economic force available in the territory. It also served to support the efforts of the fifteen Quebec companies, the largest delegation to the event, who chose to take the opportunity to initiate, develop and advance solid business ties with partners from the South. -East United States and other Canadian provinces.
“The South-East of the United States is a priority area of action for Quebec. Given the strong demographic and economic growth in this region, it is essential that Quebec position itself strategically in order to take advantage of the business opportunities that arise there. I also salute the dynamism of the Quebec companies that came to this conference in order to develop their business relationships, ”said Minister Lisée.
In total, some three hundred government leaders and entrepreneurs from Quebec, Canada and the United States participated in this 6th Annual SEUS-CP Conference held this year under the theme of innovation. Discussion forums, networking activities and numerous bilateral business meetings have been planned to stimulate discussion. Quebec companies therefore had the opportunity to meet government leaders and companies from the Southeastern United States, which suggests satisfactory results.
Minister Lisée took advantage of the conference to meet with Georgia&#39;s Secretary of State, Brian Kemp, with whom it was discussed, among other things, the strengthening of our exchanges in the medical, aerospace, and other fields. information technologies and green energies. In 2012, Quebec&#39;s exports to Georgia increased by 14% compared to 2011, reaching $ 1.1 billion.
Other political figures met by the Minister include Mr. Greg Canfield, Secretary of Commerce for Alabama, in addition to Assistant Secretary of Commerce for South Carolina, Mr. George Patrick, Assistant Commerce for North Carolina, Ms. Jean Davis, and Tennessee Transportation Commissioner, Mr. John Schroer. These talks made it possible to explore new avenues of collaboration between Quebec and these American states.
Quebec has a strong presence in the Southeast of the United States, as evidenced by the value of trade in goods with this region, which in 2012 amounted to $ 8.5 billion.
The Quebec Delegation in Atlanta has been a Quebec presence in this territory since 1977. Its mandate is to develop and promote economic, political and institutional links with the 11 states it covers, as well as to defend and promote the interests of Quebec. . The Delegation also supports Quebec companies wishing to penetrate the South and Southeast markets and encourages American investments in Quebec.
This alliance between Canadian provinces and American states was founded in Montreal in 2007. Its objective is to increase trade, promote bilateral investment and stimulate technological and scientific exchanges between the states in the South-East of the United States. United (Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Tennessee, Mississippi and Alabama) and seven Canadian provinces (Quebec, Ontario, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Manitoba, Prince Edward Island and Newfoundland and -Labrador). Quebec played a significant role in the creation of this alliance.
