Winnipeg - The Minister responsible for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, took advantage of the 18th Ministerial Conference on the Canadian Francophonie, which was held yesterday and today in Winnipeg, Manitoba , to reiterate the desire of the Government of Quebec to increase exchanges and increase cooperation to strengthen the Canadian Francophonie.
“Quebec supports Francophone and Acadian communities in their desire to live in French. Likewise, we find it important that Quebec be active within the Ministerial Conference on the Canadian Francophonie, in order to increase cooperation with our government partners in the provinces and territories of Canada, and thus support their efforts in the offer of services in French, ”said Minister Cloutier.
This year&#39;s Conference was held under the theme Early Childhood Development: The Key to the Vitality of the French Language and French-Speaking Cultures.
Minister Cloutier presented the Quebec model for early childhood, recognized as one of the most avant-garde in the world. “This is one of the most important projects set up in Quebec to support families. It is thanks to the vision of a Parti Québécois government and the leadership of our Premier, Ms. Pauline Marois, then Minister of Families, that this program, which is an example of solidarity, was able to see the light of day ”, said the minister. He also learned, with interest, the practices and models presented by his counterparts and discussed the importance of early childhood for the Canadian Francophonie.
The ministers also discussed the impacts of the reform of Canada&#39;s immigration system on the communities. Minister Cloutier recalled that Quebec has signed a special agreement with the federal government on immigration and indicated that Quebec is open to exchanges of expertise in matters of reception, integration, retention and francization of immigrants.
Minister Cloutier presented to his colleagues the results of the Pan-Canadian Forum on Economic Development in the Canadian Francophonie, which was held in Gatineau in the fall of 2012. This forum enabled key players in the Francophone economic space from all territories and provinces to network and discuss. The Minister mentioned that he wishes to continue intergovernmental collaboration in this sector, in order to offer Francophone players in the business world and economic development a space for business development, consultation and the sharing of best practices in French.
Finally, the ministers discussed various important upcoming events for the Canadian Francophonie. Thus, jointly with his colleague from New Brunswick, the Minister presented the program for the 2014 World Acadian Congress and invited his counterparts to participate. Remember that this 5th edition of the Congrès mondial acadien will take place in Acadia, lands and forests, from August 8 to 24, 2014, and for the first time partly in Quebec.
