Winnipeg - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, wishes to express his disappointment following the meeting of the Federal-Provincial-Territorial Conference of Ministers responsible for transportation and road safety in Winnipeg.
“On the priorities identified for this meeting by the Quebec government, namely rail safety and transport infrastructure, the federal government refuses to commit. We remain in the greatest vagueness. This situation is of the most concern, ”lamented Minister Gaudreault.
Regarding rail safety, a subject that has taken on all its importance since the Lac-Mégantic tragedy, Quebec has expressed several demands to the federal government, in the spirit of the speed of execution of American elected officials on these matters. questions, including:
“These requests have found a certain resonance with a few provincial colleagues around the table. However, the federal government is slow to get to work to respond to our legitimate concerns about rail safety and the transportation of hazardous materials, ”said Mr. Gaudreault.
In terms of infrastructure financing, Quebec recalled that it would like its share of financing to be paid to it through a &quot;block&quot; transfer, in particular to avoid the delays resulting from the negotiation of a multitude of agreements and allow Quebec to determine the priorities for the use of federal funds in its territory. This transfer would also make it possible to speed up the start of projects and thus promote better support for economic growth.
Quebec is therefore not in favor of part of the funds being allocated on the basis of merit, since this process is unfair and allows the federal government to choose projects according to its own criteria and priorities. It asks that the jurisdictions of the provinces and territories in this area be respected.
&quot;The $ 660 million announced by Ottawa this week for the extension of the Toronto metro, from the new federal funds announced last spring, without the terms of these not being known by all the provinces, raise several questions regarding respect for the provinces&#39; jurisdiction in the area of transportation. We communicated these questions to the federal minister and we would like to obtain clarification from Ottawa on these programs as soon as possible, ”continued Mr. Gaudreault.
Finally, Quebec also recalled that any consultation of the federal government with the municipalities on its territory must be carried out through the government of Quebec.
