Quebec - At the end of a mission to Warsaw, where the 19th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (CoP19) was held from November 11 to 22, the Minister of Sustainable Development and the Environment , Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet is sorry for the little progress made in the negotiations given the importance of the stakes and the need to act quickly.
On the other hand, the Minister drew up a very positive assessment of the participation of the Quebec delegation, which made it possible to assert Quebec&#39;s leadership role in the fight against climate change. The Quebec carbon market and its link with that of California have in particular aroused a great deal of interest within the international community.
The Minister participated in various panels, delivered several speeches and led numerous bilateral meetings during CoP19. He presented the innovative initiatives put in place by Quebec to contribute to the global effort to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and adapt to the impacts of climate change, in particular the electrification strategy of transport announced recently by the Prime Minister.
The Minister delivered the opening remarks at an event organized by the International Carbon Action Partnership (ICAP) which brought together government representatives and experts to discuss the evolution of carbon markets set up in worldwide. The Minister presented the Quebec system and explained the steps that led to its connection with that of California. The latter will lead, from January 1, 2014, to the creation of the largest cross-border carbon market on our continent. “The Canadian framework imposes limits that are difficult to accept for Quebec, which is recognized as a leader in the environment. We must speak with our own voice, present our own proposals, and establish a credibility that distinguishes us and will serve us when we sit down as a country at the table of nations, ”explained Yves-François Blanchet.
Québec was thus able to be at the center of discussions led by major international organizations and networks, including The Climate Group, NRG4SD, The Climate Action Reserve and the International Emissions Trading Association, which promote the development of carbon markets. He was thus able to exchange directly with the environment ministers, among others from Scotland, Mr. Paul Wheelhouse, from Catalonia, Mr. Josep Eneric Llebot, from Wales, Mr. Alun Davies, from the German land Rhineland. -from North Westphalia, Mr. Joseph Remmel, from Canada, Ms. Leona Aglukkak, and of course from California, Mr. Matt Rodriquez.
“At the end of the discussions, I was able to observe that market mechanisms are increasingly considered to be one of the most effective tools for combating climate change and deploying adequate funding for measures to reduce GHG emissions and adaptation to the impacts of climate change. The forums I have had the chance to participate in have allowed me to highlight the importance of recognizing and including regional carbon markets, such as that of the Western Climate Initiative, in the next international climate regime that should be concluded in 2015, in Paris ”, explained the Minister.
The Minister also represented Quebec at the Francophone ministerial consultation organized by the International Organization of La Francophonie and moderated by the Institut de la Francophonie for sustainable development. This institute, whose secretariat is based in Quebec, is recognized by international scientific circles involved in environmental and energy issues. The Minister notably recalled the importance of these Francophone consultations in the context of the development of a new multilateral agreement on climate change.
“We came to Warsaw because we had a proposal, an example to offer to the international community, and we got there with success that has been welcomed on all sides. We also came to make sure that the voice of Quebec in Warsaw would be that of innovation and commitment, and not that of Canada, which is widely denounced, ”concluded the Minister.
