Quebec - Faced with the Prime Minister&#39;s stubbornness in not proposing solutions to resolve the impasse that has opposed his government to students for 79 days now, the leader of the official opposition and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, concludes that the only way to resolve the conflict is to call a general election.
“Jean Charest is clearly making political capital on the backs of the students. The Liberal government does not want to discuss or resolve the conflict. We proposed to open a dialogue with the students. We proposed to suspend the increase and we are still proposing the appointment of a mediator today as part of a motion that will be debated this afternoon in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, nothing works. The Prime Minister systematically refuses all solutions to resolve the crisis, ”lamented Pauline Marois.
The leader of the Parti Québécois today met with representatives of student associations along with the member for Taillon and official opposition spokesperson for higher education and loans and bursaries, Marie Malavoy, from the member for Terrebonne. and spokesperson for youth and student affairs, Mathieu Traversy, and the member for Rousseau and spokesperson for finance and economic development, Nicolas Marceau. Pauline Marois reiterated the Parti Québécois&#39; commitment to tuition fees.
“We make a formal commitment to cancel the drastic 82% tuition hike decreed by the government if Quebecers trust us in the next election. We will quickly hold a summit on higher education, ”she explained.
The summit on higher education will focus on the quality of teaching and research, the adequacy between training and the needs of the economy, the funding of the network of Quebec universities and the determination on the part of the State, student and private sector, university management and assessment of the overall costs of tuition fees, including related fees.
For the Leader of the Opposition, tuition fees should never be increased to a level higher than the cost of living, and this, as long as Quebec has not caught up with the Canadian average of the rate of graduation. For example, the graduation rate for men aged 25 to 34 in Quebec is 27% while it is 33% in Ontario. Among women of the same age, in Quebec it is 37% and in Ontario 41%.
Liberal governments are the champions of tuition fee increases. From 1990 to 1994, they increased them by 320%, from $ 500 to $ 1,600 per year. Then, since 2007, the fees have been increased by another 100 dollars per year. The governments of the Parti Québécois have never increased them, even in the days of the zero deficit.
“Education has always been a priority for the Parti Québécois. We want to increase the number of graduates in Quebec. Accessibility to higher education is influenced by tuition fees. The impact of the increases in the 1990s is directly reflected in the attendance rate. Education is the best collective investment we can make. The more graduates Quebec has, the richer our society will be, ”she explained, adding that the Ontario government has just reduced its tuition fees by 30% this year, despite a major budgetary austerity effort.
“Students should not pay the price for Jean Charest&#39;s stubbornness. We are in front of a cul-de-sac. Jean Charest said there would be an election when Quebecers were ready. Quebecers are ready. The Liberal government is running out of steam, it is worn out and has long lost the confidence of the people. The only way to resolve the impasse is to call a general election, ”said Pauline Marois, adding that several other issues will also be part of the next electoral campaign, including the management of natural resources, the defense of the interests of the country. Quebec, language and the question of integrity.
