Chicago - On the occasion of the International Congress of the Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO 2013) which takes place in Chicago from April 22 to 25, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, announces the participation of Quebec in the Massachusetts Life Sciences Center (MLSC) International Collaborative Industrial Program (ICIP). With a budget of $ 1.5 million, the CIPI aims to create collaborative industrial research partnerships between companies in Massachusetts and foreign companies, particularly Quebec ones, in the life sciences sector. The Government of Quebec is allocating $ 500,000 in support to the Quebec Consortium for Drug Discovery (CQDM) to fund partnership projects resulting from the CIPI.
Quebec&#39;s participation in ICIP follows on from the signing in 2009 of a joint declaration with the Massachusetts Office of International Trade and Investment on cooperation in research, science and technology between Quebec. and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. This declaration aims to promote collaboration and exchanges between universities, research institutions, public and private organizations, as well as companies in Quebec and Massachusetts in the life sciences sector.
“Quebec offers a dynamic environment adapted to the industry&#39;s new business model, a highly qualified workforce and advantageous tax measures that promote scientific and technological development. Funding for research and development initiatives through partnerships with companies in Massachusetts will position Quebec among the most dynamic regions in the world and strengthen research and innovation within Quebec companies. In addition, our participation in CIPI will consolidate ties between Quebec and the United States in the scientific field, as desired when signing the joint declaration, ”said Minister Marceau.
By participating in the CIPI, Quebec is positioning itself for the financing of initiatives chosen by call for projects in the sectors of biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, medical technologies and bioinformatics. The projects selected must demonstrate their potential in terms of scientific and economic benefits for Quebec, particularly in terms of the production of services, job creation and consolidation, as well as the training of highly skilled personnel and students. qualified.
&quot;This unique life sciences partnership between Quebec and Massachusetts makes it possible to take advantage of existing synergies between the two regions and opens the way to new opportunities for investment and collaboration in R&amp;D&quot;, declared Ms. Diane Gosselin, President and CEO of CQDM. “This brand new funding program marks a turning point for our organization, since it does not only target pre-competitive research projects. It is also in line with our mission to accelerate, through innovative actions, the drug discovery process. &quot;
The CQDM is a crossroads for all Quebec players in biopharmaceutical research. Its primary mission is to finance research projects carried out in partnership between academics and hospitals in the public sector and the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry in the private sector. An innovative initiative in Canada, the CQDM pursues a dual objective: to accelerate the drug discovery process and to develop safer and more effective drugs. The financing of its projects is made possible thanks, among others, to the contributions of the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology and several important companies, such as Pfizer Canada, AstraZeneca, Merck, Boehringer Ingelheim (Canada) Ltd., GlaxoSmithKline Inc., Eli Lilly Canada Inc., Novartis Pharmaceuticals Canada Inc.
Remember that BIO 2013 is the most important annual meeting in the biotechnology industry, with more than 16,000 delegates and more than 2,000 exhibitors from 65 countries. This international event is an opportunity to promote the Quebec life sciences industry and its environment conducive to foreign investment, as well as to mobilize industry stakeholders to increase business opportunities in the region. Quebec. Minister Marceau is accompanied by representatives of Quebec businesses and organizations in the life sciences sector, including the NéoMed Institute, a research consortium aimed at promoting the competitiveness of Quebec industry.
A research and innovation mission in the field of life sciences also takes place on the sidelines of the BIO 2013 congress in the presence of the chief scientist of Quebec, Mr. Rémi Quirion, as well as a delegation of organizations and institutions. of the Quebec innovation chain, including Génome Québec and CQDM.
