Quebec - The MNA for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, accompanied by the MNA for Jonquière and Parti Québécois spokesperson for municipal affairs and decentralization, Sylvain Gaudreault, the MNA for Gaspé and regional development spokesperson, Gaétan Lelièvre, as well as the member for Verchères and labor spokesperson, Stéphane Bergeron, addressed the members of the Fédération québécoise des municipalities.
“Municipal officials are essential partners in the construction of Quebec today and tomorrow. If I want to travel across Quebec, to take the pulse of each region, it is because I believe that as elected officials, our first duty is to listen to the women and men who live in our vast territory. There is no Quebec without its regions. Trust, respect and recognition form the basis of decentralization aimed at building strong and autonomous communities, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
Liberal government is going against the grain
“The Liberal government does not understand that local decisions must be made by those who have the capacity to assess the real needs of their fellow citizens. Of course, the Prime Minister had promised something else. But, with the Liberals, words fly away and the damage remains, ”continued the leader of the official opposition.
Pierre Karl Péladeau also recalled certain liberal cuts in local and regional development:
“The government has shown a staggering lack of vision with the abolition of regional conferences of elected officials, which notably supported organizations fighting against dropping out of school. The same lack of vision with the cuts made in the youth employment centers. It is exactly the same situation with the CLDs, which supported future entrepreneurs who, in turn, created wealth and jobs. Obviously, Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard wants to balance public finances on the backs of the regions. It does not propose any growth or development plan, or economic strategy, ”he added.
Transportation of hazardous materials
Pierre Karl Péladeau also noted the concerns of citizens about major projects for the transport of hazardous materials. “People feel abandoned because of the Liberal government&#39;s failure to respond to Ottawa&#39;s neglect. The federal government has long since abdicated its responsibilities with respect to transportation and its role of protecting the public. It is the municipalities that pay for this laxity. If the Energy East and Chaleur Terminals projects are successful, hundreds of municipalities will see the risk associated with transporting hazardous materials skyrocket. However, these projects do not offer any positive spinoffs for Quebec. That risks for our safety and our environment ”, he continued.
A new fiscal pact
“Under the new fiscal pact, the government keeps the revenues to itself, but it shovels the cuts in the heart of the regions. Broken promises, recurring cuts and the lack of an economic plan hurt the regions as much as municipal democracy. Whatever the government says, a loss of $ 850 million over 4 years is not a gain, ”added Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“Although some measures concerning labor relations appear attractive at first glance, I believe they should be approached with caution, with very great caution. It would be perilous to want to correct one imbalance by another. This risks creating more disruption, but not solving the problem, in addition to opening the door to a costly and endless proliferation of legal remedies and latent conflicts. Let us not forget that it is always the citizens who foot the bill. The government must provide candid and precise answers. But it looks like he&#39;s going to wait until next fall to do so. Until then, all kinds of legitimate concerns will arise. This is certainly not the climate in which we must evolve to ensure useful, efficient and harmonious economic development, ”concluded the leader of the official opposition.
