Quebec - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, gives a positive assessment of Quebec&#39;s presence at the International Congress of the Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO 2013), which took place this week in Chicago and to which he took part. BIO 2013 brought together more than 16,000 delegates and more than 2,000 exhibitors from the biotechnology industry from 65 countries. For the occasion, the Minister was accompanied, in particular, by representatives of Quebec businesses and organizations in the life sciences sector.
&quot;Our presence at BIO 2013 is an important step in consolidating the Quebec life sciences industry, at a time when Quebec is making an important shift by relying more on collaboration and partnerships in order to align itself with the new model. global industry business. This international congress is a platform of choice for promoting the Quebec biotechnology sector and for highlighting our competitive business environment conducive to investment, ”said the Minister.
A research and innovation mission in the field of life sciences also took place on the sidelines of the BIO 2013 congress, in the presence of the chief scientist of Quebec, Mr. Rémi Quirion, as well as a delegation of organizations and institutions in the Quebec innovation chain. Successful meetings have taken place with strategic institutions in Illinois, such as the Argonne National Laboratory, the University of Chicago, and Northwestern University. Links were also established with international partners from Quebec present at the congress.
The Minister took advantage of his presence at BIO 2013 to make public the terms of the Partnership Fund for an Innovative and Healthy Quebec, endowed with an envelope of $ 125 million, the creation of which was announced during the last speech on the budget. This fund aims to support partnership projects between biopharmaceutical companies and public research organizations. The Minister also announced the launch of the first call for proposals for projects funded under this new fund.
In addition, the Minister confirmed Quebec&#39;s participation in the International Collaborative Industrial Program (ICIP) of the Massachusetts Life Science Center (MLSC). With a budget of $ 1.5 million, the CIPI aims to create collaborative industrial research partnerships between companies in Massachusetts and foreign companies, particularly Quebec ones, in the life sciences sector. The Minister also announced the allocation of financial assistance of $ 500,000 to the Quebec Consortium for Drug Discovery (CQDM), which will have the mandate to finance partnership projects carried out within the framework of the CIPI.
“Our government has implemented important measures, such as the Partnership Fund for an Innovative and Healthy Quebec, to support the growth of Quebec&#39;s life sciences industry. This fund will help consolidate and increase our local expertise, in addition to making Quebec shine internationally. As for our participation in CIPI, it will allow us to position ourselves among the most dynamic regions in the world and to promote research and innovation within Quebec companies, ”added the Minister.
In addition, Merck Canada announced investments of $ 4 million in partnership projects with the Institute for Research in Immunology and Cancer - Commercialization of Research (IRICoR). Created in 2008 by the Institute for Research in Immunology and Cancer of the University of Montreal, IRICoR&#39;s mission is to accelerate the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative therapies and drugs from the University of Montreal. This announcement is a continuation of the investments, totaling $ 100 million and announced by the company in 2010, in biopharmaceutical research and development in Quebec.
“Our government is pleased to see that Merck Canada continues to invest in research and development in Quebec and that it is partnering with one of our flagships in public research. These investments confirm beyond any doubt the quality of Quebec research. Québec is recognized for its dynamic business environment adapted to the new industry model, as well as for its highly qualified workforce, which makes it a partner of choice, ”concluded the Minister.
The terms and forms for the call for proposals related to the Partnership Fund for an Innovative and Healthy Quebec are available on the website of the Ministère des Finances et de l&#39;Économie at the following address: www.economie.gouv. qc.ca/partenariats_sante.
