Montreal - “There is something extremely disturbing to hear today the Liberal government of Jean Charest announcing to us that it is starting to reflect on road congestion and public transport in the Montreal region. While Quebecers want a Prime Minister who has both hands on the wheel to deal with traffic congestion, they have a Prime Minister who has both feet on the brakes ”.
This is what the member for Gouin and official opposition spokesperson for transport, Nicolas Girard, said, reacting to the meeting called by the Premier of Quebec, Jean Charest, with several mayors and several ministers of his government. However, at the time of this meeting, the daily newspaper La Presse reveals to us today that the Charest government is slowing down public transport projects for the metropolis.
&quot;It is difficult to swallow the words of the Prime Minister today who tells Quebecers that he is concerned about the monster traffic jams they suffer daily and which may be more severe at the start of September when we learn at the same time it blocks the development of major projects that could have a positive impact to relieve Montreal&#39;s congestion. Boots do not follow the lips, ”deplores Nicolas Girard.
Road congestion, according to a study by the Chamber of Commerce of Metropolitan Montreal, represents an astronomical cost that exceeds $ 1.4 billion. The Parti Québécois reiterates the importance not of thinking, but of acting. “Concrete solutions exist, but the longer the government delays in applying them, the more the traffic congestion will be hellish for motorists and transit users. The future lies with public transit, but the Charest government is still in reflection mode. It doesn&#39;t make sense, ”he continued.
“The lack of decisions and actions risks having direct consequences for users. It is urgent to proceed with the construction of train stations, the repair of the metro, the purchase of new buses. We must immediately extend the metro and end with the East train. However, all this is compromised by the lack of vision of the Liberal government which imposes a moratorium on these essential projects, ”added Nicolas Girard.
Nicolas Girard finds particularly embarrassing the position in which the government of Quebec is placed vis-à-vis Ottawa to demand a new Champlain Bridge. &quot;Despite the many appeals, despite the motions of the National Assembly, despite the loud cries of the mayors, the deputies and the Premier of Quebec, the federal government does not budge, is silent and refuses to announce such a project, however essential. What more will it take for Quebec to make itself heard? Asks the member for Gouin.
