Quebec - “To learn that the next CIGRÉ Canada congress, which will take place next September in Montreal and to which Hydro-Quebec will actively contribute from an organizational point of view, will be held exclusively in English is hardly surprising; the weakness of the Liberal government in defending and promoting French in Quebec leads to this kind of ineptitude ”.
This is what the member for Drummond and official opposition spokesperson for language, Yves-François Blanchet, said after reading the headline of the daily Le Devoir this morning.
This congress, in which the major Quebec and Canadian electricity companies participate, has been held every year since 2006. The member is delighted that this congress is taking place in Quebec this year; however, he criticizes the Crown corporation for being unable to ensure respect for the official language of Quebec on Quebec territory. Remember that the principal director of the congress is also the principal director of IREQ and that Hydro-Québec will delegate 14 of its scientists and engineers to form the technical committee.
“All scientific communications that will be made during this congress will take place exclusively in English. No translation is planned and those who would like to express themselves in French are not welcome! All this with the assiduous complicity of Hydro-Québec and IREQ! The fact that English is the main international language of scientific communications and publications is one thing, but that Quebec researchers and scientists cannot express themselves in French in Quebec and that Hydro-Quebec actively participates in this discrimination. is not acceptable, ”continued Yves-François Blanchet.
“Once again, the government of Quebec lets one of its crown corporations convey the message that French is an obstacle to the development of Quebec, that our national language is a cumbersome accessory in the economic world. However, Hydro-Québec is the beacon of the Quiet Revolution, the economic affirmation of Quebecers, the legacy of René Lévesque, ”added the member for Drummond.
“Isn&#39;t the fact of being Francophone in Quebec in the process of becoming again, despite the achievements of the last 50 years, a diminished economic status? The Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Christine St-Pierre, has a duty today, she must intervene with Hydro-Quebec so that this congress, in French-speaking territory, also takes place in French ”, concluded Yves-François Blanchet.
