Québec, September 20, 2016 - On the first day of consultations and public hearings on Bill 99, dealing with youth protection, the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of social services, protection of youth, home care, public health and prevention, Jean François Lisée, admitted to the directors of youth protection (DYP) who came to testify in parliamentary committee that they are under &quot;enormous budgetary pressure&quot; caused by the cuts imposed by the Liberal government. These comments are those of Denis Baraby, DPJ of the CISSS des Laurentides.
“Furthermore, I was surprised and shocked to learn that native foster families do not have access to the same resources as other foster families in Quebec to take care of the children they host,” he said. declared Jean-François Lisée. The deputy assured the Council of the Atikamekw Nation that he was in solidarity with his demands and that he intended to pressure the government to act with fairness towards native foster families.
“The directors of youth protection admitted in parliamentary committee that the cuts of $ 20 million in the budget of youth centers, in 2015-2016, created great pressure and resulted in concrete impacts on the ground. They revealed, at the same time, that the abolition of the Association des centers jeunesse du Québec, in the wake of the adoption of Bill 10, had left a vacuum, and that it would be necessary to recreate a forum that allow the DYP to exchange and standardize practices. This is further proof of the failure of Minister Barrette&#39;s structural reform and its repercussions for the social services network. Unfortunately, we see that our concerns were well founded and that they are taking shape, ”continued the member for Rosemont.
“In light of this first day of consultations, I reiterate the requests I made to Minister Charlebois, Youth Protection delegate, last June: we must reinvest the $ 20 million slashed from the budgets of youth centers in 2015 2016, and give them back the autonomy they had before the Barrette reform, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
