B eaupré– As part of the Economic Policy Priority Employment, the Premier and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix? Côte-de-Beaupré, Pauline Marois, today announced the allocation of financial assistance of up to $ 3 million to the construction of a regional sports and recreation center in Beaupré.
&quot;This investment represents one of the ways in which the government encourages the population to cultivate a taste for movement and to feel challenged by the challenge that I collectively launched to us last year: that Quebec be, within ten years, among the fittest nations in the world, ”said the Premier.
The planned work, the cost of which is estimated at nearly $ 8 million, consists of constructing a building including, in particular, a gymnasium, offices, multipurpose rooms, a warehouse for sports equipment and other premises for various purposes. Another service building will also be set up for recreational activities and sports practiced outdoors.
This project was analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs.
Across Quebec, more than 80 projects for the construction, renovation, development and upgrading of sports and recreational facilities should materialize thanks to investments totaling $ 130 million. These sums come from a $ 50 million envelope allocated under the second component of the Sports and Recreational Facilities Support Program - Phase II of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. To this envelope is added additional assistance of $ 80 million to support the implementation of new projects now.
It should be noted that these investments are planned under the Economic Policy Priority Employment, recently presented by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau. This policy aims in particular to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, in the short and medium terms.
Of the approximately $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments intended to modernize sports and recreational infrastructures, some $ 401 million are devoted to making educational infrastructures in Quebec healthier places to learn. The completion of these projects should create around 3,500 jobs.
“This project will be an all-wood building, from the structure to the heating, and it will become a benchmark for an ecological multisport center in Quebec. Today is a great day for the people of Beaupré, who see the ecological and intergenerational multisport center project taking the road to realization, ”concluded the mayor of Beaupré, Michel Paré.
