Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Jean-François Lisée, and the Mayor of Montreal, Denis Coderre, participated the unveiling of a major real estate project in the heart of Montreal&#39;s Quartier des spectacles: the Carré Saint-Laurent.
Designed and built by the Société de développement Angus, a social economy enterprise, the mixed-use project will make it possible, in particular, to set up the Montreal offices of government departments on a single site, by leasing 14,000 m2.
“Our government is proud to allow this real estate project to be carried out in the heart of the Quartier des spectacles. Thanks to a long-term rental agreement, 700 state employees will be housed on one of the most emblematic arteries of Montreal and Quebec. This sector of Saint-Laurent Boulevard is in dire need of revitalization and the Carré Saint-Laurent project fully corresponds to the government&#39;s vision of strengthening and revitalizing the city&#39;s downtown core, ”said the Premier.
The Carré Saint-Laurent is a construction project of the Société de développement Angus which will revitalize the central and historic area of Faubourg Saint-Laurent. Located between Sainte-Catherine Street to the north, the Monument-National to the south, Saint-Laurent Boulevard to the west, and Clark Street to the east, the mixed-use project will include an office building , commercial and catering spaces as well as an entire floor dedicated to the cultural function. A residential building will also be built on the north island.
“The project will contribute, through its remarkable diversity, to the vitality of the district, proving to be an urban composition where it is possible to live, work, create and have fun in the city center. More than a simple real estate transaction, the objective is to create a lively and structuring urban island in the heart of this mythical sector of the metropolis, ”added Minister Jean-François Lisée.
The project cements a series of interventions aimed at revitalizing the sector, several of which have already been supported by government authorities. It is part of the work completed previously (Place des Festivals, Maison symphonique, Maison du développement durable, Le 2-22, on rue Sainte-Catherine), in progress (the Wilder building). , or in the process of being so (Esplanade Clark), to liven up this key sector of Montreal and invigorate its urban fabric.
The project is scheduled to start in the fall of 2014 and the offices will be available in 2017. The entire project will be completed in January 2018.
