Sherbrooke– On the occasion of his first national council as leader of the Parti Québécois, Pierre Karl Péladeau took stock of the action of the Government of Quebec and highlighted the deceptions of Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard.
“We have a date in 2018 to put Quebec back on the rails of growth, on the rails of equal opportunities, on the rails of equity and justice! Quebecers are capable of doing much more than the austerity to which Philippe Couillard and Martin Coiteux confine us. The strength of our convictions should motivate us to do more. We must go further. The preparation of our congress will lead us to innovate, to choose daring. I trust us. I have confidence in our great project and I have confidence in Quebecers, ”he said.
The 16 billion deception
&quot;Sixteen billion is the figure repeated over and over by the Prime Minister and which would correspond to the&quot; hole &quot;in public finances that would be caused by independence, as he says. It is on this figure that his federalist argument is based. Nothing is further from the truth, ”declared the leader of the Parti Québécois.
The Prime Minister takes this figure from the Quebec Economic and Revenue Accounts, page 59. At the bottom of the page, we read that the data comes from Statistics Canada. However, Statistics Canada has the following reservation: &quot;These statistics are sometimes used in an erroneous way to try to determine who are the net winners and losers within Confederation&quot;.
Statistics Canada has stopped producing these figures since 2009 due to methodological problems. Only the government of Quebec still pays to obtain discontinued information.
“Obviously the Prime Minister has not done his homework and prefers partisanship over truth. For our part, we have a real project that will allow us to recover the $ 50 billion and more that we send to Ottawa each year. A solid project, up to our ambitions and which will enrich Quebec: make Quebec a country! Added the leader of the Parti Québécois.
To the Prime Minister&#39;s &quot;real business&quot;, we answer with real numbers
“Prime Minister Philippe Couillard had promised to create wealth. Rather, it created a jobs crisis. In the past six months, Quebec has experienced 10,200 layoffs. With Premier Couillard, words fly away, but the damage remains. He doesn&#39;t understand anything about economics. Last Thursday, the Caisse de dépôt taught the Liberal government a whole lesson in finance: it reached an agreement with Bombardier including a guarantee, for Quebecers, of a return of at least 9.5% and obtaining the increase in value of a company that generates more than $ 6 billion in revenues and more than $ 600 million in operating profits. Meanwhile, we do not have the start of a disclosure on the ill-crafted transaction between the government, its Minister of the Economy and Bombardier. The Prime Minister must make the details of this transaction public, ”continued Pierre Karl Péladeau.
Recognized public services
“The austerity government has found $ 400 million more for doctors, while offering less than inflation to those who teach our children or care for our parents. There is something indecent about this double standard and the systematic downgrading of the role of the public service which the Liberal government is working on. Our public services have contributed to our emancipation, our enrichment and our affirmation. At the Parti Québécois, we believe in the fundamental role of women and men committed to serving the public. They deserve our recognition and our respect, ”said the leader of the Parti Québécois.
A dedicated team of MPs
“Our dedicated team of 29 MPs carry the voice of Quebecers with efficiency, compassion and determination in front of a government obsessed with dismantling the levers that have made our success. We have also made a commitment to be a source of proposals. I have just entrusted certain deputies with the mandate of leading action committees. These working groups will enrich our interventions with concrete proposals and they will help defend the interests of Quebecers even better. They will also enrich the work that will lead us to our next congress and the adoption of our new program, ”added Pierre Karl Péladeau.
Note that Nicolas Marceau will coordinate the economic action committee; Diane Lamarre will be responsible for the health committee; Alexandre Cloutier, from the education committee; Mathieu Traversy will be responsible for the environment committee; Carole Poirier, from the one on international relations; Maka Kotto is appointed head of the committee on cultural communities; and Véronique Hivon, head of the independence movements.
Presence of Ghislain Picard, Chief of the AFNQL
The Chief also highlighted the presence on the National Council of Ghislain Picard, Chief of the Assembly of First Nations of Quebec and Labrador. “I sincerely thank him for his presence. We had the opportunity to show our solidarity with aboriginal women and we reiterate our intention to collaborate in the search for solutions. We share with the First Nations our quest for freedom, the desire to preserve our language and our culture, and the determination to work for a more just and prosperous world, with respect for our nations, ”he concluded. .
