Lac-Simon - The Minister responsible for Native Affairs and Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Est, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, announced, on behalf of the Minister responsible for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the granting, by Investissement Québec, of a loan of $ 900,000 to the Wabak Solidarity Cooperative for the construction of a first food market in Lac-Simon and the implementation of a training program for young people of the Anishnabe community.
The store&#39;s opening, scheduled for spring 2014, required a total investment of $ 3.6 million. Minister Larouche took part in the groundbreaking ceremony on September 9th. She also announced the financial contribution of nearly $ 922,000 from the Native Initiatives Fund. The government&#39;s total contribution for this large-scale project is therefore $ 1,822,000, an amount to which is added a loan guarantee of $ 100,000 from the Native Initiatives Fund II.
“I am delighted that this project is coming to fruition in Lac-Simon,” said Minister Larouche. “When we know that residents have to drive several kilometers to stock up on basic products, the growing Anishnabe community will experience quite a revolution. I am sure that this project will contribute to the economic and social development of this community and improve the quality of life of its residents. &quot;
The Wabak Solidarity Cooperative was founded in 2012 with the aim of offering the residents of Lac-Simon an “express” cooperative for the supply of food, non-prescription pharmacy products and hardware items. The growing population does not have a commercial offer nearby; residents must go to Val-d&#39;Or, 37 km from Lac-Simon, to do their shopping.
&quot;Our government is proud to support social economy enterprises that work for the good of their members,&quot; Minister Zakaïb underlined. “Above all, we are proud to support this local initiative, which will have a positive impact on the economy of an entire community by creating several jobs and allowing young people to follow vocational training while being supported and supervised. &quot;
The start-up project also aims to set up a vocational training program to improve the chances of success of young people in the community of Lac-Simon and their level of employability. The 450-hour training, excluding the hardware component, is supervised and paid for by the Kijîtowin Commission and the Wabak Solidarity Cooperative project monitoring committee and is divided into several components. It will thus make it possible to obtain various certificates of vocational studies (AEP) in food trade, retail trade, butcher&#39;s shop, bakery and more.
&quot;Thanks to the participation of Investissement Québec, we will be able to complete our financial package and realize this promising project for the Anishnabe community, both in terms of the commercial offer and that of the employability of our young people&quot; , explained Mr. Serge Maillé, management and project management consultant working in close collaboration with the Wabak Pimadizi Economic Development Corporation.
About Investissement Québec Investissement Québec&#39;s mission is to promote the growth of investment in Québec, thereby contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The Company provides businesses with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity investments, to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, she is responsible for administering tax measures and prospecting for investments abroad.
