Montreal - Invited to deliver a speech to members of the Quebec Business Council for the Environment (CPEQ), the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, presented its vision of a relationship of partners between environmental and economic circles, primarily businesses and the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP).
Yves-François Blanchet also discussed the work of the Advisory Committee on Administrative Processes in Environmental Matters directed at the MDDEFP with a view to obtaining efficiency gains, reducing the time it takes to issue authorizations and improving predictability at the Ministry, for the benefit of economic development and without compromise in terms of environmental protection. “Environmental regulations are one of the great achievements of Quebec society,” explained Minister Blanchet, “but their application has grown heavier with the additions and modifications. The economic reality of Quebec and a much better knowledge of the issues and the procedures lead us to believe that the process can be lightened without this presenting an increased danger to our natural environments ”. The committee is made up of people from the Department and high-level representatives from Quebec&#39;s major economic sectors.
In the same vein, on Monday, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, announced an investment of $ 10 million over five years, through the Northern Development Fund, so that the Department deploys more human and technical resources. On the other hand, the MDDEFP will ensure equally rigorous and faster processing of environmental authorization requests for mining development projects. This project, devised by Ministers Marceau and Blanchet at the beginning of the spring, quickly saw the light of day thanks to a joint desire by virtue of which Minister Blanchet undertook to reduce the deadlines for issuing certifications by at least 20%. authorization. “A reflection on the regulations, the procedures and the allocation of resources was necessary, explained Yves-François Blanchet. We cannot watch the North of Quebec open up to development without offering the services of the MDDEFP upstream and in support. From now on, I want our teams to be perceived and received as partners ”.
In conclusion, the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks insisted on his desire to base his decisions on science and knowledge so that the days when the economy opposed the economy are over. and ecology, seeing rather in the economic potential of the environmental sector the most interesting way to prosperity and sustainable development.
