Yamachiche - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced to Yamachiche the allocation of a non-repayable financial contribution and an interest-free loan totaling $ 750,000 to the Group RCM, a social economy enterprise specializing in recycling which employs people with physical or intellectual limitations.
The RCM Group&#39;s project is to form a new legal entity, Soleno-RCM, which will integrate the assets of the Yamachiche Division in partnership with the Soleno company of Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu.
The support of the Government of Quebec consists, on the one hand, of a grant of $ 500,000 for the creation of the partnership and the purchase of equipment and machinery and, on the other hand, of a loan of $ 250,000. to support the working capital of the RCM Group during the transition period.
“The social economy is the real spearhead of our economy and represents a sustainable way of creating wealth and jobs in Quebec,” declared Élaine Zakaïb. “That&#39;s why it&#39;s up to the state to support this kind of initiative. By supporting the revival of the RCM Group, our government is encouraging the growth, in a field of the future, of a dynamic social economy enterprise, while promoting the integration of employees with special needs. &quot;
Founded in 1981, Groupe RCM inc. is a non-profit organization specializing in the recovery and transformation of recyclable materials and whose mission is to create jobs for people with physical or intellectual limitations. This social economy enterprise has four divisions (two factories in Yamachiche, a workshop in Trois-Rivières and a sorting center in Saint-Étienne-des-Grès) which generate 183 jobs in Quebec.
&quot;Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec and our partnership agreement with Soleno, we will be able to maintain the activities that provide employment for our 76 employees at the Yamachiche plant,&quot; said the President and CEO of the RCM Group. , Mr. Michel Camirand. “Soleno-RCM&#39;s training will allow us to combine our expertise with that of the Soleno company in order to position ourselves favorably in a sector of the future. &quot;
“The objective pursued by our board of directors has always been to safeguard jobs reserved for people with constraints or functional limitations,” said the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the RCM Group, Mr. Yvon Picotte. “It is therefore with relief and great enthusiasm that our employees learned the news of the relaunch of our company. &quot;
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
