Montreal - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, and the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Mr. Jean- François Lisée, announced the allocation of financial assistance of $ 125,000 to the Council of Fashion Designers of Quebec (CCMQ) for the holding of the Cabinet Éphémère event, which will take place from September 4 to 8.
The Ephemeral Cabinet | Nomadic Creators Boutique is a promotional and commercial event created for professional buyers and the general public. This pilot project showcases the work of some twenty Quebec fashion designers, including Marie Saint Pierre, Harricana and Philippe Dubuc. The quality of the presentation and the notoriety of the participants will allow designers to present and offer their collections in a world-class context.
This event will also be an exceptional place of exchange thanks to its “fashion creation break” component, during which the general public will be invited to spontaneous meetings with the designers during the lunch break or after work.
&quot;The creativity and inventiveness of Quebec designers are assets on which the fashion and clothing industry must rely,&quot; said Ms. Zakaïb. “We hope that the results of this pilot project, designed to meet the specific needs of creators, will also be able to provide food for thought concerning the implementation of the recommendations of the Fashion working group in terms of promotion for the entire industry. From now on, this project will provide creators with great business opportunities and showcase their talent. &quot;
&quot;The Quebec fashion industry brings together many dynamic and efficient companies that play a key role in the design, manufacture, marketing and distribution of products,&quot; said Mr. Lisée. “Cabinet Éphémère will be a great opportunity to highlight the rich potential of Quebec designers. This event will also allow them to explore new markets on the world stage. &quot;
The CCMQ is a non-profit professional association created in 2011. This group, which is dedicated to designers and their work, promotes excellence in the fashion industry. It actively supports the business development of more than 130 entrepreneurs. A focal point for established and emerging brands, the CCMQ is committed to promoting Quebec fashion design here and abroad.
“Cabinet Éphémère is an initiative led by creators, a way of reaching out to their audiences. It is inspired by the best practices observed elsewhere in the world, ”said Ms. Saint Pierre, president of the CCMQ. “The creators wanted to present to the general public and to buyers an unusual point of sale and to offer exclusive capsule collections for a short period, all in a stimulating and international context. We have gathered around this project a team of creatives from various backgrounds to give fashion its rightful place as a cultural hub. Without the financial support of the Government of Quebec, this project would never have seen the light of day. This concept can be exported, in variable formats, on the occasion of fashion weeks or other cultural events. &quot;
The Ministry of Finance and the Economy contributed to the realization of this project by offering financial support of $ 100,000 from the Support Program for the Development of Strategic Sectors and Niches of Excellence. For its part, the Ministry of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade provided assistance of $ 25,000.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
