Baie-Comeau– The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, and the MNA for René-Lévesque and MNA responsible for the Côte-Nord region, Marjolain Dufour, announced an agreement major with Alcoa, which will allow the company&#39;s activities to be maintained in Quebec for a minimum period of 15 years and thus consolidate 3,000 direct jobs.
&quot;I am particularly proud of the conclusion of this agreement, which marks a new start in our relationship with Alcoa, in addition to ensuring the sustainability of its activities in Quebec and the maintenance of quality jobs in our regions for a period of at least 15 years, ”said Pauline Marois.
“Our companies specializing in production and processing have developed know-how that greatly contributes to our economic growth and the deployment of our exports,” added Minister Martine Ouellet.
The Government of Quebec and Alcoa are resolutely turned towards the future. In a context where the primary aluminum industry is going through a difficult period, the reopening of the agreement concluded in 2008 was necessary. This new agreement between Alcoa, Hydro-Québec and the Government of Quebec aims to:
&quot;Our government is banking on its transport electrification strategy to mobilize many players, such as Alcoa, around an ambitious and promising vision for the future,&quot; added Pauline Marois. We want to use this new agreement as a springboard to make Quebec a world leader in electric transportation. The company will provide its know-how for the design of lightweight vehicles using aluminum, by participating, among other things, in the development and growth of projects sponsored by our centers of expertise. &quot;
Alcoa and its partner Phinergy recently signed a collaboration agreement to jointly develop a new battery, running on air and aluminum, with the objectives of increasing the autonomy of electric vehicles and serving as a energy reserve in multiple applications.
“Many innovations are expected in the automotive sector over the next few years,” said Martine Ouellet. And Quebec, as part of its transportation electrification strategy, relies on the capacity to innovate of its dynamic companies, such as Alcoa, to distinguish itself. The recent announcements by car manufacturers also mark a significant shift towards the intensive use of aluminum in the mass transport sector. &quot;
&quot;This agreement is beneficial for both Quebec and Alcoa, which thus reiterates its long-term commitment with Quebec,&quot; concluded Pauline Marois. With $ 4.7 billion in exports in 2012, primary aluminum is a major economic driver. The Alcoa company represents more than a third of Quebec&#39;s aluminum production; it is therefore essential to ensure the continuation of its activities. And, with this deal, that&#39;s exactly what we&#39;re doing. &quot;
Alcoa is one of the world&#39;s leading aluminum producers. The company&#39;s activities are spread over three aluminum plants (Baie-Comeau, Deschambault and Bécancour) and three aluminum processing plants (Bécancour, Laval and Pointe-Claire). Alcoa Canada&#39;s head office is located in Montreal.
