Mont-Laurier– The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and the Member of Parliament for Labelle and responsible for the Laurentides region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, announce the consolidation of the Medicine Unit family (UMF) des Hautes-Laurentides, affiliated with the University of Montreal.
“Our government is committed to improving the accessibility of care and services by consolidating the first line and increasing the number of family physicians. This announcement is precisely in line with this objective, since this consolidation will support both the training efforts of the Université de Montréal network and the service offer to the population of the territory, ”declared Minister Hébert.
The UMF will benefit from an expansion project for the building that it occupies jointly with the Center local de services communautaire (CLSC) de Mont-Laurier since 2012. To support this expansion project of 171.5 m2 and to consolidate the activities of the UMF, the Department grants the Laurentian Health and Social Services Agency a non-recurring amount of $ 93,000 which will be used to acquire equipment and furniture, as well as for various expenses IT and telephony related. This amount is therefore in addition to the maximum annualized allocation of $ 475,000 that it allocates to the UMF for its human resources and various other functional expenses.
“Our government is following through on its commitment with a wise choice. In addition to contributing more significantly to the training of the next generation in medicine and the health sciences, which will benefit the entire Quebec population in the longer term, the consolidation of this UMF will promote, here and now, the efficiency and quality of the care and services it offers to the people of the region, ”for his part, said Mr. Pagé.
Currently, about 45% of medical students go into family medicine, while 55% go into other specialties. The consolidation of this UMF is part of the government&#39;s desire to increase the number of graduates in family medicine in order to reverse these proportions, and thus better meet the current and future health needs of Quebec society.
