Quebec - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announces the holding of a public consultation in order to allow citizens and the main actors in land transport of people to &#39;&#39; express their vision on various orientations for the development of the Québec Sustainable Mobility Policy.
&quot;This consultation will guide us in the development of a long-awaited policy, which will place users at the heart of the actions that we deem necessary to undertake by 2020. We hope the participation of all those who want Quebec is clearly committed to sustainable mobility and energy independence, ”said Mr. Gaudreault.
The public consultation will take the form of meetings with the main partners in public transport, land use planning, the environment and transport electrification. These meetings will take place in Longueuil on May 23 and 24, 2013, and in Quebec City on May 27 and 28. Five themes will then be addressed, namely:
At the same time, the Ministry will hold a consultation which will also begin on May 23. Citizens and organizations will be able to take the opportunity to express themselves by submitting a brief or by filling out a consultation form which will be posted online. Individuals or organizations interested in providing their opinion will have until June 21 to do so.
Remember that the Québec Sustainable Mobility Policy should be tabled at the end of 2013, with a view to implementation as of 2014. It will take over from the Québec Public Transport Policy. The new policy will aim in particular to improve the offer of public transport services throughout Quebec.
“The challenge facing us is important: the entry into force of this new policy will finally allow Quebec to enter the 21st century in terms of public transit. It is in this spirit that I invite all individuals and organizations who see this policy as a model for the future of Quebec&#39;s development to share with us the results of their reflections. I am convinced that together we will succeed in making judicious, imaginative and daring choices, ”concluded the Minister of Transport.
Consult the consultation document prepared on the sidelines of the upcoming consultation meetings and visit the website www.mtq.gouv.qc.capo for details on the online consultation.
