Quebec, February 13, 2021 - In the wake of the revelations according to which the CISSS de Chaudière-Appalaches illegally awarded $ 8.8 million in contracts to the Manoir Liverpool, in 2016 and 2017, the member for Jonquière and spokesperson for Parti Québécois pour le Conseil du trésor, Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the MP for Duplessis and spokesperson for seniors, Lorraine Richard, are calling for the intervention of the Auditor General of Quebec (VGQ), as well as an independent public inquiry on how the pandemic was managed in nursing homes for the elderly.
IN SHORT
Indeed, if one relies on the conclusions of the Autorité des marchés publics (AMP), which looked into the case, the CISSS de Chaudière-Appalaches would not have complied with the Act respecting contracting bodies. and its provisions, put in place following the Charbonneau commission. “To sum up, the Liverpool Manor did not qualify for government contracts because it had not received the authorization certifying its integrity. Nevertheless, the CISSS, for a reason which remains to be clarified, decided to grant it to him. This situation is anything but acceptable, especially since it comes on top of the report of the ill-treatment suffered by the residents of the establishment for years. There is certainly something for the Auditor General to investigate, ”said the member for Jonquière.
The Parti Québécois also questions the comments made by the Minister of Health, Christian Dubé, when asked to what extent the CEOs of the CISSS and CIUSSS should be held responsible in such circumstances. “He responded, far too broadly, that all organizations must play by the rules. Is. But what does he have to say specifically about the CEO of the CISSS de Chaudière-Appalaches and the role he played in this awarding of apparently fraudulent contracts? Should we remind him that this same person is now responsible for the Quebec vaccination campaign against COVID-19? These questions interest a lot of people… ”, added Sylvain Gaudreault.
Seniors: a public inquiry into the management of the pandemic is more necessary than ever
“The gray areas, the questions, the uncertainty, the worry, that&#39;s enough! The VGQ must shed light on the Manoir Liverpool case and, more broadly, we must also move forward with an independent public inquiry into how the COVID-19 pandemic was managed in CHSLDs and RPAs , as we have been demanding for several months now, ”for her part insisted Lorraine Richard.
