Quebec - The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, and the Minister responsible for Government Administration and President of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, announce the tabling of Bill 61. This bill This law proposes new means to recover sums unfairly paid by public bodies to companies operating in the construction industry.
&quot;We are once again sending out a clear signal that our government is taking all necessary means to recover the sums overpaid when awarding or executing contracts in the field of construction,&quot; said Minister Bertrand St -Arnaud.
First, the bill will allow the government to sue for damages following wrongdoing, on behalf of and with the collaboration of public bodies and municipalities. This will prevent the multiplication of appeals in several judicial districts with regard to the same company and for fundamentally similar acts. The result will be a more efficient use of the collective resources of government, public bodies and municipalities, as well as lower costs.
The bill also proposes changes to extend the limitation periods. Thus, the government could claim damages caused during a period of 15 years preceding the adoption of the bill and within 5 years following its entry into force.
Finally, following the demonstration of a fault committed by a company, the bill provides that the government could rely on a presumption of damage. Thus, it would be up to the company to demonstrate the exact amount of the damage caused, otherwise it would be at least condemned to the damage established according to a percentage determined by the government.
Another aspect of the bill, a reimbursement program will be offered to businesses to allow the government to quickly recover the sums collected in excess. This program will be administered by a neutral and independent person and will be offered for a limited period, after which legal action may be taken. The conditions of this program will be published in the Gazette officielle du Québec.
“The bill will allow businesses to reimburse sums unfairly collected as a result of reprehensible acts, and thus avoid being sued in civil proceedings. At the same time, we are offering them the opportunity to demonstrate their real desire to make amends and achieve the high standards of integrity that Quebecers are entitled to expect. But it is important to mention that in no case will this participation in the program result in an amnesty for people who have taken actions that could lead to criminal prosecution, ”added Minister Stéphane Bédard.
The sums recovered, both within the framework of the reimbursement program and after civil proceedings, will be distributed to public bodies in proportion to their loss, after deduction of the costs linked to the implementation of the bill.
