Québec - Following Hydro-Québec&#39;s decision to open its pylon supply contracts internationally, the member for Marie-Victorin and official opposition spokesperson for energy and resources, Bernard Drainville, and the member for Saint-Jérôme and spokesperson for the economy, entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports, Pierre Karl Péladeau, urge the Liberal government to demand that Hydro-Québec &#39;&#39; it maintains the expertise and hundreds of jobs associated with the supply of strategic equipment in Quebec.
Several SMEs offering well-paid jobs are threatened by this Hydro-Québec decision. We are talking about nearly 1,000 people in the Montérégie, Center-du-Québec and Capitale-Nationale regions who could see their jobs disappear.
“Hydro-Québec, like the Caisse de dépôt, has an economic mission that it must not forget. The expertise that we, our companies and our workers have developed over the years must be retained. We must not lose this strength or these jobs, ”said Bernard Drainville.
Liberal inaction must end “Is it really profitable for Quebec to send the profits generated abroad, when we have the power to find formulas that will enrich Quebecers? The Liberals&#39; inaction on the economic front has already resulted in a record loss of jobs in Quebec. Before the situation gets worse, the government still has time to intervene to defend the interests of Quebec, ”declared Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“The CAQ has always opposed Hydro-Québec&#39;s involvement in the economic development of the regions; for example, it is against the development of a sector specializing in wind power. Will she still abandon Quebec SMEs and the hundreds of workers they hire today? », Concluded Bernard Drainville.
Let us recall that within the framework of the negotiation of the free trade agreement with Europe, the government of the Parti Québécois made sure to preserve the right of Quebec to adopt or maintain any measure encouraging local subcontracting. in the case of construction contracts awarded by Hydro-Québec, namely with regard to pylons, turbines, transformers, electric wires as well as electricity distribution or control devices.
