Quebec - “By awarding this contract to Landis + Gyr, Hydro-Quebec is failing in its mission of economic development in Quebec. This company intends to create only 75 jobs and assemble smart meters in Mexico. However, other Quebec consortia were in line to win this contract in order to develop technology here in Quebec and create many more jobs ”.
This is what the member for Jonquière and official opposition critic for energy, Sylvain Gaudreault, said when he learned that Hydro-Québec employees want to force the crown corporation to shut down. explain to the Régie de l&#39;énergie on the contract awarded to Swiss supplier Landis + Gyr for smart meters, a contract worth $ 350 million.
He criticizes the Minister of Natural Resources, Nathalie Normandeau, for acting as spokesperson for Hydro-Québec and for not playing her role as minister. &quot;By rambling on the same explanations as Hydro-Québec and Thierry Vandal, Minister Normandeau is complicit in a Crown corporation which is making the role it must play in economic and technological development second rank,&quot; said continued Mr. Gaudreault.
Thus, the Parti Québécois could ask Hydro-Quebec to come and explain itself to a parliamentary committee. &quot;Because Minister Normandeau is incapable of understanding the issues and she keeps telling us that the Crown corporation is also accountable to parliamentarians, we must therefore assume that the Liberal government could say yes to a convocation of a parliamentary committee. . This is why we are seriously considering this possibility, indicated the member for Jonquière. Let us not forget that this decision affects 800 families across Quebec; Hydro-Quebec must come and explain its long-term vision to us because, at present, it looks like sub-contracting and secret privatization, ”he added.
&quot;It is not too late for Hydro-Quebec customers to obtain better spinoffs than what Landis + Gyr is offering in Quebec with this contract in its current form,&quot; concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
