Québec– Martine Ouellet, Member of Parliament for Vachon and Official Opposition Critic for Transport, Maritime Strategy and Transportation Electrification, Member for Saint-Jérôme and Economy Critic, entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports, Pierre Karl Péladeau, as well as the member for Verchères and spokesperson for Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, deplore the fact that Quebec is not getting its fair share of federal contracts for shipbuilding, while the Davie shipyard only received a $ 13.6 million contract.
“The federal government provides more than $ 100 billion for the construction and maintenance of ships. The initial contract for the construction is worth 33 billion, an amount to which is added maintenance and any additional costs. Quebec gets a meager $ 13.6 million and the Liberal government is happy, as if we really got our fair share. On more than 100,000 million dollars in contracts, Quebec obtains 13.6, or 0.01%, while it pays 20% of the bill. Does the Liberal government think this is fair for our economy and for our workers? », Declared Martine Ouellet.
“Obviously, a contract at the Davie shipyard is good news for the workers. However, the Liberals did nothing to ensure that Quebec got its fair share of this amount of over $ 100 billion; What does Minister Jacques Daoust say to these workers to justify his inaction? It is quite heartbreaking to see him rejoice in this way, when Quebec has missed out on several billion dollars, ”added Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“The examples follow one another and demonstrate unequivocally that the Liberal government of Philippe Couillard is Canadian first! While he should stand up and intervene loud and clear for Quebec, he is rather round back, leaving Ottawa to give the contracts to other shipyards. He even goes so far as to rejoice! Federalism, according to Philippe Couillard, is the outright abandonment of the defense of Quebec&#39;s interests, ”continued Stéphane Bergeron.
&quot;Let&#39;s just imagine all the quality jobs that we could have created in Quebec if, instead of giving our share, that is, a sum of more than $ 20 billion, to the federal government to finance construction and maintenance contracts ships, we spent this money within an independent Quebec, ”concluded the deputies.
