Quebec - The deputy for Îles-de-la-Madeleine, Ms. Jeannine Richard, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, the allocation of $ 30,000 in financial assistance to the Magdalen Islands Animal Production Solidarity Cooperative. This financial assistance aims to support the Cooperative in the pursuit of its activities, which it has been carrying out for almost 15 years now.
&quot;It is important for me to support Quebec companies which, like the Coopérative de solidarité en production Animale des Îles-de-la-Madeleine, form the nucleus of the bio-food industry in their region,&quot; the Minister stressed.
“I am pleased today to announce financial support for a local business. This cooperative is at the heart of animal production in the Magdalen Islands, since around fifty different products are processed and manufactured there, ”said Ms. Richard.
The Magdalen Islands Animal Production Solidarity Cooperative is the only type A-1 slaughterhouse in the entire Magdalen Islands archipelago, which makes it an essential link in the region&#39;s animal industry. In fact, nearly 40% of agricultural businesses in this territory use the slaughtering services offered by the Cooperative to successfully market their products.
&quot;Through its activities in the field of processing, but also because it offers a sustainable method of transformation, the Îles-de-la-Madeleine Solidarity Animal Production Cooperative is participating in the development of a prosperous biofood sector. which fits perfectly with the objectives of the Government of Quebec&#39;s Food Sovereignty Policy, ”added Mr. Gendron.
To learn more about the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can consult the blog (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or the Internetwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA) website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and of Food. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
