Québec, December 13, 2019 - Sylvain Gaudreault, the member for Jonquière and Parti Québécois spokesperson for energy, the environment and the fight against climate change, gives a very positive assessment of his mission in Spain, the COP25 in Madrid as well as in Catalonia.
IN SHORT
“Before leaving for COP25, I said that the priority of the Parti Québécois would be to highlight the importance of a just ecological transition; in other words, we need to make sure that no worker is left behind because of changing practices. Now, we are obviously in the right place; everyone was talking about it, at the COP, this year! Therefore, we ask the Government of Quebec to draw up a portrait of the impacts of the ecological transition and the opportunities it creates. To do this, it must give a mandate to this effect to the Commission des Partenaires du marché du travail, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
He said he was very happy to have been able to meet many Quebec representatives from the business world and the green technology industry at COP25. “Their presence demonstrates our leadership in this area. This is an incredible opportunity to create sustainable jobs in Quebec, especially in our regions, ”he added.
However, the spokesperson expressed a certain skepticism with regard to the position of the Government of Quebec on the environment. “Minister Benoit Charette is only confused when he discusses raising Quebec&#39;s GHG reduction targets. We do not even know if his speech refers to 2030 or 2050… In addition, we are disappointed with the progress of the negotiations concerning the recognition of the gains made in terms of GHG reduction from the carbon market; they are very difficult. At the Parti Québécois, we believe that Quebec must go further and adopt a carbon budget, a measure that already exists in several countries. To do this, we could adopt the bill on compliance with Quebec&#39;s climate obligations that I presented, ”he recalled.
In addition, Sylvain Gaudreault took advantage of his visit to Spain to visit several Catalan separatists imprisoned near Barcelona. “I assured them of our solidarity, reminded them of the unanimous motion adopted in the National Assembly denouncing the highly unfair treatment they are subjected to. They are very grateful to know that we are by their side, ”said the member for Jonquière in closing.
