Montreal - The Parti Québécois candidates in Marie-Victorin, Gouin and Chambly, Bernard Drainville, Nicolas Girard and Bertrand St-Arnaud, have made public a new case of favoritism affecting the Catania family. The government of Jean Charest sold by mutual agreement to the F. Catania Foundation land intended to erect a community center in Brossard. Instead, the land was sold to a developer who built condominiums. “With the government&#39;s approval, the public treasury lost $ 1 million to the benefit of the founding of an entrepreneur near the Liberal government. It is extremely disturbing, ”indicated Bernard Drainville.
In February 2008, Fatima Houda-Pepin announced the construction of a community center on land owned by the Riverside School Board. In July 2008, the land was sold by mutual agreement, with the approval of the Minister of Education, to the F. Catania Foundation, which was to build a community center there. In September 2008, the Minister of Municipal Affairs announced $ 3.8 million in aid to the F. Catania Foundation for the construction of the community center. In July 2009, the land was sold to Broad Investments inc. with a profit of $ 1 million. Condos were finally erected in place of the community center. In 2008, the leaders of Frank Catania Construction gave at least $ 40,000 in donations to the Liberal Party of Quebec, according to what we could identify.
“This is another case of favoritism for friends of the Liberal Party who were able to make a profit of $ 1 million quickly. It is a very profitable return on investment for the Catania family, obtained from public funds, ”said Bernard Drainville, recalling that this company was subsequently the subject of criminal charges.
“The Liberal government&#39;s record is inglorious when it comes to ethics. Thanks to the hard work of the Parti Québécois, files such as the liberal daycare scandal, collusion in the construction industry, FIERs, partisan appointments, judicial appointments, questionable fundraising activities by ministers, the salary of $ 75,000 paid by the Liberal Party to the Prime Minister have been revealed. “It was the Parti Québécois that brought to light several scandals of the Liberal government of Jean Charest. It is the Parti Québécois which, on September 5, will restore ethics as it did in 1976 and 1994, ”said Nicolas Girard.
The Parti Québécois is proposing a series of measures to clean up political mores. Funding for political parties will become public and donations to political parties will be limited to $ 100 per person. Fixed-date general elections will be established. The number of consecutive terms of the Prime Minister will be limited to two and the number of consecutive terms of mayors of municipalities with more than 5,000 inhabitants will be limited to three. The mandate of the Auditor General of Quebec will be extended to Crown corporations. A law protecting public service whistleblowers will be passed. Finally, severance bonuses for deputies who leave during their mandate without a legitimate reason will be abolished.
“We present concrete and daring measures to put an end to corruption and collusion in order to restore the public&#39;s confidence in our institutions. We have a competent team that knows how the state works and that will be able to quickly implement these measures as of September 5. To clean up and flush out all the nests of corruption, it takes a team with unwavering will to make it happen. One man&#39;s work is not enough. To eradicate corruption, a whole team is needed. The only team combining experience, expertise and determination is that of the Parti Québécois, ”concluded Bertrand St-Arnaud.
