Québec– Sylvain Pagé, the member for Labelle and official opposition spokesperson for healthy lifestyles, leisure and sports, and the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for prevention, Jean-François Lisée , invite the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Yves Bolduc, to move more on the fight against obesity and to endow Quebec with a national policy on sport, recreation and physical activity that will have a real vision for Quebec society.
“We are very concerned about the economic and human consequences associated with obesity and overweight in Quebec; We once again invite Minister Bolduc to urgently tackle this issue, which affects not only the health of Quebecers, but also the health of our public finances. The latest report from the Institut national de santé publique du Québec estimates the costs directly associated with obesity at $ 1.5 billion per year, an amount to which must be added losses in productivity and absenteeism at work. This is an unacceptable situation and calls for action, ”said Sylvain Pagé.
“The Minister must table a national sports, leisure and physical activity policy which will be far-reaching and which will dare to challenge all the ministries of his government. We are expecting an ambitious action plan that will make Quebec one of the fittest nations in the world, ”continued the deputies.
Remember that in June 2014, Minister Bolduc hastened to highlight the &quot;extraordinary work&quot; of the Parti Québécois to prepare for the tabling of an ambitious policy to promote healthy lifestyles among Quebecers. “The minister said he shared our big goal and promised to table the policy in the fall of 2014. We are approaching the spring of 2015 and, after many questions on this subject, we are still waiting. When will the minister finally act? », Asked Sylvain Pagé.
“Rather than undertaking a reform of health structures that nobody wants and slashing public health budgets, the government should focus on the real issues that will save it significant amounts of money. In fact, we know that every dollar invested in promoting healthy lifestyles brings in three. More specifically when it comes to obesity, the return on investment is $ 1.20 for every dollar invested. What is the government waiting for to act and invest in prevention, rather than making cuts that will have negative impacts from all points of view, and in the long term? », Concluded Jean-François Lisée.
