The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, accompanied by François Gendron, outgoing MP for Abitibi-Ouest, and candidates Élizabeth Larouche (Abitibi-Est), Sylvain Vachon (Abitibi ‑ Ouest) and Gilles Chapadeau (Rouyn-Noranda– Témiscamingue), is committed to revitalizing the regions of Quebec, in particular by fighting against the exodus of young people and by ensuring that more newcomers settle there.
IN SHORT
The Parti Québécois government is committed to:
Curb the exodus of young people to large centers
“A territory is alive when young families live there. However, at present, the migratory results of the regions are not encouraging; young people are more inclined to favor urban centers. To help reverse this trend, we will improve the non-refundable tax credit granted to young graduates who start their careers in a remote resource region; the maximum reimbursable will be increased from $ 10,000 to $ 15,000. And we will allow them to take advantage of it for 5 years instead of 3, so that they have time to establish themselves well in their community ”, first suggested the chief.
“Foreign students will also be encouraged to settle in the regions, thanks to a tax credit that will partially reimburse them for their tuition fees,” continued Élizabeth Larouche. In fact, if the student settles in a large city, they will be reimbursed 80% of the difference between their tuition fees and those paid by a Canadian student not resident in Quebec. But if he chooses to live in the region, he will be entitled to a reimbursement of 100% of this amount, ”she explained.
In addition, the candidate specified that French or Belgian students choosing a university in the region would now pay the same price as Quebecers. “These students would pay no additional tuition fees in the region, but 20% more in Montreal or Quebec, and 100% of excess fees in an English-speaking university. However, a grandfather clause will apply for those who have already started their studies, ”she said.
Meeting workforce needs, wherever they are
In terms of manpower, the Parti Québécois government will organize itself to find out where and what the needs are. “We will create a national register identifying labor needs, based on corporate income tax returns. From now on, they will be able to indicate the number and types of positions to be filled, as well as the qualifications sought. In addition, the files of candidates for immigration who already have a validated job offer will be treated as a priority, ”added Gilles Chapadeau.
Members of Aboriginal nations also constitute a labor pool that can help alleviate the shortage in several areas. “To discuss the possibilities and the means to be put forward, we will hold a summit bringing together indigenous leaders in the first 100 days of our mandate,” the chief pledged.
At the end of our first term, we aim to have a quarter of newcomers choose a region as a setting for their new life. “Candidates for economic immigration must complete a grid which gives them points which vary according to their educational level, their work experience, their linguistic knowledge, etc. However, currently, a candidate who says he wants to settle here, in Rouyn, will have only two points more than the one who considers Montreal. We will give the first twice as many points ”, for his part indicated Sylvain Vachon.
“We believe in our young people, we believe in our regions. And our plan to marry each other is a win-win: our vast territory will be revitalized, and young families from everywhere will flourish there, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
