Montreal - “In 2013, more than $ 560 million was invested in culture in the Quebec metropolis. It is therefore thousands of artists from cultural organizations and businesses who have been supported by the Ministry of Culture and Communications and its government corporations, ”declared the Minister of Culture and Communications. , Maka Kotto, at the launch of the 2013 publication of Montreal, cultural metropolis. For the occasion, he was accompanied by the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Jean-François Lisée.
“We can be delighted with the scope and diversity of the actions taken by the Government of Quebec, which has fulfilled its commitments in culture over the past year. 2014 promises to be just as rich in terms of achievements, with promising and large-scale projects for the Montreal cultural scene, ”continued Maka Kotto.
“We must be very satisfied with the number of creators, organizations and companies that export and promote our know-how. This Quebec signature of innovation and originality is attracting international recognition, and we can be proud of our metropolis, its vitality and its cultural renown, ”added Jean-François Lisée.
In 2012, the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications (MCC) enhanced the Agreement on the cultural development of Montreal 2012-2015 that it signed with the City of Montreal, bringing its contribution to $ 97.6 million, which made it possible in particular to consolidate the library network, to support a public art integration program and to support cultural heritage.
2013 was a promising year for performing arts organizations in the metropolis of Quebec. For example, the Montreal School of Contemporary Dance, the Tangente contemporary movement laboratory, Les Grands Ballets Canadiens and the Agora de la danse benefited from an agreement in principle from the MCC, in the amount of $ 43 million, for the repair and expansion of the Wilder building, in order to settle there, in addition to the $ 20 million that the Société québécoise des infrastructures will inject into this project.
The Théâtre du Rideau vert and Cirque Éloize, for their part, received government support of $ 2 million and $ 6 million respectively, to showcase their places of creation and renew their equipment, while the National School of theater received $ 1.5 million in assistance to carry out asset maintenance work.
In September 2013, the MCC announced financial assistance of $ 50 million for the Société de la Place des arts, so that various upgrading projects could be carried out in its building complex, which constitutes a center of attraction in the Quartier des Arts. shows.
The youth theater sector was also supported by an agreement in principle from the Government of Quebec in the amount of $ 11 million, so that the international center for research and creation in theater for children and youth, Le Cube, which brings together the Théâtre Le Clou and Le Carrousel, settles in the church of Sainte-Brigide-de-Kildare.
In light of the recommendations of the report of the Task Force on Cultural Philanthropy, chaired by Mr. Pierre Bourgie, and tabled in June 2013, the government updated the Mécénat Placements Culture program. This includes $ 44 million in financial commitments, and nearly 400 organizations from Montreal have been supported through this program. Moreover, in addition to this program, other measures have been put in place, including the entrance fee of $ 1 for young people aged 13 to 17 in national museums, including the Musée d&#39;art contemporain de Montreal. In addition, the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts received $ 18.5 million in support for the construction of the Bishop of International Art Pavilion, to house the collection of Michal and Renata Hornstein, which they donated to as patrons, as well as an amount of $ 500,000 for the renovation and upgrading of its infrastructures.
In the wake of the findings made during the Rendez-vous 2012 Montréal Métropole Culturel, concerning the phenomenon of the scarcity of affordable places for creators and cultural organizations in Montréal, the Government of Quebec announced, in 2012, the award of 5 , $ 65 million for the sustainability of artist workshops. In addition to this announcement, the MCC also granted an amount of nearly $ 1.8 million to six visual arts organizations (the Center d&#39;art et de diffusion Clark, l&#39;Atelier Circulaire, Diagonale-Center des arts and des fibers du Québec, Dazibao - Animation and photo exhibition center, Occurrence - Contemporary art and essay space and Optica) for the development of a dissemination center on the ground floor of the De building Gaspé, in the Mile-End.
