Québec– Sylvain Pagé, the member for Labelle and official opposition spokesperson for healthy lifestyles, recreation and sports, the member for Pointe-aux-Trembles and primary education spokesperson and secondary school, Nicole Léger, as well as the member for Joliette and spokesperson for culture and communications, Véronique Hivon, denounce the 40% cut in the budget for the Secondaire en spectacle program; they ask the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Yves Bolduc, and the Minister of Culture and Communications, Hélène David, to reverse their decision.
While on Monday, Minister Yves Bolduc recalled in a press release the importance of doing everything possible to promote school perseverance, barely 72 hours later, we learn that this same minister severely cuts the sums devoted to a great initiative. which aims precisely, through the performing arts, to encourage young people to stay in school. “This is a program that is popular with young people and has proven itself in the past. This decision is totally inconsistent with the objectives of educational success, ”commented Sylvain Pagé.
“The Minister of Education, Yves Bolduc, is a past master in the art of saying one thing on one side and doing exactly the opposite on the other. We now know that at the same time that it claims to give priority to student services, it is very precisely cutting homework assistance and assistance to students in disadvantaged areas. The cut in the budget for Secondary en spectacle is just another example, ”said Nicole Léger.
“Minister Hélène David confirms the Liberal government&#39;s inconsistency in matters of school perseverance. Arts and culture are essential for the development of self-identity, motivation, commitment and a sense of belonging to the school environment. The Minister must reconsider her decision, ”concluded Véronique Hivon.
Rather than attacking organizations that support young people towards academic success, the Parti Québécois proposes to focus on support for learning and culture in order to encourage young people to express themselves and succeed.
