Montreal - The national executive council of the Parti Québécois met yesterday in Montreal to begin the process aimed at providing the political party with rules governing the next leadership race. It was recommended that an upcoming National Presidents&#39; Conference (CNPP) be held to set the rules on the weekend of May 28-29. The location remains to be determined.
Also, the National Executive Council endorsed the recommendation of the Parti Québécois caucus to appoint Sylvain Gaudreault as interim leader of the parliamentary wing. “The Parti Québécois team will continue its work both in the official opposition and in the field, with activists, with all the determination and rigor that we know. We will denounce the Liberal government&#39;s bad decisions, both economically and socially, in education and health. While our political party will embark on a process aimed at determining the next leader or leader of the Parti Québécois, the citizens of Quebec must know that they will be able to count on our parliamentary team to defend their interests. We will do it in continuity. I would also like to sincerely pay tribute to the work done by Pierre Karl Péladeau, I thank him for his commitment, ”added Sylvain Gaudreault, leader of the parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois and Member of Parliament for Jonquière.
On the occasion of the CNPP, the delegates will be able to amend and discuss a proposal for regulations which will be sent shortly. “We are at the beginning of this process and it is the members of the authorities who will decide. What is certain is that there is a will to carry out this process quickly. The activists will therefore work very hard to achieve this result, ”declared Raymond Archambault, President of the Parti Québécois.
The National Executive Council also agreed to hold a race ending no later than mid-October. All the details concerning the precise dates, the nomination period as well as the possible debates will be determined by the CNPP of the Parti Québécois.
