Montreal - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces the creation of the Assistance Program for Domestic and Community Composters.
The Program will allow small municipalities, Aboriginal communities and certain RCMs to obtain financial support for the installation of individual or shared composters on their territory. The three components of the Program, namely home composting, community composting of plant materials and community composting in closed thermophilic equipment, will help the municipalities concerned to equip a greater number of single-family residences and multi-unit buildings with composters.
“It is by combining our actions, those of small and large communities, that we will achieve concrete results in the fight against climate change. The creation of this program will allow the smallest communities to benefit from additional resources for the management of their residual organic matter and, thus, to play an active role in the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, ”stated Minister Blanchet. .
The Assistance Program for Household and Community Composters complements the Program for the treatment of organic materials by biomethanization and composting (PTMOBC). It is in line with the priorities of the Climate Change Action Plan PACC-2013-2020, financed by the Green Fund. Its implementation also meets the objectives set out in the Québec Residual Materials Management Policy aimed at banning organic matter from disposal sites.
This is an initial sum of $ 2 million that the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks is injecting into the Assistance Program for Home and Community Composters, which will come into force on April 1, 2014. From that date, eligible organizations will have until December 31, 2017 to submit their files in order to benefit from a grant of up to $ 50,000.
All information on the three components of the program, eligibility criteria, eligible expenses and the procedure to follow for submitting a file is available on the Ministère&#39;s website at the following address: www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca .
