London - The Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, announces the establishment in Montreal of the British company Framestore Inc., a world leader in visual effects and animation for the film and television industry. Thanks to this investment project, 200 new jobs will be created over the next three years in the metropolitan region. In order to support its realization, the Government of Quebec allocates a generous repayable financial contribution to the company.
&quot;Quebec offers winning conditions to foreign companies which, like Framestore, choose to settle there,&quot; said Ms. Marois. Our specialized and competent workforce, our business environment adapted to the needs of companies and the market situation make Quebec the ideal place to prosper. In Montreal, cinema and television occupy a preponderant place in the economy. In addition to the economic benefits to be expected in the metropolis, the arrival of Framestore will have the effect of consolidating the industry and increasing the synergy between players in the field, particularly those in the cinematographic and digital entertainment sectors. It is with pride that we support the company&#39;s investment project in Quebec. &quot;
Framestore also has offices in New York, London and Los Angeles, where it employs around 700 people. The company has won several awards over the years, including two Oscars, thirteen Emmy and three BAFTAs. In 2008, Framestore simultaneously won a BAFTA and an Oscar for his special effects contribution to the film At the Crossroads of Worlds: The Golden Compass, earning him industry-wide recognition. In addition to its work on the small and big screen, the group&#39;s advertising division has produced a variety of renowned works, including the famous Guinness commercial entitled Surfer and the promotional campaign for Coca-Cola and its friendly polar bears during the Super Bowl. Framestore&#39;s presence in Quebec will promote the production of large-scale films and take advantage of the great creativity of Quebec companies. The first productions planned for Montreal are RoboCop (Columbia Pictures and MGM) and All You Need Is Kill (Warner Brothers).
&quot;The strengths that Quebec presents and the high volume of film productions that we find there motivated the decision to set up here,&quot; said the President and CEO of Framestore, Mr. William Sargent. Montreal fits perfectly with our business. It is a fascinating city with a thriving arts and music scene. Its artistic community is highly coveted by the film, video game, software and technology industries. In addition to its large pool of qualified workers and its vast potential for training and recruitment, the metropolis also enjoys many financial advantages, in particular a favorable tax regime and competitive base prices. All of these factors make Montreal a prime location for continuing to expand Framestore. The support of the Government of Quebec, not only for our company, but also for companies in the film and television industry, will allow us to use our expertise and our reputation in the development of the film production sector. in Quebec. We look forward to being part of such a dynamic and creative business community. &quot;
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the following RSS feed: www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss
