Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu– The Member for Saint-Jean and Deputy Government Whip, Mr. Dave Turcotte, announced, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 377,454 to the Quebec Pole of Excellence in Ground Transportation to develop a prototype of intelligent outdoor lighting.
Valued at $ 943,635, this smart outdoor lighting project will come with several features. It will serve in particular as a charging station for electric vehicles, as an advertising medium and as a security camera, in addition to providing the community with several other services, such as display panels. The smart outdoor lighting prototype will be designed and produced by iMetrik Global, Morelli Designers et Réalisations inc. Montreal.
&quot;Our government is pleased to be associated with such a project, which will contribute to the growth of Quebec&#39;s electric vehicle industry,&quot; said MP Dave Turcotte. “This project will indeed be a link in the Transport Electrification Strategy, which will be unveiled shortly. This strategy will allow us to reduce our dependence on oil by focusing on Quebec&#39;s major force, which is hydroelectricity. &quot;
The member said he was proud of this avant-garde product which will generate interesting spinoffs for his region and for all of Quebec. “The mobilization and expertise of the partners of the Quebec Pole of Excellence in land transport guarantee the success of this unique initiative. With its function as a charging station for electric vehicles, the SOLIS project responds to our desire to give impetus to the electrification of transport. &quot;
&quot;Is the transport electrification strategy one of the pillars of economic policy?&quot; Priorité Emploi, announced by Premier Pauline Marois on October 7, as well as the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, which I had the pleasure of making public a few days later, ”recalled Minister Élaine Zakaïb. “Together, with the National Research and Innovation Policy and the Foreign Trade Development Plan, these complementary strategic initiatives aim to build a greener, more modern and more competitive Quebec that creates sustainable and quality jobs. &quot;
The President of the Cluster, Mr. Martin Dufour, underlined the cutting-edge expertise of SOLIS partners, necessary for the realization of this innovative project. “This project is based on consultation and collaboration between the companies of the Quebec Pole of Excellence in land transport. The strengths of several member companies of the Cluster will also be put to good use. The support of the Government of Quebec will help us continue to develop the industry and promote its competitiveness at the international level. &quot;
The assistance granted by the government comes from the Support Program for the Development of Strategic Sectors and Niches of Excellence. The Quebec Pole of Excellence in Land Transport was created in 2011 to bring together the efforts of the four niches of excellence in land transport in Quebec resulting from the ACCORD approach and those of the Association of Manufacturers of Transportation Equipment and special vehicles. The Pole represents the interests of the Quebec ground transport industry and works to optimize the resources and expertise of stakeholders in the field, while helping to project a strong image of the industry.
This project is part of the ACCORD approach (Concerted action for regional development cooperation), a priority of government action that aims to boost the economy of the regions of Quebec by setting up poles and niches. of excellence. The goal of this approach is to position the regions of Quebec as centers of distinctive industrial skills recognized around the world. It is based on regional strengths and expertise as well as on the mobilization and dynamism of business people in the region.
To find out more about the Quebec Pole of Excellence in Ground Transportation, visit www.transportail.com.
