Montreal - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, and the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Mr. Jean- François Lisée, welcome the constitution of the new Aluminum Industrial Cluster of Quebec, confirmed today during the first Annual General Meeting of this group. This strategic alliance bringing together stakeholders in the field has the particularity of being a national industrial cluster, which will promote a profitable synergy between the large aluminum producing companies located in the regions, those of transformation, suppliers, users from different sectors as well as multiple institutional partners, including universities and research centers. The Quebec model of industrial clusters has proven itself and enjoys international recognition.
“We have been able to take advantage of our unique ability to combine competitiveness, cooperation and creativity to promote the growth of key sectors of our economy. Quebec, recognized as one of the world leaders in the aluminum industry, will benefit from the synergy resulting from this strategic alliance between the various players in the field, ”said Minister Zakaïb.
&quot;We are privileged to be able to count, in Quebec, on successful and promising companies which diversify and stimulate the development and growth of our aluminum industry,&quot; added Minister Zakaïb. “Thanks to this cluster, which aims to maximize the use of aluminum in target markets, we will be able to ensure the economic vitality of our regions. This initiative will have a positive impact on all stakeholders in the aluminum industry. This is why we are counting on the concerted efforts of all our regions to enable our full potential to be realized. &quot;
The Quebec Aluminum Industrial Cluster brings together more than 6,000 establishments in Quebec, including nearly 2,200 in the Montreal metropolitan region. It is intended to complement the Société de valorisation de l&#39;aluminium, which constitutes a powerful tool for economic development in the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region. This important industry includes 9 aluminum smelters, whose production activities generate more than 11,000 direct jobs and more than 20,000 indirect jobs, not to mention the processing companies which have 5,000 direct jobs and the economic activities generated by some 4,200 suppliers. and equipment manufacturers.
By focusing on training, support, research, technological development and the consolidation of structuring networks, the Aluminum Industrial Cluster of Quebec intends to increase the processing and use of aluminum. The action plan drawn up for this purpose provides for the establishment of various work sites. Thanks to promotional activities and the strengthening of collaboration between the different actors of the value chain, the cluster intends in particular to increase recognition of the product&#39;s potential among prime contractors, with the objective of doubling, by ten years, the transformation of aluminum in Quebec. In this sense, the role of catalyst of the greater Montreal area is an obvious advantage: decision-making and administrative center regrouping the head offices of aluminum smelters, the metropolis is also home to a significant proportion of potential users of the product as well as 40% of processing companies. aluminum.
“The metropolitan region, which brings together more than a third of the member organizations of the Aluminum Industrial Cluster of Quebec, will provide this sector with the benefit of its unique expertise, particularly in marketing, market development as well as research and development. I am sure that these assets will contribute to the achievement of the objectives set by this new cluster, which consist in ensuring greater growth of the Quebec aluminum industry and a strengthening of Quebec&#39;s positioning on international markets. ”Said Minister Lisée.
The Secrétariat à la région métropolitaine will support the Aluminum Industrial Cluster of Quebec, by granting it, as part of the Metropolitan Initiative and Outreach Fund, annual financial assistance of $ 100,000 to enable it to carry out the projects. activities planned in its 2013-2015 Action Plan.
To this contribution is added an amount of $ 135,000 spread over eighteen months and granted by the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, from the Support program for the development of strategic sectors and niches of excellence, component 1 Support for coordination activities.
About the Metropolitan Initiative and Outreach Fund This fund supports the implementation of initiatives that contribute to the development of the Montréal metropolitan region and to its influence at the Canadian and international level. It is administered by the Secrétariat à la région métropolitaine, which reports to the minister responsible for the Montreal region.
About the Secrétariat à la région métropolitaine Attached to the Minister of the Executive Council, the Secretariat advises the Government of Quebec on any question or measure having a significant impact on the metropolitan region of Montreal and on its development. It provides the secretariat for the Ministerial Committee of the metropolitan region, chaired by Minister Jean-François Lisée. The Secretariat is developing consultation with its various strategic partners in order to promote the coherence and convergence of all interventions as well as the growth and dynamism of the metropolitan region.
