Canton-de-Shefford– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces the recognition of the Canton-de-Shefford nature reserve, the largest to be incorporated on property owned by a municipality in Quebec. As part of the Montérégienne hills group, Mont Shefford will now have 145 additional hectares of protected territory.
“Today&#39;s announcement further concretizes our commitment to protect the fragile biodiversity of southern Quebec, where the pressures exerted on natural environments are particularly strong. The collaboration of the Municipality of the Township of Shefford and the Appalachian Corridor organization in this major project is inspiring. The creation of a protected area in this sector, recognized both for its vulnerable species and for the beauty of its landscapes, is a gesture in favor of citizens as well as in favor of the environment ”, declared the Minister. Blanchet.
The government of Quebec recognizes the importance of the Montérégiennes hills for the protection of the rich biodiversity of southern Quebec. These geological formations are home to some 64 plant species and 25 wildlife species designated as threatened, vulnerable or likely to be so designated. Since 2002, the Ministère du Développement durable, de l&#39;Environnement, de la Faune et des Parcs (MDDEFP) has invested more than $ 1.3 million through private stewardship assistance programs to support acquisition of properties for conservation purposes in the Montérégian hills. An additional amount of $ 477,876 has been allocated for education, awareness and knowledge acquisition projects, and an amount of $ 56,000 has been allocated to support projects for the recognition of nature reserves in these hills or in the surrounding areas. their piedmont areas. The creation of this protected area, whose recognition will be perpetual, is part of this process.
Remember that the status of a nature reserve makes it possible to recognize the will of an owner who wishes to dedicate his land to conservation. This recognition can be perpetual or granted for a term which cannot be less than 25 years.
The Canton-de-Shefford nature reserve includes four distinct sectors: Jean-Paul-Forand park, Montagnards park, Impasse-du-Plateau park and Rue-Chagnon park, which offer various services. to citizens. The presence of a species designated as threatened in Quebec, of seven species designated as vulnerable and of three species likely to be so designated has been identified on the territory of this nature reserve and attests to its high conservation value.
“I would like to express the government&#39;s appreciation for the contribution of the municipality and of the Appalachian Corridor to the protection of an environment that is home to exceptional diversity, the value of which we recognize today. This new nature reserve will allow citizens to continue to enjoy a healthy environment which adds to the quality of life which is dear to them, ”concluded the Minister.
