Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Élaine Zakaïb, and the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Jean-François Lisée, today announced the allocation of $ 9.9 million in financial assistance to Ubisoft. The government will also make changes to the tax credit for the production of multimedia titles, applicable to the entire industry.
This assistance will enable Ubisoft to set up an online gaming operations center in Montreal, to consolidate the infrastructures of its global network and to invest in its expertise in motion capture technologies. This project will create 500 jobs and consolidate Montréal&#39;s place as a major hub in the video game industry.
“The Ubisoft project is important for Quebec. It allows us to continue developing our expertise in the video game industry, which has experienced phenomenal growth thanks to the visionary measures that were put in place by the Government of Quebec at the end of the 1990s. This 373 million dollar project dollars will create more than 500 quality jobs in the metropolis, ”said the Premier.
In addition, Minister Nicolas Marceau announced that the tax credit for the production of multimedia titles will be modified to respond to new realities in the community. “It was time to adapt this tax measure to the business model of this innovative industry. Today, the new market is that of online games, accessible from everywhere and on all platforms. Thus, new types of activities will henceforth be eligible for the tax credit. In addition, the maximum eligibility period for production work for tax assistance has been abolished to take into account the continual nature of new games, ”he explained.
“With today&#39;s announcement, our government is clearly showing its interest in pursuing the development of promising sectors of the economy and in supporting the flagships of our industry. Experience shows that the presence of a leader like Ubisoft has a catalytic effect on the start-up and expansion of businesses, and is a powerful localization factor for other players in the industry, ”said Élaine Zakaïb.
“The Ubisoft project demonstrates the company&#39;s deep commitment to Quebec and Montreal. Today, more than 2,000 people work there in Montreal. This project will contribute to the creation of specialized and structuring jobs in the metropolitan region, and to the development of the video game industry in Quebec. This is excellent news for the city&#39;s economy, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
The 2013-9 Information Bulletin, released today, describes in detail the changes made to the tax credit for the production of multimedia titles. It can be consulted on the website of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, at www.finances.gouv.qc.ca.
