Montreal - Quebec Premier Pauline Marois today announced the creation of a task force on cultural philanthropy. On this occasion, she was accompanied by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts, Brian Mr. Levitt.
&quot;I am happy to confirm the commitment made by the Government of Quebec during the Rendez-vous 2012 - Montreal, cultural metropolis, which was held on November 26, by today unveiling the composition of the working group on cultural philanthropy. . Cultural sponsorship has evolved in recent years and it is the government&#39;s duty to modify the mechanisms that encourage individuals and businesses to participate in philanthropy in this area. Culture plays an essential role in the development of the Quebec nation. What it has become, we owe it to our creators, and also to all those who supported their work and the dissemination of their works, ”declared the Prime Minister.
The task force&#39;s mandate will be to submit recommendations to the government on the most promising avenues in order to increase the dynamism of cultural philanthropy and promote the creation of a new generation of patrons in Quebec.
Minister Marceau recalled that Quebec offers the most generous tax advantages in Canada in order to encourage private donations. To this is added the direct assistance granted by the government in the form of subsidies in the cultural field, in particular through the Mécénat Placements Culture program, which pays a matching subsidy for each contribution or private donation collected by cultural organizations. . However, despite all these advantages, the level of donations in Quebec lags behind what is observed elsewhere in Canada.
&quot;The mandate of this working group will therefore be to identify the causes of this delay in the field of cultural philanthropy and, in light of its findings, to submit to the government recommendations on the most promising avenues to increase its dynamism.&quot; », Explained Nicolas Marceau.
The group&#39;s work will begin in the coming weeks. This will be chaired by Pierre Bourgie, businessman and great philanthropist. “Mr. Bourgie is one of the great patrons of Quebec. His commitment and contribution to Quebec&#39;s cultural field, particularly to the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts and the Arte Musica Foundation, make him an inspiring example in the world of business and culture, ”said Maka Kotto.
In order to carry out his mandate, Mr. Bourgie will be supported by seven members of the Quebec business community. It is :
Sophie Brochu, President and Chief Executive Officer of Gaz Métro and past president of the board of directors of the Pointe-à-Callière Museum.
Jo-Ann Kane, curator of the National Bank of Canada Collection, president of the Association des Collections d&#39;Entreprises and member of the Conseil des arts et des lettres du Québec.
Benoît Desjardins, tax partner at Samson Bélair / Deloitte &amp; Touche.
Michel Labonté, former Senior Vice-President Finance, Technology and Corporate Affairs at National Bank, member of the board of directors and secretary of the Canadian International Organ Competition, and former member of the board of directors of Les Grands Ballets Canadiens from Montreal.
Jacques Parisien, Executive Vice-President and Chief Operating Officer at Astral Media, President of Astral Radio, Chairman of the Boards of Directors of the Pointe-à-Callière Museum, of the Foundation of the Tourism and Hospitality Institute of Montreal and the Society for the Celebrations of Montreal&#39;s 375th Anniversary.
Peter D. Simons, President and CEO of La Maison Simons and recipient of the Arts et Affaires award from the Quebec Chamber of Commerce (2006).
Jonathan Tétrault, partner at McKinsey &amp; Company and member of the executive committee of the board of directors of the Orchester symphonique de Montréal.
Pierre Côté, Assistant Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, will act as secretary of the working group.
The recommendations of the working group are expected by the end of May 2013.
