Saguenay– The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister responsible for Government Administration, President of the Treasury Board and Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region, Stéphane Bédard, and the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Sylvain Gaudreault, took part today in the inauguration of the Arvida Smelter, Rio Tinto Alcan&#39;s AP60 technological center (RTA) located in Saguenay. At a cost of 1.3 billion dollars, this aluminum smelter is a pilot plant which constitutes the first stage of an investment program totaling 2.1 billion dollars. This vast program provides for the creation of 740 direct jobs and 2,500 indirect jobs.
“I am very proud to participate in the inauguration of the Arvida Aluminum Smelter. The implementation of RTA&#39;s AP60 Technology Center will generate very significant economic spinoffs for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region, including the creation of several hundred jobs with specialized suppliers and equipment manufacturers, in addition to spinoffs related to plant operations. The creation of sustainable jobs in Quebec is at the top of my government&#39;s economic priorities, as confirmed by the Priority Employment Economic Policy, which provides for the creation of more than 43,000 jobs over the next few years, ”said Pauline. Marois.
The Arvida Aluminum Smelter, AP60 Technology Center, will produce 60,000 tonnes of aluminum annually and will be the benchmark for new generations of aluminum smelters. Several Quebec equipment manufacturers and suppliers participated in the realization of this major project.
Creation of the first 135 jobs at the Arvida Smelter. // (c) Yann Langlais-Plante.Source
“Aluminum is an integral part of the history of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean,” said Stéphane Bédard. The inauguration of this pilot plant is an important step in RTA&#39;s commitment to consolidate its presence in Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean and in Quebec. I am delighted with the economic benefits of the implementation of this new technology for the region, for its workers as well as for the SMEs that have participated in it. &quot;
&quot;The RTA pilot plant is one of the most strategic for Quebec and the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region,&quot; added the Premier. In addition to allowing the development of AP60 technology in Quebec, this project advantageously positions Quebec equipment manufacturers and suppliers to obtain future contracts, since they were closely linked to the implementation of this plant. It is therefore a network of international-caliber suppliers that will continue to grow and allow Quebec to assert its position as a world leader in the aluminum industry. &quot;
&quot;I salute the efforts of the workers, project teams, equipment manufacturers and management of RTA who worked together to make this project a reality and to endow Jonquière with this new plant which constitutes an exceptional showcase on the world and a great pride for our region, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
Remember that in 2006, as part of the investment program in Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, the Government of Quebec granted RTA an interest-free loan of $ 400 million repayable over 30 years, as well as a 225 MW additional energy block at rate L.
To learn more about the Priorité emploi economic policy, visit www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueeconomique.
