Montreal– The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Jean? François Lisée, and the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Élaine Zakaïb, today announced the creation of 150 new highly qualified jobs at the Montreal Heart Institute (ICM) .
In order to carry out this ambitious project, the Quebec government is announcing $ 18.2 million in financial assistance to the ICM for the ARTERIA program, which will allow the personalization of cardiovascular diagnostics and therapies.
This project, estimated at $ 49.2 million, will be carried out in partnership with the following companies: Hoffmann-La Roche ltée, Servier Canada inc., MedImmune (subsidiary of AstraZeneca), Thrasos Therapeutics, Valeant Canada inc., Pharmascience inc. , the Montreal Heart Institute Foundation, Spartan Bioscience inc. and Pfizer Canada Inc.
“The life sciences and biotechnology industry is a strategic area in which Quebec occupies a prominent place. My government has also made the choice to support innovation and research with ambitious policies and programs, which allow Quebec researchers to carry out avant-garde projects and advance knowledge. In addition to saving lives, the ARTERIA program will contribute to the expansion of the ICM Clinical Trials Coordination Center. This project will also consolidate the position of the ICM as an international center of excellence in the field of cardiovascular diseases ”, underlined the Prime Minister.
“The industry&#39;s business model has changed. It is increasingly oriented towards the development of partnerships with public research institutions. Our government has chosen to adapt its aid to the new reality of the community in order to stimulate research in Quebec, ”added Minister Marceau.
&quot;The worldwide fame and recognition of the ICM, which has been confirmed and consolidated by the granting of financial assistance from the Partnership Fund for an Innovative and Healthy Quebec, strengthens Montreal as a center of excellence in the field. life sciences. Innovative, the ARTERIA project will have undeniable repercussions on the health of the population of Quebec, of course, and on the economic vitality of the metropolis, thanks to the creation of highly qualified jobs, ”declared Minister Lisée.
“Our government wishes to strengthen its centers of excellence and increase activities in key sectors of our economy, such as research on cardiometabolic diseases, oncology, genomics, personalized medicine and neurosciences. The ICM project is therefore a good example of an innovative project that will have concrete benefits for the health of people and for the economy of Quebec, ”concluded Minister Élaine Zakaïb.
The ARTERIA project benefits from the support of the Partnership Fund for an Innovative and Healthy Quebec announced in the 2013-2014 budget. With a budget of $ 125 million over five years, this fund aims to support the creation of public-private partnerships between businesses and public research centers.
