Quebec - The Minister responsible for Government Administration, President of the Treasury Board and Member of Parliament for Chicoutimi, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, today announced the creation of an information resource solutions development center in Saguenay. The establishment of this center will generate 30 new jobs in the region.
Under the responsibility of the Shared Services Center of Quebec, the center will provide departments and agencies with information technology services such as the design, implementation and development of programs, software, applications and systems. computer science. As announced last week, another center will be set up in Rimouski, in Bas-St-Laurent.
“I am very proud of the realization of this project which, by creating quality jobs, will have positive spinoffs for the entire region. Also, this is an important gesture in favor of the regionalization of government services, which we strongly believe in, ”said Minister Bédard.
The provision of public services to the population of Quebec relies for the most part on information resources. Consider the many online services that allow citizens to apply for financial assistance, change of address or even file an income tax return in just a few clicks. In this perspective, the information resource solutions development center will support the delivery of services to citizens and meet the various needs of departments and bodies.
&quot;The deployment of computer expertise within the government is a priority issue if we want to meet the demand for the provision of services and reduce the use of external consultants,&quot; added Minister Bédard.
The government has chosen the city of Saguenay in the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region for the quality and proximity of the training offer found there, namely twenty-one college-level study programs. and university in the field of computer science, in addition to having an important nucleus of companies in information technology. The creation of such a center gives concrete expression to the government&#39;s desire to work in concert with educational institutions by allowing students to benefit from work placements.
The information resources solutions development center will be operational within three to six months. Over the next few weeks, the government will recruit professionals specializing in the development of collaborative applications and platforms, and technicians capable of programming software, systems and web integration.
&quot;I am convinced that the establishment of this center of expertise will help stimulate interest in the information resource professions in the region, and that young people will see it as an opportunity for a career in government, apart from the big ones. urban centers, ”concluded Mr. Bédard.
