Quebec - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is pleased to announce the launch of a call for proposals for the recognition of three new college centers technology transfer (CCTT). The creation of these centers is one of the measures provided for in the National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI) unveiled last fall. There are currently 46 CCTTs, 40 in the field of technologies and 6 in that of innovative social practices.
“College technology transfer centers maintain privileged links with organizations and businesses in key sectors of Quebec innovation. They allow Quebec to distinguish itself in terms of research and help develop our economy. Each dollar invested by the government of Quebec in a CCTT generates an average contribution of $ 3.80 in new capital, which is a very interesting performance for the development of the regions ”, indicated Minister Duchesne.
The mandate of college technology transfer centers is to carry out applied research, technical assistance, information and training activities in a specific field. The centers provide research and development services, technical support and training, while contributing to the development of the regions of Quebec. Their responsibility rests with the colleges to which they are affiliated.
This call for proposals, which will be in effect until March 14, 2014, is based on the three priority axes likely to bring together research and innovation actors, as set out in the PNRI, namely the changes demographic, sustainable development and Quebec identity. It is desirable that the projects presented be related to one or more of the seven priority areas targeted in the PNRI (aerospace, creative industries, bio-food, personalized health care, biotechnologies, information and communications technologies as well as renewable energies. and electrification of transport). Criteria for ensuring alignment between needs and environments will also be considered. Finally, it should be noted that colleges and regions that do not yet have CCTTs will be favored.
The National Research and Innovation Policy has made it possible to consolidate the budget of college technology transfer centers. This budget will be indexed by 11% for the first three years of implementation of the Policy. As a result, base funding will increase from $ 300,000 to $ 334,000 per center. This is the first time that a government has increased the funding budget for each center. The total budget forecast for college technology transfer centers is $ 15.2 million in 2014-2015 and will reach $ 16.4 million in 2016-2017.
“The evaluation report of college technology transfer centers released last November shows that the centers&#39; activities have a significant leverage effect in the regions. The CCTTs are linked to regional specificities and increase the expertise of companies, allowing them to innovate and grow. Collaborative research and the transfer of expertise, combined with cutting-edge technical college training for students, promote excellence and help make Quebec stand out in research and development, ”concluded the Minister. Duchesne.
The National Research and Innovation Policy is part of the four strategic initiatives of the Government of Quebec&#39;s Priority Employment economic policy. It is the result of numerous consultations held with stakeholders from all sectors concerned by research and innovation: businesses, educational establishments, the State and society. With an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion over five years, it will help advance Québec in the knowledge and innovation society. For more information on the terms of the call for proposals, see lemesrst.gouv.qc.ca/creationCCTT.
