Quebec - The MNA for Joliette and official opposition critic for justice, Véronique Hivon, points out that the announcement made yesterday by the Minister of Justice, Jean-Marc Fournier, does not in any way resolve the serious crisis in the Quebec justice system and testifies to an obvious contempt for the rules.
“To implement his announcement, Minister Fournier must pass a bill. However, he postpones the tabling of such a bill! Worse, the creation of 20 new judges&#39; positions has been announced, while there are currently 23 already existing positions vacant and which the Minister has not filled for months! », Pointed out Véronique Hivon.
The Member for Joliette also recalls that this is the second totally incoherent action taken by Minister Fournier in connection with the judiciary since the tabling of the Bastarache report. “The first gesture was the announcement of the consecration of the Prime Minister&#39;s right of veto for the appointment of judges, yet decried by the population and all observers. The second is now to throw powder in the eyes by announcing an increase in the law, without law, in the number of judges, while the minister has not even activated to fill the vacant positions. People are fed up with these ways of doing things. It&#39;s contempt, ”denounced Ms. Hivon.
The member for Joliette also deplores the manipulation of Minister Fournier who is desperately seeking to improve his image by announcing the development of new rooms for mega-trials. “The main problem is not the rooms, it is the lack of prosecutors. Half of the positions on the Organized Crime Bureau team in charge of currently leading the Hell&#39;s mega-trial are still vacant! », Protested the member for Joliette.
For her, yesterday&#39;s announcement hides a glaring problem. “The justice system is in crisis. Jean-Marc Fournier must stop increasing the number of ineffective announcements and must tackle the real issues: the lack of prosecutors and their demotivation following the special law imposed by the government, ”concluded Véronique Hivon.
