Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Families, Nicole Léger, announce the creation, by the end of 2016, of 28,000 new reduced-contribution spaces in the network of childcare services in Quebec. Thus, in accordance with its commitment, the government will complete the network by making available 250,000 reduced-contribution places in order to better meet the demand of Quebec families.
The construction of these 28,000 places will be carried out in two phases. First, the government is now giving the green light to the creation of 13,000 new places. The projects selected for this first phase follow the call for projects launched in 2011 and have all been recommended by the regional advisory committees.
Secondly, the government will launch a new call for projects next February for the creation of 15,000 additional reduced-contribution places. The projects must be submitted before the end of June 2013. The 22 regional advisory committees will analyze the projects received and recommend those that best meet the needs of the community. These 28,000 new places will all be available within four years.
“I am particularly proud to confirm that the government is keeping its commitment to complete the network of child care services to $ 7 within four years. Our goal is that by the end of 2016, every family who wants their child to attend child care can do so. It will finally be: a child, a place, ”said Pauline Marois.
In 1997, the Quebec government took several steps to place the well-being of children at the heart of its family policy. The objectives pursued were to recognize the family as a fundamental collective value and to support parents in the exercise of their family responsibilities, while promoting the participation of women in the labor market. In this sense, the establishment of a network of reduced-contribution educational childcare services will have been a decisive measure.
“Fostering the development of children and giving them an equal chance from the start of their lives is our daily mission. One child, one place is an electoral commitment that is taking shape today. Thanks to our government, all parents who so wish will be able to have access to a place at $ 7 for their child, ”added Nicole Léger, warmly thanking the members of all the advisory committees, who have spared no effort in the process. over the past few months to recommend the best projects.
“Fifteen years after their creation, the popularity of child care is no longer in doubt. Our family policy is avant-garde. It stands out among the best in developed countries. It reflects the commitment of the Government of Quebec to the development of children and the well-being of families. This is how we prepare the future of our children, our greatest asset, ”said Pauline Marois.
