Quebec - The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois responsible for the Charter of the French language, Maka Kotto, wishes to highlight the creation, by the Société Saint-Jean-Baptiste de Montréal, of the Pierre-Demers Committee for the Promotion of French in science.
“This is an excellent initiative from civil society! We have to admit that communications in the scientific field are mainly in English. However, I do not believe that it should be made inevitable, as some believe. Rather, we must seize every opportunity to promote French. Pierre Demers was a remarkable and fierce fighter. He has dedicated his life to promoting scientific exchanges in French. His son, Joël, will chair the Committee. I am very happy that he is taking up the torch and continuing this fundamental struggle, ”said Maka Kotto.
He also took the opportunity to denounce the poor Liberal record in terms of the situation of French in Quebec. “The Liberal government of Mr. Couillard is in my eyes the worst that Quebec has known in terms of the defense and promotion of the French language. There is something here that comes from quiet surrender, even indifference. This government outright denies the fact that French is in decline in Quebec&#39;s public space. Let us recall, for example, that in addition to having slashed the budgets of organizations dedicated to the protection and promotion of the language, this government refuses to modify Bill 101 to make federally chartered companies subject to it, on the pretext that this could be shocking. Canada! “, He denounced.
The MP also considers that the Minister responsible for the Protection and Promotion of the French language, Hélène David, is dragging her feet in all matters relating to the promotion and defense of the French language. “Five months ago, after several questions asked in the House, the Minister finally announced her intention to table a draft regulation that would require retailers to add a description in French to their trademark. We are still waiting! The same goes for the review of the francization process for ephemeral work sites, such as that of the CHUM, announced seven months ago. After all this time, we haven&#39;t even seen a shadow of a draft modification yet, ”he added.
Note also that more recently, the government did not see fit to be represented at the second Economic Forum of La Francophonie, in Paris. “The protection and promotion of French, it is only in the Prime Minister&#39;s great speeches that we hear about it. When it is time to take concrete action, the Liberal government shines with absence and indifference, ”concluded Maka Kotto.
