Pointe-aux-Outardes– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces the creation of the first marine protected area under the responsibility of Quebec that will protect a territory 712 km2 sailor on the Manicouagan peninsula, near Baie-Comeau. Accompanied by the MNA for René-Lévesque, Mr. Marjolain Dufour, responsible for the Côte-Nord region and chief government whip, Mr. Blanchet also announced the granting of financial assistance totaling $ 150,000 for the three years to the Parc Nature de Pointe-aux-Outardes organization.
This financial assistance of $ 150,000 will allow the Parc Nature de Pointe-aux-Outardes to manage the proposed aquatic reserve in collaboration with the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP) and community partners. The marine territory protected by the proposed Manicouagan aquatic reserve is located in front of the park and is included in the Baie-Comeau Important Bird Conservation Area (ZICO), which includes the coastline from Pointe Saint-Gilles, Baie des Écorces, Baie Comeau and part of Baie des Anglais.
“Globally, the preservation of marine biodiversity is of great concern for the 21st century. The government is sensitive to this issue, which has obvious ecological issues, but which also poses a major food and economic challenge. With the creation of the proposed Manicouagan aquatic reserve, the proportion of Quebec&#39;s legally protected marine territory will increase to 1.3%. International commitments in this area aim for a proportion of 10% by 2020. Today&#39;s announcement is a step in this direction and we are working on a bold and determined plan to preserve and enhance the biodiversity in Quebec, ”declared Minister Blanchet.
In addition to contributing to significantly increasing the protected area in the Estuary and Gulf of St.Lawrence region, the proposed Manicouagan aquatic reserve will also help protect several threatened or vulnerable species and ensure the sustainable use of natural resources. resources of the territory and to conserve the biodiversity of coastal, estuarine and marine ecosystems.
Granting this projected protected area status will ensure tighter control over habitat degradation, water and sediment quality, overexploitation of commercial species, and reduction in biodiversity and certain species at risk, including harbor seals, harbor porpoises and minke whales.
In addition, this proposed aquatic reserve located in the St. Lawrence estuary will help strengthen the tourist offer in the Côte-Nord region, particularly for ecotourism activities practiced in the Manicouagan sector. Its creation is the result of close collaboration with a committee of community partners bringing together representatives of the MRC Manicouagan, the Innu Council of Pessamit, the Pointe-aux-Outardes Nature Park, Fisheries and Oceans Canada, the Council Regional Environment and the Manicouagan-Uapishka World Biosphere Reserve.
“Today, we recognize the exceptional value of a territory that is home to some of the richest and most productive estuarine and marine ecosystems in the St. Lawrence. It is thanks to the assiduous work of all these partners, who have been able to mobilize around a common project, that this planned aquatic reserve can finally take shape today. This project should be seen as a victory for these stakeholders, but also for the citizens of the region, whose quality of life depends greatly on the ecosystems that surround them, ”said MP Dufour.
