Quebec - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, today announced the establishment of the Reimbursement Program for multilayer bandages and compression garments necessary for the treatment of lymphedema.
“Lymphedema treatment must be recognized across the continuum of health care available to people with cancer, as lymphedema can be a direct and unpredictable consequence of treatment for their disease. For the sake of fairness, all persons eligible for the health insurance plan and suffering from lymphedema, whatever the cause, will be eligible for the program, ”declared Minister Hébert.
Lymphedema is a buildup of lymph fluid that causes the affected body part to swell and harden the tissues, reducing mobility and leading to an increased risk of infection or sores. Lymphedema is said to be &quot;primary&quot; when the lymphatic system is congenitally deficient, and &quot;secondary&quot; when the lymphatic system has been altered by an external intervention, such as trauma, surgery or radiotherapy affecting lymph nodes or vessels. . The causes associated with secondary lymphedema are mainly surgeries for cancer and radiotherapy treatments. Almost 80% of cases are linked to breast cancer treatments. Currently, some 6,000 people are affected by lymphedema in Quebec, and there are about 650 new cases each year.
The Ministry of Health and Social Services has entrusted the Régie de l&#39;assurance maladie du Québec with the development, implementation and administration of this new program, which should come into force on January 1, 2014. The Ministry estimates the new program costs $ 1.4 million for the first year. Note that this program does not cover the reimbursement of non-medical professional fees provided in private practice for lymphatic drainage.
“Since no treatment for lymphedema has so far been covered by the public insurance plan, this program will significantly improve access to treatment. This is excellent news for all those affected, ”concluded Minister Hébert.
