Quebec - The Minister responsible for Government Administration and Chairman of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, today announced, along with the Member for Rimouski, Mr. Irvin Pelletier, the creation of a solutions development center in information resources in Rimouski. The establishment of this center will generate 30 new jobs in the region.
Under the responsibility of the Shared Services Center of Quebec, the mandate of the center will be the design, implementation and development of programs, software, applications and systems to meet the needs of departments and agencies in the field of computing.
&quot;I am very proud of the realization of this project, which will have positive spin-offs in terms of employment in the region, while allowing the public administration to meet its workforce needs and increase its expertise. IT, ”said Minister Bédard.
The provision of public services to the population of Quebec relies for the most part on information resources. Consider the many online services that allow citizens to apply for financial assistance, change of address or even file an income tax return in just a few clicks. This center of expertise will support the delivery of services to citizens and meet the various needs of departments and agencies. It will be operational within three to six months.
The government chose the city of Rimouski in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region for the quality and proximity of the training offered there, i.e. fifteen college and university study programs in the computer field. . The creation of such a center gives concrete expression to the government&#39;s desire to work in concert with educational institutions by allowing students to benefit from work placements.
“This is an important gesture in favor of the regionalization of government services. The establishment of this center of expertise will encourage IT enthusiasts to complete their studies with a new perspective of quality employment. All of this will promote the retention of young graduates in our region, ”said MP Irvin Pelletier.
The kick-off will be given in the coming weeks to recruit professionals specializing in the development of collaborative applications and platforms and technicians who can perform software, systems and Web integration programming.
“The establishment of this center is a first step in maintaining expertise in the regions. Rimouski offers an excellent opportunity for partnerships with educational institutions and the public administration. The potential of this network appears very promising because in addition to allowing the creation of permanent jobs in the Quebec public service, it will allow students to be exposed very early during their training to the realities of the labor market, a winning tandem that has already proven itself in many areas, ”concluded Minister Bédard.
