Quebec - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of Public Security, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, launched last night, along with the President of the Union of Municipalities (UMQ), Mr. Éric Forest, and the President of the Federation of Quebec Municipalities (FQM), Mr. Bernard Généreux, the work of a new Quebec Table on Rail Safety and the Transport of Dangerous Materials .
The creation of this Table is a response from the Government of Quebec to requests and concerns expressed by municipalities, following the major rail accident in Lac-Mégantic on July 6. It will pursue five main objectives:
mobilize government and municipal players in Quebec around issues relating to safety, rail transport and the transport of hazardous materials;
agree on common positions between the players at the table in interventions with the federal government, the US government and industry representatives;
deepen knowledge of the subject and improve mutual understanding of specific issues, roles and responsibilities of each level of government;
recommend to the various levels of government avenues for improving supervision and ways of achieving better risk management in relation to rail transport, the transport of hazardous materials and land use planning;
“We have a duty to clearly identify the issues and solutions aimed at ensuring that the transport of hazardous materials, particularly by rail, is safe and efficient. This Table will set up a real partnership to identify the issues on which the Government of Quebec, municipalities and stakeholders can work collectively to ensure that our concerns are properly taken into consideration by the Government of Canada ”, declared Mr. Gaudreault.
“Rail transport is vital for the economic development of Quebec, but it must be done without compromising in any way the safety of communities. With our draft Quebec civil security policy, we intend to intervene in the areas of prevention, risk management and intervention in the event of disasters. ”, For his part, underlined Mr. Bergeron.
The Government of Quebec is fully aware that municipalities have an important role to play, because concerns about the neighborhood of railways raise important issues for municipalities in terms of safety.
“Their responsibilities are numerous. Among other things, they must develop civil security plans in order to intervene quickly and adequately in the event of a disaster and they are called upon to put in place disaster prevention measures. In addition, their development plans must, in particular, allow municipalities and railway companies to erect safety perimeters around the railways, ”concluded Minister Gaudreault.
