Saint-Placide– The MNA for Mirabel, Denise Beaudoin, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, participated in the inauguration of a Groupe Lacroix plant in Saint-Placide -Placid. This new facility required an investment of $ 24 million from the company.
The government allocated a non-repayable contribution of $ 500,000 to the project, through Investissement Québec. Groupe Lacroix specializes in the manufacture and distribution of food containers. This new plant, which will increase its production capacity, has created 65 jobs.
The investment enabled the company to acquire equipment, purchase specialized software for production, and set up a design office and a mold-making workshop. It can thus increase its production capacity in order to take advantage of the increase in demand.
“To remain competitive, a manufacturing company must increase its production capacity, which essentially involves innovation and the modernization of its equipment. I congratulate Groupe Lacroix for putting this principle into practice, which allows it, as well as its Quebec subsidiaries, to better meet the challenge of competition, and which stimulates the economy of the entire region, ”declared the Minister. Élaine Zakaïb. “We need such entrepreneurs in Quebec to ensure lasting prosperity. &quot;
MP Denise Beaudoin also congratulated the French company. “Groupe Lacroix, through its three Quebec subsidiaries, is part of the economic development of the Laurentians region with superior quality products, resulting from an innovative and efficient manufacturing method. This investment clearly demonstrates its desire to continue and even intensify this contribution to our economy. &quot;
“The support from the Quebec government has enabled us to acquire the assets necessary for our continued growth. The new mold-making workshop at our Saint-Placide plant will allow us to do even more. With increased productivity, we will be able to respond more effectively to demand, ”said the head of the Lacroix Group in the Americas, Nicolas Bouveret.
