Quebec - The member for Joliette and official opposition critic for culture and communications, Véronique Hivon, deplored the shortfall of $ 30 million in tax credits for the cultural sector, despite the re-establishment partial forecast in the last Liberal budget.
“Last year&#39;s budget contained very bad news for the culture community, including parametric cuts of 20%, without an analysis of the impacts. Several concerns were expressed, while the minister was content to say in the middle to fight. The cultural artisans had to remain mobilized for a year for the government to finally listen to reason and restore part of the tax credits. However, during the study of budgetary appropriations, we discovered that contrary to what has been widely understood, an amount of $ 30 million is still missing, ”declared Véronique Hivon.
Cinema and television, the most affected
“In fact, $ 15 million is missing for the tax credit on Quebec film or television production (established at 32% rather than 35%, as initially planned) and nearly $ 15 million for the dedicated tax credit. in the film production department, for which the 20% cut remains. While the cinema and television, like many other means of expression, make us shine, here and elsewhere, and represent an important engine of economic development, among other things thanks to foreign productions, the government decides to maintain the cuts. However, depending on the cultural milieu, these cuts will have significant, even irreversible consequences, ”added the member for Joliette.
Cinematheque and cinema management
In addition, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Hélène David, refused to reject the possibility of a forced marriage between the Cinémathèque québécoise and Bibliothèque et Archives nationales du Québec, despite the fact that a strong majority of members have resolved to reject any change that would jeopardize the existence of the Cinémathèque, its legal status or its governance structure. &quot;The minister&#39;s attitude will have the effect of keeping the concerns of the community alive, which fears that the government&quot; bulldozer &quot;will continue its journey without consideration for the reality on the ground, or for the need to maintain the mission of the Cinémathèque&quot;, continued Véronique Hivon.
The Minister also confirmed her desire to abolish the Régie du cinéma to integrate it into the Ministry of Culture and Communications. &quot;However, she could not indicate what would happen to the necessary independence of a body exercising quasi-judicial functions, or specify the costs engendered by the termination of the contract of its new president, appointed barely six years ago. months, ”concluded the spokesperson.
