Quebec - Defending Quebec government credits for the metropolis, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Pierre Moreau, confirmed that the Liberal government refuses to commit to carrying out the three structuring projects identified by all stakeholders in East Montreal: the extension of the blue metro line, the renovation of the Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital (HMR) and the construction of a roof for the Olympic Stadium.
&quot;In its budget and in its appropriations, the Couillard government has made choices and, in any case, the priorities of East Montreal are not part of them,&quot; lamented the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the official opposition for the Metropolis, Jean-François Lisée.
During the election campaign, the PLQ pledged to advance the files of three Montreal hospitals: Sacré-Coeur, Verdun and Maisonneuve-Rosemont. Two of those three hospitals were prioritized in the budget, but the HMR was not mentioned. Minister Moreau confirmed this.
“During the electoral campaign, Philippe Couillard had said, about the stadium roof: we will take care of it as soon as we come to government. In the appropriations, yesterday, Minister Moreau refused to make any commitment whatsoever beyond the study of the project, rendering meaningless the comments made in April by his leader, ”continued the member for Rosemont.
Regarding the extension of the metro blue line, identified as a priority by both the Agence métropolitaine de transport, the City of Montreal and the previous government, Minister Moreau indicated that the project would not be treated differently. other planned extension projects, including that of a second extension to Laval. It thus confirms the orientation given in the Montreal platform of the PLQ, which said: “We are committed to completing the West and East train projects; we will also analyze the feasibility of carrying out metro extension projects. &quot;
The East train is almost completed, and mainly serves municipalities outside the island. For the future, the commitment to the West Train project is firm. But the blue line does not appear in the priorities; this was confirmed yesterday.
Strangely, it was Pierre Moreau, Minister of Municipal Affairs, rather than the minister responsible for the Montreal region, Robert Poëti, who defended, for the government, the appropriations of the metropolis. The discussions also confirmed that the status of the minister responsible for it has been considerably reduced by the Liberals, compared to what prevailed under the previous government.
Indeed, Minister Poëti no longer chairs an interministerial committee of the metropolis, which aimed to give coherence to government action in the region and brought together the main ministers working in Montreal. This committee has been dissolved. In addition, the ministers representing Laval, Montérégie, Lanaudière and the Laurentians, who reported to this committee and its minister to ensure a metropolitan vision of development, now report to the Minister of Municipal Affairs, just like the other regional ministers. Finally, the Secretariat for the Metropolitan Region, which was administratively under the General Secretariat of the Government, now also reports to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs.
&quot;Several configurations are possible to serve the interests of the metropolis within the state apparatus,&quot; said Jean-François Lisée. The dissolution of the interministerial committee of the metropolis, the demotion of the administrative power of its senior officials, the shortening of the role of the responsible minister in coordinating the issues that encompass the crowns are all decisions that weaken the metropolis within the Quebec state. . &quot;
Strangely, it is the minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale region, Sam Hamad, who will present the budget appropriations for the Quebec region on Friday. The Couillard government decided, this time, not to demote the minister in his mandate to manage the National Capital Commission.
