Quebec - The Parti Québécois notes with regret the admission of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Yves Bolduc, who admitted, yesterday during the study of the budget appropriations, not having intervened in any way to call the federal government to order when it withdrew sports infrastructure from the funding of the Building Canada Fund-Quebec. Sylvain Pagé, the member for Labelle and official opposition spokesperson for healthy lifestyles, recreation and sports, is amazed at the minister&#39;s lack of leadership on this issue.
“I invite the Minister to support Quebec municipalities who are unanimous in calling for the funding of sports infrastructure to be maintained in this program. This is a step back from the previous agreement. This is worrying because the vitality of the Quebec economy and land use depend a lot on sports infrastructure projects, ”Sylvain Pagé reminded us.
The member for Labelle is also concerned by the fact that Minister Bolduc has no idea how the $ 850 million planned for sports infrastructure will be distributed in the 2014-2024 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI).
“It is quite astonishing that the minister does not really have an idea about the use of such large sums. We can therefore wonder for whom and for what these sums were placed in the PQI. If the minister concerned cannot respond, who can? », Asked Sylvain Pagé.
Finally, the member for Labelle says he is happy that the minister applauds the work started by the Parti Québécois to make Quebec, within 10 years, one of the fittest nations in the world. The minister even pledged to accept the outstretched hand of the deputy, who offered him to complete the work which will allow the adoption of a national policy on sport, leisure and physical activity, as well as an action plan. .
&quot;I expect constructive collaboration from the Minister and I will ensure that he assumes the necessary leadership to engage all ministries that can be leveraged to achieve the goals of the future policy.&quot; In this way, the Minister will meet the expectations of all the partners I met during the consultation tour which took me to the 17 regions of Quebec, ”concluded Sylvain Pagé.
