Quebec - &quot;By rejecting an amendment aimed at ending the obligation to subscribe to direct deposit to receive the solidarity tax credit, proposed yesterday by the Parti Québécois during the detailed study of Bill 32, the Liberal government dismissed the opinion of the Commission des droits de la personne et des droits de la jeunesse with the wave of the hand and prevented many people from obtaining the sums they would badly need, ”declared the Member for Rimouski. -the official opposition&#39;s speech on income, Irvin Pelletier.
In its opinion released on November 16, the Commission des droits de la personne et des droits de la jeunesse estimated that:
“The Parti Québécois is in favor of the idea of citizens registering for direct deposit, which simplifies the processing of sums received from the State. However, when people are forced to register in order to be entitled to a tax credit that is claimed to be &quot;solidarity&quot;, we ensure that people - often more deprived or vulnerable - who would be entitled to these sums do not have access to it, ”added the member for Saint-Jean and official opposition critic for employment, social solidarity and the fight against poverty, Dave Turcotte.
“During the debate on our amendment, the Minister preferred to attack the commission rather than welcome its opinion and put an end to the direct deposit obligation. When he says that this measure would cost the government $ 20 million, the minister is using a false pretext since his calculation is based on the premise that all the people who use direct deposit would withdraw from it, while very few people already registered would effectively put an end to it, ”indicated the MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and official opposition spokesperson for seniors, Carole Poirier.
MEPs also recall that for several months, they have been calling for the holding of a parliamentary committee with general consultations in order to study the opinion of the Advisory Committee for the Fight against Poverty and Social Exclusion on income targets as well as the government&#39;s response to them. The holding of a parliamentary committee would make it possible to hear independent experts in the fight against poverty and social exclusion on income targets and organizations that act directly with the most disadvantaged in our society.
On February 17, 2011, the Parti Québécois already denounced that this measure would penalize the most disadvantaged.
On February 28, 2011, the Québec Ombudsman blamed the Charest government and invited it to take measures to prevent the obligation of direct deposit to obtain the Solidarity loan from penalizing the most disadvantaged.
On April 19, 2011, the Parti Québécois was pleased to note that the Charest government renounced its plan to make direct deposit registration compulsory for people eligible for the solidarity tax credit and who do not have the possibility of have a bank account.
Today, it is deplorable to note once again that the listening and openness of the Liberal government are so reduced ...
