Quebec - The member for Saint-Jean and official opposition spokesperson for employment, vocational training, literacy and youth, Dave Turcotte, called on the Prime Minister, Philippe Couillard, so that he- ci is implementing a new youth policy. To do this, he would do well to use the white paper prepared by the former member for Laval-des-Rapides, Léo Bureau-Blouin, and the Secrétariat à la jeunesse.
In parliamentary committee, the Prime Minister undertook to continue the consultation work undertaken by Léo Bureau-Blouin and to hear certain groups which had not had the opportunity to express themselves. However, he remained vague on the need to design a new youth policy, as desired by young people and their representatives.
&quot;It is essential to develop a new youth policy, since it is the only way to really frame government action,&quot; insisted Dave Turcotte. The resulting strategies or action plans will have to refer to it, and the version adopted in 2001 is no longer in tune with young people of the new generation. Elements as worrying as the fight against intimidation, the integration of immigrants or the digital issue, for example, are not found in the policy in force and are an integral part of the white paper which was to be submitted to a committee. parliamentary. &quot;
Remember that in view of the new policy, the Parti Québécois government launched the Destination 2030 tour, which enabled Léo Bureau-Blouin, then parliamentary assistant to the Prime Minister (youth section), as well as Mathieu Traversy, MP of Terrebonne, and Dave Turcotte to hold 125 consultation activities in 17 regions. They were thus able to hear from nearly 4,000 young people about their aspirations, their priorities and their vision for the future of Quebec.
&quot;We must not waste the resources and time devoted to advancing reflection.&quot; The Quebec government reached out to the youth, who responded by mobilizing and contributing generously to the debate. It would be a shame to turn your back on him after all this effort. The Prime Minister must address youth issues and set an example to his ministers about the importance to be given to rising generations! Added the MP for St. John.
In addition, the official opposition spokesperson for youth has indicated that he will remain vigilant about the 18% cuts imposed on the Secrétariat à la jeunesse. According to the Prime Minister, these cuts will not affect services for young people since they will be mainly absorbed by the ministries that already serve young people (those of Family, Health and Social Services or Education, Recreation and Sport, for example).
“We all know that the ministries also have to make cuts. If the Prime Minister himself does not hesitate to slash his own secretariat for youth, that sends a strange message to other departments as to the priority to be given to young people, ”concluded Dave Turcotte.
