Montreal - On the occasion of Crime Prevention Week, the Minister of Public Security, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, and the Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane De Courcy, announced that more than $ 19 million was invested by the government of Quebec, for the period 2012 to 2015, in the prevention and the fight against the phenomenon of gangs. This meeting with the media took place in the presence of several community organizations participating in the implementation of the 2011-2014 Quebec intervention plan on street gangs.
“In order to effectively counter and prevent the phenomenon of street gangs, the experience acquired shows that concerted actions focusing on prevention are at the heart of our successes. Thus, both at the intersectoral level and in the field, the Ministry of Public Security wishes to encourage and support the best programs aimed at reaching young people at risk and making them realize that beyond gangs, there is a world of opportunities and that they too can contribute to a dynamic and safe society for all, ”said Minister Bergeron.
“Young people from cultural communities are often targeted by street gangs, as the statistics on young people associated with these groups reveal. The Department of Immigration and Cultural Communities and its community partners can play a very important role in terms of prevention. The projects implemented aim to provide young people with the means to take charge of their future and encourage them to succeed in their school activities and their professional life, ”added Minister De Courcy.
The total investment of $ 19 million for the next three years will allow the implementation of various prevention and disaffiliation measures in accordance with the Quebec intervention plan on street gangs. Concretely, for the year 2013-2014, 35 projects will share an amount of $ 1,750,000 in order to support local workers in at-risk environments and to increase the intervention capacity of the community in order to prevent young people from joining street gangs.
The two ministers were invited by the Center des jeunes Saint-Sulpice, an organization that received funding from the Ministry of Public Security to hire a psychosocial worker whose task is to train ten young adults so that they become positive and meaningful role models for young people.
During this meeting, other testimonies were presented by the Maison d&#39;Haïti. Recognized for having created the first team of street patrollers, the Maison d&#39;Haïti will continue its activities thanks to the financial support of the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities, paying particular attention to interventions with young girls. One of the objectives is to recruit a number of them so that they in turn intervene with other young girls at risk.
Minister Bergeron also took the opportunity to underline Crime Prevention Week, which has been taking place since November 3 and will end on November 9, on the theme “Let&#39;s join forces”. This annual event aims to raise public awareness and recognize the efforts of the partners of the Ministère de la Sécurité publique in the area of crime prevention. Many activities are organized, in particular by the police forces and other partners.
To find out more about Crime Prevention Week or local activities, the public is invited to get information from their police or to visit www.securitepublique.gouv.qc.ca.
