Quebec - The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of agriculture, food, SMEs, entrepreneurship and innovation and Member of Parliament for Berthier, André Villeneuve, as well as the spokesperson for sustainable development, d he environment and the fight against climate change and member for Terrebonne, Mathieu Traversy, deplore the government&#39;s admission of powerlessness in the issue of pesticides present in Quebec&#39;s waterways. Indeed, yesterday, when asked to react to revelations according to which the presence of toxic products in our environment had reached a worrying level, the liberal Minister of Agriculture, Pierre Paradis, declared that “Monsanto and the others of this kind ”were even“ more powerful than the government of Quebec ”.
The minister must do something and, above all, refuse to bow to the multinationals. “The words of Pierre Paradis are unacceptable. It is an admission of helplessness with which we completely disagree. The government has the means to act. He cannot let the farmers deal with the problem, ”said André Villeneuve.
There is an urgent need to significantly reduce the use of pesticides in Quebec, promote natural alternatives for the management of harmful insects and encourage organic farming. “The report from the Ministry of the Environment mentions that pesticides contaminate waterways in agricultural regions of Quebec in almost 100% of cases. The problem is that for certain products, Quebec has not yet determined the acceptable thresholds in water, their use being still too recent. What will the Minister of the Environment do to tackle the poor management of pesticides in Quebec? », Added Mathieu Traversy.
“Once again, the government needed a report to take an interest in an issue that experts have been trying to make it aware of for several months. He is aware of the situation, but has done nothing to resolve it. However, the means do exist, as the European and Ontario experiences prove. The Minister has the power to regulate and, thus, to allow Quebec to catch up in this matter ”, concluded the deputies.
