Quebec - &quot;Hundreds of Quebec farmers will not recover from the crisis that Quebec has been going through for years, despite the measures that the minister announced yesterday,&quot; said at the outset the member for Kamouraska-Témiscouata and said - speech of the official opposition on agriculture, André Simard, referring to the announcements made by La Financière agricole and the government, the day before the interpellation on this subject.
“That the government announces additional measures relating to the Agricultural Income Stabilization Insurance Program (ASRA) to help agricultural businesses, particularly in the hogs, feeder calves, lambs and cereals sectors, will unfortunately make no difference to several producers who gave their lives to find themselves with nothing at the dawn of retirement, ”continued André Simard. &quot;It is too little too late for hundreds of farmers who, because of the crisis, have been forced to take drastic measures and even, in some cases, to lock the door of their farm,&quot; he said. added the member for Kamouraska-Témiscouata.
Since the cuts to the ASRA program in 2009, the agricultural sector has been disintegrating through the fault of the Liberal government. “The government acted unexpectedly on this file. The announcements made hastily yesterday, just before the interpellation, are just one more manifestation of this improvisation. By not doing any impact study, he changed the rules of the game, which caused the closure of hundreds of farms in addition to putting several other farmers in a more than precarious situation. The former Minister of Agriculture, Laurent Lessard, himself claimed that 2,500 farms in Quebec were in danger even before the cuts were imposed. Since then, how many others have closed or will have to do so? Asked the member of the Parti Québécois.
During the interpellation this morning, the spokesperson for the official opposition presented the Minister with real cases of successful producers, with great experience, recognized in their community, having had to close their business overnight because of cuts by the Liberal government. “It is sad to see that the Minister is so little concerned with the situation of agricultural producers in Quebec and, by the same token, with the economy of all regions. He must stop living in denial and repair the mistakes made by his government, ”concluded MP André Simard.
