Quebec, April 25, 2017 - As the United States announces the imposition of countervailing duties on Canadian softwood lumber, Parti Québécois forestry spokesperson Sylvain Roy takes note of the announcement of the Government of Quebec for the forestry sector, but remains cautious about the real effectiveness of the ESSOR program. The spokespersons for Quebec-Canada relations, Nicolas Marceau, and international relations, Stéphane Bergeron, deplore the Trudeau government&#39;s inaction on this issue.
IN BRIEF- The Parti Québécois has been asking for a loan guarantee program for months to help the forestry sector.- The devil is in the details; we will carefully monitor the eligibility criteria to ensure that the aid really gets to the right place.- The official opposition deplores the slackness of the Trudeau government when it comes to defending Quebec&#39;s forestry sector. **
“We can only deeply regret the decision of the United States which, in addition to the disastrous effects it will have on exports, will create an imbalance in our own domestic market, penalizing some more than others, and this, in a totally arbitrary fashion. But if this aspect of the decision is unprecedented, and very unfortunate, no one is really surprised. This conflict has been going on for years, and the outcome could be anticipated for months. It is clear that the Liberal government has not been able to take advantage of this time, ”said Stéphane Bergeron.
&quot;After months of procrastinating, after months of inaction, after his failure to defend the interests of forest workers with the federal government, after months of refusing to commit, or of committing but doing nothing to do more, the Quebec government is finally announcing today an assistance program for the forest industry. However, will ESSOR really be effective? This program aims to support expansion and investment projects, while companies affected by the forestry crisis will be in survival mode, ”asks Sylvain Roy.
The Parti Québécois demands that all the details on the eligibility conditions for the program be made public. “The last time the Liberal government implemented a loan guarantee program - the Renfort program, in 2008 - it was a real nightmare for businesses. They could not qualify because of the overly restrictive eligibility criteria, ”added the spokesperson.
The governments, both in Quebec City and in Ottawa, have failed to defend our interests. &quot;We saw this when the budget was tabled, and again on April 6, during the very sad exit of the Minister of Forests, who confessed its failure to represent Quebecers before the federal government: in the softwood lumber issue, the Quebec government has so far been unable to defend Quebec&#39;s interests with Ottawa! », Underlined Nicolas Marceau.
&quot;For its part, yesterday, faced with the finding that there would be the imposition of countervailing duties, the government of Justin Trudeau finally affirmed that it&quot; will vigorously defend the interests of the Canadian softwood lumber industry including recourse to the courts &quot;. This quote is taken from the press release by Ministers Jim Carr and Chrystia Freeland. You can be sure that the Parti Québécois will not forget this commitment, ”the MP also assured.
