Quebec - Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, Minister responsible for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance and Minister responsible for the Nord-du-Québec region, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, Minister responsible for Native Affairs, and Mr. Luc Ferland, Member of Parliament for Ungava and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (northern affairs section), accompanied by Mr. Jobie Tukkiapik, President of the Makivik Corporation, and Mr. Tunu Napartuk, Mayor of Kuujjuaq, questioned today the federal government on the serious housing crisis in Nunavik.
“It was the Government of Canada which, by unilaterally stopping the construction of social housing for six consecutive years at the end of the 1990s, created the immense housing shortage we know today in Nunavik. Not only has the federal government been lax and abdicated its responsibilities, but it has shown omission, neglect and bad faith in its negotiations with the Inuit nation. These are the very revealing conclusions that emerge from a report produced in 2012 by mediator Dominique Bourcheix, mandated to settle a dispute between Ottawa and the Inuit in matters of housing, ”indicated Minister Alexandre Cloutier.
For its part, and despite the absence of Ottawa, the Government of Quebec is taking care of the situation, as evidenced by its commitments that it made alone, announced in the northern development plan Le Nord pour tous. In fact, by 2016, 300 social housing units will be built in Nunavik, thanks to an effort of $ 79.5 million from the Government of Quebec.
“It is more than urgent that the federal government stop turning a blind eye, assume its responsibilities and do its part, because the Inuit are living through unacceptable human tragedies. This situation was the subject of a report by the Commission des droits de la personne et des droits de la jeunesse published in 2007, which showed that overcrowding of housing compromises the safety and development of children and serious physical and mental disorders. Quebec was quick to act. What is the Government of Canada waiting for? “Asked Minister Cloutier.
The Government of Quebec is fully aware of the critical housing situation in Nunavik and is particularly concerned about the social issues arising from the problems of housing shortages. Minister Élizabeth Larouche, for her part, recalled that “this housing crisis contributes to worsening several major social problems, such as dropping out of school, family violence, suicide, alcoholism and drug addiction, not to mention the spread of serious illnesses, such as tuberculosis. Access to decent housing in sufficient quantity is an essential prerequisite for providing lasting solutions to the difficulties experienced by the Inuit of Nunavik ”.
As stated by the president of the Makivik Corporation, which represents the Inuit of Nunavik, Mr. Jobie Tukkiapik: “We are asking for immediate action to resolve the housing crisis and its cascade of devastating effects on our population. That means, on the part of governments, respect for the word given and the agreements reached. Very concretely, we demand an investment of sufficient money to fill the 899 units that are lacking to provide decent housing for families in our 14 communities. The conditions of overcrowding have made them suffer for too long, governments can no longer turn a blind eye to its effects ”.
“It is clear to us that northern development begins with supporting communities. The housing crisis is above all a serious social crisis which engenders its share of human tragedies for the Inuit of Quebec. This must end once and for all, ”said Ungava MP Luc Ferland.
“Today, the Government of Quebec calls on the Government of Canada to put in place a catch-up plan without delay. With a sum of $ 185 million, the housing shortage in Nunavik could be resolved. In fact, we are asking that the Inuit receive their share, ”concluded the Minister responsible for the Nord-du-Québec region, Alexandre Cloutier.
