Quebec, April 3, 2020 – In recent weeks, the lives of millions of Quebecers have changed. Quebec has taken a break, and a large number of people must now turn to emergency assistance. In the context, the Parti Québécois, through its finance spokesperson, Martin Ouellet (René ‑ Lévesque), formulated five proposals that would give oxygen to the citizens and entrepreneurs of our region.
Lower credit card interest rates
While waiting for help from governments, many will have to turn to credit. However, in 2019, one in two Quebecers said they live from one pay to another. All financial institutions should lower their interest rates, and find a way to apply this measure to as many customers as possible.
Increased time to pay off credit cards
Similarly, the grace period should be increased from 21 to 40 days.
Postponement of mortgage payments and freeze on maximum rates
Recently, the 6 major Canadian banks followed in the footsteps of Desjardins Group and announced the possibility of deferring (up to 6 months) payments on mortgage loans. This is good news, but it is not enough; we must also prevent the rates from rising.
Credit files: exception for the months of March and April
If no action is taken, the exceptional situation of the last few weeks will inevitably mar many credit files. We ask agencies to recognize the anomaly and temporarily rule out short-term variations.
Margin reminders: greed won&#39;t help anyone
We must prevent emergency aid from governments being used to enrich financial institutions. While Quebec is on hiatus, the number of accounts receivable less than 90 days old, which serve as collateral for loans, will melt like snow in the sun. In theory, financial institutions could demand margin reminders from companies. But we ask them to be responsible and not to take advantage of the situation; emergency aid must first be used to protect businesses and revive the economy.
“We are currently experiencing an unprecedented situation. Everyone is called upon to do their part, including financial institutions. In 2008, governments rushed to the aid of the big banks; we believe it is their turn to help citizens. It is also in their interest! », Declared Martin Ouellet.
