Quebec - The member for Verchères and official opposition spokesperson for ethics and integrity, Stéphane Bergeron, notes that Prime Minister Philippe Couillard, by deploying so many efforts to ensure the return to office and the The appointment of Jacques Turgeon as CEO of the CHUM, in a way, removes the confidence he had until now placed in his Minister of Health. Faced with such a disavowal, Gaétan Barrette has no other choice but to leave his post.
“With the return of Jacques Turgeon at the head of the CHUM, the Premier confirms that his minister has slipped. As several resigning leaders have asserted, Gaétan Barrette has used blackmail and intimidation to impose his views. He therefore no longer has the slightest credibility to continue to lead the largest government department, while the Prime Minister had to intervene to guarantee Jacques Turgeon that he will be able to administer his establishment free from interference and intimidation of the Minister of Health. Under the circumstances, Gaétan Barrette has no choice but to resign, ”said Stéphane Bergeron.
“As if this were not already enough to illustrate the discredit in which Gaétan Barrette is now plunged, the Prime Minister is taking advantage of his minister&#39;s absence to repair the broken pots. This crisis is not linked to the return or not of Jacques Turgeon at the head of the CHUM, but to the unacceptable actions of the minister. By doing everything to keep the Director General of the CHUM in place, the Premier confirms that he has taken his stand behind his version of the facts. We reiterate our request for an independent investigation into the actions of the Minister and into the potential other cases of interference in the appointments, ”he added.
“Jacques Turgeon&#39;s return is a good thing for the CHUM; this will ensure an adequate transition and reassure the medical profession, the population and the patients, who above all did not need this crisis created from scratch by the Minister. Rather than putting the CHUM under supervision, as some foresaw, it is its minister that Philippe Couillard has placed under supervision. Are we now to understand that Gaétan Barrette is minister, except for the CHUM? And what guarantee do we have that it will not do the same in other health establishments? Its credibility is irreparably compromised; he must leave, ”concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
