Quebec, February 24, 2017 - The Parti Québécois transport spokesperson, Alain Therrien, is dissatisfied with the Liberal reaction to the scandals affecting the Quebec Ministry of Transport (MTQ). Remember that last June, Ms. Louise Boily and Ms. Annie Trudel were heard by the Committee on Public Administration, delivering a disturbing testimony on the harmful culture that exists at the MTQ; in response, the Liberals made a partisan appointment, hoping to cover up the problems.
“The Liberal Party does not want to fix the problems at the Department of Transport; he only wants to camouflage them. As proof, the ultra-partisan appointment of Marc Lacroix, supposed to replace the deposed official Dominique Savoie - who, it should be noted, continues to be paid at great expense by taxpayers. Mr. Lacroix is a regular at liberal pharmacies. He worked for years in the liberal cabinets, in addition to having been an electoral organizer for the party ”, first indicated Alain Therrien.
However, this week, Marc Lacroix came to present a plan to reorganize the MTQ in parliamentary committee. “This plan was all empty sentences and vague concepts. Obviously, this was much more of a communications plan to make the Liberal Party look good than a reorganization plan. Mr. Lacroix thus echoes the words of his minister, Laurent Lessard, who had formally declared, when taking office, that he was not there to clean up, ”added the spokesperson.
During their testimony, Ms. Boily and Ms. Trudel had revealed the existence of bullying problems at the MTQ, particularly in the territorial offices. Louise Boily told of having been a victim herself. “The MTQ&#39;s internal auditors would have been intimidated because they had to watch their own bosses. When the crisis erupted, they were transferred to another sector but, as the Deputy Minister revealed, this measure is only temporary. So, it is only a matter of time before this outrageous situation happens again. In short, in accordance with the liberal method, the problem has been swept under the carpet, ”continued Alain Therrien.
In the eyes of the member, the government is also sending the wrong message to whistleblowers by leaving Deputy Minister Danièle Cantin, who is the target of allegations of intimidation against Louise Boily. “Ms. Cantin was not the subject of any administrative investigation. Our concerns about the lack of transparency, the culture of extras and intimidation at the Department of Transport are far from allayed. The Liberal Party no longer has any credibility when it comes to cleaning up. We have no confidence in this worn and opaque government, ”he concluded.
