Quebec - Jean-François Lisée, the member for Rosemont and Parti Québécois spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, asks the government to act now on three fronts: we must reinvest the $ 20 million slashed in the budgets of youth centers in 2015-2016, reinstate suicide prevention measures immediately, and restore to youth centers the autonomy they had before the Barrette reform. In addition, the Parti Québécois supports the request of André Lebon, expert in youth protection and auditor appointed by the government at the Center jeunesse de Laval, who is calling for a general statement on youth centers.
“Staff turnover, abolition of the Association of youth centers, extreme centralization with the Barrette reform, lack of resources… this expert is giving us a real cry from the heart, and the government must take note of the current crisis. in our youth centers. More than $ 20 million was cut in youth centers last year alone; there are limits to asking people to do more with less as needs increase. There comes a time when all these cuts put our young people at risk. We can see it, in particular, in suicide prevention: interventions must now be done by telephone since, in some youth centers, support teams, made up of psychologists, have been abolished to save money, ”denounced Jean-François Lisée. .
&quot;How can the Minister for Youth Protection, Lucie Charlebois, think that interveners can better prevent suicide by working on duty, on the phone?&quot; This is completely absurd and it puts our already vulnerable young people in a dangerous situation, which compromises their safety. The interveners find themselves unable to accomplish their work of prevention, accompaniment and support, ”added the spokesperson.
Remember that before liberal austerity, Suicide Action Montreal trained more than 350 health workers each year. Since April 1, this figure has dropped to zero. The situation is the same in the other regions of Quebec: the Quebec Association for Suicide Prevention trained 660 workers less in 2015-2016 than in 2014-2015, when it had trained 1,875. is all the more unacceptable given that in his report for the Center jeunesse de Laval, André Lebon indicated that the implementation of good practices had made it possible to reduce and even eliminate suicides in accommodation resources.
“We are asking the government to take advantage of the revision of the Youth Protection Act to hold a general meeting on youth centers as of this fall. We must not wait for another episode like the one of the fugues at the Center jeunesse de Laval to act; we must now give back to the youth centers the $ 20 million that was taken away from them, provide them with the means to protect and support young people, and take the time to reflect on how we takes care of our young people, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
