Labelle– The member for Labelle, chairman of the government caucus and responsible for the Laurentides region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, announced, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation of a grant of $ 147,500 to Signature Bois Laurentides for a project to put five green trucks into service valued at $ 295,000. In addition, there is a financial contribution of $ 30,000 from the Regional Conference of Elected Officials of the Laurentians.
The assistance granted will allow Signature Bois Laurentides, the agent for the implementation of the strategy and action plan of the niche of excellence bearing the same name, to use the services of FPInnovations as project manager to promote the use and installation of these green trucks with industrial partners in the niche of excellence whose activities are linked in particular to transport. Green trucks are so named because they will allow a reduction in fuel consumption of around 10% compared to current consumption and an increase of 2 tonnes in the payload of forestry trucks.
&quot;The implementation of green trucks is a promising and sustainable project for the economy and the development of our region, which is recognized as a leader in mixed forest management,&quot; said Sylvain Pagé. “We are proud to support this project, which will boost our forest transportation while promoting new, greener technologies. These trucks will serve as a showcase to possibly improve the energy and technological profile of the entire fleet, made up of 200 forestry trucks, in the Hautes-Laurentides region. &quot;
&quot;The Signature Bois Laurentides project is part of a sustainable development vision that our government fully shares,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “The Quebec Industrial Policy 2013-2017 also targets the modernization and greening of our manufacturing companies. In addition to helping to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, this project will equip companies operating in the cutting-edge wood processing sector, thus ensuring our competitiveness and the growth of our expertise in this promising niche for the Quebec. &quot;
Signature Bois Laurentides is a non-profit organization responsible for coordinating the strategy and implementing the action plan for the niche of excellence of the same name in the Laurentides region.
&quot;Thanks to our green truck project, we will reduce the energy consumption of our transport fleet, in addition to making it more efficient and modern,&quot; said the president of Signature Bois Laurentides, Mr. Raymond Paquette. “This is an innovative and unifying project for companies in our region, which place sustainable forestry development and the growth of our industrial wood sector among their priorities. &quot;
The ACCORD project (Concerted action for regional development cooperation) is a strategic approach to regional economic development resulting from an initiative of the Government of Quebec. The project is based on regional strengths and on the search for excellence in key sectors of Quebec. It aims to build a competitive regional production system on a North American and global level in each region of Quebec, by defining and developing niches of excellence that can become their brand image.
The Signature Bois Laurentides niche of excellence includes forestry companies as well as primary, secondary and tertiary wood processing companies in the Laurentides region. This niche is distinguished by its dynamism, the implementation of its action plan, the structuring nature of its projects as well as the mobilization of its stakeholders.
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
