Sherbrooke– The Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Seniors and Minister responsible for the Estrie region, Mr. Réjean Hébert, announced, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Bank of economic development of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the granting of financial assistance of $ 300,000 to the Center for Health and Social Services - Sherbrooke University Institute of Geriatrics (CSSS-IUGS), for the development of the ACCORD Aging and autonomy, newly named SAGE-Innovation.
“Sherbrooke and Estrie are pioneers in research on aging. Our research establishments have made it possible to develop real knowledge about gerontology. The time has now come to give ourselves the necessary tools so that this knowledge turns into know-how and creates quality jobs. The ACCORD SAGE-Innovation niche, with the help of its new director, Ms. Chantal Michel, will allow the creation of innovative businesses around seniors, that is to say in the gray economy sector. There is a whole economic sector to be created around the elderly, whether it be pharmaceutical products, services, transport, real estate development, etc. ”, Mentioned Minister Hébert.
“The new name of the ACCORD niche, SAGE-Innovation, describes in a few words the very essence of this vision of economic development. Estrie stands out for its creativity and innovation in several spheres of activity. This is our uniqueness and our added value. Innovation will also be part of the aging niche. The word? SAGE? is certainly a nod to the wisdom of our seniors, but even more, it is an acronym for Health, Autonomy, Gerontotechnologies and Estrie, ”said Minister Hébert.
Thus, thanks to the Support Program for the Development of Strategic Sectors and Niches of Excellence, the hiring of Ms. Chantal Michel was made possible. Ms. Michel has a doctorate in the field of physiology / biology as well as a diploma in technology transfer. She has collaborated with companies and establishments specializing in technology transfer and technology development.
“In parallel with an assessment made over the past year, the niche has started its strategic planning and the development of its new action plan while taking into account its repositioning more oriented towards the areas of aging and autonomy. », Réjean Hébert recalled. “The hiring of a person dedicated to coordination was therefore necessary in order to ensure the implementation of the projects resulting from the action plan. Our government is very proud to support the growth of the niche. &quot;
In close relation with the various socio-economic actors and the members of the niche committee, the director will assume various responsibilities of organization, collaboration, monitoring, planning and support while being the main resource person of the niche.
&quot;Our government is clearly committed to ensuring that each region of Quebec prosper in a sustainable manner, by building on its strengths, attractions and expertise,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “The mobilization and consultation of the community in structuring projects like that of ACCORD are essential to the realization of new initiatives of economic diversification and development that create jobs and wealth. &quot;
The Estrie region has nationally and internationally recognized expertise in the areas of aging and independence. The niche of excellence can count on a multidisciplinary and cross-sectoral network of actors who work to preserve the autonomy of people weakened by age and chronic diseases. Once it has tabled its new strategy and action plan, the niche will be in a position to sign a new five-year implementation agreement.
The CSSS-IUGS coordinates all the general and specialized services offered to the elderly as well as training, research and knowledge sharing. It is the only health center in Quebec with a dual university designation. In addition to being recognized as an affiliated university center, it is one of the two university institutes of geriatrics in the province and notably hosts one of the most important research centers on aging in Canada.
“The support from the Quebec government allows us to continue creating added value for members of the niche by stimulating cooperation between individuals, businesses and institutions in the network. This sector occupies a preponderant place in the regional economy ”, underlined for his part the general manager of the CSSS-IUGS and co-president of the niche of excellence, Mr. Carol Fillion.
&quot;Thanks to the implementation of structuring projects as well as the commitment of companies and organizations from niche areas of excellence, we can contribute to the socio-economic development of the Estrie region&quot;, mentioned Ms. Lise Compagna. , president of the ACCORD regional committee.
The ACCORD approach (Concerted action for regional development cooperation) is a priority of government action aimed at boosting the economy of the regions of Quebec. It is based on regional strengths, on the mobilization and dynamism of business people, as well as on the search for excellence in key sectors of Quebec. It aims to build a competitive regional production system on the North American and global levels in each region of Quebec, by defining and developing niches of excellence that can become their brand image.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
