Bromont - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced the allocation of a $ 300,000 grant to the MiQro Innovation Collaboration Center (C2MI) so that it can support the activities of the Quebec Electronic Systems Industry (CISEQ) niche of excellence in the Estrie and Montérégie regions. The strategic plan, which will be tabled shortly, will confirm the new areas of intervention that have led, among other things, to the change of name of the niche.
Financial support, granted through the Fund to support the development of niches of excellence, will be spread over three years. It will make it possible to continue the efforts undertaken with a view to developing new projects and ensuring the continuity of activities.
&quot;Among our government&#39;s priorities, the ones that top the list are supporting our businesses and developing our niches of excellence in all regions of Quebec,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. &quot;We are therefore proud to support the C2MI organization as well as the CISEQ, which strengthen our expertise in the electronic systems industry in addition to contributing to the development of the niche of excellence in the Estrie and Quebec regions. the Montérégie. &quot;
Minister Élaine Zakaïb also welcomed the appointment of Mr. Jocelyn Lafrance, who has been acting as director of CISEQ since last fall and who, in this capacity, led the development of the strategic plan.
C2MI, the niche hosting organization, is a research and development center for electronic systems as well as a center of excellence aimed at the accelerated commercialization of new products. It is a major partner of CISEQ.
&quot;Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we will be able to ensure the implementation of our strategic plan and thus position our industry as a key player supporting the overall economic development of other sectors of Quebec since microelectronics is omnipresent there&quot;, supported the niche director, Mr. Jocelyn Lafrance. “We will also be able to better promote the activities of our niche, which generate significant economic benefits for our regions. &quot;
The ACCORD approach (Concerted action for regional development cooperation) is a priority of government action aimed at boosting the economy of the regions of Quebec. It is based on regional strengths, the mobilization and dynamism of business people, as well as the search for excellence in key sectors of Quebec. It aims to build a competitive regional production system on a North American and global level in each region of Quebec, by defining and developing niches of excellence that can become their brand image.
CISEQ includes multinational companies, SMEs as well as research and development organizations from the Estrie and Montérégie regions. This niche is distinguished by its dynamism, the implementation of its action plan, the structuring nature of its projects and the mobilization of its stakeholders.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
