Quebec - While Minister François Blais announces the conclusion of an agreement with the carrefours jeunesse-emploi (CJE) for the work integration of young people on social assistance, the member for Saint-Jean and Parti Québécois spokesperson employment, fight against poverty, solidarity and for youth, Dave Turcotte, notes the decline of the Minister, who simply announces a return to the old formula of the CJE.
“With this government, we have wasted more time. It&#39;s a step backwards, with one exception: rather than being funded at the mission, CJEs will be funded for every young person they help. Before this agreement, the CJEs could also help young recipients of social assistance or employment insurance. Minister Blais realizes today the mistake he made when he disavowed the carrefours jeunesse-emploi. He stepped back and focused their work on young people on social assistance. But what about the others, the first applicants over the age of 35, for example, or young students who already have a job but want to improve their lot? “Asked the member for Saint-Jean.
The figures are convincing: only for the CJEs represented by the Autonomous Collective of Carrefours jeunesse-emploi du Québec, 14,000 young people came to their CJE and were told that they could not be helped. These are young people aged 16 or 17 who, for lack of immediate help to obtain a job, will knock on the door of social assistance. They are also young people who are currently studying or who are finishing them, young people who have a job with precarious status, or who may be threatened with losing it. These are young people who would like to have a better future, especially.
“At the time, Minister Blais, through his reform, replied to these young people that they would no longer receive aid because they were not important enough. The government now says it wants to reduce the number of young people receiving social assistance, and it is using the youth employment centers to do so. But the CJEs have always done this job! The minister is finally waking up, but the problem remains: Bill 70 still contains financial penalties on the social assistance check. It attacks the poor, not poverty, ”concluded Dave Turcotte.
