Grande Entrée - The deputy for Îles de la Madeleine, Ms. Jeannine Richard, on behalf of the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, announced the granting of financial assistance by Tourisme Québec of $ 138,067 to the Auberge La Salicorne, of Great Entrance.
The financial assistance allocated will allow the improvement of the hostel&#39;s facilities to make it a tourist product of excellence intended for customers of international cruise passengers. The arrangements made will improve the reception of visitors and facilitate travel to the leisure and discovery activities offered to cruise passengers.
“The promotion of the St. Lawrence as a destination for international cruises is based, among other things, on the dynamism of the regions and that of tourism partners. These are quality projects, like the one in La Salicorne, which help to diversify the client base and which, consequently, increase tourism revenues for Quebec. In the Magdalen Islands, the international cruise sector has become a source of great pride and I am delighted that the frequentation objectives for cruise passengers planned for the 2014 season will be more than largely achieved, ”said MP Richard.
According to the director of La Salicorne, Mr. Robert St-Onge, Tourisme Québec&#39;s contribution will help meet the high demands of international cruise customers. “For La Salicorne, international cruises are a great opportunity to develop the tourist season. Tourisme Québec&#39;s contribution will allow us to reorganize the reception area on arrival on the site, and the relaxation and activities area located on the hill. We would like to thank the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, as well as our Member of Parliament, Ms. Jeannine Richard, for their important contribution and their support for our social economy enterprise, ”said Mr. St-Onge.
It should be remembered that in 2010, projections for the international cruise season in the Magdalen Islands set a number of 5,000 passengers in 2014. To date, reservations have instead established at 10,400 the number of passengers who will stop over in the Magdalen Islands. la Madeleine by this same period. These results reflect the trend that is manifesting itself on a larger scale for the entire St. Lawrence, while the unparalleled performance of 2012 will quickly be exceeded. It should be remembered that just over 230,000 cruise passengers and 90,000 crew members had visited the various ports of call, an increase of 60% compared to the previous season.
The Tourism Industry Development Plan 2012-2020 sets out, following the implementation of the Strategy for sustainable development and promotion of international cruises on the St.Lawrence River, Tourisme Québec&#39;s commitment to continue until in 2016, in collaboration with the Association des croisières du Saint-Laurent, to support international cruise stopovers. This measure aims to make Quebec an essential and original world-class destination by, among other things, the development of this sector of activity.
