Quebec - Together with the Association québécoise des centers d &#39;intervention en dependance (AQCID), the member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, and the member for Rimouski and spokesperson for the fight against poverty, solidarity and social economy, Harold LeBel, denounced, during a press briefing, the cuts to social assistance and expressed their concerns for beneficiaries struggling with addiction.
They point out that each year, in Quebec, thousands of people try to get out of a situation of dependency by participating in the programs of intervention centers in addiction. The vast majority of them are on social assistance, and a very large number are homeless. These people go through therapy on their own and want to get out of it.
“For now, with their social assistance benefits, these people are able to participate in programs and take the path of social inclusion, but the Liberal government has decided to cut them and reduce their benefits, 20% to 80%, depending on the case. For AQCID, this means that more than 7,000 Quebecers among the most vulnerable will no longer have access to the treatments offered, and could return to the streets or to the hospital. This extreme cut in aid to the most disadvantaged is a machine that creates homelessness, ”said Jean-Francois Lisée.
“I understand that the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity is only blindly applying the cuts demanded by the Conseil du trésor; however, with the Minister responsible for Social Services, he should at least try to explain to his colleague Martin Coiteux that they will have harmful effects that will cost much more in the long term than the sums saved in the short term on the backs of the beneficiaries. Harold LeBel added.
“It&#39;s still extraordinary: the Minister told us earlier in February that he had not foreseen the very serious impacts on the clientele and on the 40 community treatment organizations. They have taught the government that they are going to close, expel 75 people and take 7,000 people to the streets, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
“It is inconceivable that these impacts have not been assessed. This not only shows that the most vulnerable in our society are the first victims of the toxic austerity imposed by the government, but also that it has lost all credibility, ”concluded Harold LeBel.
