Quebec– Alexandre Cloutier, member of Parliament for Lac-Saint-Jean and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of education, research and school perseverance, and MNA for Bourget, Maka Kotto, and member for Rosemont, Jean-François Lisée, denounce the cuts by the Liberal government in services to students in public schools in Montreal, which risk directly affecting the graduation rate in the metropolis.
“While the government should invest to promote academic success - particularly in public schools in eastern Montreal, which have an alarming dropout rate - it is slashing services for students with special needs. The Liberals are doing everything they can to make the situation worse. A whole generation of young people risks being sacrificed on the altar of austerity, ”said Alexandre Cloutier.
“At the Montreal School Board alone, no less than 70 professional positions have been abolished this year. Raymond Chabot Grant Thornton&#39;s report, commissioned by the Ministry of Education itself, clearly stated that the scale of the government cuts leaves schools no other choice: services to students will be reduced ” , lamented Jean-François Lisée.
No less than 22.5% of families with children are below the low income cut-off in the Montreal region, compared to 13.1% of those in Quebec as a whole, recalled the deputy for Bourget, Maka Kotto. “The most vulnerable students are the first victims of education cuts. The government is destroying the efforts made for more than a decade to increase the graduation rate in Montreal, ”he mentioned.
Provocation of the Prime Minister
The members of the Parti Québécois also denounced the provocative remarks of the Premier of Quebec, who, this weekend, accused the teachers who are mobilizing for the future of the public school of &quot;corporatism&quot;. “Parents and teachers are worried about the future of education in Quebec, and with good reason. What is corporatist in wanting to protect student services and the quality of education, or in opposing the increase in the number of students per class and cuts in support services? to pupils in difficulty? The only ones who have shown corporatism this weekend are the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education; Let us remember that they organized a liberal education forum at $ 150 a ticket, but that they failed to invite those primarily responsible for academic success in Quebec: the teachers, ”concluded Alexandre Cloutier.
