Quebec - During a press briefing with the Citizen&#39;s Movement for Public Health, the member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, denounced the cuts of nearly $ 29 million in public health, which represents 40% of regional budgets and nearly 10% of total budgets.
“This year, the government found $ 210 million to increase the salaries of medical specialists. To get there, he had to cut elsewhere: drug addiction patients go to the cash register, waiting lists for services for autistic children are growing, home care is rationed. The hardest blow has therefore been dealt to those who, however, lower the costs of the health system, to those who lower the prevalence of sexually transmitted diseases, to those who reduce smoking and obesity, to those who who vaccinate. It is undeniable: this decision has a direct impact on the health of Quebecers, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
According to the Department of Health and Social Services, if we increased investment in prevention by 10%, we would reduce the number of deaths due to diabetes, cancer and cardiovascular disease, and infant mortality would decrease by 7%. However, the government has chosen to cut prevention budgets by 10%.
“In Estrie, the nutritionist who took care of the healthy eating of children from 0 to 5 years old was fired. In Montreal, the nurse from the work-related accident clinic was also fired, as was the toxicologist who analyzed the quality of the water and the soil. The pharmacist who dealt with chronic illnesses, fired. The sex therapist who provided information on sexually transmitted diseases, fired. These are direct services that are cut, and the Minister for Rehabilitation, Youth Protection and Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, still refuses to admit it, ”denounced the deputy.
“Obviously, among the people fired by this government, there are sociologists, engineers and economists who gave opinions that the Liberals do not want to hear on the impact of asbestos, casinos, &#39;Turcot interchange. In addition, several witnesses affirm that during a meeting held a few months ago, Minister Charlebois clearly told them that their opinions on health are politics, and that &quot;if they want to do political, that they put their face on a pole? Silencing those who defend public health, is that the real reason for the cut? ”concluded the deputy for Rosemont.
