Quebec - While an important meeting is being held today between representatives of the cultural community and the Minister of Culture and Communications, Hélène David, concerning the &quot;surprise&quot; cut of $ 2.5 million to the Council of Arts and Letters du Québec (CALQ), the member for Joliette and official opposition critic for culture and communications, Véronique Hivon, reiterates her support for the cultural community and demands that the Minister reconsider this decision as unexpected that ill-founded, which will have harmful short- and long-term consequences for the development and influence of Quebec culture.
“Since this cup, indecently unveiled on the eve of our national holiday, we can see, in the light of the cries of the heart launched day after day by the actors concerned, the direct impacts it will have on Quebec&#39;s cultural environment. As much for the deeply unacceptable nature of this decision, as for the lack of transparency, Minister David having affirmed during the study of the appropriations that the CALQ budget was improved, the situation recalls the sad episodes of the announcements of the closing of conservatories in region and the sale of the Saint-Sulpice library. As she had to do in the face of the outcry generated by these two improvised decisions, the Minister of Culture must realize the impacts, pull herself together and step back, ”declared Véronique Hivon.
The Member for Joliette also took the opportunity to ask the Minister to be transparent about the other “surprise” cuts that have just been imposed, this time on the Société de développement des entreprises culturelles (SODEC). “As we feared, we have just learned that SODEC will also be the victim of cuts not foreseen during the last study of the appropriations. The Minister must quickly make known the details of these cuts, which come on top of the bad news that is piling up in terms of culture, ”continued the Member.
The spokesperson recalls that the largest cut to date to the CALQ&#39;s budget follows many other cuts that are seriously hurting the cultural community, especially in the regions. “The cultural community has been hit hard by liberal austerity. When it is not the museums which have to mop up record cuts, or the Bibliothèque et Archives nationales du Québec which must cut dozens of positions to meet the government&#39;s requirements, it is the Observatoire de la culture et des communications which suffers a blow. 40% reduction in its budget and the regional cultural councils which are victims of a 15% cut! », She indicated.
The situation is all the more untenable as the abolition of regional conferences of elected officials also signals the end of another important source of funding for the development of culture in the regions. “Despite the fine speeches, Minister David seems definitely more concerned with delivering the Treasury Board&#39;s orders than fighting for Quebec&#39;s cultural community, which finds itself quite alone. We have to conclude once again that defending our culture and our identity is not one of this government&#39;s priorities, ”concluded Véronique Hivon.
