Quebec - The MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and official opposition spokesperson for international relations, Carole Poirier, strongly denounces the Liberal government&#39;s intention to completely abolish, on April 1, the subsidy paid to the International Association of Quebec Studies (AIEQ), as well as to cancel the loan of the executive providing its direction. Already this year, the AIEQ had been warned of a decrease of $ 30,000 in its funding from the Ministère des Relations internationales et de la Francophonie (MRIF), which reduced the government contribution from $ 230,000 to 200,000. $. However, in the end, the organization only received $ 160,000 in mid-December. These cuts, which total $ 70,000, greatly threaten the survival of the AIEQ.
“This decision is purely ideological. The Liberals are using budgetary austerity to justify cuts aimed at reducing Quebec&#39;s influence abroad. For Philippe Couillard, Quebec should only be a Canadian province like any other. After the distressing episodes of school libraries, cuts to scientific magazines and the abolition of research chairs on Quebec, we continue to act in the same bad Liberal film; now, the screenwriter is talking about cutting Quebec studies. We really didn&#39;t need this new example of the government&#39;s lack of vision for the development and dissemination of knowledge, ”said Carole Poirier.
The spokesperson points out that Quebec studies are not partisan; they are done in the interest of all Quebecers, and all governments have supported them since their creation in 1997. A large number of Quebecers have also been able to benefit from the work of the AIEQ which, through its activities, allows doctoral students, researchers, authors and scientists to represent Quebec abroad.
“Recently, my colleagues Patrick Huot from the PLQ, Sylvie Roy from the CAQ, Françoise David from QS and I even jointly signed a letter sent to all elected officials of the National Assembly to make them aware of the importance of Quebec studies and encourage support for the AIEQ, through the volunteer action support program. Thus, we wanted to partially offset the cuts and ensure its survival. I cannot understand why this member of the Liberal Party said he wanted to save Quebec studies, when his government decided to completely cut funding to the AIEQ. This is hypocrisy! », Added the deputy.
New cuts to come at the Ministry of International Relations
According to Carole Poirier, after threatening to transform the MRIF into a simple secretariat and to close several representations of Quebec abroad, the Liberal government is once again demonstrating its lack of vision for the future of Quebec by providing for further cuts to the MRIF .
“The Liberals abolished three representations of Quebec abroad, Taipei, Santiago and Moscow, and they considerably reduced three others. The worst part of all this is that the amount of cuts imposed on Quebec studies is less than what all the partisan appointments of this government will have cost. Repatriating people to appoint friends from the Liberal Party afterwards is expensive. The amount we want to cut from the AIEQ, like the one envisaged for Les Débrouillards, is a saving of candle. This is less than the bonus received by the Minister of Higher Education, Yves Bolduc, a bonus that he has still not fully reimbursed. This amount is also lower than the $ 278,000 and the $ 173,365 spent respectively by Ministers Jean D&#39;Amour and Francine Charbonneau for the redevelopment of their constituency offices. The government must absolutely reverse its decision. He must stop making Quebec and Quebeckers pay, while the Liberal Party and its friends are taking advantage of his largesse, ”concluded the member.
