Quebec - Following the announcement of the elimination of dozens of positions at the Grande Bibliothèque de Montréal, due to cuts at the Bibliothèque et Archives nationales du Québec (BAnQ), and a surprise budget cut at the Conseil des arts and letters from Quebec, the member for Joliette and official opposition critic for culture and communications, Véronique Hivon, denounces the blind cuts imposed by the government and asks the minister to back down.
“While we have just adopted the Act to modernize the governance of the Bibliothèque et Archives nationales du Québec, it is ironic and distressing to say the least to note the serious repercussions of liberal austerity on the functioning of this flagship institution of the culture and knowledge, ”said Véronique Hivon.
Indeed, today&#39;s announcement is all the more surprising given that during the detailed study, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Hélène David, never ceased to extol the merits of BAnQ and of insist on its importance. It should be noted that this year, the Grande Bibliothèque is celebrating its 10th anniversary. “We would have liked to celebrate but, unfortunately, we must once again fight for the maintenance, accessibility and quality of cultural services in Quebec. Clearly, the days are dark and the future seems uncertain for the sector; in addition to the cuts affecting BAnQ, the Conseil des arts et des lettres du Québec learned today that it should reduce its budget by $ 2.5 million. This is insane! Added the member for Joliette.
However, it should be remembered that in recent months, the mobilization of cultural players and the actions of the official opposition have made it possible to obtain the annulment of unacceptable government decisions, such as the closure of conservatories in the region, the sale of of the Saint-Sulpice library or the forced merger of the Cinémathèque with BAnQ. “The government must also back down on the cuts at BAnQ, which have the effect of abolishing positions and therefore reducing the services offered to users, as we are discovering today, as well as those, without precedent, which affect the Council of Arts and Letters; none of this had been announced during the study of the budget appropriations, ”concluded Véronique Hivon.
