Québec– Jean-François Lisée, Member of Parliament for Rosemont and Official Opposition spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Member for Rimouski and spokesperson for fight against poverty, solidarity and social economy, Harold LeBel, as well as the member for Verchères and responsible for the Outaouais region, Stéphane Bergeron, denounce the decision of the Minister Delegate Lucie Charlebois to divert the budgets of the community environment to the health and social services network.
In fact, last Thursday, we learned from the Minister&#39;s mouth that a sum of $ 1.2 million, from the Support Program for Community Organizations (PSOC) and granted to an organization in the Outaouais, the Center d &#39; 24/7 assistance, will be transferred to the budget of the new CISSS de l&#39;Outaouais, an establishment created by Bill 10, adopted under gag order.
“While in parliamentary committee, ministers Gaétan Barrette and Lucie Charlebois had promised that in any case the sums dedicated to the community would be allocated to another envelope, elsewhere in the network, the government turned around and reneged on its word. We have expressed our fears on several occasions during the detailed study of Bill 10 and, each time, the Minister defended himself by saying that never such a thing would happen, ”declared Jean-François. Lisee.
“This decision shows a profound incomprehension on the part of the two ministers of what the community sector is and does, which already has to deal with the Liberal government&#39;s refusal to increase its funding for the global mission. We denounce this transfer of funds and join our voice to that of the community sector to ask the Prime Minister to restore order to his ministers and not to cut funding to community organizations, ”added Harold LeBel.
Ministers break their promises “Today, our worst concerns are confirmed. This action taken by Minister Charlebois concerning the 24/7 Help Center opens the door to similar decisions in all regions of Quebec. What is happening in the Outaouais is contrary to all the promises made by the ministers concerned and is quite simply unjustifiable, especially since it is a well-functioning service. The region&#39;s population, which already has to deal with a historic deficit in terms of funding health and social services, cannot explain why we want to cut this essential resource, ”noted Stéphane Bergeron.
Remember that in a parliamentary committee, on November 6, Minister Delegate Lucie Charlebois said:
“It will take mausus of good reasons for an authorization [to transfer sums] to be requested from the Minister and the Minister Delegate. &quot;
The Minister of Health added, on December 6:
“[There] would have to be a nasty emergency to move a budget. One can imagine a catastrophic scenario; there, we could have an Ebola epidemic in Quebec. &quot;
“Where is the disaster in this situation? The money from the PSOC must remain with the PSOC, and the government must stop digging into the community envelope to replenish the coffers of the establishments, ”concluded the deputies.
