Quebec - The member for Beauharnois and official opposition critic for wildlife and parks, Guy Leclair, denounces the fact that the Minister of Forests, Wildlife and Parks, Laurent Lessard, has decided to abolish 16 wildlife protection officer positions.
These cuts are in addition to the 70 wildlife protection officer positions that were still to be filled. The situation is becoming worrying because, at the dawn of the hunting season, a quarter of the workforce needed to protect Quebec&#39;s wildlife is at home. Worse still, some agents have been ordered not to go out more than 30 km from their regional office and to intervene only in the event of heavy poaching, in order to reduce gasoline bills.
“Not only does the Minister&#39;s decision endanger the safety of citizens in the forest, but it also opens the door wide to a poaching festival in Quebec in the coming months. Is the minister aware of the invitation he is sending to poachers? », Asked Guy Leclair.
During the study of the budget appropriations, the Minister had nevertheless undertaken to replace each wildlife protection officer, when he left, with a graduate from the Duchesnay training center. But, on the ground, the situation is quite different; we recently learned that due to government cuts, the 2014 class was canceled. In addition, no agent will be trained this year.
“Fewer officers in the field, fewer officers at school: wildlife and the safety of Quebecers in the forest are victims of the Liberal government. The President of the Treasury Board speaks of social dialogue, but neither the unions, nor the students, nor the citizens have been consulted or even simply informed of these decisions before they are broadcast in the media ”, added Guy Leclair. .
The member for Beauharnois also recalls that the low number of wildlife officers puts their lives in danger, because it delays their interventions during the intrusion of dangerous animals in an urban environment. Finally, it should be noted that the mortality rate for wildlife officers is already the highest among peace officers in Quebec.
