Québec - Sylvain Pagé, the member for Labelle and official opposition spokesperson for healthy lifestyles, leisure and sports, as well as the member for Vachon and transport critic, Martine Ouellet, call on the government to pay more attention to the safety of cyclists. In fact, since this spring, too many accidents have occurred on the roads of Quebec; it&#39;s time to take care of it.
While traveling across Quebec for the tabling of the next national policy on sport, leisure and physical activity, the member for Labelle heard several comments from citizens about the safety of cyclists, in particular on the facilities. cycling, promoting good behavior, wearing helmets and adding safety equipment. It should be noted that safety in sports was part of the “quality of the experience” issue, one of the four that would have been included in the national policy on sport, leisure and physical activity of the Parti Québécois government.
&quot;With these unfortunate accidents, and because we can reasonably predict that the number of cyclists will continue to increase over the next few years, it would be appropriate for the government to quickly table this policy and take the opportunity to ensure that the issue of the safety of cyclists is addressed. We want the population to be more active in their urban mobility and in their leisure activities, but, on the other hand, we must ensure that they can do so in complete safety, ”Sylvain Pagé underlined.
As responsible for this future policy, which must be interdepartmental, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports has a duty to involve his colleagues in the implementation of a transversal action plan. As such, he must immediately appeal to the Minister of Transport, Robert Poëti. The latter also committed, on May 30, 2014, to modernize, by the end of the year, the Highway Safety Code with regard to the safety of cyclists.
“The Minister of Transport must keep his commitment and modernize the Highway Safety Code this year. Between 2008 and 2013, the number of cyclists who died on the roads of Quebec increased by 17.3%; It is urgent to act to protect them, ”added Martine Ouellet.
&quot;It is good that the government has made a commitment to continue the process to implement our national policy on sport, leisure and physical activity and that it shares our objective of making the Quebec nation one of the most fit in the world within 10 years. However, to achieve this, we must necessarily count on a minister who will show leadership, both to deliver the policy and to intervene with his colleagues, ”concluded Sylvain Pagé.
