Drummondville– Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, presents her candidate in the riding of Drummond – Bois-Francs, Daniel Lebel.
“I am happy to have Daniel on the Parti Québécois team. I am convinced that this engineer and businessman will win the trust of his fellow citizens in the riding of Drummond – Bois-Francs. It will be an undeniable asset in the pursuit of our fight against corruption and collusion, ”said Pauline Marois.
Daniel Lebel was president of the Ordre des ingénieurs du Québec since 2012. In 2000, he founded Maninge Groupe-Conseil, a company specializing in industrial engineering located in Drummondville. Mr. Lebel holds a bachelor&#39;s degree in mechanical engineering from the École de technologie supérieure.
“I am proud to be involved alongside Pauline Marois and her team. Several structuring projects have materialized in Drummondville since the arrival of the Parti Québécois government, which we only think of the UQTR university campus in Drummondville, the Center de foires or the new Family-Child Center of the CSSS de Drummond. All this in just 18 months. But, above all, it is the concrete actions of the government of Pauline Marois to fight corruption and collusion in the construction sector that motivate me to get involved politically. The people of Drummond – Bois? Francs can count on me and on my integrity to defend their interests, ”said Daniel Lebel.
Pauline Marois recalled the decisions taken by the Parti Québécois government in matters of integrity. “The government&#39;s first commitment was to fight corruption. In 18 months, we have repaired the mess left by 9 years of Liberal government, ”she said.
The first law introduced by the government was the Act promoting integrity in public contracts. Note that after more than 4,000 verifications carried out and 235 authorizations to contract issued by the Autorité des marchés financiers in one year, the effects on the practices of companies doing business with the State are already tangible. In fact, the cost of contracts is falling, resulting in savings for Quebecers.
Among the actions taken by the government, in addition to the reform of the financing of political parties, let us mention a new action plan on contract management at the Ministry of Transport - which resulted in savings of $ 240 million in one year - Bill 10 allowing an elected municipal official accused of criminal charges to be relieved of his duties, and the tabling of a bill allowing the recovery of sums unjustly paid by the State to the construction industry. The government also eliminated union placement and introduced a new construction industry referral service.
“The new government culture in the fight against corruption and collusion is already bringing concrete results, for the benefit of all Quebecers. I am proud of these achievements. We are determined to continue this important work aimed at maintaining the bond of trust between the population and its institutions, in order to build a stronger Quebec, ”concluded the Premier.
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
