Sherbrooke– The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, the Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Seniors and Minister responsible for the Estrie region, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and the member for Sherbrooke, Mr. Serge Cardin, are pleased to announce the construction of two schools and the expansion of a third for an investment of $ 19.76 million in Estrie.
“It is with great pleasure that I announce the construction of two schools in the Rock Forest borough, at a cost of $ 17.03 million, and the long-awaited expansion of the Jardin-des-Lacs school. in Saint-Denis-de-Brompton, which amounts to $ 2.73 million. These investments clearly show that education is our government&#39;s priority. Thanks to these projects, 43 new classes, 35 in Rock Forest and 8 at the Jardin-des-Lacs school, will welcome students from the Sherbrooke Region School Board. This is what communicates the taste and pleasure of learning! ”Ms. Malavoy said.
“This year,” continued the Minister, “we are going to build 23 schools and finance 46 expansions across Quebec, for a total sum of $ 460 million, double the amount of last year! &quot;
In total, nearly $ 8.1 billion will be invested in Quebec&#39;s school infrastructure within ten years. Whether it is about adding space, as with the projects announced today, maintaining assets or other initiatives, these investments demonstrate the government&#39;s unwavering desire to provide quality educational services. to students, in environments conducive to learning and development, while ensuring sound management of public funds.
“I am delighted for the citizens of the communities targeted by these projects. These infrastructure investments will have direct repercussions on services to the population as well as on the well-being and quality of life of families in several neighborhoods. By meeting important needs for premises and space for students and school staff, our government contributes to social progress and the vitality of the economy. In my view, this is a real vision for the future for Quebec, ”said Dr. Hébert.
“As the Member of Parliament for Sherbrooke, I am particularly happy to take part in this announcement. Our government is showing that it is listening to the public and that it is taking concrete steps to provide them with accessible school buildings in sufficient numbers. The construction of two primary schools in Sherbrooke is excellent news, ”added Mr. Cardin.
Thanks to the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan, the government is making sure to renew and improve infrastructure in all sectors, including educational institutions, the road network, public transit, health and service establishments. social, municipal infrastructure, cultural facilities, social housing as well as public security establishments.
As soon as it came to power, the Parti Québécois government set about cleaning up investment projects. The ten-year horizon of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan will make it possible to assess needs prospectively, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make the right choices for Quebec. This new way of doing things in infrastructure planning and management is based on honesty, integrity and rigor.
