Drumondville– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions, Yves-François Blanchet, reacted again this morning to the request &quot; not at all serious ”from the head of the PLQ, Philippe Couillard, and the deputy for Nicolet-Bécancour, Donald Martel, to see the minister speak out against his own constituency of Johnson in the case of the possible data processing center of Hydro-Quebec.
&quot;In this matter, my position has always been clear and public,&quot; explains the Minister. As soon as this hypothesis appeared among the economic development organizations of Drummondville, I warned them that my position would prevent me from intervening to favor Drummondville given the recent decommissioning of the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant by Hydro-Quebec. Even today, I know almost nothing about this file. &quot;In addition, Minister Blanchet rejects the very idea of intervening against his own constituency:&quot; You have to be an elected official with very dark values to ask a deputy to act against his own constituents. In the case of Philippe Couillard, he would still have to have the courage to stand for the National Assembly. However, in the case of Donald Martel, that says a lot about the respect his party has for democracy. &quot;Yves-François Blanchet adds:&quot; Indeed, Donald Martel is capable of not serving his riding at all. The proof is his complete silence when his party, the CAQ, improvises a development plan for the Saint-Laurent valley and the member for Nicolet-Bécancour, like his colleagues from Arthabaska, Granby and Drummond-Bois-Francs , do not even demand on behalf of their constituents that Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, the very heart of the St. Lawrence Valley, be part of it. Their leader, François Legault, however excluded their own constituencies! &quot;
Yves-François Blanchet reiterates that he did not interfere and that he will not interfere in Hydro-Québec&#39;s decision: “Hydro-Québec will locate the installation according to its own criteria. I guess an explanation will be made public. I will know her then. In the meantime, the people of Drummondville will be interested to learn that the CAQ, of which the deputy Sébastien Schneeberger represents half of Drummondville, and the PLQ would interfere in the management of Hydro-Quebec to force the Crown corporation. NOT to settle in Drummondville. &quot;
However, the member for Johnson welcomes the fact that “both the CAQ and the PLQ no longer dispute the relevance of the $ 200 million diversification fund. We will remember that the Parti Québécois government replaced a gross lie of the Liberal Party government, which had decided to close the plant without compensating for this closure with a single penny, with an ecological, economic, responsible decision and an investment of 200 million. of dollars &quot;. Minister Blanchet is particularly against the PLQ and the CAQ in the case of the Banque de développement économique du Québec: &quot;The project to bring together several economic institutions under one umbrella, to simplify procedures and to better support new entrepreneurs, including the region in dire need has been very well received by business circles. It is a beautiful and good project. However, both the CAQ and the PLQ will vote against. What a lack of vision, what short-term ambition on the backs of the citizens of Bécancour, Trois-Rivières and Quebec, what sad partisanship! If the members of the CAQ and the PLQ want to do economic development beyond their election campaign pamphlets, let them support the bill that will create the Banque de développement économique du Québec! &quot;
Yves-François Blanchet still invites both Philippe Couillard and Donald Martel, as well as any elected representative of the region, to debate the development of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, &quot;where and when they have the courage&quot; , and concludes by explaining that, according to him, “voters, whether they are from Mauricie or Center-du-Québec, want MPs and ministers in whom they can trust. If elected officials take a stand against their own voters, their own counties, as Philippe Couillard and Donald Martel suggest, how can people trust them? And those who ask them reveal their own values by doing so. My principles are clear, frank and known, and they have served the Johnson riding as well as the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions up to now. &quot;
