Quebec - “I think this time it&#39;s too much! Minister St-Pierre uses the Conseil supérieur de la langue française (CSLF), an organization responsible for studying the state of French in Quebec, for partisan purposes and is responsible for a serious drift in the manipulation of information and publication of erroneous statistics. The CSLF&#39;s opinion on the language of instruction at CEGEP published in March 2011 was corrupted by figures that did not reflect reality. It is as if the Quebec state is lying to itself! », Declared today the MNA for Drummond and official opposition spokesperson for language, Yves-François Blanchet.
In this opinion, the CSLF reported a significant increase in new allophone registrants in French CEGEP. This increased from 51.7% in 2007 to 64.2% in 2009, according to data compiled by the General Directorate of University and College Affairs and the Directorate of College Education and provided by the Research and Statistics Directorate. and information from the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport (MELS). However, this ministry has just published new figures which show that the number of allophones attending CEGEP in French was 51.3% in 2009 and 53% in 2010 (provisional data for 2010), a difference of 12% for the same year 2009.
“We are far from the 64% announced last year. A mistake would already have been serious, but here it is worse: we have manipulated the figures to make them say what they are not saying. Why did the MELS communicate inaccurate figures to the CSLF and why did the latter publish an opinion on data which it received just a few days before publishing it in March 2011, without asking for the least cross-check? It should also be remembered that this notice was published a few days before the Parti Québécois convention which was to debate the CEGEP proposal in French… Chance still hounds on the Liberal family, no doubt! », Added Yves-François Blanchet.
“The minister is responsible for serious misconduct. I do not believe that she, the CSLF or even the MELS are entitled to be judge and party by investigating themselves in this case. Minister St-Pierre is no longer trustworthy. It is the duty of the Prime Minister to intervene personally when the World Forum of the French Language is being held in Quebec, where he claimed to be a great defender of the language and of Bill 101. It is outrageous. The French language is not a vulgar electoral accessory in the small partisan arsenal of the Liberal Party, ”concluded the member for Drummond.
