Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu– It is with enthusiasm that the Parti Québécois de Saint-Jean announces that after the closure of the nomination period and according to the statutes of the Parti Québécois, Dave Turcotte, current Member of Parliament for Saint- Jean and deputy government whip, will be the Parti Québécois candidate for the riding of Saint-Jean for the next election.
&quot;It was without hesitation that I decided to run for office again in the riding of Saint-Jean, under the banner of the party in which I have been involved for many years, the Parti Québécois.&quot;
&quot;I made this decision because I want, in collaboration with the citizens of the constituency, to take up many new challenges, which will ensure a concrete and lasting improvement in the quality of life and the well-being of the citizens. of Saint-Jean. I am committed to continuing the work already started and to carrying out exciting future projects ”, declared Dave Turcotte.
Dave Turcotte, in office for nearly 5 years, has an impressive record of accomplishments to his credit. Let us think, among other things, of the establishment of 8 new classrooms and a gymnasium for the Aux-Quatre-Vents school, the start of work at the Haut-Richelieu Hospital, the sustained and constant assistance to the victims during the floods of spring 2011, the fight against dropping out of school and illiteracy, the granting of works for the urbanization of boulevard Saint-Luc and the obtaining of more than 600 new places in childcare centers for families in the district. These are all achievements that have a real and tangible impact in improving the living conditions of the people of Saint-Jean.
“It is a privilege and a pride to have such an exemplary candidate as Dave Turcotte for the next election. Dave is very involved in our party, he is very generous with his time and attaches particular importance to each citizen. It is very motivating for us to know that we can count on the support of our candidate and MP at all times. We are therefore going to conduct this campaign smoothly in order to have Mr. Dave Turcotte re-elected for the third consecutive time as member of the Parti Québécois in Saint-Jean, ”concluded Monica Bernier, president of the Parti Québécois de Saint-Jean.
