Quebec - Following revelations published this morning in the media, according to which entrepreneurs have sold more than $ 2 million a daycare license received free of charge from the State just a few years ago, the member for Terrebonne and word of the official opposition in family matters, Mathieu Traversy, asked the Minister of Families, Francine Charbonneau, to act quickly to counter the speculation carried out on the backs of children.
“The Liberals created this problem out of thin air. There is speculation being carried out on the backs of the children of Quebec, and the risks of slippage are real. This situation must end, the regulations must be tightened; what does the minister intend to do? Asked Mathieu Traversy.
In the House this morning, the minister refused to condemn the resale of permits and the shameless enrichment of certain owners of subsidized private day care centers, despite the three occasions the spokesperson gave her to do so. Rather, she downplayed the situation, which is particularly worrying, especially since she has openly implied that she intends to convert private, non-subsidized child care centers into subsidized child care centers. “If the Minister goes ahead with this project, inevitably, speculation will increase. We will therefore have to remain particularly vigilant. The first thing to do will be to ensure that it honors the commitment it made this morning by endorsing our motion, ”added the member for Terrebonne.
The adopted motion reads as follows:
&quot;That the National Assembly ask the Committee on Citizen Relations to meet in a working session, before the adjournment of the work of the National Assembly next June, in order to study the mechanisms surrounding the sale. subsidized private daycare centers. &quot;
“The current situation is unacceptable, and the problem appears to be recurring. At the time of the liberal daycare scandal, under the government of Jean Charest, we had already raised it in a parliamentary committee, and Minister Yolande James assured us that the laws in force sufficiently supervised the resale of permits. Obviously, this is not the case, and Minister Charbonneau must immediately take corrective measures, ”concluded Mathieu Traversy.
