Quebec, November 11, 2014
Mr. Martineau,
You are a razor-sharp columnist whom I love to read, although I often disagree with what you write. It is the beauty of democracy to be able to diverge opinions peacefully. But democracy is a precious commodity, acquired and defended with a hard fight ...
On Remembrance Day, you signed a text that could have been fully relevant if it hadn&#39;t ended with a comment that came out of nowhere and spoiled the sauce. Were you so lacking in controversy that you had to unearth this tenacious old urban legend, according to which &quot;the&quot; PQ members refused to rise in the National Assembly to pay homage to soldiers of the Royal 22e Régiment having served in Afghanistan?
You may be surprised to learn that I proudly wore the uniform myself. Consequently, I have NEVER dared to denigrate or to underestimate those and those who have also done it, which however suggests your rant.
I have been a member of the National Assembly since 2005, after having been a federal deputy for 12 years. I was therefore present in the House in 2007 and I did not hesitate to stand up as a sign of respect for our soldiers from the Royal 22e Régiment, like a majority of my fellow Members.
Every year, on Remembrance Day, I make it my duty to pay tribute to those to whom we owe this peace, this freedom and this democracy that we cherish. Like many colleagues, including the MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, who has a son in the Canadian Armed Forces, I have spoken publicly in this regard many times.
Moreover, it was on the initiative of my colleague and the Parti Québécois that a motion was unanimously adopted in the National Assembly on May 20, 2009 to &quot;transmit to the soldiers of the 22nd Regiment of Valcartier in Afghanistan our recognition for the work done with the Afghan people ”.
Your text tends to pass sovereignists off as obtuse ideologues, stricken with amnesia and ingratitude. Do you think that because we are sovereignists, we are allergic to anything “Canadian”? This would not only be ridiculous, because Canada and its symbols are an integral part of our history and our identity, but it would also ignore the fact that countless sons and daughters of Quebec have, by necessity, served under the Canadian colors (or British, depending on the era), and that many have made the ultimate sacrifice so that we can live without having to submit to the yoke of tyranny.
Remembrance Day should be a privileged opportunity to come together, beyond our differences of opinion or our origins, to honor the memory of those who have not hesitated to put their own safety at stake to ensure the our. It seems that your political convictions and your propensity to anathematize make you incapable of such dignity and elevation ...
Stéphane Bergeron Member of Parliament for Verchères
P.-S. Your colleague, Lise Ravary, had also signed a text suggesting that we would have disrespected the late Corporal Nathan Cirillo by refusing to join in the tribute that had been paid to him in the National Assembly. Faced with the disgraceful and erroneous nature of his words, she had not hesitated to make amends. Will you do the same?
