Quebec - The Parti Québécois understands the concerns raised by the local populations concerning the application of the 50% for the protection of the territory of the Plan Nord. “These concerns arose because the Liberal government failed to properly explain its intentions and the impacts of this measure. It is still unclear, moreover. The Liberal government must now present the studies on which it is based to move forward and reassure local populations. Before going any further, the government must unveil the impact studies it has carried out ”.
This was stated by the member for L&#39;Assomption and official opposition critic for the environment, sustainable development and parks, Scott McKay, a few hours before the start of a public consultation which begins this evening in Baie-Comeau on the protection of 50% of the territory of the Plan Nord. “We must hope that this consultation is not loaded in advance and is not part of a marketing operation. These consultations will reflect the government&#39;s real desire to protect the territory for the Plan Nord and its ability to listen to the concerns and proposals of the Quebec population and the communities concerned, ”stated Mr. McKay.
For the official opposition, it is imperative that northern development be done by involving local communities. However, so far, the Liberal government has failed, as pointed out by the member for Ungava and official opposition spokesperson for northern development, Luc Ferland, after talking to his fellow citizens. “Beyond the announcements of Prime Minister Jean Charest concerning some infrastructure projects and promotional tours outside Quebec, very little regional information has allowed citizens to get a precise idea of what this Plan Nord represents for the Nord-du-Québec region. It is not normal for a project of this scale to remain unrecognized for the residents of the main region concerned, ”he stressed.
The Parti Québécois advocates integrated management of resources. “Conservation is an engine of economic development. It is not enough to protect 50% of the territory, we must make this protection a real lever of growth for the communities affected and all of Quebec. It must become a major sustainable development project for Quebec. The areas to be protected must be subjected to a rigorous analysis. We must ensure that it is indeed the most important territories that will be protected. In that sense, local communities are the best judges, ”added Mr. McKay.
“The Liberal government is under surveillance, it is the champion of greenwashing! But behind the beautiful environmental principles and the beautiful glossy documents, there must be something concrete and tangible for the regions of Quebec which are at the heart of the Plan Nord. So far, the only thing the citizens of these regions have witnessed are the Prime Minister&#39;s missions abroad, ”concluded Scott McKay.
