Quebec - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, underlines the start of the work of the Parliamentary Committee on Health and Social Services on the living conditions of adults housed in centers. accommodation and long-term care (CHSLD).
“By exercising this mandate, the commission will help inform our thinking on this aspect of the quality of life of seniors, which our government has made one of its top priorities. Listening to the population and our partners is a way of highlighting current best practices, while defining innovative and sustainable solutions to the challenges faced by our network. I will therefore welcome the commission&#39;s report with interest and carefully analyze its conclusions, ”said Dr. Hébert.
The Minister reiterated that he considers it essential to improve the living conditions of accommodated adults and the quality of life in CHSLDs. &quot;As soon as we took office, our government took note of the recommendations made in particular by the Auditor General of Quebec in this matter, and we quickly implemented measures to improve the situation,&quot; he added.
Minister Hébert notably referred to the significant efforts made by his government in terms of redeveloping accommodation facilities and implementing the living environment approach. Investments have been and will be made to revitalize and modernize CHSLDs that have become dilapidated, in several regions of Quebec. In addition, the process for ministerial evaluation visits to CHSLDs has been revised. These visits have clearly intensified and are now carried out with the participation of organizations defending the rights of residents and elders.
The Minister also referred to other far-reaching measures, such as the holding of an awareness campaign on elder abuse and the mandate given to the University&#39;s Research Chair on Elder Abuse. de Sherbrooke, which will make it possible to develop the tools necessary to lead the fight against mistreatment in residential settings as effectively as possible. He also recalled the establishment of a partners&#39; table to discuss issues concerning seniors in Quebec.
The Minister reiterated the place reserved for residential accommodation, in complementarity with other available formulas, such as intermediate resources, various innovative or cooperative models as well as home support. “Our government is doing important work to develop an offer of care and services adapted to the elderly, whether at home, in intermediate resources or in CHSLDs. We are convinced that accommodation institutions have an important role in our vast autonomy insurance project. In fact, there will always be people who will require this type of living environment, given the extent of their loss of autonomy and the extent of the services they require. In this sense, the CHSLDs are essential partners in our network and will continue to be so in the future, ”the Minister concluded.
