Quebec - “With the orientations proposed by the government for the next Quebec immigration plan 2012-2015, the Parti Québécois remains cautious about the stated ambitions and the means put in place. To welcome 50,000 newcomers per year, as the Liberal government wishes, Minister Kathleen Weil will have to demonstrate that Quebec is capable of welcoming them and integrating them adequately ”.
This was stated by the member for Deux-Montagnes and official opposition critic for immigration, Benoit Charette, as the consultation on immigration to Quebec begins today. This consultation takes on a special character since the Liberal government did not respect the spirit of the law and is holding this consultation a year late.
The desire to maintain a high admission threshold per year, while the capacity has not been demonstrated, is worrying. “Maintaining a high threshold to reach 50,000 people per year in 2015 necessarily requires the Liberal government to assume its responsibilities. We must therefore give ourselves the means to integrate them into Quebec society. However, last year, the Auditor General demonstrated that the government was incapable of doing so and that it is sailing on sight, ”continued the member for Deux-Montagnes.
It should be remembered that in his 2010-2011 report, the Auditor noted that the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities does not have socioeconomic indicators to clearly define Quebec&#39;s real capacity to welcome and integrate into employment new arrivals. He even specified that without an assessment, the department cannot ensure that Quebec is capable of supporting the progressive increases in immigration volumes, while optimizing the impact of immigration on the development of Quebec.
“We must be concerned about the prospect that Minister Weil does not intend to have such indicators before 2012, as she said last month. Thus, the proposed thresholds do not correspond to Quebec&#39;s current capacity for integration, ”said Mr. Charette.
More specifically, the Parti Québécois is wondering about the means that the Liberal government intends to use to increase the level of knowledge of French among candidates in the skilled worker category. The member for Deux-Montagnes will ask for explanations on the fact that the government does not intend to improve the functioning of the system of selection of candidates for immigration in the various geographic basins of origin. &quot;The selection on paper file has too many shortcomings and this hinders successful integration,&quot; said the deputy.
Mr. Charette will question the Minister on the desire to rebalance geographic basins, a measure to which the Parti Québécois does not subscribe. “A rebalancing in favor of Asia and America could jeopardize the proportion of people speaking French and reduce it. Without a francization plan, integration is doomed to failure, ”he argued.
“For immigration to Quebec to be successful, we must provide ourselves with the means for effective integration. If the liberal past is a guarantee of the future, the outlook is bleak. A change of direction is needed if we want to welcome all these people for the next few years, ”concluded Benoit Charette.
