Montreal - Here is the statement delivered today by Premier-elect Pauline Marois at a press conference:
“I am deeply saddened today. Yesterday&#39;s election night was overshadowed by a tragic event. A man died for no reason. Madness has struck.
“The investigation will tell us what happened, but for now, my thoughts are obviously with the victims and their families.
“I am also thinking of the Spectra and Métropolis teams. People are very shaken up and we think of them. Despite this tragedy, we must repeat that Quebec is a non-violent society. An isolated act of madness cannot erase this reality.
“I am deeply affected but I have to move forward and assume my responsibilities. Our goal at the start of the election campaign was to change the Liberal government and replace it with a Parti Québécois government.
“This goal has been achieved.
“I was also hoping for good voter turnout and the rate of 74% should be a joy to us. It is a sign of democratic health.
“I wanted to obtain a majority but the population decided otherwise. The days of bipartisanship are over and we must learn to work in this context.
“Even in the minority, I intend to get results for people. My government will cancel the tuition hike by decree. Law 78 will therefore no longer be relevant. I intend to propose its repeal and I am convinced that the opposition parties will agree. We will then hold a summit on higher education.
“My government will also propose changes to Bill 35 to prevent condemned construction companies from obtaining government contracts.
“I also intend to speed up the development of the daycare network so that every family that needs it can get a place.
“And then there is the worrying decline of French in the Montreal region and in the Outaouais, which remains at the center of my concerns. We must act and I intend to table a new 101 law. I am sure that we will be able to find common ground with the opposition to move forward on this issue which is so important for Quebec.
“With regard to relations with Ottawa, I must tell you that I spoke with Mr. Harper this morning. It was a first cordial contact. On this front, we will be able to base our action on the consensus already existing in the National Assembly.
“In the coming days, I will take the time to complete the transition from one government to another. It will be done in order, without haste and without upheaval.
“I will also form my Council of Ministers within two weeks.
Quebeckers can count on me to get results. &quot;
