Quebec - The member for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, made a statement regarding the decision of the Quebec Press Council concerning a Radio-Canada report broadcast during the last election campaign.
&quot; Ladies and gentlemen,
I would like to react to the decision of the Quebec Press Council following a complaint lodged in July 2014 concerning a report broadcast on March 31, 2014 on Téléjournal 22 h de Radio-Canada, seven days before ballot.
Three grievances were analyzed by the Quebec Press Council.
The first grievance concerned the lack of public interest in the report. I quote the Council:
&quot;The subject of the report was of public interest.&quot;
The second grievance concerned the failure to verify sources and the unwarranted use of an anonymous source. On this point, the Council considers that:
&quot;Radio-Canada and its journalist, Alain Gravel, should not report the accusations of their anonymous source that Mr. Blanchet had been complicit in a financing scheme by nominees, knowing that they had not not been corroborated, and considering the potentially devastating consequences that such accusations could have on Mr. Blanchet, Ms. Marois and the Parti Québécois.
By disseminating these accusations, they violated Radio-Canada standards as well as those of the Guide to the Rights and Responsibilities of the Press. &quot;
Finally, the third grievance concerned a biased presentation of the information. The Council declares:
&quot;There is no doubt that the respondents, by broadcasting images showing precisely, and at the same time, what Mr. Blanchet was denying, were seeking to discredit the latter&#39;s version of the facts.
By proceeding in this way, the Council is of the opinion that the respondents &quot;created confusion on the true meaning of the information transmitted&quot;, and consequently committed an ethical fault. &quot;
In other words, this report should never have been broadcast.
In view of the decision rendered by the Quebec Press Council, we ask that those responsible for allowing the broadcast of this report, which had a significant effect on the last week of the electoral campaign, publicly explain their decision.
We would also like Radio-Canada, without revealing the name of the anonymous source, to be able to tell us whether this person is a collateral victim of Law 1 on integrity in public contracts.
We also ask the Société Radio-Canada to publicly apologize to the Parti Québécois for the broadcast of this report.
Finally, we ask that the Société Radio-Canada expresses its apologies to the former premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois.
Thank you. &quot;
