It is with disappointment and incomprehension that we took note of Catherine Fournier&#39;s decision to leave the Parti Québécois and its caucus, while remaining a Member of Parliament.
As a member of the caucus and of the national executive council, until today, Catherine Fournier was well aware that the Parti Québécois is preparing to launch a deep and lucid process aimed at putting it at the service of independence. During this exercise all the stones will be lifted. At no time has the Member for Marie-Victorin expressed her disagreement with this action plan or proposed an alternative solution. Our feeling of incomprehension is consequently increased.
Our objective, by the end of 2019, is twofold: to present a new Parti Québécois to the population and to put independence back at the heart of our political action. However, to mention the failure of our approach even before it was launched is defeatist and regrettable. It is all the more so since Catherine Fournier uses as a pretext the failure of previous steps, even though she continued her commitment and presented herself under the banner of the Parti Québécois barely five months ago. Since October 1, all assessments and analyzes have been welcome, and Ms. Fournier had her place in this reflection.
Catherine Fournier also affirms that there is no room for a new political party in Quebec, but no longer wishes to participate in the reform process of the Parti Québécois. This contradiction leaves us perplexed, especially since the member advocates unity and unity by slamming the door.
Finally, this announcement in no way affects our intention to continue our process. We will meet as a national council on March 23 and 24 to adopt an ambitious action plan that will lead to a new Parti Québécois. It is to this exercise that we invite all Quebec separatists.
Finally, the agreement on the recognition of parliamentary groups reached last fall is very clear: the PQ constitutes the 2nd opposition group or, rather, of &quot;proposal&quot; to the National Assembly for the entire duration of the 42nd legislature. , since this statute is based on the number of deputies elected and votes obtained in the election of October 1; Catherine&#39;s departure from our caucus does not change that. We will continue to play this role in a constructive, serious and rigorous manner.
