Quebec - The member for Verchères and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in Quebec-Canada relations, Stéphane Bergeron, as well as the member for Rousseau and spokesperson for finance and revenue, Nicolas Marceau, denounce the fact that the The Liberal government is still considering transferring tax collection to the federal government, despite the fact that this idea comes from the Robillard commission report, which is reputed to be riddled with errors.
“It is unacceptable that the Government of Quebec should consider abdicating such a responsibility; the idea shouldn&#39;t even have crossed his mind! How can the Liberals decently propose to weaken Quebec&#39;s fiscal capacity? Asked the member for Verchères.
Aware that Quebecers have long wanted to have to file only one income tax return, Nicolas Marceau is nevertheless of the opinion that it must imperatively be produced in Quebec, not in Ottawa. “We would have absolutely no advantage in giving this important mandate to the federal government. On the contrary, we would have everything to gain by collecting all the taxes and all the taxes applicable on our territory; it would be advantageous for Quebec&#39;s public finances, it would be advantageous for Quebec taxpayers, ”he added.
The member for Rousseau also pointed out that Revenu Québec already collects the GST for the federal government, and that it does so at a lower cost and more efficiently than the Canada Revenue Agency. “We will always benefit from taking care of the affairs that concern us; the Liberal government must immediately take steps to repatriate all tax collection from the federal government, ”he continued.
Stéphane Bergeron, in order to illustrate the difficulties to which Quebec would be exposed if it abandoned the collection of its taxes, recalled the example of Ontario. “Premier Kathleen Wynne, because she does not control her tax revenues, is subject to the arbitrariness of the federal government for the implementation of the annuity system, a promise which had nevertheless helped her to be elected. We must at all costs avoid finding ourselves in such a dead end, ”he concluded.
