Here is the speech given by Stéphane Bergeron, Minister of Public Security, at the announcement of the establishment of a Special Commission to Examine the Events of Spring 2012.
The spoken text is authentic
“A year ago, on this date, Quebec was plunged into one of the worst social crises in its history. In the minds of those who have been at the forefront of these events, what has been called the “Maple Spring” has been and will remain an intense and unique moment in many ways.
“The demonstrations, the disturbance actions, the crowd control operations, the legal remedies, all the events that took place during this turbulent period have resulted in various after-effects, some of which are still being felt.
“The entire population of Quebec, but more particularly certain associations, municipalities, businesses, as well as students have suffered the repercussions of these events.
“The municipalities, as well as the police forces, have had to adjust their methods to try to deal with this unprecedented situation, maintain social peace and ensure the safety of all Quebecers.
“These events and some excesses have captured the attention of media around the world.
“I remain convinced that the vast majority of police officers in Quebec acted with all the professionalism required in the circumstances.
“However, specific situations have been raised, and I invite people who have felt wronged during a police intervention to file a complaint, if they have not already done so, to the Police Ethics Commissioner. , which is the independent authority responsible for examining complaints against police officers. Some 200 complaints have already been made to the Ethics Commissioner in the wake of the events of spring 2012 and some have already given rise to procedures with the Police Ethics Committee, which has the power to sanction police officers who have contravened the Code of Ethics. policewoman.
“That said, beyond individual cases, certain attitudes, practices and techniques, on both sides, have given rise to questions, reservations and questioning.
“During this crisis, the government of the Liberal Party, then in power, was extremely reluctant to negotiate with student organizations, recognizing neither the legality nor the legitimacy of the strike movement. A dialogue of the deaf ensued which only increased the tension, including between the students, which led to a judicialization of the conflict.
“Eager to stop the strike movement, the government went so far as to have Bill 78 adopted under gag order.
“All of these actions have not yielded any of the expected results. On the contrary, the demonstrations intensified following the adoption of Bill 78.
“We have always maintained that the right to protest is a fundamental right and so we did what we believed we had to do.
“Our government made a commitment to repeal the repressive provisions of Law 78. And that is exactly what it did in the hours following the appointment of the council of ministers of the new government.
“That said, while the right to protest is a fundamental right, we have always maintained that everything should take place in order and in a peaceful manner.
“Since my appointment as Minister of Public Security, I have been called on many times to institute an investigation into the police interventions that occurred during the spring 2012 demonstrations.
“I have always said that, as Minister of Public Safety, I have a duty to receive these requests and to assess them at their fair value.
“But I also have a duty to preserve the integrity of the existing ethics process.
“That said, the government is also keen to learn from the events of spring 2012.
“A social crisis of such magnitude must never happen again in Quebec. As a result, I am announcing that our government issued, today, an order in council establishing the Special Commission for the Review of the Spring 2012 Events.
“I want to be clear, this special review committee will not intervene in police ethics cases, which deal with specific cases where a complaint has been filed.
“This special review committee will have the following mandate:
“For the purposes of carrying out its mandate, the Special Review Commission:
“To do this, people and organizations wishing to submit facts to the Commission will be invited to do so in writing.
“They may attach to their testimony any written document or on audio or video support to support their comments.
“In addition, as I have just mentioned, the Commission may hold meetings to complete certain reports or examine certain questions in greater depth.
“Meetings with the members of the Special Examination Commission will be held in private, in order to allow those who wish to testify to do so with confidence, freely, without any pressure being exerted and without fear of reprisals.
“It will be opportune for the Special Commission to be able to analyze certain aspects of the events of spring 2012. It will be able in particular to examine:
“At the end of its work, the Special Commission for the Review of the Spring 2012 Events must submit a report to me no later than December 20, 2013. It will include the testimony and opinions received, it will contain an analysis of the events, as well as recommendations which will aim in particular to enlighten the government on the ways to detect the warning signs of possible social unrest and on the best ways to react to them to maintain social peace in the future.
“I will make the report of the Special Review Panel public within 45 days of receiving it.
“I am also announcing that our government proceeded, today, by decree, to the appointment of three members, including its president, who will make up the Special Commission for the Review of the Events of Spring 2012.
“These people were selected for their expertise, vast experience, credibility and objectivity. These people are independent and have no direct connection with the Ministry of Public Security or any police service.
&quot; It is :
“Me Serge Ménard, who will act as president. Lawyer-criminal lawyer in private practice until 1994, Me Ménard was notably President of the Bar of Quebec, Minister of Public Security and Minister of Justice of Quebec. He notably set up the Carcajou squad and led the adoption of the Police Act in 2001.
“Me Bernard Greniera was a judge in the Criminal and Penal Division of the Court of Quebec from 1980 to 2002. He was president of the Société de criminologie du Québec from 1984 to 1990 and was appointed investigating commissioner by the Chief Electoral Officer of the Quebec in 2006.
“Madame Claudette Carbonneaus has distinguished herself as an activist within the trade union movement. She climbed the different levels of her organization to finally reach the post of President of the Confederation of National Trade Unions, which she held for nearly ten years, from 2002 to 2011.
“This special review board is now in place and I am confident that its work will be conducted with efficiency and diligence.
“I would like to emphasize that the Special Examination Commission is mandated to draw up a global portrait of the events of spring 2012, taking into consideration the role played by all the key players involved.
&quot;The work of this commission does not aim to identify the culprits, but rather to shed light that will make it possible to act in order to maintain social peace, to better detect the warning signs of possible social unrest, in such a way. prevent them or, at the very least, prevent the situation from degenerating, as was the case in the spring of 2012.
“As of June 1, a website dedicated to the Special Examination Commission will be made available. It contains relevant information on the Commission, its constitution, its members, how it works, as well as how to provide advice and testimony to the Commission.
“I will leave it to the members of the Special Commission for the Review of the Spring 2012 Events, who will take the floor over the next few weeks, to clarify the modalities of the Commission&#39;s work.
“In closing, I appeal to the collaboration of all those who feel they can make a positive contribution to the work of the Special Commission for the Review of the Spring 2012 Events.
Thank you for your attention. &quot;
