Montreal - The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, asks the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, to set up a public inquiry in order to clarify the circumstances which led to the death of a patient at St. Mary&#39;s Hospital last November and, above all, to prevent such a tragedy from happening again.
Indeed, a file published by The Gazette revealed, earlier this week, that a confusion - between the authorities of the CIUSSS of the West-Island-of-Montreal, the leaders and the staff of hospital - as to the types of surgeries that should or should not be performed at St. Mary&#39;s would have played an important role in a patient&#39;s death. He was unable to receive surgery within the required timeframe which could have saved his life.
&quot;We learned that a team from the Ministry of Health, last May, decided to review the mission of the hospital, while the establishment was without a board of directors due to the entry into force of the project of law 10. A doctor would have been deprived of the right to carry out certain operations, but without the emergency team of the hospital being notified. This is a worrying situation, especially since the hospital authorities have made several contradictory statements as to the reasons which motivated this decision, ”said the deputy.
&quot;What is the reason for the decision not to carry out certain operations at St. Mary&#39;s?&quot; Is it the budget cuts? The absence of a board of directors, which could have prevented changes in the mission of the hospital? Other reasons? Why was the emergency team not notified of the decision until several months after it took effect? Was the unfortunate death of a patient in any way related to this decision and the confusion that followed? Why did the hospital officials try to place all responsibility for the delays in transferring the patient to the doctor who was on call, and from whom the right to operate was withdrawn? And, above all, could this tragic situation happen again, as some experts quoted in the media fear? All these questions deserve an answer and, in this sense, an independent public inquiry must be carried out, ”concluded Diane Lamarre.
