Quebec– Following the announcement of the death of country singer Georges Hamel, the Member of Parliament for Johnson, Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions and Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment and Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, as well as the Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Maka Kotto, expressed their sadness at the departure of a singer as talented as he is appreciated by his peers and the public.
&quot;Georges Hamel offered the audience melodies inspired by those that rocked his childhood and are part of the purest country tradition.&quot; The authenticity of the man and his songs earned him an unparalleled closeness to his many admirers. People recognized each other in the words he sang to them and shared their joys, sorrows, hopes with him, ”Blanchet said.
The Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Maka Kotto, expressed his deep regret at the departure of Georges Hamel, this great singer who was called the gentleman of country. “His lyrics, which recount everyday life with emotion, have accompanied thousands of admirers of Quebec country music. Georges Hamel has dedicated his life to song and will remain an emblem of country music in the hearts of Quebeckers, ”said Mr. Kotto.
Born on January 20, 1948 in Sainte-Françoise-de-Lotbinière, Georges Hamel began his singing career in his late twenties. In 40 years of business, he composed more than 200 songs and recorded 44 albums. He was rewarded by ADISQ, which awarded him four Félix prizes. He also received the Medal of the National Assembly in 2009, in recognition of his entire career. He died Wednesday in Drummondville, in the region which saw the singer take off and where his cultural impact is considerable.
Georges Hamel launched his last album quite recently, on February 11. Entitled Une fleur pour vous, this album offers covers of his greatest hits performed in duet with other singers. The disease prevented the singer from promoting it.
