Quebec - Jean-Martin Aussant, the member for Nicolet-Yamaska and official opposition spokesperson for the economy, financial institutions and international trade, deplores the Liberal government&#39;s refusal to save more than 800 million dollars by establishing a single tax report in Quebec.
“We are the only ones in Canada who have to file two returns per year. This duplication of structures costs taxpayers and businesses hundreds of millions per year, not to mention the additional administrative burden on the Quebec economy compared to its neighbors, ”said Jean-Martin Aussant.
In the National Assembly this morning, the member for Nicolet-Yamaska strongly denounced the fact that the Liberal government was turning a deaf ear to this proposal to lighten such a costly structure for Quebeckers. Minister Raymond Bachand prefers to increase taxes, fees and tuition fees, while imposing a health deductible and juggling with the idea of imposing a co-payment in hospitals. “The Liberal government does not want to admit that we could find $ 800 million in savings with one tax return instead of two. This is not trivial: $ 800 million more in public services without taking a penny out of taxpayers&#39; pockets, ”he added.
The costly stubbornness of the Liberal government is all the more inexplicable since a large majority of the population would rather have only one tax return instead of two. In addition, Mr. Aussant points out that collecting the GST on behalf of the federal government is a very eloquent precedent. “It demonstrates the effectiveness of a unified perception system. It is also curious that Minister Bachand maintains that a single tax report would create a quarrel with Ottawa: it was Robert Bourassa who had imposed Quebec as federal tax collector! It is a gesture of efficiency and common sense, a gesture that benefits everyone, whether you are a federalist or a sovereignist! », Continued Jean-Martin Aussant.
“With the Quebec Revenue Agency in place, we have everything we need to integrate the collection of federal taxes in Quebec. It is time to act. Rather than taxing taxpayers more, the Liberal government could save $ 800 million. Why doesn&#39;t he want to do it? », Concluded Jean-Martin Aussant.
