Quebec, March 14, 2019 - The member for Bonaventure and spokesperson for the second opposition group on forests, wildlife and parks, Sylvain Roy, says he is delighted that the CAQ has decided to lower the tariff for the obtaining a fishing or small game hunting license, an idea first put forward by the Parti Québécois. However, he believes that this measure alone will not be enough to resolve the problems of the lack of succession and access to our collective wildlife heritage.
IN SHORT
Sylvain Roy qualifies the decision of the CAQ government as &quot;special&quot;. “The minister seems to believe that the population does not realize that while the prices for fishing and small game hunting licenses are going down, those for big game licenses are going up. And that is not to mention the exorbitant amounts that are required for the use of launching ramps, or increases in resort leases, which have reached 530% in some places! When will the minister deal with these other issues? He asked.
A few months ago, the member for Bonaventure made a “wildlife” tour, which took him to the four corners of Quebec. Its observation is very clear: to respond adequately to the challenges of the sector, a single measure is not enough.
&quot;To sustainably support the wildlife economy, Quebec must create a research center in this field, adopt a national policy for access to water bodies, re-hire wildlife conservation officers, plan pilot projects for fishing with baitfish and restore access to caribou hunting, in particular. These are, moreover, some of the possible solutions put forward by the Parti Québécois. If the government wants us to give it other good ideas, we will be happy to do so; he just has to contact us! », Sylvain Roy said.
Finally, the member hopes that the government has taken into account the impact of its decision on the budget of the MFFP. “The Prime Minister has already stated it very clearly: the departments will have to be satisfied with the current budgetary envelopes, they will not have access to the surpluses. So what will be the consequences of the drop in the price of permits on the entire wildlife sector? », He raised.
