Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by her parliamentary assistant (youth section) and Member of Parliament for Laval-des-Rapides, Léo Bureau Blouin, today unveiled the white paper on Quebec youth policy .
“Our youth are creative, talented, daring and open-minded. Its ideals will help make Quebec a better society. It is precisely so that our young people can fully realize their dreams that the government is preparing a new policy which is entirely devoted to them and in which they will find themselves. For the first time in a long time, our young people can count on a government that wants to listen to them and that is determined to support them and accompany them at every stage of their journey, ”said the Premier.
The white book A Generation with Multiple Aspirations stems directly from the many suggestions and proposals presented by Quebec youth during the Destination 2030 regional tour, led by the Secrétariat à la jeunesse, as well as through the web consultation that accompanied it. It proposes several new initiatives which correspond to the aspirations of young people and constitute an important stage in the preparation of future youth policy. The discussions it will generate in parliamentary committee will enrich and clarify the proposals presented by the government.
“Our youth are creative, talented, daring and open-minded. Its ideals will help make Quebec a better society, ”said the Premier. (c) Parti Québécois
The white paper addresses the projects of young people in four stages. First, young Quebecers want to form a healthy generation. This implies for them to adopt a healthy lifestyle as soon as possible. In this regard, the government will soon unveil a national policy on sport, recreation and physical activity, as well as a national policy on prevention and healthy lifestyles.
Second, young people want school to become a stimulating environment. In the fall, the government launched a school renovation plan in order to provide students with a healthy and modern environment. In addition, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport is currently developing the first national policy to fight against early school leaving. The future policy will further strengthen government action to get as many young people as possible to finish their education with a qualification or a diploma.
Third, young people want to make the best educational and professional choices. They need help to manage their periods of transition and choose the path that will fascinate them, both during their studies and at the beginning of their working life. The government, in collaboration with community partners, will undertake a feasibility and opportunity study on the Cité des métiers project of the CRÉ de Montréal. This project aims to promote the professions of the future and professional, technical and scientific professions, to disseminate information, to create bridges and to adapt school paths.
Finally, young people intend to flourish in working life: they want to exercise a stimulating profession, reconcile it with the family they wish to found, and build their life in the environment or region to which they are attached. Among other things, the government wishes to encourage work-family-study balance by raising awareness in workplaces and allowing university students to benefit from atypical childcare services that meet their needs.
“If the previous generations were carried by numbers, ours must be carried by its determination to build a Quebec in its image. This white paper aims to support young people in this determination, ”said Léo Bureau-Blouin. (c) Parti Québécois
According to the Institut de la statistique du Québec, 15-29 year olds represented 28% of the population in the 1970s, and they represent only 19% today. Faced with this observation, the government wishes to encourage more intergenerational collaboration by focusing in particular on mentoring and increasing the place of young people in decision-making places.
“If the previous generations were carried by numbers, ours must be carried by its determination to build a Quebec in its image. This white paper aims to support young people in this determination, ”concluded Léo Bureau-Blouin.
To learn more, visit the Destination 2030 website and view the white paper (pdf)
