Quebec - In order to materialize the government&#39;s commitment to the social economy, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy and Minister of Transport, Sylvain Gaudreault, today tabled in the National Assembly a bill to optimize the contribution of this sector of activity, which constitutes an important lever for the collective wealth and development of our regions.
“In Quebec, thousands of social economy enterprises produce goods and services in order to meet the needs expressed by communities. In so doing, they generate significant socioeconomic benefits. The time therefore seems to me to have come to give this area the place it deserves, so as to promote a citizen economy that puts human beings and the common good at the center of their concerns, ”indicated the Premier of Quebec.
This law will make it possible to recognize the contribution of collective enterprises in all government institutions and policies. In addition, it will make it possible to establish a place of permanent dialogue between the Government of Quebec and the actors of the social economy in order to continue the implementation of new public policies.
“This bill is part of a global trend in which several countries are putting in place a legal framework with regard to the social economy in order to recognize it as an activity conducive to sustainable prosperity. By adopting it, Quebec would take part in this innovative movement and stand out in the North American context, ”continued Minister Gaudreault.
We should add that this framework bill comes to the end of a consultation process with stakeholders in the field, who welcome this initiative. Moreover, in order to recognize their contribution and to strengthen dialogue with them, a provision now designates the Chantier de l&#39;énergie sociale and the Quebec Council for Cooperation and Mutuality as their privileged interlocutors in this matter.
Remember that in Quebec, 7,000 social economy enterprises, including 3,300 cooperatives and mutuals, employ more than 125,000 people and generate a collective benefit that exceeds $ 17 billion.
