Quebec - The Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today announced the addition of 47 dedicated palliative care beds, as well as a 13% increase in public funding for beds in palliative care home. This annual funding, which was $ 60,000 per bed since April 1, 2011, will now amount to $ 68,000. This is the most significant increase announced since the Ministry of Health and Social Services funded palliative care homes.
“The actions taken today are another concrete manifestation of the value of solidarity that guides our action, the very one that elevates the improvement of palliative care to the rank of our government&#39;s priority so that we can offer support that responds to the particular situation and needs of people at the end of their life, ”said Minister Hivon.
The addition of these 47 new beds, of which 24 are in palliative care homes, 16 in residential and long-term care centers and 7 in hospitals, will bring the number of dedicated palliative care beds in Quebec to 791.
“With this addition of 47 beds, we are 98% reaching the objective targeted in the Government&#39;s Palliative Care Policy of one dedicated palliative care bed per ten thousand Quebecers. This important step forward, combined with the enhanced offer of palliative home care for which we are investing an additional $ 11 million this year, confirms our unwavering determination to provide access to all people at the end of their life who need it. palliative care, ”added the Minister.
Let us recall that the vast project concerning palliative care led by Minister Hivon is being carried out in parallel with the work relating to draft law no. 52, Law concerning end-of-life care, which promotes a global and integrated vision of support and care for people at the end of their life by recognizing the importance of palliative care and by introducing in a strictly defined way exceptional care for people in exceptional suffering, medical aid in dying. It should also be noted that the bill is entering a new stage today with the start of the debate on adoption in principle.
