Quebec, March 6, 2018 - The official opposition spokesperson for agriculture, fisheries and food, André Villeneuve, has indicated that a Parti Québécois government is committed to setting up two measures to avoid other episodes such as the Chinese raspberries, and to assure Quebec consumers that they will have healthy and safe products on their plates. And all of this will benefit the local economy!
IN SHORT
The Parti Québécois is proposing two measures to ensure that Quebecers have healthy and safe products on their plates:
“There is currently a laxity regarding the standards imposed on imported products, compared to those that apply to Quebec products. A Quebec product is strictly inspected at the production and processing stages, unlike imported products. Consequence: situations like the episode of the Chinese raspberries, in which two people died, and hundreds of Quebecers were sick. Another example: pork produced abroad has been raised using growth hormones and certain antibiotics banned in Quebec. However, the two meats are found side by side on the shelves of our merchants. These shortcomings in the management of the quality of imported products must end. This is what the squad that we put in place will do, ”explained André Villeneuve.
“In addition to promoting the quality of local foods, we will set up a food compliance squad, throughout the supply chain, which will include MAPAQ inspectors. In many cases, the rules applied in the country of production are much less severe than those imposed in Quebec. We will end this double standard. Note that in 2015-2016, the Canadian Food Inspection Agency tested only 2% of imported products, of which 20% were non-compliant. Quebecers do not always know what is on their plate; sometimes, even, certain products should not be there! Added the deputy.
“In addition, the promotion of Quebec foods has slowed down since the arrival of the Liberal government. Because it threw out the Food Sovereignty Policy, the momentum given by the Parti Québécois was slowed down. With us in the driver&#39;s seat, it will be the return of a strong state for which the promotion of Quebec food will be fundamental. We are convinced that the two measures we are proposing will not only benefit the local economy, but that in addition, they will allow consumers to choose food of exceptional quality in terms of safety, the environment and standards of the work, ”concluded André Villeneuve.
