Saint-Jérôme– Premier Pauline Marois, accompanied by Minister of Health and Social Services, Réjean Hébert, and MNA for Labelle and responsible for the Laurentides region, Sylvain Pagé, today announces that the government of Quebec tackles the problem of interregional inequity with regard to health financing in the Laurentians. Thus, an injection of additional appropriations of $ 10,950,600 has been announced to cover the increase in the costs of developing services in the region, in addition to new annual budgets of $ 6,181,700 to improve the home care and services offered to the elderly.
“We are walking the talk. Never has a government gone so far in reducing the disparities between regions in the allocation of health and social services budgets. For the Laurentians, this means in a single year a 27% reduction in the funding gap between the region and those that were historically better funded. Sums have also been set aside for the Lanaudière, Montérégie and Outaouais regions. We will continue this work over the next few years, with the objective of achieving equity between all regions in the medium term, ”declared the Prime Minister.
The injection of these additional sums was made possible by a better budgetary allocation by program, in particular for that of support for the autonomy of the elderly. This method aims to improve the equity of health financing between regions. It consists of distributing the available budgetary envelopes, taking better account of regional characteristics and the needs of the population, in particular from the point of view of demographic development.
These investments include the addition of credits totaling $ 6,259,500 which will be used specifically to carry out the repatriation plan for clients from the Island of Montreal to the Laurentians.
Investments in home care and services
As part of the government&#39;s commitment to add $ 110 million in home care, the Laurentides region has been confirmed new annual budgets of $ 6,181,700 to improve the home care and services offered to seniors in its region. territory.
“Improving services for seniors with loss of autonomy is one of our government&#39;s top priorities, as will also be confirmed by our approach to autonomy insurance, which will be unveiled shortly. Immediate improvement in home support will make it possible to serve more seniors, to help those who already receive services even more judiciously and to better support families, ”said Minister Hébert.
These new credits have three components:
$ 4,696,600 for the intensification of home services provided by social economy establishments and enterprises;
$ 665,000 for the consolidation of the networks of integrated services for the elderly in institutions, which promote the integration, coordination and continuity of services for the elderly. The addition of workers and case managers for personalized follow-up is an essential element in improving services for the elderly;
Community organizations working with the elderly are valuable partners for the network, particularly for home support. These additional credits will enable them to improve their service offering to this clientele.
“The region can be delighted with today&#39;s announcement, which has significant benefits for our seniors with loss of autonomy and for their loved ones. Our government is also very proud to significantly accentuate interregional equity, which will allow better support for the care teams in the Laurentians, on the front line as well as in more specialized fields, ”concluded the Member for Labelle and responsible for the region, Sylvain Pagé.
