Terrebonne– The Premier, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, and the Minister responsible for Social Services and Youth Protection and Minister responsible for the region of Lanaudière, Véronique Hivon, announces today that the Government of Quebec is addressing the problem of interregional inequity with regard to the funding of health and social services in Lanaudière. To this end, an addition of more than $ 8 million is planned, including an amount of $ 4,421,800 which will be used to carry out the repatriation plan for clients from the Island of Montreal to Lanaudière.
To these amounts are added $ 853,500 in services for the elderly, as well as $ 1.8M to improve services to young adults aged 21 and over in the region with a pervasive developmental disorder (PDD), such as autism, an intellectual disability or a physical disability, as announced last Friday by Minister Hivon.
“The amounts we are announcing represent, in a single year, a 22.5% reduction in the funding gap between the region and those that were historically better funded. Ministers Hébert and Hivon are currently making equivalent announcements in the Laurentians, Montérégie and Outaouais regions. Our objective is to achieve, in the medium term, as complete equity as possible between all the regions of Quebec, ”declared the Premier.
“The injection of these additional sums was made possible by a better budgetary allocation by program. This method aims to improve the equity of health financing between regions. It consists of distributing the available budgetary envelopes by taking better account of regional characteristics and the needs of the population, in particular from the perspective of demographic change, ”explained Minister Hébert.
To follow up on the government&#39;s commitment to add $ 110 million to improve home care, the Lanaudière region has been confirmed with new annual budgets of $ 853,500.
“Improving care and services for the elderly with loss of autonomy is one of our government&#39;s top priorities, as will also be confirmed by our approach to autonomy insurance, which will be unveiled shortly. Immediate improvement in home support will make it possible to serve more seniors, to help those who already receive services even more judiciously and to better support families, ”said Minister Hébert.
These new credits have three components:
$ 648,500 for the intensification of home services provided by social economy establishments and enterprises;
$ 91,800 for the consolidation of the institutions&#39; integrated service networks for the elderly, which promote the integration, coordination and continuity of services for the elderly. The addition of workers and case managers for personalized follow-up is an essential element in improving services for the elderly;
“Community organizations working with the elderly are valuable partners for the network, particularly for home care. These additional credits will allow them to improve their service offering to this clientele, ”explained Véronique Hivon.
“My colleagues and I made a commitment to restore, during a first term, equity in the financing of health and social services for Lanaudière. Today, with the investments announced, I am very proud that our government is showing with force its determination to achieve this, for the benefit of the people of Canada. The Lanaudière region should and must be treated fairly, and our government will continue to work diligently in this direction, rest assured, ”concluded the Minister responsible for the region.
