Sorel-Tracy, October 20, 2014 - Martine Ouellet, Member of Parliament for Vachon and Official Opposition spokesperson for transport, transportation electrification and maritime strategy, Member for Verchères and spokesperson for of Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, and the Federal Member of Parliament for Bas-Richelieu – Nicolet – Bécancour, Louis Plamondon, express concern about the ability of federal authorities to respond in the event of a major spill in the St. Lawrence Seaway .
Several recent reports confirm deficiencies in the Canadian Coast Guard&#39;s ability to respond to a major spill. In November 2013, the Tanker Safety Expert Committee criticized the low oil recovery capacity in the event of a spill, which is only 5% to 15%. In May 2013, a study by Genivar concluded that the Gulf of St. Lawrence and the St. Lawrence River were one of the two sectors with the highest risk of a major oil spill in Canada. Finally, in September 2013, another study by Genivar highlighted the lack of the federal authorities&#39; ability to respond to emergencies in the Gulf of St. Lawrence.
On October 7, Prime Minister Philippe Couillard affirmed &quot;that we are fairly well equipped, with the federal authorities, all along the river if something goes wrong in the event of an oil spill&quot;. The Minister for Transport and the Implementation of the Maritime Strategy, Jean D&#39;Amour, said last week that Quebec had &quot;all the elements in hand to support the municipal world, in the event of an accident&quot;. “The citizens and elected officials of the region are rightly concerned. There is a significant disconnect between what the experts say and the Prime Minister. Several reports highlight the significant gaps in our spill response capacity, and Philippe Couillard claims that everything is under control. The Prime Minister should provide the population of Sorel with the documents on which he bases himself to make such assertions, whereas all the studies say the opposite, ”declared Martine Ouellet.
“Transport Canada must be extremely vigilant when it comes to the transportation of hazardous materials, which saw its work severely criticized in the Transportation Safety Board&#39;s report following the Lac-Mégantic tragedy. As we have requested in the past, Transport Canada must indicate what measures have been taken, if any, to ensure the safety of the population, and hold public meetings to inform the citizens of the regions concerned ”, added Stéphane Bergeron.
MP Louis Plamondon recalls that in 2010, the Auditor General was very critical of the federal government&#39;s response capacity in the event of an oil spill in the marine environment. The federal government also changed the regulations, increasing the authorized width of vessels from 32 to 44 meters.
“The population of the riding of Bas-Richelieu – Nicolet – Bécancour is at the center of the debate concerning the transport of hazardous materials on our territory and on our part of the river. This is why we must ensure that the transport of this oil by sea is safe and that an adequate and effective plan is in place in the event of a disaster, for the entire load of the ships. The federal Minister of Transport, Lisa Raitt, who, without any justification, hastened to circulate supertankers on our river, must tell Quebecers what additional safety measures are being proposed following the Auditor General&#39;s report. », Concluded the deputy.
