Lévis - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, announced that an amount of $ 1 million, spread over the two fiscal years 2012-2013 and 2013-2014, is granted, jointly with Opération Enfant Soleil, to four health and social services centers (CSSS), namely the CSSS Alphonse-Desjardins, the CSSS de Laval, the CSSS Domaine-du-Roy and the CSSS Pierre-Boucher, for projects immobilization in pediatrics.
Most of this amount goes to the CSSS Alphonse-Desjardins for a functional renovation at a total cost of $ 597,622, which consists in particular of optimizing the pediatric outpatient clinic. This optimization will be achieved through an increase in the number of consultation offices which will allow the regrouping of pediatricians and a reorganization of outpatient services. This work will facilitate access to services, reduce the number of emergency room consultations and increase the reception capacity of children and adolescents in need of second-line services, while promoting the privacy of patients. families and more effectively preventing infections.
“This investment will help reduce the wait time for care and services, which is very important to us, especially when it comes to children. This is the reason why we are so proud to have Opération Enfant Soleil as a partner, because it is an organization which, like us, cares about the health and well-being of the children of Quebec ”, said Dr. Hébert.
For its part, the CSSS de Laval will receive $ 365,275 to renovate its neonatal unit, which will allow it in particular to increase the number of beds from 10 to 20. The CSSS Domaine-du-Roy, as for he will be able to redesign his pediatric unit and improve the atmosphere of nine of its rooms with an amount of $ 28,035 and, finally, the CSSS Pierre-Boucher will receive funding of $ 9,068 to redesign a children&#39;s area. waiting area and a play area at its pediatric outpatient clinic.
“All of these projects show that our government is sensitive to the situation of sick children and their families. In addition to providing them with all the necessary care and services, it is very important to us to make their stay in the hospital as pleasant as possible thanks to more friendly and warm rooms and waiting areas ”, specified Minister Hébert.
Remember that these investments are the result of a five-year agreement between the Ministry of Health and Social Services and Operation Enfant Soleil to finance capital projects related to pediatrics. Each has committed to investing $ 250,000 per year until 2016, hence the amount of $ 1 million over two years.
