Quebec - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Bank of Economic Development of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, return to Quebec satisfied with the impact of the Salon international de l aeronautics and space of Paris-Le Bourget. They have seen the creation of promising partnerships, and their presence has fostered the realization of agreements that will have a significant impact on the aerospace sector in Quebec. Private investments in the order of $ 81 million, creating structuring jobs, have also been confirmed.
The Paris-Le Bourget International Paris Air Show was in its 50th edition this year. In all, 1,300 exhibitors and around 130,000 visitors and industry professionals attended this event, including some fifty manufacturers and Quebec aerospace organizations. These included Bombardier Aerospace, Pratt &amp; Whitney Canada, Bell Helicopter Textron Canada, CAE as well as Montréal International and Aéro Montréal, Quebec&#39;s industrial cluster.
The ministers were also accompanied by representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, the Ministry of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology and Investissement Québec.
“The strong participation of the Quebec delegation confirmed our leadership in a very innovative high technology market. Our presence at this prestigious event is essential and supports our aerospace industry. It allows Quebec to take full advantage of numerous business opportunities in the aerospace industry. The private investments that have materialized there demonstrate the strength and excellence of our industry, ”declared Nicolas Marceau.
“Over the past few days, we have been able to showcase our know-how and the expertise of the Quebec aerospace industry. Our companies are dynamic and constitute privileged partners. With its capacity for innovation, its efficient education network and the excellence of its research centers, Québec has, more than ever, a solid power of attraction for foreign companies, ”added Élaine Zakaïb.
During this trade mission, Ministers Nicolas Marceau and Élaine Zakaïb announced the establishment in Quebec of the French company ATEM, a company that designs and manufactures coaxial cables and RF (radio frequency) assembly for industry. aerospace. ATEM Canada will make expertise that does not yet exist in Quebec and will allow the creation of ten jobs.
The leaders of AV&amp;R Vision &amp; Robotics, which specializes in creating automated systems for visual inspection and finishing of gas turbine parts for the aerospace and energy sectors, have confirmed the merger of their services with those of the Quebec engineering firm IMAC Automatisation to form the AV&amp;R Group. This merger will double the workforce and make AV &amp; R one of the largest robotics companies in the world.
For its part, Aerolia, the French number one in aerostructures and a major manufacturer of aircraft fuselages, will establish a first North American factory in the industrial park of Montreal-Mirabel International Airport. An agreement in principle for an initial period of fifteen years concluded with Aéroports de Montréal (ADM) provides for an investment of $ 9.5 million by ADM and the creation of some 150 jobs. To accommodate Aerolia&#39;s head office and manufacturing workshops, ADM will build a custom-made building with an area of 7,300 square meters which will be operational from January 2014.
A collaboration agreement was also announced between the École nationale d&#39;aéronautique (ENA) of the Édouard-Montpetit college and Aerolia. It plans, among other things, that Aerolia will offer internships and hire graduate students from the college and ENA.
Sogeclair, an international leader in engineering, for its part announced the opening of a Canadian subsidiary in the Montreal region, which will create some fifty jobs within three years.
Aéro Montréal will launch a call for applications for the third cohort of the MACH initiative, which will optimize the performance of Quebec&#39;s aerospace supply chain. It has also concluded an agreement with the Skywin aeronautical and space competitiveness cluster for the implementation of the MACH initiative in Wallonia.
In addition, Aéro Montréal has signed a collaboration agreement with Aerospace Cluster in Rhône-Alpes, a group of French companies, research laboratories and training centers.
AHE, an aeronautical parts distributor, will establish itself in the Montreal region and create fifteen jobs in three years.
Loiretech, which designs and manufactures molds and tools for shaping composite materials, particularly for the aerospace sector, will set up in Quebec by partnering with the Quebec company Composites VCI. The new entity, Loiretech Canada, will be established in Mirabel and will create around ten jobs in the first year.
Finally, Sinters America, which specializes in particular in the design and manufacture of maintenance systems and tools for aircraft servicing, has developed electronic boards for pressure sensors that will be used by the French company Thales Avionique. By providing technical and financial support to Sinters America, the Government of Quebec has helped the company establish itself with this world leader in the industry.
“These announcements clearly demonstrate that Quebec has significant attracting power that encourages investors to locate here. In light of the deals that have been concluded over the past few days, we are leaving with the conviction that the mission we have carried out has been extremely profitable. It is truly a reflection of the dynamism of the stakeholders who contribute every day to the strength of the Quebec aerospace sector. There is no doubt that all of these projects will contribute to the growth and vitality of our industry, ”concluded Nicolas Marceau.
To receive press releases in real time from the Economy section of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss
