Quebec - The government of Quebec is proud to announce its support to the City of Quebec for the allocation of 60 housing units for the realization of an innovative residential project that will be located in the Pointe-aux eco-district. - Hares. This project, devised by the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), involves the construction of a six-storey, lightweight wood-frame affordable housing building, a first in Quebec. A symbolic groundbreaking ceremony highlighting the launch of this project for families and single people took place today in the presence of the Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the regions of the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches and Member of Parliament for Taschereau, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the Mayor of Quebec, Mr. Régis Labeaume.
“This project responds to two priorities identified by the Government of Quebec, that of promoting the Quebec wood industry and that of providing the most vulnerable people with adequate and affordable housing. By supporting projects like this one, our government is clearly positioning itself in favor of social solidarity and sustainable development that takes into account the current and future needs of the population of Quebec, ”said Minister Agnès Maltais.
“This building, intended for social housing, will be the tallest built in wood. We have always said that we were going to innovate in our eco-districts, here is the proof! We don&#39;t want to build traditional residential complexes. Innovation is the driving force behind our action in eco-neighborhood projects. And, I confirm that there will be many other innovations in Pointe-aux-Lièvres and Pointe-D&#39;Estimauville, ”said Mayor Régis Labeaume.
The organization Un toit en Réserve, assisted by the technical resources group Action-Habitation de Québec, is the prime contractor for this avant-garde project, which will be carried out thanks to the SHQ&#39;s AccèsLogis Québec program. The City of Quebec administers this program on its territory in order to meet its needs in terms of affordable housing.
The use of wood, an affordable and renewable resource, contributes to the fight against climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, the manufacture of lumber requires less energy and is less polluting compared to steel and concrete. In order to help promote the Quebec lumber industry and reduce the impact of its activities on the environment, the SHQ incorporates the principles of sustainable development into all of its programs. To this end, 90% of buildings constructed under the SHQ&#39;s AccèsLogis Québec and Affordable Housing Québec programs have a wooden frame.
As a client, the Government of Quebec is therefore a leader in the application of the Timber Charter that it recently made public and which promotes the construction of wooden buildings of five or six floors. The interest of using wood for constructions of this scale is also no longer to be demonstrated. On the one hand, this technology will allow faster and therefore less expensive constructions. On the other hand, it offers very interesting economic potential if we consider that apartment buildings represent the majority of residential starts in Quebec and that cities tend to become denser.
Société d&#39;habitation du Québec Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether it is by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000 households every year. year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec. For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
