Québec, March 23, 2018 –The official opposition spokesperson for the environment and the fight against climate change, Sylvain Gaudreault, describes the mid-term report of the 2013 Action Plan as “disastrous”. 2020 on Climate Change (PACC) from the Liberal Government.
IN SHORT
“We can see today that the Liberal government has invested billions, but the measures contained in the CCAP had, in the end, a globally insignificant effect on the environment. It&#39;s like the REM: billions of dollars, but little impact on decongestion and the reduction of GHG emissions. PACC has only two years left, and Quebec has not even reached half of the total target, a decrease of 20%. The Minister of the Environment, Isabelle Melançon, absolutely must launch phase 2 of the PACC, ”declared Sylvain Gaudreault.
“In addition, continues the spokesperson, if the government is unable to position itself as a leader in the fight against climate change, let it at least allow municipalities to act! For example, it can launch the Municipal Climate Program 2, which is sleeping in limbo. The $ 30 million with which it is endowed would enable municipalities to carry out projects, in public transit and land use planning, which would promote a reduction in GHG emissions. &quot;
Sylvain Gaudreault also deplores that the government is doing nothing to prevent capital flight to California and Ontario, while last fall, the Parti Québécois proposed several measures to do so. “Currently, Quebec companies cannot monetize their GHG reductions, as California is doing, with the issuance of offset credits. For example, the Liberal government could take advantage of carbon capture in our forestry sector to market our own environmental gains, but it is not doing so. This must change, ”he insisted.
“In the same vein, the Parti Québécois has suggested many avenues so that the fight against climate change is henceforth inseparable from sustainable economic development. Let us think of our industrial transformation measures focusing on both innovation and energy productivity, or the Grand Déblocage, our project for an ambitious green shift in public transport in the metropolis and neighboring regions ”, concluded the holder. word.
