Quebec - The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, wishes to point out that the Draft Regulation amending the Regulation respecting assistance to individuals and families published in the Official Gazette aims first and foremost to promote participation in the labor market by introducing an allowance of $ 195 for those who participate in the measures. Contrary to what some argue, it is not a reform of last resort financial assistance programs.
“There will be nearly 700,000 positions to be filled in Quebec from 2012 to 2016, 75% of which will be due to the replacement of retirements. In a context of growing labor scarcity, companies are increasingly open to diversifying their workforce and taking greater advantage of the contribution of under-represented people in the labor market. The changes aim to better recognize the potential for integration or return to employment of recipients of last-resort financial assistance by focusing on the idea that employment is the best way to break the cycle of poverty ”, he added. insisted Minister Maltais.
The changes provide for:
Raise from 55 to 58 the age allowing to be eligible for the allowance for temporary constraints to employment: it is a question of adapting to the changes of the labor market which knows a constant increase in recent years the number of experienced workers in employment. When this measure was introduced, unemployment was higher and these people were excluded from the labor market. Today, these people are wanted and we want to keep them employed. By participating in the measures, they will have more support than what they are currently receiving. People who currently receive the allowance will not lose it and will benefit from an acquired right.
Making families composed of two adults ineligible for the allowance for temporary constraints granted because of the care of a preschool-aged child: the care of a preschool-aged child is not an obstacle to employment for a couple. Normal care of a young child is easily transferred between two adults. At least one of the two adults can enter employment or participate in an employment measure. The right to the allowance will be maintained if one of the adults has to provide constant care to another adult, if he has a health problem or if he is responsible for a disabled child other than pre-school age. These people will be able to improve their income through employment or by participating in an Emploi-Québec measure (employment assistance allowance of $ 195 per month or support allowance of $ 130 per month). As such, the Minister would like to recall that she announced the increase in the minimum wage to $ 10.15 per month as of May 1, thus crossing an important symbolic milestone.
Modify the eligibility rules for the special allowance for living expenses for drug addiction services with accommodation: new parameters will be established to promote better integration into the labor market. The Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity and the Ministry of Health and Social Services will work jointly to improve the supply of drug addiction services. This revision is made necessary because of the observed excesses, the optimal length of stay in detoxification being from 15 to 28 days according to the Association of drug addiction rehabilitation centers, while many stays even exceed 30 months.
The short-term impacts on the income of the targeted people were analyzed. Thus a set of measures will be deployed in order to support each and everyone.
For example :
Emploi-Québec will support all beneficiaries who so wish in their efforts to integrate into employment.
All providers affected by the regulatory measures will receive a letter informing them of the upcoming changes and inviting them to go to their CLE with it to meet with an employment assistance agent and take advantage of the services offered by Emploi- Quebec.
The people concerned will have priority access to meet an employment assistance agent in order to assess their situation (needs and employment).
Within the framework of the Tous pouremploi strategy: a new impetus with the partners, one of the main orientations of which is to break the cycle of poverty by intervening quickly and in a sustained manner with targeted groups of people far from the market work, several measures will help prepare and integrate work, namely
The implementation of a new salary support offered to companies which hire experienced unemployed people.
The implementation of a new transitional salary supplement program.
In addition, people will be able to improve their income by:
“I have every intention of leaving no one behind and making sure our strategy is successful. That said, the situation of low-income people must be considered globally, in the light of all the government assistance available. The social assistance system is one of the many components of the social security net in Quebec. Several government measures, including refundable tax credits, complete this social safety net and have the effect of increasing the disposable income of low-income households, including that of beneficiary households. It is the overall disposable income that must be considered, and not the level of the social assistance benefit, ”concluded Minister Maltais.
Let us recall that the publication of a regulation as a project, as its name suggests, aims to inform the population about a draft regulation that the government intends to adopt. The government is thus showing transparency as to its intentions. Any interested person or group can obtain information and comment on the project within 45 days.
