Montreal, March 15, 2018 - Véronique Hivon, MP for Bonaventure and spokesperson for forests, wildlife and parks, Sylvain Roy, as well as the member for Jonquière, spokesperson for regional development and decentralization and chief whip of the official opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, today unveiled a series of proposals to allow Quebecers to reclaim the wildlife sector.
“Since the Liberals took power in 2014, 100,000 fewer Quebecers have been hunting or fishing. The government has dramatically increased the price of hunting and fishing licenses, like that of resort leases. The first measures that we are presenting today respond to the calls that we have been hearing in the field for months and aim to encourage the next generation, ”Sylvain Roy said straight away.
IN SHORT
When the Parti Québécois takes power in October, it intends to put in place the following six measures:
Make the hunting initiation permit free for all;
Make the fishing license free for those under 18;
Reduce the price of the fishing license by 20%;
Gradually double the number of resort leases drawn annually;
Restore the round table to determine the prices of resort leases and the associated rating;
Put in place a national strategy to limit the costs of launching ramps.
For regions
“In 2015, the Liberal government drastically increased the prices of resort leases on public lands; in Sainte-Thècle, in Mauricie, the increase was 530%! This is a frontal attack on the regions which, once again, are paying the price for Liberal decisions. Currently, some vacationers pay more for their lease in the forest than in municipal taxes for their house in town… It makes absolutely no sense! Continued the member for Bonaventure.
&quot;The Parti Québécois has always been a great defender of the Quebec public forest,&quot; Sylvain Gaudreault recalled. In 1977, a Parti Québécois government gave the forest back to the population by abolishing private clubs and creating Controlled Zones of Exploitation, ZECs. Even today, the only party that offers a vision for the regions, that thinks of hunters and fishermen, is the Parti Québécois. &quot;
For families
“Our proposals aim to facilitate access to Quebec&#39;s wildlife, by making it more affordable. Thus, more families will be able to enjoy the great outdoors, campsites, nature and its benefits. Because of the Liberal government&#39;s lack of vision for the wildlife sector, Quebecers have gradually abandoned the idea of practicing their leisure activities in the forest; from October, the trend will be reversed. The Parti Québécois&#39; solid plan for hunters and fishermen is an ambitious approach to give Quebeckers the means and the desire to reconnect with the hobbies they had neglected. All our proposals come from the comments that our colleague from Bonaventure gathered during her tour of Quebec, ”concluded Véronique Hivon.
To find our leaflet on the subject, it&#39;s here!
