Quebec - The Minister of Labor, Ms. Agnès Maltais, is more than satisfied with the achievements of her government in the labor field since her appointment to the Council of Ministers last September.
“The world of work is both a vast and complex universe in which the lifeblood of our society evolve. As Minister responsible for Labor, I believe that our government has been up to the task since its election by taking several concrete and responsible actions aimed at improving the well-being of Quebeckers, ”declared the Minister of Labor. Maltese Minister.
Quebec employers will have to comply with new safety standards to ensure the physical integrity of workers likely to be exposed to asbestos dust. This new obligation stems from the adoption on 8 May by the Council of Ministers of a new regulation on the preventive management of asbestos in establishments where workers are found.
Employers have a period of up to two years after the regulation comes into force, in early June, to comply with certain requirements. In particular, they will have to carry out a visual inspection of their buildings in order to locate and verify the condition of the flocking and heat insulating materials (insulating materials). A register will ensure the safety of workers most likely to be exposed to asbestos fibers, especially those in the maintenance and upkeep sectors.
As the government made a commitment, Minister Agnès Maltais and her colleague from Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, recently announced that Quebec is adopting a Timber Charter. This initiative, very well received by the forestry industry, aims to promote increased use of wood in construction.
In particular, the charter will allow the construction of wooden buildings of five and six storeys, whereas the maximum height was previously four storeys. The government will set an example and will favor the use of wood for all projects financed in whole or in part by public funds. The project manager must demonstrate that the use of the wood has been evaluated. Renovation projects which consist of the expansion of a building will also be subject to the Timber Charter.
The legionellosis crisis that occurred in Quebec City in the summer of 2012 demonstrated the urgency of regulating the periodic maintenance of water cooling towers in order to protect the health of citizens. Quebec is a pioneer in becoming the first province to introduce regulations providing for obligations in this regard, including those to set up a preventive maintenance program and to keep a register in which all relevant information will be recorded. The new government did everything in its power in this matter, starting in the fall, and adopted important regulations, under the responsibility of the Régie du bâtiment du Québec (RBQ), which came into force on May 12, 2013.
The minimum wage in Quebec is now over $ 10 an hour. On May 1, the general minimum wage rate was reduced from $ 9.90 to $ 10.15 an hour. The increase is greater than inflation and takes into account the balance between improving the quality of life of workers and the competitiveness of businesses. “The annual review of the minimum wage is one of the means available to the government to fight poverty and to promote work. This year&#39;s increase benefits more than 365,300 people, including more than 208,800 women, ”said the Minister.
Unanimously adopted in December 2012 by the National Assembly as the first law of this legislature, the Integrity Act in Public Contracts is the result of intense work carried out in September in consultation with several departments and agencies, including the Ministry of Work and portfolio organizations. The aim was in particular to plug the loopholes in Bill 35 adopted under the previous government and to put forward a new approach, that of ensuring the integrity of companies even before they bid. This consultative approach has made it possible to broaden the scope of the law, to cover all types of contracts and to subject all public bodies to the same rules.
In accordance with Law 30, unanimously adopted in 2011, a regulation on the labor reference service for the construction industry was to be tabled in the National Assembly in order to be studied there before its adoption. Remember that the construction industry generates investments of nearly $ 50 billion annually.
As soon as she took office, the Minister of Labor had to catch up to meet the deadline, since several steps had not been taken in September 2012. She therefore proceeded, upon her arrival, to a wide consultation of stakeholders. work in order to ensure respect for this important unanimous request of parliamentarians, that of being able to examine the regulations before their adoption by the government. This goal has been successfully achieved. Indeed, adopted in December 2012, the draft Regulation on the labor referral service in the construction industry was seen and commented on beforehand, in full transparency by parliamentarians.
The government is proud to have carried out this work, which resulted in the adoption of this regulation on the operating procedures of the new platform, which is managed by the Commission de la construction du Québec (CCQ). To ensure the success of this operation, the National Assembly unanimously adopted, last December, Bill 6, which sets September 9, 2013 as the start of the service&#39;s activities. Transitional measures were introduced in this law and have been in force since February 4, 2013.
Union placement as well as any act of intimidation and discrimination remain prohibited and liable to sanctions.
In November 2012, the Minister announced the start of the activities of the Permit Office of the workforce reference service in the construction industry, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Labor.
New regulations were also adopted and came into force on November 28, 2012, in accordance with Law 30, in terms of labor reference permits in the construction industry in order to strictly regulate the labor reference. The Bureau has also issued the first permits in recent weeks.
All unions and employers in the construction industry will need a permit to use the new workforce referral service. Under the new regulations, they will also have to adopt a code of ethics.
The Office is responsible for receiving and handling complaints related to its mandate. It has investigative powers and can suspend or restrict a license, revoke it or refuse its renewal in the event of regulatory breaches.
The government did not wait and took concrete action. It has important regulations in place and is determined to eliminate bullying practices on construction sites and discrimination in hiring.
In addition, a monitoring committee, made up of three credible people who know the world of work, was set up in November 2012. It will submit a report to the Minister of Labor within three months of the first year of implementation. reference system work. Specifically, the committee will examine the entire system and assess its impact on reducing bullying and discrimination. The committee will also give its opinion on any other question submitted to it by the Minister concerning the application of Law 30, in particular on the compliance of the standards of conduct provided for in the code of ethics of an association with the objectives of the law and on the means of communication authorized by the CCQ. Mobilized and invested by its new mandate, the watch committee has already held several working meetings.
In March 2013, the RBQ announced the entry into force of the by-law aimed at improving building safety. Recorded in the Building chapter of the Safety Code, these regulations set new standards for the maintenance and operation of public buildings. It aims to improve fire prevention, particularly in sleeping areas and private seniors&#39; residences. There are also obligations to maintain and inspect building facades and parking lots. These new requirements also respond to several recommendations made by coroners following fatal accidents.
In January 2013, the Minister of Labor announced the publication of new regulations on the control of the water temperature at the taps of bathtubs and showers in care establishments and private residences for the elderly. This new regulation aims to protect the elderly by reducing the risk of hot water burns.
These changes had long been called for when the minister was in opposition. These are simple actions to protect the most vulnerable people. The Minister acted quickly as soon as she took office, in concert with the RBQ, which will be responsible for its application, because she considered that it was &quot;unacceptable that people with loss of autonomy are injured or die as a result of an accident. which could have been avoided ”.
The mediator-conciliators of the Ministry of Labor are experienced specialists in the resolution of labor disputes. They are qualified stakeholders allowing the parties to reach the best possible agreement, taking into account the context and the balance of power.
The Minister of Labor recognizes the contribution of the Ministry of Labor in the settlement of major cases such as that of Olymel and Waterville TG in November 2012, that of Bombardier in December 2012, and more recently that of the ABI aluminum smelter in Bécancour in February. 2013.
