Quebec - While the Minister of Finance, Carlos Leitão, reports a budget surplus of $ 2.5 billion, the leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the finance critic, Nicolas Marceau, the spokesperson for health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, and the spokesperson for education, Alexandre Cloutier, wish to recall that it is the result of drastic cuts in public services offered to students, patients and seniors in Quebec.
IN SHORT
&quot;Every week, we report on the consequences of austerity - and of the tax cuts promised by the PLQ and the CAQ: a reduction in services, access to care made more difficult, threats of closure. shelters for disabled people, rationing of services in CHSLDs ... A few days ago, a battle had to be fought with the Minister of Education to maintain food aid for disadvantaged students. It must stop. The Liberal government must reinvest in education, health, justice and for our seniors. He must repair his damage, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
“We know the liberal technique: after causing immense damage, especially in health and education, the government will spend the next 18 months making announcements, bragging about meeting the needs of citizens. But the damage caused will remain, because the small sums sprinkled here and there will only partially meet the needs, accentuated by the cuts, ”added Nicolas Marceau.
“In health, the Barrette reform cuts have very negative effects on patients,” insisted Diane Lamarre. The wait in the emergency room continues; even the overflow units overflow! This summer, emergencies will have to be closed for lack of doctors. The disorganization adds to the lack of access. The wait will therefore not decrease! We also note a deterioration in home care. The most vulnerable are targeted. The Minister of Finance is collecting money by taking it away from the poorest. It must reinvest where the needs are: in services and patient care. &quot;
Alexandre Cloutier recalls that the cuts in recent years have caused harm to several cohorts of students. “While almost 500 schools in Quebec are in terrible shape, with thousands of students at all levels not getting the professional services they need to be successful due to lack of funding, it is downright indecent of government to rake in billions of surpluses. The young people who are currently in our classrooms have dire needs that the government must respond to today, ”he said.
