The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the deputy and candidate of the Parti Québécois in René-Lévesque, Martin Ouellet, presented the first commitments of the Parti Québécois to improve transport services in the regions. “The Parti Québécois is the party of regions. We are proving it once again today by announcing that our government will put an end to Air Canada&#39;s monopoly and further fund regional bus services, among other measures, ”said the chief.
IN SHORT
It was during a press briefing at the Baie-Comeau regional airport that MM. Lisée and Ouellet announced that a Parti Québécois government would lower the price of regional flights. “A return trip between Baie-Comeau and the national capital costs about $ 1,500; a small fortune! Imagine: it is almost double a round trip flight to Cuba, hotel included! It doesn&#39;t make sense. And the Liberal Party has found nothing better than to subsidize the purchase of tickets, which amounts to directly financing the Air Canada monopoly, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
“Air Canada is a corporate thug that breaks the competition by setting prices itself. It is intimidation towards the smaller players, with the tacit support of the government. This situation has lasted too long; we will have the courage to tackle it. A Parti Québécois government will create the Bureau de la protection des consommateurs, which will be responsible for defeating the monopolies which inflate prices. His first mandate will be to look at Air Canada&#39;s practices. We will also establish a benchmark price mechanism to ensure competition. With this policy, Air Canada will no longer be able to take a competitor out of the market, ”said Martin Ouellet, very aware of the situation, given his frequent trips back and forth between the National Assembly and his constituency.
The Parti Québécois has also announced that it will come to the aid of regional bus services. “For many people, the bus is the only means of transport available at a reasonable cost. Unfortunately, services are dwindling. Here, on the North Shore, the RCMs had to mobilize to offer a second link per day between Baie ‑ Comeau and Quebec. This spring, in the Gaspé, a long-distance taxi service ceased its operations. Concerns remain in Abitibi and elsewhere, since several interurban lines are in difficulty. We must act. A Parti Québécois government will support the citizens of the regions and their elected representatives in their fight to maintain regional transport services, so as to protect endangered services, ”continued Jean-François Lisée.
“The Parti Québécois is the party of regions. Each of the commitments that we present has the same objective: to enable citizens to live in the regions, to work in the regions and to decide in the regions, ”concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois.
For our explanatory sheet, click here.
