Quebec - The member for Roberval and official opposition critic for forestry, Denis Trottier, is deeply concerned about the threat hanging over several silvicultural workers. During an exchange at the National Assembly last night, Minister Clément Gignac did not provide the necessary guarantees that all the 4,500 silvicultural workers in Quebec will be able to work in the coming weeks.
“After three hours of pressing questions, Minister Gignac was unable to resolve the uncertainty for hundreds of workers. By refusing to act, we are far from a government concerned about the economy, ”denounced Denis Trottier.
The Parti Québécois stresses that this uncertainty has a catastrophic impact on several regions of Quebec, in addition to harming the regeneration of the forest. &quot;It is urgent that the Liberal government intervene now, not next year,&quot; continued Denis Trottier.
Local forests: a questionable liberal priority
The member for Roberval deplores the lack of government support to develop local forests. “Last year the Liberal government spent precisely $ 46,400 on this so-called priority. This is proof that in government, we talk a lot, but we act little, ”declared Denis Trottier, who was disappointed to see to what extent Minister Gignac did not master forestry issues. &quot;Confusing silvicultural contractors and forestry machinery contractors as the minister did yesterday is not reassuring,&quot; he illustrated.
The Parti Québécois has repeatedly called for action in recent years to use wood in the construction of buildings to revive the forestry industry. “In Ontario and British Columbia, they will have legislation by September to build wooden buildings. We in Quebec are only studying the possibility. It&#39;s very shy, ”remarks the deputy.
In this regard, the member for Roberval is concerned about the attitude and position of the CAQ on Quebec forests. “The members and candidates of the CAQ will have to explain why they support the Liberal government and want to block the use of wood in the construction of buildings in Quebec. François Legault must explain why he wants to undermine the revival of the forest industry, ”concluded Denis Trottier.
