Quebec - On the occasion of the second anniversary of the Liberal government, the Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, recalled that in 2014, Liberal Leader Philippe Couillard was elected by promising two things: to be the government of the economy, and to change the Liberal Party to be the most transparent and ethical government in history. However, it is clear that it has failed in all these areas. &quot;The Liberal Party has become the party of failure, both economically and ethically,&quot; he said.
“On April 7, 2014, Philippe Couillard&#39;s Liberal Party was elected promising to create 250,000 jobs, reduce the tax burden on the middle class and families, and be the most transparent government in history. Two years later, Quebeckers are angry. The government appears completely disorganized and disconnected from the population: broken promises, gestures of incompetence and boondoggles have accumulated. We note that, unfortunately, the Liberal Party of Quebec has not changed, ”added the Leader of the Opposition.
“When it comes to defending Quebec&#39;s interests, the inaction of the government of Philippe Couillard is doing a lot of harm. Systematically, the Prime Minister sides with Ottawa, or he does not dare ask for anything. We got nothing for the forestry industry or for Bombardier, while the federal government continues to invest millions in the Ontario auto industry. We have no agreement to reverse the reduction in federal health transfers. And we are still awaiting an agreement for the bulk payment and without any conditions of Building Canada funds dedicated to local infrastructure, ”he illustrated.
&quot;Faced with the government&#39;s insensitivity to the effects of cuts and the abandonment of regions, the inconsistency of the huge salary increases granted to doctors to the detriment of patients while families always pay more, the determination to defend the indefensible in the ethics files and the economic incompetence of this government, we ask: where is the Prime Minister? », Continued the leader of the official opposition.
“We ask Philippe Couillard to govern for all Quebecers. Among other things, it must put Quebec back on the path to growth. There is an emergency, ”concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau.
