Quebec - “It&#39;s scandalous! Exclaimed the member for Jonquière and official opposition spokesperson for elementary and secondary education, Sylvain Gaudreault, in response to the announcement of a second wave of education cuts. “On the one hand, the Liberal government is turning a blind eye to cost overruns in transportation that are causing Quebeckers to lose millions of dollars, and on the other, the same Liberal government is cutting education. It is disheartening to see how this government manages its priorities, ”continued the MP.
&quot;How can a government which has the nerve, after two years of insistent demands from the population, to continue to persist in refusing to launch a public inquiry commission which, in the long term, would save Quebecers millions of dollars?&quot; can afford to cut in the quality of education of future generations? », Said the member for Taillon and official opposition spokesperson for higher education and loans and bursaries, Marie Malavoy.
The member for Jonquière points out that the Liberal government has already slashed $ 110 million in elementary and secondary education, which has had an impact on student services. “It is totally odious to blame the new cuts in education for transportation cost overruns when the Duchesneau report says that these cost overruns are due to corruption and embezzlement. If the Prime Minister accepts to play ostrich by not even deigning to read the Duchesneau report, will he do the same with the consequences of the cuts in education, ”Sylvain Gaudreault said indignantly.
For her part, the member for Taillon denounced the new cuts in CEGEPs while the first wave of cuts had real consequences on student services. &quot;Are we going to foot the bill for construction embezzlement by cutting education? Instead of weakening the sector that is most critical for the future of Quebec, the government should clean up and launch a public commission of inquiry into the construction industry, ”concluded Marie Malavoy.
