Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Bank of Economic Development of Quebec, Élaine Zakaïb, today announced the allocation of a loan of 1.2 million to Technicolor Canada for a project valued at over $ 7 million. This assistance will allow the establishment in Montreal of a special effects and post-production studio of its division The Moving Picture Company (MPC), a world leader in the film and advertising industries. In all, 200 jobs will be created in the metropolitan area over the next three years.
&quot;Our support for the establishment of this studio will promote the creation of 200 quality jobs in this cutting-edge field, for which Quebec&#39;s know-how is recognized internationally,&quot; said Pauline Marois. This investment of several million dollars will be structuring for the Quebec film industry, while it will attract talent of international caliber to Montreal and strengthen the Quebec cinema and television cluster. &quot;
&quot;We are currently witnessing the establishment of a new niche, that of animation and special effects services, in which the talent of Quebecers will be able to shine,&quot; added Élaine Zakaïb. The arrival of companies in this sector will attract large-scale productions, which will generate subcontracting contracts for several Quebec SMEs and create specialized jobs in Quebec. Already, major American film producers, such as Paramount, Warner Bros., Fox, DreamWorks, MGM and Columbia TriStar, have expressed their interest in the arrival of MPC in Montreal. &quot;
“The establishment of this giant will have a ripple effect, even a locomotive, for our cinema and television sector,” added Pauline Marois. Montreal will become even more attractive to major film producers, thanks in part to its qualified and available workforce. With the arrival of MPC, we are sending a strong signal to the rest of the world. We have all the assets to become a major center of the global cinema and special effects industry, and my government is present to support the development of this key industry in the Quebec economy. &quot;
