Mistissini - The Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, and the Minister responsible for Indigenous Affairs, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, were in Mistissini today to participate in the official signing ceremony of the Final Settlement Agreement concerning the transfer of certain lands of Mistissini in the Government of Quebec, in the company of the Grand Chief of the Grand Council of the Crees (Eeyou Istchee), Mr. Matthew Coon Come, the Vice-President of the Cree Regional Authority, Mr. Rodney Mark, as well as the Chief from the Cree community of Mistissini, Mr. Richard Shecapio.
This Agreement allows Quebec to recover more than 2,300 km2 of land, an area corresponding to the land base allocated to the neighboring community of Oujé-Bougoumou when it was created. This settlement with the community of Mistissini represents the discharge of the government&#39;s financial obligations to the Crees of Mistissini, under Annex G of the Paix des braves. It will also allow the maintenance of favorable conditions for the development of natural resources.
“As head of the Northern Development Secretariat, I am happy to be here today to formalize this important agreement for the Oujé-Bougoumou and Mistissini communities. This agreement demonstrates our government&#39;s desire to support the Cree community of Mistissini so that it can promote projects that contribute to their vitality, ”said Martine Ouellet.
In return for this land transfer, a sum of $ 20 million will be paid to the community. This sum will constitute an important economic lever which could ensure the development and the diversification of the tourist offer of Mistissini. This is in line with the new service offer linked to the joint management of the Lacs-Albanel-Mistassini-et-Waconichi wildlife reserve and the future Albanel-Témiscamie-Otish National Park.
“This agreement confirms Category IA, IB and II lands for the Cree Nation of Oujé-Bougoumou, the last Cree community to be formally included in the James Bay and Northern Quebec Agreement. I would like to express my sincerest gratitude for the cooperation we had with the Government of Quebec during the negotiations that led to this signature. We are very happy to see our neighbors of Oujé-Bougoumou obtain a land excise and benefit from the same rights and privileges as the other Cree communities ”, declared the chief of Mistissini Mr. Richard Shecapio.
“With this signature, our government is showing that it is honoring its commitments and that it is committed to the harmonious development of Aboriginal communities in Quebec. The community will be able to benefit from a renewed socio-economic dynamism that will stimulate the job market for young Crees in the region. Here is a fine example of an investment that is part of a northern development that benefits everyone, ”said Élizabeth Larouche.
