Montreal - While painting a portrait of the development of mines in Quebec, the MP for Vachon and official opposition critic for mines and shale gas, Martine Ouellet, considers the Liberal strategy to be a disaster announced.
“For eight years, the price of metals has exploded, gold having gone from $ 300 / ounce to $ 1,800 / ounce, iron from $ 30 / tonne to $ 150 / tonne. The craze for minerals in Quebec is very present. Even without Plan Nord, this enthusiasm exists and will continue as long as the price of metals is high, ”said Martine Ouellet.
The member for Vachon believes that Quebec should take better advantage of this enthusiasm. “We, as a society, could benefit more from the spinoffs of this mining development if the Liberal government stopped marketing and focused more on the real issues. It is hundreds of millions of dollars a year and jobs in the processing industry that Quebecers will lose because of the lack of vision of the marketing plan for the North of the Liberal Party of Quebec, ”she added.
Mineral resources belong to Quebecers
Given the non-renewable nature of mining and gold resources, the Parti Québécois insists on an in-depth review of the royalty regime. “We are selling our basement to multinationals for a pittance. As if that were not enough, we roll out the red carpet by increasing public investments to facilitate the extraction of minerals. The royalty regime must be reviewed so that Quebec maximizes the spinoffs from the resources that belong to it, ”continued Martine Ouellet.
“It is time that we regain control of our natural resources. It is a treasure that belongs to all Quebecers. We must therefore extract better royalties, plan a sharing of the surplus profit and seriously consider taking a stake in operating companies, ”concluded the spokesperson, stressing that China and India, two fast-growing countries, have major needs and are the most involved in the ownership of Quebec deposits.
Over the next few days, the member for Vachon intends to travel across Quebec to meet the population and regional economic stakeholders. It will express the strong will of the Parti Québécois so that Quebec regains control of its natural resources.
