Quebec - “The Charest government persists in refusing that the economic spinoffs generated by the development of the North benefit all Quebecers. In this sense, the proposals we made to improve the mining bill were all rejected. The government is more stubborn than ever and it is Quebecers who are paying the price, ”lamented the Member for Charlevoix and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pauline Marois.
During a press conference with the MP for Vachon, Martine Ouellet, the MP for Rousseau, Nicolas Marceau, the MP for Ungava, Luc Ferland, the MP for René-Lévesque, Marjolain Dufour, the MP for Duplessis, Lorraine Richard, and MP for Marie-Victorin, Bernard Drainville, Pauline Marois recalled the principles that should guide the development of the North:
Our non-renewable resources must benefit more than one generation; The transformation of our resources must be maximized; State participation in private companies that exploit our resources; A global tax system for the mining sector that ensures Quebecers a fair share of the wealth created by the exploitation of the resource; Transparency and rigor on the part of the government; A concern for local and indigenous communities.
“Bill 14 on mines was a great opportunity to integrate the principles that guide us. However, the government refuses. The mining critic, Martine Ouellet, and her colleagues proposed ten essential amendments to improve the bill. They were all rejected without debate. The Liberals refused to discuss royalties and even talk about the transformation of our non-renewable resources. When we know that the transformation provides three to five times more jobs, it is downright irresponsible on the part of the government, ”protested the leader of the official opposition.
Quebecers are the big losers in liberal northern development. Over the past year, the increase in profits for mining companies has been eight times greater than the increase in royalties collected by the government. “We can no longer tolerate this situation. Quebecers have the right to get their money&#39;s worth, ”she added.
“The exploitation of our non-renewable natural resources should benefit future generations. These resources should allow us to do something more productive with the collective income that we will derive from them, to develop a real economy based on knowledge, ”said Pauline Marois, specifying that our resources must be a springboard to finance true sectors of the future that are renewable energies or electrified transport and to support education and health systems.
“Northern development is an ambitious project shared by the Parti Québécois. However, today we cannot agree with the government&#39;s orientations for developing the North. We cannot agree with too low royalties and mining rights, with the lack of transparency and the indifference of the government to promote the 2nd and 3rd transformation of our metals. The North belongs to Quebecers. We must share together the wealth that is created there, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
For future generations
The transformation of resources in Quebec
We tabled an amendment calling for maximizing the transformation of resources in Quebec. The Liberal government refused.
We asked to develop Quebec expertise in the exploration, exploitation and transformation of Quebec&#39;s mineral resources. The Liberal government refused.
We asked that the law also aim to develop Quebec expertise in the exploration, exploitation and processing of Quebec&#39;s mineral resources. The Liberal government refused.
Royalties and mining rights
We demanded that the mining rights regime contain a compulsory royalty on the value of production as well as a sharing with the State of profits in excess of a normal return and a mechanism for the acquisition of financial participation in strategic projects. The Liberal government refused.
We asked that the law ensure the citizens of Quebec a fair share of the wealth created by the exploitation of mineral resources, while taking into account other possibilities for using the territory. The Liberal government refused.
Transparency
Another proposal from the Parti Québécois:
We proposed to create a position of chief miner, inspired by the model of the chief forester, with the mandate to ensure that the exploitation of mineral resources brings Quebecers sufficient amounts to compensate for the loss of these non-renewable resources, ensure financial control over mining companies on behalf of the Government of Quebec, as well as technical control of the volume mined and the value extracted. The Liberal government refused.
