Chapais– The Minister of Natural Resources and responsible for northern development, Ms. Martine Ouellet, took advantage of her visit to Chapais today to announce that a financial contribution of $ 795,000 over three years has been allocated to the Table jamésienne de concertation minière in order to support its 2012-2015 work.
“The government wishes to promote responsible mining development in association with the communities. The total financial contribution of the partners of $ 795,000 granted to the Table Jamesienne de concertation minière goes in this direction since it gives the means to a regional organization to ensure a strategic watch of the mining industry ”, specified Martine Ouellet.
“This financial assistance will allow the Table jamésienne to promote the creation of thousands of jobs and the growth of businesses that require a qualified and competent workforce. His experience will not only be beneficial to the region, but also to all of Quebec, ”said Luc Ferland, Member of Parliament for Ungava.
&quot;By financially supporting the Table Jamesienne de concertation minière, the Government of Quebec is contributing to the productivity and competitiveness of this booming sector of economic activity,&quot; said the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais.
LaTable Jamesienne de concertation minière is a non-profit organization that carries out applied research in the field of mineral exploration throughout the Jamésie territory. For the past 12 years, she has been mandated, among other things, to manage a mining exploration assistance program in the James Bay territory. In addition, she drew a forecast portrait of human activity relating to mining development in the territory of Abitibi-Témiscamingue, Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean as well as the Labrador border region for the Ministry of Health. and Social Services. The Table Jamesienne de concertation minière sits on many provincial, regional and local committees and organizations dedicated to northern development and acts as a privileged interlocutor of the Regional Council of elected officials of James Bay. The total contribution of the partners to the Table jamésienne de concertation minière amounts to $ 795,000 over three years, i.e. $ 150,000 from the Ministère des Ressources naturelles, $ 195,000 from Emploi-Québec, $ 225,000 from the Regional Conference of elected officials from Baie-James and $ 225,000 from Municipalité de Baie-James.
The Table Jamesienne de concertation minière brings together several stakeholders: the Ministry of Natural Resources, the Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupation, the Regional Conference of Elected Officials of Baie-James and the Municipalité de Baie-James. Each party contributes financially or otherwise to the Table Jamesienne de concertation minière in order to consolidate, develop and promote technology transfer as well as to support the implementation of initiatives highlighting the mining potential of the Nord-du-Québec region.
