Sorel-Tracy– The Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Richelieu, Sylvain Rochon, accompanied by the member for Taillon and official opposition spokesperson for health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, is worried cuts in health care and the possible loss of services for citizens.
“Every week shows it to us: the liberals are cutting ideologically, without worrying about the consequences for the population. The Couillard government is now sabotaging our health care system, under the false pretext of consolidating public finances. However, the cuts it imposes have devastating effects in Montérégie. The people who carry our health care system at arm&#39;s length are worried. What they are telling us is that the Liberals are putting numbers before the world, and structures before services, ”said Sylvain Rochon.
“Minister Barrette goes against the grain of internationally recognized approaches. Everywhere else on the planet, health systems are being designed according to the path that the patient will have in the network. We try to quickly identify the care he needs, as well as the person who can provide it effectively, safely and at the best cost, whether it is a social worker, a nurse, a doctor or a pharmacist. Conversely, the minister has a vision centered on the hospital; he ignores the patient, ”added Diane Lamarre.
Meeting with unions
The MP took advantage of her visit to Richelieu to meet with union members from the CSSS Pierre-De Saurel, whose jobs are threatened.
“With Bill 10, adopted under gag order, we put all middle managers on a waiver. Regardless of their duties or expertise, all of these people are now considered to be interchangeable. It is very worrying, inefficient and, above all, extremely demotivating for these employees, ”she added after the meeting.
“Today we had a concrete example of the Liberals&#39; lack of consideration for our region. How many of these 1,500 people will sell their house and leave Sorel-Tracy for good? Liberal centralization will have harmful effects, in the short and long terms, in Richelieu, in Montérégie and in all regions of Quebec. I told the CSSS employees that as of March 10, I will be their spokesperson in the National Assembly. I will fight so that the riding of Richelieu is not emptied of its substance, and I invite the voters to take the side of their region by giving me a clear mandate so that I continue to carry their aspirations, ”concluded Sylvain Rochon. .
