Quebec - The Minister responsible for Social Services and Youth Protection and Minister responsible for the Dying with Dignity file, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today presented to the National Assembly the bill entitled Law concerning the care of end of life. This aims to provide people at the end of their life with care that respects their dignity and autonomy, adapted to their needs and their particular situation.
“This bill is a response to the demands of Quebec society, a society which has carried out in-depth reflection on the end of life and which is concerned to act for the well-being of all. Considering the interest and the hope aroused by the work of the Special Commission on the question of dying with dignity and the unanimity of its recommendations, we had the responsibility, as a government, to follow up on them ”, declared Véronique Hivon.
The bill is in line with the unanimous recommendations of the Special Commission, which are the result of extensive consultation work carried out by deputies from the four parties represented in the National Assembly in eight cities. in Quebec, where hundreds of citizens as well as professional orders, dozens of experts and a large number of associations were heard. It translates the conclusions of the Special Commission into legislative terms by proposing a global and integrated vision of the care and rights of people at the end of life, as well as the underlying principles.
The bill on end-of-life care has two components:
Palliative care is the ultimate response to the suffering of people at the end of their life. Considering their importance, the bill formally recognizes them. Thus, it specifically provides that any person whose condition so requires has the right to receive palliative care. This care can be offered in health facilities, palliative care homes or at home. The bill also indicates that institutions must adopt a policy as well as a clinical program for end-of-life care, including palliative care.
“The bill enshrines the importance that must be given to palliative care. It will in itself be a powerful lever to give them even greater development, as the government has already committed to it, notably with significant investments in the field announced recently, ”added Ms. Hivon.
“Considering that, for a minority of people, palliative care does not manage to relieve all suffering, our values of compassion and solidarity require us to find avenues to respond to the particularly difficult situations experienced by them. Medical assistance in dying thus constitutes an additional option in the continuum of care, a completely exceptional option for responding to these situations of exceptional suffering, ”the Minister specified.
Only a capable and adult person at the end of life, who expressly requests it in a free, informed and repeated manner and who meets the strict conditions provided for in the bill, in particular to be suffering from a serious and incurable disease, to experience a advanced and irreversible decline in one&#39;s abilities and to experience constant, unbearable and unappeasable suffering, could make a request for medical assistance in dying. In addition, medical assistance in dying could only be obtained at the end of a rigorous and defined process during which, among other things, a doctor, whose opinion is confirmed by a second doctor, will have to conclude that the all conditions are met.
The bill concerning end-of-life care provides for the possibility for a person to make known in advance his wishes in terms of care in the event that he becomes incapacitated. When advance medical directives comply with the terms and conditions laid down, the bill provides that they have the same value as wishes expressed by a person capable of consenting to care. The bill also provides for the establishment of a register to record advance medical directives in order to facilitate their accessibility: “By formally recognizing the binding nature of advance medical directives, we are sending a strong message as to the importance of respecting the person&#39;s wishes for care. It is the logical continuation of the reform of the Civil Code of 1994, which enshrines the principle of the autonomy of the person ”, indicated Mrs. Hivon.
&quot;We hope that the bill concerning end-of-life care will be debated in the National Assembly of Quebec in the fall of 2013. The goal is to provide Quebec society with a law that meets the needs of individuals. at the end of their life, respecting all the complexity of their own situation, with a constant concern for respect, solidarity and compassion. So that everyone can have answers to their suffering. So that everyone can die with dignity, ”concluded the Minister.
For more information about the bill and its advance medical directives, visit the Dying with Dignity section of the website of the Ministère de la Santé et des Services sociaux at http://www.msss.gouv.qc.ca/sujets/ organization / die-with-dignity /.
