Montreal - “Because this is a unique and critically important bill, I pledge that the End-of-Life Care Act is the first bill tabled in the National Assembly. immediately after the election of a Parti Québécois government. At the same time, I ask the leader of the Liberal Party, Philippe Couillard, to commit to ensuring that we can continue the legislative work from the point where we were at the time of the dissolution of the National Assembly ”, declared Pauline Marois.
In order for the National Assembly to be able to resume work on this bill, the unanimous consent of the 125 deputies is required. The Coalition Avenir Québec and Québec solidaire have already said they are in favor. Now we have to know what the Liberal Party intends to do.
“After more than four years of work in the service of sick people and their families, where all political parties have collaborated without partisanship, today we should welcome the adoption of the law. Unfortunately, it was not possible to do so. I am proud today to belong to a political party that formally undertakes to continue the debate and to have this law adopted, which affects all Quebecers, that of the right to die with dignity, ”added Véronique Hivon.
Let us recall that the government of the Parti Québécois tried everything to pass Bill 52 before the election was called, in particular by proposing to extend the hours of debate, which Philippe Couillard refused.
“Quebecers want to be reassured. I ask Philippe Couillard to formally commit to Quebec having a law on end-of-life care before the end of the next parliamentary session, ”continued Pauline Marois.
It should be remembered that this bill is in line with the unanimous recommendations of the Special Commission on the question of dying with dignity, which are the result of an important consultation work carried out by deputies from the four groups represented at the meeting. National Assembly, in eight cities of Quebec. This bill reflects the conclusions of the special commission by proposing a global and integrated vision of the care and rights of people at the end of life.
“The end-of-life care bill is a fundamental, extremely important bill that concerns us all. It must be adopted, on behalf of sick people, their loved ones and all those who will one day have to go through this painful situation. For us, it&#39;s a question of humanity, quite simply, ”concluded Véronique Hivon.
Watch the press conference.
