Quebec - The leader of the official opposition and member for Chicoutimi, Stéphane Bédard, and the member for Joliette and co-author of Bill 52, Véronique Hivon, applaud the adoption, today in the National Assembly, of the bill concerning end-of-life care.
“I am delighted by this unprecedented advance for people at the end of their life that the adoption of this law constitutes, based on respect for autonomy, solidarity and compassion. I would also like to salute the rigorous work carried out in nearly five years by the member for Joliette and the members of the committee, since the presentation of the motion which created the Special Commission on the question of dying with dignity until the &#39;adoption of a law that brings hope to all people at the end of their life and their loved ones, ”said Stéphane Bédard.
“This law, progressive and humane, will allow each person at the end of their life to be supported in a way that meets their own needs, while respecting their wishes and their integrity. This is a law very much in the image of Quebec society, an open society, united and capable of innovating for the well-being of all, ”added Véronique Hivon.
The member for Joliette pointed out that today&#39;s vote marks the culmination of a process that began in 2009 with the establishment of the Special Commission on the Question of Dying with Dignity, which traveled across Quebec. The unanimous report tabled in 2012 included 24 recommendations, which directly inspired the bill, presented for the first time in June 2013, then again on May 22 and adopted today. Over the past few months, the Committee on Health and Social Services has held a broad consultation on the bill, and then proceeded to its detailed study.
“We really have to talk about an exemplary journey, in a spirit that goes beyond partisanship, with constant concern for the best interests of Quebeckers. The contribution of the hundreds of people and organizations heard and all the Members involved was essential, and I would like to sincerely thank them. Without their commitment and their courage, this vote would not have been possible, ”explained the MP.
Véronique Hivon insisted on the importance of the explicit recognition of end-of-life care provided by the law. These include palliative care and medical assistance in dying, the latter exceptional option being reserved for cases of exceptional suffering and strictly marked out. The law also confirms the primacy of wishes expressed clearly and freely, in particular through the establishment of the system of advance medical directives.
&quot;The new law is based on a global and integrated vision of end-of-life care, which is part of a continuum of care, so that the person has access to care adapted to their personal situation during the final stage of his life. It makes it possible to meet the needs of people at the end of their life, as well as to provide a response to their suffering. Quebec is living through a historic moment today and all of society can be proud of it, because it is a stakeholder. This is one of the most progressive laws, meeting the expectations of Quebeckers, and consistent with our values of respect, solidarity and compassion, ”concluded the spokesperson.
