Montreal, October 16, 2019 - The period for submitting candidatures to the national executive council of the Parti Québécois ended on October 10. The presiding officer subsequently released the list of candidates and found that there was only one candidate for the presidency. Dieudonné Ella Oyono will therefore be elected unopposed as president of the Parti Québécois at the convention on November 9 and 10 in Trois-Rivières.
Of Gabonese origin, Dieudonné Ella Oyono holds a master&#39;s degree and doctoral studies in economics and has a career in the field of economic development at the City of Montreal. Arrived in Quebec in 2001, he began his involvement with the Parti Québécois in 2012 and he successively held the positions of candidate for the Parti Québécois in the riding of Saint-Henri-Saint-Anne in 2018, then president of the riding of Pointe -aux-Trembles. “We will come out of the November convention with a more agile organization, which will allow us to be in tune with the people of Quebec, with a redefined mission and values. We are a party whose raison d&#39;être is to make Quebec a country. It must be clearer than ever: our project must be unifying, intergenerational, interregional and intercultural. It must affect all Quebecers, whether they arrived yesterday or 400 years ago. We must join all those who believe in Quebec, and that is what we are going to do ”declared the president-designate Dieudonné Ella Oyono.
Dieudonné Ella Oyono will therefore succeed Gabrielle Lemieux, whose mandate started in 2017 will end at the extraordinary national congress in November. “It is with great pride that I will pass the torch next November, at the end of a vast process of modernization which will lead us to the relaunch of our political formation. At the end of our extraordinary national convention, the Parti Québécois will have put independence back at the center of its action and adopted a most modern and efficient approach and operation. I have every confidence that Dieudonné Ella Oyono, as new president, with his skills, his dedication and his ability to bring together, will be fully able to continue the work that has been started to promote the vision of the Parti Québécois for the future. of our nation, ”concluded Parti Québécois President Gabrielle Lemieux.
– 30 –
SOURCE :
Lucas Medernach
Responsible for communications for the Parti Québécois
514 663 6519
