Quebec - Two years after the filing of a critical report on the management of the Green Fund, the Sustainable Development Commissioner today tabled a new report, which not only confirms that the Green Fund&#39;s problems persist, but that moreover, the government is now threatening to achieve the Québec greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction target set for 2020. The Commissioner is of the opinion that the government&#39;s approach to the fight against climate change and the transition energy is neither clear nor credible.
The member for Terrebonne and Parti Québécois spokesperson for sustainable development, the environment and the fight against climate change, Mathieu Traversy, notes that the government remains unable to measure the contribution of the Green Fund to the achievement of its 2020 GHG reduction target, or to draw up a list of projects with the best cost-benefit returns for Quebec taxpayers. He is also very worried that the reform of the Green Fund is accumulating delays.
The member for Terrebonne demands from the Minister of the Environment that the reform of the Green Fund be carried out immediately, not postponed for another year, as the minister recently announced. Mathieu Traversy also asks David Heurtel to quickly produce a mid-term review of the 2013-2020 Climate Change Action Plan, to assess the corrective measures to be made as soon as possible, and to immediately unveil the Inventory. Quebecers of 2013 greenhouse gas emissions. &quot;It is essential that Quebeckers be able to know whether the Green Fund&#39;s investments have actually made it possible to reduce GHG emissions in Quebec,&quot; he added.
Mathieu Traversy invites the Liberals to walk the talk. “The government must release the amounts from the Green Fund as quickly as possible to finance the improvement of the public transport offer. This is essential for achieving the 2020 and 2030 targets for reducing GHGs. Then there is the zero emission law. After the speeches, it is time for the government to act on this issue by calling our bill, ”he concluded.
