On January 30, 2014, the Prime Minister, Pauline Marois, was invited to speak at a luncheon organized as part of the Politics series of the Conseil des relations internationales de Montréal. Here are his speaking notes.
The pronounced version is authentic.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Thank you for coming so many times today.
I would first like to greet the team of the Conseil des relations internationales de Montréal as well as its President and CEO, Mr. Pierre Lemonde. I am honored to launch the programming for the 30th year of CORIM&#39;s activities by presenting my government&#39;s economic vision. I recognize in it a strong desire to help ensure that Quebec is part of the global recovery.
To achieve this, we will have to rely on our metropolis. Flagship of our economy, university city of high knowledge and innovation, space of creation, and host city of the consular corps and prestigious international organizations: the success of Montreal and that of all of Quebec are intimately linked.
We saw it in 2013. It is thanks to the mobilization of all stakeholders that Montreal will continue to host the headquarters of the International Civil Aviation Organization.
This illustrates that even if we face strong competition, it is by joining our efforts that we can meet the greatest challenges.
We have had our share of it in recent months.
I am thinking, among other things, of the Lac-Mégantic tragedy, still fresh in our memory, but also of the terrible fire in L&#39;Isle-Verte, where the various stakeholders are still at work. Today I want to take my hat off to these everyday heroes and thank them on behalf of all Quebecers!
These trials should not paralyze us. On the contrary, they must push us to go further in the development of this Quebec built by our elders and all those who came before them.
This is what I did last week as part of my economic mission to London and Davos. A mission that is in line with my government&#39;s desire to support the creation of paying jobs for Quebecers in all regions. And, in fact, this trip abroad resulted in the announcement of investments totaling nearly half a billion dollars and which will create more than 600 jobs.
Our participation in the Davos Economic Forum was also an opportunity to make lucid observations on the global context in which Quebec operates. From the discussions I have had with my political counterparts, as well as with business leaders from all over the world, I retain a certain confidence. Confidence that 2014 may well be the starting point for global economic recovery.
On the other hand, there is a need: that of ensuring that this recovery is accompanied by strong job creation. This concern is as much that of our partners as that of our competitors. In this context, I am very happy to see that we have done the right thing.
I am convinced that Quebec is ready for the global revival!
To achieve this, we use all the levers and all the powers available to the government. We want to make sure that Quebeckers can take advantage of it, see their standard of living improve and become richer.
We are not the only ones. The American president expressed exactly the same intention during his State of the Union address the day before yesterday.
Since our arrival in government in September 2012, this is what we have been working on. We are putting in place all the conditions for Quebec to experience a period of sustainable economic expansion.
First, we had to make courageous decisions and take difficult actions. We saved Quebecers billions of dollars by getting Quebec out of nuclear energy production and asbestos. We also brought order to major infrastructure projects, where the times and costs were out of control. Now, we have resumed a pace of investment which, at nearly $ 10 billion per year, remains considerable.
It was also necessary to regain control of government program spending.
You know, I was Minister of Health, Education, Families, President of the Treasury Board and Minister of Finance. I participated in achieving the zero deficit during the 1990s. I was therefore very aware that this would require constant effort from us.
But it had to be done and we did it.
Government spending growth is now under control for the first time in ten years. On the income side, we unfortunately faced a less dynamic economy than expected, as well as very low inflation.
The vast majority of Western states, like private forecasters, have had to revise their estimates downward. As you know, this low inflation is still causing some concern among analysts.
This situation forces us to remain vigilant in controlling expenditure. It also requires us to act decisively to stimulate the economy.
So we had to make choices. As the opposition demands, we could have persisted in reaching a zero deficit this year. To get there, we would have had to increase the tax burden on Quebeckers. Or cut government spending by nearly $ 2 billion. In both cases, it would have hurt families in Quebec. That would have resulted in less economic activity, fewer jobs and, ultimately, less revenue for the state.
The other possibility was to postpone achieving a balance, while also maintaining a much lower deficit than that of our neighbors.
At the same time, it was imperative to go all the way with an ambitious and daring economic policy.
In other words, we had the choice between austerity and prosperity.
The choice we have made is growth, development and job creation!
While maintaining control over spending, we are therefore putting in place measures to attract private investment. It is the engine of any sustainable recovery.
From September 2012 to December 2013, Investissement Québec authorized more than 2,000 financial interventions. These have made it possible to materialize private investment projects totaling nearly $ 10 billion, which will create or consolidate more than 29,000 jobs.
The positive effects are already being felt on the ground. However, we want to go much further and we continue to step on the accelerator.
Last fall, we presented a very ambitious, proactive economic policy. It will help create 115,000 new jobs and lead to € 7.6 billion in investments within three years. It first provides for flagship measures, intended to whip up growth.
The idea is to provide fuel to our economy in the short term, through investments that will pay off in the long term.
The first of these measures consists of using our surplus electricity to attract investment and create jobs in all our regions. This advantageous rate offer program targets different sectors:
We have also stepped on the accelerator with regard to investments to modernize our schools, our sports and leisure infrastructures, as well as the SÉPAQ establishments. This is in addition to the ten-year tax holiday for strategic investments, announced in 2012 and enhanced in the fall.
These actions are already producing results. For example, this major investment by the multinational Ericsson, which has chosen Quebec to build research and digital data processing facilities.
On another level, we also rely on our culture.
In Quebec, this is not only a source of pride and inspiration, but also a source of wealth. Abroad, we make it a trademark.
We rely on the contagious creative spirit of our metropolis to attract the most innovative projects.
And it works. In London, I announced the arrival of Cinesite, a British special effects company, which chose Montreal to create 200 quality jobs.
There have been many other announcements, such as White Star Capital, which offers financing for the start-up, in Quebec, of companies in the digital technology sector.
This is in addition to the ALDO Group, flagship of the fashion industry, which is investing 363 million here in Montreal.
There is also Volvo&#39;s Cité Mobilité project, and those of RER Hydro, Pratt &amp; Whitney, Bridgestone, Aerolia and I could go on for a long time.
To attract these investments, you have to approach very hard, be extremely convincing and proactive. The other states are working hard, too. We are not the only ones on the track. In some cases, it is at the finish line that the race is played out.
This was still the case in Europe last week. We have to fight and use all the tools of the state. In Davos, we announced an agreement with the Spanish company FerroAtlántica, which will open a plant in Quebec with an investment of 375 million, which will create 300 direct jobs. What attracted our new partner was the exceptional quality of our workforce, the availability of our energy as well as our daring tax strategy.
It proves that we got it right.
I say this to all Quebeckers: our government is determined to do everything to win, to do everything to find investments and jobs.
We want to build a richer Quebec!
Quebecers are capable of surpassing themselves, of reaching new heights of excellence in all areas, including wealth creation.
From this conviction flow the four major strategic initiatives of the Priority Jobs economic policy.
This first includes an ambitious industrial policy to revive manufacturing employment in all regions of Quebec. We are devoting significant financial resources to this for SMEs as well as large Quebec companies. We support the modernization of their processes to help them become more productive, greener and more innovative.
The second priority for action is to build on this intangible asset that has always allowed Quebecers to stand out. It is about our ingenuity, a character trait that perhaps comes from the vastness of our territory and the harshness of our climate.
We are doomed to overtake. Today, it is our higher education institutions that continue this tradition.
Because we can count on their excellence, we are certain that it is by creating jobs in today&#39;s laboratories that we are building the economy of tomorrow.
This is the objective of the new National Research and Innovation Policy; I also salute the minister responsible for its implementation, Mr. Pierre Duchesne.
When I left the government in 2003, investments in research and development in Quebec represented about 2.8% of our GDP. We were well positioned, ahead of the rest of Canada as well as most of the OECD countries. In 2011, this figure was only 2.3%. We are determined to regain our place in the front rows. Our goal is to reach 3% of GDP devoted to R&amp;D.
To do this, the government will invest $ 3.7 billion over five years in research and innovation.
In connection with Industrial Policy, particular emphasis has been placed on supporting our innovative companies. We will also support the promotion and transfer of research results, as well as the synergy between researchers and industry. We will win by leveraging our intelligence, our creativity and our daring. This audacity is also reflected in our aggressive plan to develop foreign trade. This is the third part of our economic policy.
Québec&#39;s foreign trade balance has not been spared by the economic upheavals of recent years. In line with our measures promoting productivity and innovation, we are now giving our companies the means to be more competitive on the markets. The goal is to sell more products and services elsewhere to create more jobs here. The recent weakening of the Canadian dollar opens a door for us that we simply cannot ignore.
We want to boost exports by consolidating traditional markets, such as that of the United States, which is showing encouraging signs of recovery. We are also counting on the development of new markets. It is not for nothing that we have supported the conclusion of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union.
Quebec is positioning itself as the key partner for European companies wishing to establish themselves in North America. This is the message that I went to deliver to Paris, Monaco and Brussels at the end of 2013, then to London and Davos at the start of the year.
We will continue to increase the number of trade missions on all continents, supported by the 28 representations of our network abroad, whose dynamism is inversely proportional to the size.
While I myself was away last week, the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée, was in Japan, with our academics and our entrepreneurs. This mission followed other interventions of the same type, in markets with tremendous potential, such as China, Mexico and even Africa. Inspired by our experience within the International Organization of La Francophonie, we too believe in the potential of this emerging continent.
Our entrepreneurs are able to win markets all over the world; they proved it. What I am telling them today is that they can count on the unfailing support of the Government of Quebec to succeed in their conquest of expanding markets.
Finally, I want to tell you about a project that is so close to my heart to the point where I have placed it under my personal responsibility. This is our transport electrification strategy, the fourth and final part of the Priority Jobs economic policy.
I talk about it whenever I meet policy makers or business leaders, here or abroad. I can tell you that the interest is great.
Last December, in Paris, I also announced the establishment of the Franco-Quebecois Group on Transport Electrification, along with Mr. Pierre Moscovici, Minister of the Economy and Finance of the French Republic. . This initiative will be co-chaired by two major entrepreneurs. They are Pierre Karl Péladeau, who is also Chairman of the Board of Directors of Hydro-Quebec, as well as Vincent Bolloré, CEO of the large French group Bolloré, which operates an electric battery factory in Boucherville.
In Davos, I saw a lot of interest in this project and I saw that we are ahead of the competition.
We are at the forefront, as we are in our partnership with California to harmonize and integrate our cap-and-trade programs for greenhouse gas emissions.
Quebec already has clean energy, which we have in abundance. We rely on our expertise, both in electrical processes and in the manufacture of buses, subways, trains, batteries and components.
Our goal is to make Quebec a world leader in the electric transportation industry. We did it in the aeronautics sector. We did it in the field of video games and special effects. In my eyes, it is clear that the electrification of transport is the new niche of excellence that Quebec must appropriate.
With this visionary project, we will enrich ourselves and create jobs at home. We are going to replace imported oil with clean energy produced in Quebec. This will also allow us to move closer to energy independence.
However, we are aware that our demand for oil will not disappear overnight. In this period of transition to green energies, Quebec&#39;s oil potential can play a role.
There is much debate these days about the advisability of a possible exploitation of this resource. On this subject, I have always been very clear. If the potential is confirmed, our government intends to exploit this wealth. We will do so responsibly, adopting best environmental practices.
And I want to say this to all Quebecers: if there is oil exploitation in Quebec, we will ensure that this wealth benefits first and foremost Quebecers!
It is the same for all our natural resources. Maximizing their spinoffs in terms of investments, income, jobs and for the benefit of the entire population, that is the meaning of our action.
A new fair and transparent mining royalty regime is in place, and Quebec has finally adopted a mining law worthy of the 21st century. With Le Nord pour tous, which oversees and supports northern development, we offer investors an attractive, predictable and fair environment.
For two years, the price of raw materials has fallen significantly. Investments have been felt in Quebec, as in the rest of Canada and around the world. But, in the medium term, the urbanization of emerging countries will continue, demand will increase and prices will recover.
Once again, thanks to our actions, we will be ready. Already, the timber market is starting to restart. Thanks to the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise, which ended with enthusiasm last November, we are ready to take advantage of this relaunch. The players in this industry have rediscovered optimism after years of crisis.
The forest will once again become synonymous with wealth and jobs for all of Quebec!
We therefore have a responsible government that controls its spending and supports employment throughout Quebec. It is made up of a dynamic team that spreads out to the four corners of the world to promote Quebec and that offers a daring vision of economic expansion in the short and long terms.
Everything is in place for Quebec to benefit from the revival of the global economy!
This is what we keep in mind, in the context of pre-budget thinking.
We have already made our colors known. Our priority is to control our spending and support employment.
The opposition tells us that its priority is to immediately balance the budget, even if it means slowing down economic growth and jobs.
The choice is clear, therefore: one can choose prosperity or austerity; you can choose to accelerate or brake.
My choice is to implement economic policies that are good for employment, good for our regions, good for our families. Policies for more prosperity, more solidarity and more pride.
The opposition parties therefore have a choice to make as well. They will do so under the watchful eyes of the citizens of Quebec.
I am clearly expressing my wish: I want us to all work together to move Quebec forward!
I am an optimist by nature… All my experience pushes me in this direction.
In the past, I have seen Quebeckers accomplish great and beautiful things, both collectively and individually.
For the future, so that our children can also surpass themselves, we still have many challenges to overcome.
You have to be ambitious, you have to be daring. Whether it&#39;s job creation, productivity, innovation, our trade deficit or the state of our public finances, a lot of work lies ahead. But, given the magnitude of the task, we must not give up.
We must mobilize. Nothing justifies negative speeches. Quebecers shine in all areas.
Now our challenge is to enrich ourselves even more. I chose. I chose daring, I chose determination.
Together, Quebecers can succeed!
Thank you, have a great day.
To watch the Prime Minister&#39;s conference at CORIM: http: //go.pq.org/bb1
