Here is the speech by Pauline Marois, leader of the Parti Québécois, delivered on the occasion of the closing of the National Council in Drummondville:
The pronounced version is authoritative
“We did a good job on the weekend. We have given ourselves an action plan. In the government, we will continue to build a Quebec for all, to restore confidence, pride and ambition.
“For the Parti Québécois, the main task for the coming months will be to promote sovereignty.
“By passing the new $ 100 funding law, we freed ourselves from an obligation that was taking too much of our time as activists. From now on, we will be able to devote ourselves much more to doing what we are most passionate about: political animation. And we will be able to devote this saved energy and time to promoting the most beautiful idea there is: freedom. Quebec&#39;s political freedom: our independence.
“As Premier, I am very proud to speak about our project. I did so as soon as the Council of Ministers was sworn in. I also spoke about sovereignty during the opening speech of the session. Nicolas Marceau spoke about it when reading the budget. I spoke about it on three continents: in Africa, in Europe and in America.
“It is my responsibility as prime minister of a sovereignist government. It is the responsibility of ministers and members of Parliament. It is yours too, you activists.
“And then our party has over 90,000 members. At the last count, it was more than all the other parties combined.
“If each of us speaks with his heart about our project for a Quebec country, each in his own way and with his reality, we will reach a lot of people.
“We have sometimes been put on the defensive since the referendum of 95. But that time is over. From now on, we go on the offensive!
&quot;The idea of political freedom, the idea that a people governs itself: this idea, which is that of the great nations, has retained all its strength.&quot;
“On the other hand, and we can see it with the race for Liberal leadership: the federalists no longer dare to make any demands to reform Canada in line with our aspirations. They don&#39;t even try to make us believe they want to make a difference anymore. This is a major change in the debate on our future.
“In 1980, the federalists promised change. For the youngest who have not experienced this: imagine that the federalist camp went so far as to assert that a &quot;no&quot; was a &quot;yes&quot; to change ...
“In the 1995 referendum, they still promised to change Canada to meet Quebec&#39;s aspirations. Today, they no longer even have the hope of changing.
“There are only two choices left: Canada as it is or sovereignty. It is quite a difference. This means that staying in Canada guarantees that Quebec will never be fully respected.
“Sovereignty is the opposite: it is the guarantee that we will finally be free of all our choices!
“In the past, certain federalist leaders passionately defended Canada. Those days are over. We have to ask ourselves what they have left as arguments.
“No one believes that the federal framework is advantageous for the future of French. Not with a Constitution that was imposed on us and that helped weaken Bill 101.
“For language, Canada is a risk, while sovereignty is a guarantee!
“Our adversaries know that in Canada, there can be no real Quebec citizenship. Not with this Canadian ideology of multiculturalism, which, once again, is imposed on us. No.
“In terms of citizenship, Canada is a risk for Quebec, while sovereignty is a guarantee of respect for our common values!
“To evacuate the debate on the future of Quebec, the federalists talk to us about quarrels. They tell us that Quebeckers do not want bickering. I don&#39;t want any quarrels either.
“But look: we had a federalist Liberal government for nine years and the quarrels with Ottawa have multiplied: the gun registry, the law on young offenders, health transfers.
“Of course, the Liberals tried to make as little noise as possible with these disagreements, but the decisions in Ottawa hurt us and show a lack of respect for Quebec.
“Remaining in Canada is the assurance for Quebec to be perpetually confronted with setbacks. Sovereignty, on the contrary, is the start of a great positive story for us and for future generations.
&quot;Is it advantageous for Quebec that Ottawa conducts foreign policy on our behalf?&quot; Did you hear Raymond Bachand, Pierre Moreau or Philippe Couillard say that? Of course not.
“Canadian foreign policy is increasingly distant from our interests and values. In this regard, remaining in Canada means that others will speak on our behalf in the world, while sovereignty guarantees us a foreign policy in accordance with our aspirations, our interests and our values.
“Some have put forward the idea that it was advantageous to stay in a large economic complex. But then, why does Canada not integrate into the United States, a very large economic unit?
“The answer is obvious: it&#39;s because Canadians want to make their own decisions. It is because Canadians cherish their sovereignty. Stephen Harper finds Canadian sovereignty very important.
“I am on the same wavelength: I too find sovereignty very important… Quebec sovereignty!
“Let us ask ourselves the question: what are the basic arguments of our federalist opponents to convince Quebecers to stay in Canada?
“Some will say, &#39;Yes, but there is equalization. Without it we would be poor. It is not. And that, we will have to tell Quebecers.
“All these decisions that were made by Ottawa in favor of Ontario have enriched it. The presence of the federal government in Ontario, which provides tens of thousands of highly paid jobs.
“The concentration of financial and transportation services has allowed Ontario to rack up huge trade surpluses year after year.
“When I talk about these decisions from Ottawa, to concentrate air transport at Pearson, in Toronto, all Quebeckers who travel know what I&#39;m talking about.
&quot;To go east, in Europe, how many of us have to fly west first, to Toronto?&quot; And how can we explain that there is no direct flight from Montreal to Asia?
“The multi-billion dollar investments in the auto industry and nuclear have also helped a lot. Despite all this money, imagine that Ontario is also receiving equalization.
“Yet you never hear anyone suggest that Ontarians are no good.
“If Quebec has benefited from equalization for three decades, it is not because Quebecers are not good. It is because in Ottawa, decisions are not made based on our interests.
“Ottawa has awarded a contract worth over $ 20 billion to build federal ships in the Atlantic. This money paid by Ottawa, it also comes from our pockets to us Quebeckers.
&quot;I challenge the federal government to invest $ 20 billion in the electrification of our transportation and I guarantee that in a few years Quebec will be too rich to receive equalization!&quot;
“We must also explain that by doing sovereignty, we will save billions of dollars by eliminating bureaucratic duplication. Let’s be concrete. Let us make Quebeckers realize that with sovereignty, we will stop paying for royalty, for the Governor General or for the Senate. And why would we continue to fund another Parliament that passes laws that too often go against our interests?
&quot;What is the advantage of Quebec in financing with billions of dollars two ministries of the environment, two ministries of justice, two ministries of agriculture, two ministries of Citizenship, two ministries of Immigration, two ministries of Finance, two departments of Industry, two departments of Natural Resources, two departments of Public Safety and two departments of Transport.
“And in addition, we have to complete two tax returns.
“If in Quebec we are trying to reduce government spending and reduce bureaucracy, there is nothing better than sovereignty!
“By eliminating all these administrative duplication, sovereign Quebec will save more money than what it receives from Ottawa. Our taxation will be in line with our interests and our public policies.
“We will be able to use our money where our real economic interests are. We will be able to use our money where our social, cultural or scientific priorities are.
“Sovereignty pays off, it&#39;s exciting, it&#39;s inspiring.
“And then, the fundamental reason remains the very simple fact that we are a people. We have a story and we want it to continue. We have a language of our own, which we love. We have our ways of doing things in all areas. And we have this creativity, which is increasingly becoming our trademark around the world.
“I have nothing against Canada, against Canadians. On the contrary, I would very much like to live in good neighborliness with Canada, each one making its own decisions. I am convinced that a sovereign Quebec will maintain very good relations with Canada.
“Sovereignty is a positive idea. And that&#39;s what we have to explain to Quebecers. I will continue to do so on my own, like all of our members.
“As a government, we are preparing the ground by offering a responsible and honest government to Quebecers.
“First, by restoring confidence, breaking down corruption and renovating our democracy. Economic and financial confidence then. Quebeckers must have confidence in our economic capacity as a people.
“We have taken several major steps and we are continuing resolutely. We need to put our finances in order, because it is our responsibility as a government, but also because it is an act of freedom.
“We must improve our public services and meet the concrete, daily needs of Quebecers. And then we have to strengthen people&#39;s pride in our identity, our culture, our language and our history.
“The party, for its part, will devote most of its energy to promoting sovereignty. We must look to the future with confidence. You know, things can change very quickly, if we put some effort into it. You have seen everything we have accomplished together since last fall.
“So let&#39;s roll up our sleeves. We&#39;re going to go see the world and tell them why we want a country.
“I ask each of you to reconnect with the spirit that animated our party when it started. We have to go out, talk, convince. I ask each of our ministers to talk about sovereignty and to explain our project whenever possible.
“Simply say that you think it is time for Quebec to become a country. I ask you to talk to your family, your colleagues, your friends, the people you meet.
“I ask you not to let anyone claim that sovereignty is no longer relevant: this is not true!
“Imagine if hundreds of thousands of people get together to go out, talk and convince Quebecers one by one that it is time we gave ourselves a country.
“Imagine that, a French-speaking country in North America.
“Imagine a country populated by eight million women, men and children who govern themselves in a vast and magnificent land.
“In this country, we hear French spoken with all the accents. It is beautiful this country. He is waiting for us at the end of the road.
So let&#39;s continue! &quot;
