Quebec - The Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, expressed the expectations of the Government of Quebec and of Quebeckers, in view of the federal government&#39;s next Speech from the Throne.
Next Wednesday, the Harper government will convene elected federal officials for a new parliamentary session in Ottawa. &quot;This is an opportunity for him to correct the bad economic decisions he has taken against Quebec and which are harming Quebec businesses and workers,&quot; said Minister Cloutier.
Reminding Quebeckers that for over a year Quebec has suffered too many economic rebuffs from the federal government, the Minister for Intergovernmental Affairs Alexandre Cloutier deplores &quot;that the Conservatives first attacked the workers and the Quebec economy with their reform of employment insurance. We see in the hearings of the National Review Commission workers and businesses in Quebec who are feeling the effects of this reform. Now, the Harper government is directly attacking workforce training and the Quebec model which helps those who are not entitled to employment insurance ”.
Minister Cloutier also condemns the federal government&#39;s decision to end the $ 116 million agreement which allows Quebec to have a very effective workforce training model and which has won a consensus both in the National Assembly. which adopted two unanimous motions from the Labor Market Partners who, on May 15, also condemned the federal approach.
&quot;Let us recall that the Prime Minister, thanks to her leadership, sought the support of all the provinces to claim the right to opt out with full compensation for the new Canada Job Grant,&quot; said Minister Alexandre Cloutier .
The decision in the last federal budget to phase out the 15% tax credit currently available to contributors to labor-sponsored funds will penalize almost exclusively Quebec. In fact, it is from Quebec that nearly 90% of the savings that the federal government intends to make in five years will come from ($ 312 million out of $ 355 million).
Everyone in the business community of Quebec, from the Conseil du patronat to the Chamber of Commerce of Metropolitan Montreal, condemns the implementation of this federal budget measure. “When we talk about labor-sponsored funds, it&#39;s not just numbers. There are jobs and businesses that are being created. It is thanks to these funds and their attractiveness that companies like Renaud-Bray and Air Transat have emerged in Quebec. It&#39;s pretty incredible that Ottawa is directly attacking the Quebec model of tax-advantaged funds, ”said Alexandre Cloutier.
Securities The current securities system is, according to the OECD, the second most efficient in the world. Despite the opinions of the Court of Appeal of Quebec, that of Alberta and the Supreme Court deeming its project unconstitutional, Ottawa has announced with Ontario and British Columbia that it wants to go ahead with the creation of &#39;a Canadian securities commission.
“Ottawa persists in encroaching on our areas of expertise and is once again attacking a flagship of the Quebec economy. It attacks the very foundations of our economic vitality, ”worries Minister Cloutier, who wishes to point out that the securities sector employs more than 100,000 people in 3,000 companies in the metropolitan region.
Since the federal government first announced its desire to set up a pan-Canadian securities commission that would centralize its activities in Toronto, there have been three motions adopted in the National Assembly to denounce the federal project and a unanimous outcry. in Quebec economic circles.
Minister Cloutier reiterated his opposition to the new federal tax that Ottawa wants to impose on users for the construction of the Champlain Bridge. Each year, more than 60 million vehicles travel on this bridge over which more than $ 20 billion in foreign trade, or nearly 7% of Quebec&#39;s GDP, are transported.
“It is nonsense to introduce a new federal tax for crossing the Champlain Bridge when we know the consequences that this could have on traffic in the Montreal region and on the Quebec economy. There is no question of establishing a toll on the most important trade route in Quebec, ”indicated Minister Cloutier, who also wishes to recall the consensus of the Office of Partners on the Champlain Bridge against the establishment of A toll.
Last week, it was unanimously that the 82 municipalities of the Montreal Metropolitan Community rejected the idea of passing the bill on to the population and businesses and asked Ottawa to assume the costs itself. reconstruction costs of the Champlain Bridge.
Finally, the Quebec government would like to point out that more than three months after the Lac-Mégantic tragedy, the federal government is still slow to tighten the rules governing the transportation of hazardous materials.
The transport of hazardous materials by train is on the rise. In 2013, nearly 9 times more trains like the one in Lac-Mégantic run on our rails than in 2009.
“Federal laxity in rail safety has a significant impact on Quebec&#39;s finances. Quebec has made its demands to the federal government and it is clear that no action has been taken since, ”declared Alexandre Cloutier.
“All of these Ottawa decisions have major negative economic impacts for Quebec. Today we are asking the Harper government to correct the situation in its Speech from the Throne so that it stops making decisions that harm the economic interests of Quebecers, ”Minister Cloutier concluded.
