Quebec - On the occasion of the opening speech delivered at the National Assembly, the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, indicated that her government intends to give high priority to the recovery of public finances and the acceleration of economic growth of Quebec in the interest of all Quebecers.
Significant cost overruns were observed in major infrastructure projects underway in Quebec. To prevent this situation from happening again, Pauline Marois suggests tightening up the management rules. Thus, over the next few weeks, a systematic review of investments will be carried out, without jeopardizing or delaying projects.
“The effort to control spending is already well underway in all ministries, but we want to make sure that we maintain a high level of rigor, the only way possible if we are to protect our collective capacity to act. This is the only way to achieve a balanced budget in 2014 and reduce the ratio of our debt to GDP, ”said Pauline Marois.
In order to lay the foundations for a sustainable and solid economy, the government intends to act on three fronts: the responsible exploitation of natural resources, the establishment of an economic strategy that relies on entrepreneurs and innovation, and the revival of exports.
In terms of natural resources, the Premier announced a real development plan for the North: the North for all. A northern development secretariat will thus be created in order to coordinate all government actions. A new mining royalty regime will be put in place to further enrich Quebecers. The government intends to encourage companies to further transform the resources that belong to us at home, while ensuring compliance with best environmental practices. The Premier also addressed the oil potential that the government is determined to exploit and announced the government&#39;s willingness to adopt a timber charter.
The government will promote innovation and entrepreneurship with the adoption of a national research and innovation policy, and the creation of the Banque de développement économique du Québec. The launch of an industrial strategy for the development of transport and clean energies will lay the foundations for the economy of the 21st century. In a longer term vision, consultations and analyzes will be carried out to establish a policy of energy independence.
In terms of exports, the government will work on a foreign trade development plan in order to reduce our annual trade deficit. The government will aim to attract international investment and expand into foreign markets by boosting our exports.
Finally, other important sectors will be called upon to relaunch economic growth. The government will focus on agriculture and food sovereignty to breathe new life into this important sector of activity. An ambitious tourism development plan will help attract valuable capital to our economy. The government also intends to introduce a framework law to recognize, promote and develop the social economy.
The Prime Minister insisted on the need to relaunch investment and focus on entrepreneurship and innovation. She expressed her conviction regarding the economic dynamism of Quebec. “We have all the assets to make Quebec one of the most prosperous places in the Americas, thanks to an economy based on sustainable development, prosperity at the service of all. &quot;
