On February 7, 2015, the leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, addressed the Parti Québécois activists gathered in the National Council in Laval. Here are his speaking notes.
The pronounced version is authentic.
Dear activists, it is always a pleasure to see you again.
Thank you to Laval activists for receiving us for this national council.
It is always a privilege to speak to you, the activists. You who are the strength of the Parti Québécois.
I will begin by introducing you to a person, an activist, who works very hard to join our team of deputies to the National Assembly. I am of course talking about our candidate in Richelieu, Sylvain Rochon.
He&#39;s a guy from Sorel-Tracy, a guy from the field, who knows his riding very well. Since November, he has been talking to people, meeting with groups, showing compassion and wanting to make a difference. He is a leader, able to stand up and represent the people of Richelieu well in the National Assembly.
I had the opportunity to participate in two events in Richelieu, and I can tell you that the mobilization around him is impressive.
Moreover, I am sure that there are many voters in Quebec who would like to be in the place of the people of Richelieu to send a message to the Couillard government ...
As Sylvain Rochon says so well, for the people of Richelieu, the choice is clear: in the face of liberal-Caquist austerity, we can endure or unite.
We will unite behind you, Sylvain. We will be present for the next few weeks, until March 9.
My friends, let&#39;s welcome the future deputy for Richelieu, Sylvain Rochon!
Yesterday was a sad day for patients in Quebec. The government decided to impose the reform of Dr. Barrette by gagging us on Bill 10.
I would like to greet in passing those and those who made the road, last night, to Quebec, after a long day of gagging.
The government tried to prevent them from being here, but it is very bad to know the Parti Québécois team. Our MPs are activists, just like you, and they are here.
It is a competent, committed team, close to its world. It is truly a huge honor for me to be their chef ... for a few more months!
I invite them to stand up so that we can all thank them together!
The priorities of your group of deputies are clear: we will defend families, support the regions and local development, and promote equal opportunities.
We also worked for patients and for healthcare workers. You know, in good health, the Prime Minister promised us sea and people. He knows that health ... We have seen it in Saudi Arabia ...
What he forgot to promise us is that he was going to plunge the health network into an improvised, botched reform put in place by Minister Gaétan Barrette.
The government has made Mr. Barrette&#39;s dream come true: to be at the center of the health care network, without any consideration for patients or those who provide care. The “bulldozer” minister has chosen not to listen.
This intermingling of structures will paralyze the network for years. It will cost money instead of saving it. It is not only us who are saying this, it is also the stakeholders in the health network. Even the liberal school club, the CAQ, finally understood the bill and sided with our position!
In the Parti Québécois, we believe that the priorities of patients are effective primary care, quality retirement homes, home care and prevention. It is also a strong community environment, as well as health personnel that we respect.
I also have a thought for the workers and health professionals, who will have to live with this intermingling of structures.
To defend the priorities of the Parti Québécois en santé, we have a competent Member of Parliament who, in the face of Minister Barrette&#39;s arrogance, stands up. It was her first gag and she led it with flying colors.
Well done, Diane Lamarre!
Fortunately, yesterday was not a day focused solely on Gaétan Barrette.
Thanks to Quebec and to the path we had mapped out, the Supreme Court recognized medical assistance in dying as well as Quebec&#39;s full jurisdiction in the matter.
The Act respecting end-of-life care adopted in Quebec is the result of the Special Commission on the Question of Dying with Dignity, a formidable parliamentary initiative, as you know.
It includes not only medical assistance in dying, but also the whole issue of palliative care. It changed the way we see it. It is an intelligent approach, respectful of the population. Gaétan Barrette should have been inspired by it.
We owe this law to many people. But one person, in particular, was at the heart of this great project. And we are fortunate to have him with us.
Véronique, thank you for leading this battle with a masterful hand!
Dear friends, we are aware of the magnitude of the task in the National Assembly. We are the only ones to offer a different vision.
It is in this spirit that Sylvain Gaudreault tabled a bill to affirm the precedence of Quebec&#39;s jurisdiction in environmental matters. In other words, Sylvain suggests that it be up to us to decide what happens in Quebec, not to the National Energy Board, not to the federal government, not to the governments of other provinces, to us! Well done, Sylvain.
I told you, our priorities are clear. We choose to be on the ground, with the world, to defend families, regions, local development and to fight inequalities.
On the Liberal side, what do we do? We centralize. We cut. We abolish. With the support of the CAQ.
The Liberals are choosing easy savings on the backs of the poor and families; they choose to have a short-sighted accounting approach, without any vision for the future of our company.
Is this what we want in Quebec? Choices based on individualism? On letting go? On the abandonment of our regions?
Since Philippe Couillard came to power, we have noticed one thing: we cannot trust him.
During the election campaign, he spoke a lot, he promised a lot. And since he was elected? He sails on sight. He reneged on his commitments, one after the other. He shows his true nature. We can&#39;t trust him.
What is most unfortunate is that the Liberals govern in a vacuum. They have no respect for the partners or for the actors on the ground. They are convinced that they hold the supreme truth.
This is perhaps why Philippe Couillard centralizes everything in Quebec, that he cuts in the resources of CLDs, CJEs, CRÉs.
For the Liberal Party, it is quite simple: the regions no longer exist. Families are not important. The rich must be richer. As for the middle class and the poor ... too bad for them!
At the Parti Québécois, we believe that we can make different choices.
For true equality of opportunity, all citizens, regardless of where they live in Quebec, have the right to obtain services and to be supported. Every Quebecer has the right to have a government that believes in itself and in the development potential of its community.
Quebecers are capable of shining in all areas. We have made our mark in a multitude of sectors, such as aeronautics, aluminum and video games.
We can get better than the destructive austerity of the Liberals and the CAQ. That is what we are defending in the Parti Québécois.
Austerity means: a cut of 300 million in municipal budgets; a cut in the financing of Rural Solidarity; the abolition of the support fund for territories in difficulty.
Philippe Couillard made the choice to listen to the Employers Council, which said that it was necessary to close devitalized regions and villages. But is this the choice of the citizens?
We in the Parti Québécois are making a different choice. Because our Quebec is also a Quebec of the regions. We are proud of each of them, we are proud to occupy our large and beautiful territory. We are proud of all of our villages and towns.
We are Quebec, all of Quebec!
In economics, it&#39;s the same. The government is absent. It becomes embarrassing when the Prime Minister goes abroad.
During the election campaign, Philippe Couillard promised the creation of 250,000 jobs. He doesn&#39;t believe it.
Need I remind you that over 40,000 full-time jobs have been lost since the Liberals came in? And what is the Prime Minister doing while jobs are being lost? He waits and he stays in his office. He makes &quot;the personal choice&quot; - yes! - wait for the liberal effect.
We need an economic policy for Quebec. It is constantly demanded from the National Assembly.
If the Liberals have no ideas, we have them. Quebec must have ambition! This is the starting point.
We know that together we can achieve great things. For example, in our economic policy, we chose to make Quebec a leader in the electrification of transportation. It was a promising project, a clear vision.
We can bet on exports, support our SMEs, our entrepreneurs. The fall of the dollar must be an opportunity to support our manufacturing companies.
Well! No, the government is waiting ...
If the government does not know what to do, let it at least continue down the path we have set out. It is the way of the future of Quebec.
For the future, we must also believe in ourselves. Believe in our families.
During the campaign, Philippe Couillard said he was not going to increase the rates for child care services beyond inflation. Now, what did he do? Again &quot;a personal choice&quot;! It is attacking middle class families by drastically raising prices.
But, what you need to know is that the government wants the end of the CPE model. He slowed down the development of places and blocked all the projects that were in progress.
We had implemented progressive measures to support families which are the envy of all Western democracies. Even Americans and President Obama dream of introducing reduced-contribution child care centers.
We have implemented this program, even in a difficult economic context. Because families must be at the center of our priorities.
Our greatest collective wealth is embodied in the development of families. As we know, a rich society draws its strength from the renewal of its generations.
Another issue on which the Prime Minister waits and does not intervene: religious fundamentalism.
Well, we must not mention his passage in a country &quot;whose-we-do-not-have-the-right-to-say-the-name&quot; ... That, I understood.
But the Prime Minister will still have to explain to us where his &quot;personal choice&quot; and his uneasiness to act against fundamentalism come from!
Yesterday, I asked him a question in the National Assembly. He quoted himself, but changing the words he had used! Instead of saying “religious fundamentalism”, Philippe Couillard censored himself and spoke of “religious excesses”!
Coudonc! What is the problem when the time comes to denounce fundamentalism?
Fighting against religious fundamentalism and radicalism is not a personal choice, it is a social choice!
Can Philippe Couillard tell us, moreover, a form of fundamentalism that respects equality between men and women? Can he point out to us a form of fundamentalism that promotes homosexual rights? Can he point out to us a form of fundamentalism which respects the boundaries between public and religious life?
Agnès Maltais made a clear proposal to understand, document and prevent religious fundamentalism: that of providing Quebec with an observatory in this matter.
Experts could look into the phenomenon of fundamentalism and help us live better together.
We must act! May the other parties follow us in this process!
My friends, this week marked the beginning of a new milestone in the history of our party. The leadership race is officially on.
Dear candidates, thank you for the quality of the campaign you have been leading so far. You do honor to the activists of our great party.
Well done for your suggestions.
I invite the candidate and the candidates to stand up, so that we can all together congratulate them!
To be leader of the Parti Québécois is to be leader of a party that believes that Quebec would develop better if we made our own choices. Instead of choosing individualism, we must choose the collective! Instead of choosing centralization, we choose the regions!
Faced with the liberal ventrism in front of Ottawa, we made the choice of freedom, of independence. Because we have to make our own decisions about what is going on here in Quebec.
And the way to do it is to choose, for us, for our children, that Quebec become a country!
With the quality of our candidate and our candidates, I am convinced that the next chef will be able to inspire, convince and get Quebeckers to say yes!
The future of Quebec depends on a country!
Thank you my friends.
Good national advice.
And good race for the leadership of the Parti Québécois.
