Quebec– The government of Pauline Marois will focus on promoting the identity and defending the interests of the Quebec nation during its mandate. This is the commitment made today by the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, during the opening speech she gave to the National Assembly. “The government&#39;s minority status should not immobilize us as a people, as we come out of nine years of torpor,” she said.
In terms of identity, the government will act on three fronts: language, culture and citizenship. In order to preserve the place of French as a common public language, a new charter of the French language will be tabled. “A majority of us agree to defend and promote the place of French in our society, with all due respect for the English-speaking community. We do not all agree on the means and scope of the actions to be taken, but we know that we must act, ”explained Pauline Marois.
With the French language, culture defines us as a people. Our creators are the source of this culture and they can count on unwavering support from the government. Through granting agencies, funding for creation will therefore be gradually increased.
The export of Quebec cultural works and products will be more supported. Quebec will initiate talks with the federal government to repatriate cultural budgets and programs. A parliamentary committee on the relevance of a law on the single book price and its impacts will also be set up. Finally, the teaching of Quebec history will be strengthened in Quebec schools.
In matters of citizenship, fundamental questions need to be resolved. A charter of secularism and a law on Quebec citizenship have been proposed. Since these proposals must benefit from the support of the greatest number, the government will launch consultations to reach a point of equilibrium that will allow progress on these questions.
Finally, the government of Pauline Marois will continue its efforts to promote Québec&#39;s interests on the international scene and before the federal government. A new lease of life will also be given to relations with the Aboriginal nations.
“Quebeckers remain divided on the national question, but the idea that Quebec stands up and defends its interests unites a large majority of us. Quebec has everything to gain from speaking with its own voice in the world, from being present in international forums where our future is taking shape, and from implementing its own foreign policy according to our interests and values. The government will continue to promote the idea that the only future worthy of the name for the Quebec nation is to regain its freedom by founding a new country, a country that resembles us, a country for all, ”concluded the Premier.
