La Pocatière - The member for Rimouski and president of the Committee on Public Finance, Mr. Irvin Pelletier, greeted today, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, the success of the 122 students who successfully completed their training program at the Institut de technologie agroalimentaire (ITA), La Pocatière campus. Of these 122 graduates, 90 are graduating with a college diploma, a 34% increase in their numbers for campus.
The Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food paid tribute to the graduates of the ITA: “I would like to underline the daring you are showing by embarking on the adventure of a career in Agriculture. I also want you to know that support for the next generation is at the top of the Government of Quebec&#39;s list of priorities. This is very important for me, especially since I will need you to ensure the success of the Food Sovereignty Policy. It is no coincidence that the “youth” concern is present in each of the four axes of the Policy, because, basically, it is you who will shape the agricultural Quebec of tomorrow. &quot;
In front of a packed house of relatives, friends, partners, staff members and graduates of the Institute, the Ministry awarded medals and scholarships to five graduates who obtained the best academic results, that is to say one graduate in each of the five graduate programs. &#39;college studies offered at the La Pocatière campus: agricultural business management and operation, animal production technology, process technology and food quality, horticultural production technology and the environment, as well as equine techniques. Companies and organizations in the agri-food sector have also awarded scholarships to students who have distinguished themselves in their program.
“You represent an extraordinary succession for the agrifood industry in Quebec. Many challenges await you in this sector where there is still a lot to invent. Your commitment and excellence, combined with the training you have received, make you the people best prepared to work on it and take it forward, ”said Mr. Gendron.
The ITA, which has already been in existence for 50 years, has a campus in La Pocatière and one in Saint-Hyacinthe which are recognized for the quality of their teaching and their facilities and which welcome a total of nearly 1,000 students each year. To find out more about the Institute, the study programs or the services offered there, simply consult the Internetwww.ita.qc.ca site.
