Quebec - In her opening speech, the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, assured that solidarity would be the guideline of all government actions in the fields of education, health and social services , justice and the development of cities and regions.
Solidarity calls for offering everyone equal opportunities. To do this, access to education is a key element. Thus, after canceling the tuition hike, the government will honor its commitment to hold a summit on higher education. A series of measures will be put in place to fight against dropping out of school, in particular by allowing elementary and secondary schools in Quebec to hire hundreds of professionals to help the staff in place. The efforts devoted to literacy and vocational training are also among the priority actions of the government.
With regard to early childhood, the government aims to ensure that every child has a place in daycare within the next four years. Thousands of places will be announced shortly and, from the beginning of next year, a call for projects will be launched to complete the network. The government will move forward with kindergarten to four years in underprivileged areas.
In terms of health, the government&#39;s priority is to facilitate access to the first line by acting on several fronts, in particular by adding 50 family medicine groups within two years, 170 family doctors within a year and several professionals and nurses in family medicine groups, while giving pharmacists a greater role. The government&#39;s objective is to ensure that 750,000 more Quebecers have access to a family doctor within two years.
A national policy for home care and services will also be developed to support the elderly and caregivers. This reform will begin this fall with a working group on the creation of autonomy insurance. Measures will also be taken in the areas of mental health, homelessness and social housing, domestic violence and distress among young people.
In the justice sector, the government aspires to severely punish criminals and repeat offenders, while focusing on rehabilitation, especially for young people. The government will expand access to legal aid to as many people as possible by gradually increasing the eligibility thresholds. To ensure the appearance of justice when police officers are involved, the government will introduce a bill to establish an independent investigation office responsible for the conduct of all investigations ordered by the minister.
To ensure the safety of the population, the government will introduce a bill to create a Quebec registry of non-restricted firearms. This registry will be put in place when the Quebec data contained in the Canadian firearms registry is obtained.
Quebecers have every interest in the city, the national capital and each region being strong. The government will ensure that all regions of Quebec can enrich themselves. A framework law on decentralization will be proposed to allow local decision-makers to make choices suited to their situation. The National Policy on Rurality put in place in 2001 will be renewed.
“Quebec remains the place in North America where wealth is best shared and where the level of violence is the lowest. We have a tradition of mutual aid that goes back 400 years and has served us very well. We must be proud of these accomplishments and continue on the path of this solidarity, ”concluded the Prime Minister.
