The official opposition spokesperson for REM issues, Alain Therrien, asks that the fare for Deux-Montagnes train users be reduced, considering the significant reduction in service caused by the construction work of the REM. “Users lose a significant portion of their services, but have to pay the same bill. Rather, it is up to the Caisse de dépôt et placement to assume its responsibilities and compensate the citizens, ”he argued.
IN SHORT
“Normally, when a company lowers the quality of a service, it lowers its prices. Why would it be any different in the case of the Deux-Montagnes line, for which the journey time will increase considerably? Initially, a reduction of 25% would be justified. Later, when the tunnel is completely closed, this decrease should reach 50% to precisely reflect the inconvenience suffered by the users. The Minister of Transport must demand it, and the Caisse must pay. It is the least of things to do for the tens of thousands of citizens who are already seeing their daily lives turned upside down and who will have to deal with even more serious interruptions in service ”, declared Alain Therrien.
The spokesperson also believes that it is up to the Caisse de dépôt to foot the bill. “Without the REM, there would be no disruption. And, since the REM is a project of the Caisse, it is up to it to offer compensation. This responsibility does not fall to the cities, the Autorité régionale de transport métropolitain, or the government of Quebec. No way this time the Caisse passes the bill on to a third party with the complicity of the government! And to add, a 2% price increase has been decreed for next July, especially for Deux-Montagnes train users. We are reducing the service in addition to increasing the price! Here again, we believe that the Caisse should cover the increase for users of Deux-Montagnes, ”he continued.
&quot;Are the government and the Caisse waiting for the victimized users to abandon public transport to wake up?&quot; Or that they file a class action lawsuit? If they believe they can upset the daily lives of some 10,000 public transport users without consequence, they are wrong. The current situation bodes very badly for the future, and needs to be corrected. Sooner or later, and whether they like it or not, the authorities will have to pay, so let&#39;s not waste time. Obviously, the Caisse is not used to managing customer service for the general public. But, as the person in charge of the REM, in this case, she will have to stretch her muscles quickly, ”concluded Alain Therrien.
