Quebec - While the Supreme Court of Canada imposes a new ceiling of 18 months for cases before the Court of Quebec and one of 30 months for cases before the Superior Court, the member for Joliette and the Parti Québécois spokesperson in matters Justice, Véronique Hivon, once again demanded from the Minister of Justice that she put in place a concrete action plan to improve the efficiency of the judicial system.
“Not only are the files on the Minister&#39;s desk not being resolved, but in addition, the department&#39;s budget is frozen and the Director of Criminal and Penal Prosecutions has suffered cuts of $ 5.2 million. If nothing is done, the new ceilings will allow the accused to get out, due to the abandonment of the proceedings. Think of Gilles Vaillancourt, whose trial is scheduled for 2019 only, 6 years after the charges were laid, and Richard Henry Bain, whose trial is still not completed almost 4 years after the Metropolis attack. Is the minister waiting for other accused to escape justice before taking action? », Declared Véronique Hivon.
“As early as November 2015, I questioned the Minister of Justice in the House on the interminable delays in criminal justice matters, in the wake of the SharQc mega-trial fiasco, whose procedures were abandoned, thus allowing members of the Hells Angels to get by without conviction. The Minister then claimed to work actively with all stakeholders in the justice system to reduce delays, before freezing the budgets of her department and subjecting the DPCP to budget cuts, ”added Véronique Hivon.
In February 2016, the MP called for an action plan to improve delays in criminal justice. “We were therefore asking that this plan be tabled before the end of the spring. The issue was that of young victims of sexual assault whose memory? Forgot? the details of the assaults, because of the too long delays, which allowed the accused to escape. This is one of the many examples of the concrete actions requested from the Minister, who has still not delivered the goods. How can Quebeckers trust a minister who is acting so slowly to speed up our justice system? », She concluded.
