Quebec– The member for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, questioned Minister Barrette&#39;s approach in the case of the transfer of professionals from CLSCs to FMGs.
In the presence of the President of the Order of Social Workers and Marriage and Family Therapists of Quebec, Claude Leblond, of the President of the Alliance of Professional and Technical Personnel in Health and Social Services, Carolle Dubé, and of the President of Quebec Doctors for the Public Plan, Isabelle Leblanc, Ms. Lamarre denounced the absence of the Minister&#39;s plan and its lack of transparency, in what amounts to a dismantling of the CLSCs.
“The first question that arises is: why not add professionals rather than strip the CLSCs of their human resources? Yet nowhere was it written in the Liberal Party&#39;s commitments that the CLSCs would be dismantled. While the minister himself said that the FMGs were in charge of curative care, there is reason to worry that this reform will result in a setback in terms of prevention, as well as in terms of the effectiveness of monitoring. carried out with complex patients, having both physical, psychosocial and mental health problems, and who are currently very often found in CLSCs. Moreover, it is difficult not to see in this another desire of the Minister to centralize the organization of care around doctors, ”declared the deputy.
“Several questions remain unanswered at the present time and give rise to serious concerns in the field: what will happen to patients who are currently followed in CLSCs? What will become of the mission of the CLSCs if we move all the professionals working there? What autonomy will non-medical professionals in FMGs enjoy? True interprofessional collaboration cannot take place in a context where the doctor is in a position of authority over other professionals, as is currently the case with specialized nurse practitioners. The Minister must now specify his intentions and present a clear plan, ”concluded Diane Lamarre.
