Montreal - The MP for Pointe-aux-Trembles and official opposition spokesperson for the metropolis, Nicole Léger, vigorously denounced the issuance of the permit to dismantle the Shell refinery in Montreal-Est by the Minister of Resources Nature and Wildlife, Nathalie Normandeau.
&quot;After having made parliamentarians work for months, after having held a mandate of initiative in the National Assembly, after having promised that it would not dismantle the Shell refinery before the report of the commission is tabled, which is not done, the Minister breaks her commitment and sends a letter ordering the dismantling. I am furious! », Said the member for Pointe-aux-Trembles.
&quot;How can we be so contemptuous of the work of parliamentarians?&quot; Asked Nicole Léger. Over the past few months, members of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries, Energy and Natural Resources have heard from several speakers, including the management of the three Quebec refineries, and the discussions made it possible to arrive at a compromise on the findings and recommendations to be transmitted to the government and everything was done in a consensual manner, until the Liberals made everything fail following their about-face, manipulated by the minister, ”explained the Minister. member in a press release issued ten days ago.
The member for Pointe-aux-Trembles also deplored the softness of the conditions for issuing the permit: &quot;The Minister asks Shell to inform her of any difficulty in supplying Quebec with petroleum products, but what can she do? when will these difficulties arise? It will be too late, because the refinery will already be dismantled! While Quebec must strive towards its energy independence, the Minister prefers to weaken it by authorizing a reduction in Quebec&#39;s refining capacity, when demand is already greater than supply ”.
Nicole Léger recalls that the closure of the Shell refinery represents a shortfall of $ 240 million in economic benefits for the Quebec economy. “The government only thinks of the Plan Nord and forgets to consolidate what is already here in east Montreal, where there are workers, families, businesses and economic development to do. Nathalie Normandeau must at least financially and logistically support, from now on, the revival committee of east Montreal if she has the future of the metropolis at heart, ”concluded the MP for Pointe-aux-Trembles. .
