Quebec - During a press briefing this morning, the member for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, and the member for Taschereau, Agnès Maltais, questioned the Minister Barrette&#39;s real intentions regarding the transfer of professionals from CLSCs to FMGs.
On this occasion, the deputies were accompanied by Nancy Corriveau, vice-president of the Fédération des professionèles (FP-CSN), Mélissa Gaouette, vice-president of the Fédération de la santé et des services sociaux (FSSS-CSN), as well as than Danny Roy, president of the SPSSS-CSN, a union of professionals and technicians of the health network in Quebec. The initiators of a petition sponsored by the Parti Québécois, they ask that the transfer of professional resources from CLSCs to FMGs be suspended in order to assess the impact of this measure on the population and on network stakeholders.
“The health care system is not owned by the minister. He must clarify his intentions so that we are able to appreciate the consequences of these changes for the patients. In terms of accessibility, we have difficulty seeing how the dismantling of the CLSCs will be beneficial for them. While we wait less than an hour in a CLSC to see a social worker, we can wait several days, several weeks, even several months to obtain an appointment in FMG. The minister did not even explain on what criteria he set the number of social workers transferred. Where are the gains for patients? How will the benefits and risks of this move be measured? Improvisation must stop, ”said Diane Lamarre.
“We have learned that in the Quebec City region, 39 of the 49 social workers providing social reception in CLSCs will be transferred to FMGs. In addition, community organizations throughout the territory are currently weakened, the lower town of Quebec has lost 15 community workers due to HPS, and the SABSA clinic will soon end its walk-in service due to corporatism. the Minister of Health. We are worried, and health professionals and citizens alike are right to be too, ”added Agnès Maltais.
“We must not forget that patients who go to CLSCs are generally more vulnerable and often not registered with a family doctor in FMG. How will they have access to the resources and professionals who will be transferred there, since it is necessary to be registered in a FMG to obtain an appointment? Many have only social problems, without health problems. What is the point of directing them to a GMF? We reiterate that the Minister must present his plan to us and, above all, carefully assess the consequences of his decisions on patients and on access to care before implementing them, ”concluded the deputies.
To sign the petition, go to http://www.assnat.qc.ca/fr/exprimez-votre-opinion/petition/Petition-6033/index.html.
