Quebec - While more than a million Quebecers still do not have a family doctor and access to care is deteriorating, the Liberal government continues to dismantle our CLSCs. The member for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, again today denounced the precipitous transfer of professionals, such as social workers and psychologists, from CLSCs to GMF. During a press briefing, she asked the Minister of Health and Social Services, Gaétan Barrette, to postpone this umpteenth improvised reform which is not based on any convincing experience.
On this occasion, the MP was accompanied by Mr. Jean Lacharité, vice-president of the CSN, by Ms. Mélissa Gaouette, vice-president of the FSSS-CSN, and by Ms. Nancy Corriveau, vice-president of the FP-CSN, who initiated a petition asking for a downtime in order to assess the impact of transfers on access to care, the population and network stakeholders. The Parti Québécois presented this petition signed by nearly 10,000 people.
“We recently learned that around ten CEOs of CISSS and CIUSSS have decided to postpone the transfer of professionals from CLSCs to FMGs, because, by their own admission, the deadlines imposed by Minister Barrette are unrealistic. We must salute their decision to take the time to do things right. It is more than necessary to assess the consequences of these transfers, since they will obviously reduce access to all CLSCs in Quebec. This time, the Minister of Health is directly disrupting the efforts of social workers and psychologists who currently have people in need under their professional responsibility. These should not be left behind; we must certainly add professionals on the front line, especially in FMG, but we must not, in order to do this, dismantle an entire section of our public network! We must also ensure that we have the right professional in the right place, at the right time, and nothing justifies the Minister&#39;s choice to drain our CLSCs of their resources. Moreover, all the people who need a social worker do not necessarily need a doctor in a family medicine group, ”denounced Diane Lamarre.
“The minister is imposing all-out and thoughtless reforms. We are delighted that there are managers capable of seeing that we cannot transfer resources with such haste. They used their common sense because, unlike the Minister, they are more connected in the field and closer to the patients and professionals who work with them on a daily basis. Now, the minister must admit that his reform is in no way beneficial for patients and that, on the contrary, it directly harms access and deprives Quebecers of the care and services they badly need and in which they invest. a lot of money. We must put an end to improvisation and the destruction of our public health network, ”concluded the member.
