Quebec - Following the controversy over the resignation of Yves Bolduc and his decision to receive his severance pay estimated at more than $ 150,000, the member for Verchères and official opposition critic for ethics and integrity, Stéphane Bergeron, announced that he would shortly be presenting a bill to abolish transition bonuses for parliamentarians resigning during their term of office.
“It is obvious that Yves Bolduc, with this unfortunate decision, missed his exit from political life. This event demonstrated that the transitional allowances that may be received by Members resigning during their mandate are totally unacceptable in the eyes of Quebeckers, especially in this era of austerity imposed by the Liberal government, which asks them to shake things up. belt. Currently, the population has the impression that austerity applies to everyone, except the liberals! », Declared Stéphane Bergeron.
Recall that on March 20, 2013, the government of Pauline Marois presented Bill 33, An Act to amend the Act respecting the conditions of employment and the pension plan of the Members of the National Assembly, so that a Member cannot touch his departure bonus if he leaves during his term of office, unless there are exceptional circumstances. The Liberal Party opposed it with the utmost vigor and prevented its passage, even as Liberal members resigned with their bonuses.
&quot;We must be delighted that the Prime Minister has finally understood, it seems, the indecent nature of the position defended by the deputies of his political party. However, we must deplore his inability to influence the decision of his former minister. Now that he has said the premiums must stop, we are counting on his support to quickly call the bill we will be tabling. It will be an opportunity for him to show leadership and consistency, ”continued the member for Verchères.
“Beyond the specific case of Yves Bolduc, it is high time that the representatives of the Quebec people get in tune with society&#39;s expectations and that they define clear guidelines. This situation must not be repeated if we want to restore the confidence of the citizens of Quebec in our democratic institutions. Parliamentarians have a sacred duty to cherish our democracy, which is based on the confidence of the people. It is therefore up to us to act accordingly, ”concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
