Québec– The MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and official opposition spokesperson for housing, Carole Poirier, as well as the MNA for Gaspé and spokesperson for municipal affairs and regional development, Gaétan Lelièvre, are concerned about the recent resignations from the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ) and the impact that the cuts by the Minister of Municipal Affairs and Land Occupancy, Pierre Moreau, will have on the future of social housing. in the region.
“We have said on several occasions that cuts in housing programs are damaging. This is very worrying for the future of social housing, in the regions and throughout Quebec. The Liberals cut RénoVillage, the emergency renovation program, as well as the Rénovation Québec program. They have also considerably reduced the home adaptation program for people with disabilities and are now attacking AccèsLogis Québec. People and regions are concerned, and with good reason. Liberal austerity is unacceptable; Minister Pierre Moreau must reinvest in these programs immediately, ”said Carole Poirier.
The member for Gaspé also denounced these cuts. “By targeting construction, a major part of the economy of Quebec and the regions, they directly affect our development. This unfortunately comes on top of all the cuts made in local expertise and development resources. We also learned that only 4 technical resource groups out of 24 received their grant from the Assistance Program for Community Organizations, normally paid in September. In addition, the non-federated regions and the Popular Action Front in Urban Reorganization are still waiting for sums, too. For all these reasons, we join our voices in the Touche pas à mes regions! Coalition, which calls for a clear recovery in the government&#39;s actions, ”he added.
The deputy also points out that according to a study by the firm AECOM, published in 2013, “[for] every dollar paid by the SHQ as a subsidy, $ 2.3 has been injected into the Quebec economy. In terms of added value, that is to say the creation of wealth, the impact is estimated at 1.027 billion dollars ”.
A serious governance problem
“We learned yesterday of the resignation of two members of the board of directors of the SHQ. These resignations are added to another, and we know that two members will not renew their mandate. In short, the board of directors loses five members, which makes it completely inoperative. Those who have resigned tell us that they are deeply dissatisfied with the cuts in the programs managed by the SHQ - AccèsLogis, in particular - and in all home improvement assistance programs. The reasons they cite, namely government interference and lack of vision, are worrisome. We also learn from the mouth of one of the resigners that Minister Moreau and the CEO of the SHQ, whom he recently appointed, would completely bypass the board of directors of the SHQ. It is a serious governance problem, ”concluded Carole Poirier.
