Quebec– Following the resignation of the Director General of the Center hospitalier de l&#39;Université de Montréal (CHUM), Jacques Turgeon, and that of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Jean-Claude Deschênes, the Member of Parliament for Verchères and Porte- official opposition spokesperson for ethics and integrity, Stéphane Bergeron, and the member for Taillon and spokesperson for health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, believe that the Minister of Health and of Social Services, Gaétan Barrette, had to leave his post because of the scope and seriousness of the actions attributed to him.
The Parti Québécois also calls on Prime Minister Philippe Couillard to immediately launch an independent investigation in order to find out all the other potential cases of interference in the process of appointing executives of the health network that may involve Minister Gaétan Barrette.
“The accusations of political interference and abuse of power are very serious. The chairman of the board of directors of the CHUM, an expert in governance of the health network, also resigned, unable to tolerate this situation any longer. He denounced the ways of minister Gaétan Barrette. For us, it is very clear: the minister must step down. We appeal to the responsibility of the Prime Minister, ”declared Stéphane Bergeron.
The chairman of the board of directors, at a press briefing, declared: “In matters of governance, responsibility is not synonymous with submission. Such attitudes must stop. He also mentioned, speaking of Minister Barrette, that he was using half-truths, and that there were demagogic manipulations, abuse of power and untimely interventions. The deputies also note that Jacques Turgeon, by resigning yesterday, gave up his departure bonus, which he could have cashed next Monday.
“We have clear proof of what we have been advancing from the start: Bill 10, adopted under gag order, gives absolute and undue power to the minister. It is a major denial of democracy. The actions he is accused of are unacceptable and constitute a total disregard for the rules of governance. The harmful effects on the organization of the CHUM are serious. We cannot manage the health care network like the minister does. He must leave, ”added Diane Lamarre.
An independent investigation is necessary &quot;In light of the allegations against Minister Barrette, we ask the Prime Minister to immediately set up an independent investigation, led by a neutral expert, into the potential other cases of interference and abuse of power. involving the minister in the appointment of executives. Given the seriousness of the situation, the Prime Minister is responsible for ensuring the sound management of our health network, ”concluded Diane Lamarre.
