Quebec - The member for Marie-Victorin and official opposition critic for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, demands that the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, Pierre Arcand, be transparent and promptly provide explanations regarding serial resignations affecting senior management of Hydro-Québec. He also asks that the three senior leaders in question be heard in parliamentary committee.
According to the information made public, in addition to the CEO, Thierry Vandal, two other senior executives of Hydro-Quebec (Marie-José Nadeau, Executive Vice-President - Corporate Affairs and Secretary General, as well as Georges Abiad, senior manager of the implementation of smart meters) tendered their resignation, a few days apart.
“Three resignations from strategic positions in a few days is not a common situation, it is not trivial. Quebecers, Hydro-Québec shareholders, have the right to know what is going on. Minister Pierre Arcand must put cards on the table: when Thierry Vandal resigned, was the government aware of the other two resignations? Are these resignations related to the failures that have occurred in many cases, in particular the implementation of smart meters? There is eel under the rock, ”asked Bernard Drainville.
A parliamentary committee to shed light The Parti Québécois asks that these three senior leaders be heard in a parliamentary committee to shed light on their resignation and so that they can explain their decisions, particularly in the cases of smart meters, the thermal power plant in Bécancour and the supply of pylons internationally. Let us also recall that last December, the big boss of UPAC claimed to be carrying out various investigations into Hydro-Quebec contracts.
“Parliamentarians need to know more about all of these issues. These people must come and give an account of their decisions before their departure; they are attributable to it. Let us remember that following the historic losses of the Caisse de dépôt in 2008, parliamentarians were not able to obtain all the answers from the leaders before they left. It&#39;s a question of transparency, ”concluded Bernard Drainville.
