Cowansville– The Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Seniors and Minister responsible for the Estrie region, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today announced that the Center de santé et de services sociaux (CSSS) La Pommeraie is authorized to launch a public call for tenders for the rental of spaces in order to relocate the Cowansville Family Medicine Unit (UMF), affiliated with the University of Sherbrooke, and allow it to increase its capacity. reception.
“We have made a commitment to improve the accessibility of care and services by consolidating the first line and increasing the number of family physicians. This announcement is precisely in line with this objective, since these new provisions will increase the family medicine reception capacity of the Université de Sherbrooke network while increasing the service offer to the population of the territory ”, declared the Minister Hébert.
The Cowansville UMF occupies temporary premises that had been used to house the emergency room of the Brome-Missisquoi-Perkins Hospital during major expansion work in 2009-2010. Today&#39;s announcement therefore authorizes him to seek the premises that will welcome him permanently. This new environment, which should have an area of approximately 1,050 square meters, will allow the UMF to accommodate four additional residents, for a total capacity of twelve residents, two externs and a nurse practitioner trainee specializing in care. frontline.
The costs of this real estate solution are estimated at $ 243,600, including rental arrangements and other related costs. The amount of the non-recurring allowance that will be granted for the purchase of furniture and equipment, as well as the operating budget linked to its new accommodation capacity will be confirmed later.
Currently, about 45% of medical students go into family medicine, while 55% go into other specialties. The consolidation of this UMF is part of the government&#39;s desire to increase the number of graduates in family medicine in order to reverse these proportions, and thus better meet the current and future health needs of Quebec society.
