Quebec - The Parti Québécois blames the Minister of Culture and Communications, Christine St-Pierre, who did nothing to prevent the demolition, last Monday, of the Casimir Dessaulles house in Saint-Hyacinthe, a heritage gem built around 1850 .
“The walls of this house were filled with the memory that has shaped the history of Quebec. His disappearance leaves a great void in the heart of Saint-Hyacinthe. Despite the fire, it was recoverable. It is appalling that the Liberal government, and in particular Minister Christine St-Pierre, did nothing to save it, despite repeated requests to that effect, ”declared the MNA for Saint-Hyacinthe, Émilien Pelletier.
The Casimir Dessaulles house was the residence of Georges-Casimir Dessaulles, deputy, businessman and mayor of Saint-Hyacinthe for more than 25 years and nephew of Louis-Joseph Papineau. It was also the residence of his daughter, Henriette Dessaulles, known under the pseudonym of Fadette, the first female journalist in Quebec. She wrote in Le Devoir from 1910, the daily founded by her cousin, Henri Bourassa. It is in this house that Henriette Dessaulles wrote her diary, recognized worldwide as a masterpiece of women&#39;s literature. Architecturally, this house was endowed with particularly distinctive attractions, including its interior spiral-shaped brick staircase, an impressive construction and probably very rare, if not unique.
The member for Drummond and official opposition critic for culture and communications, Yves-François Blanchet, also finds it ironic that Minister St-Pierre&#39;s indifference to the actions of her colleague and the community of Saint-Hyacinthe appeared at the same time when parliamentarians were studying Bill 82 on cultural heritage. “Now that we know that Minister St-Pierre has done nothing to protect this heritage treasure, how can we swallow all the fine words she said during the study of Bill 82? She just missed an opportunity to demonstrate her sensitivity to Quebec&#39;s heritage, ”added the member for Drummond.
“The minister criticizes us for not allowing the current version of her bill to pass stupidly. However, it does not even use the powers that the current law gives it to preserve treasures like the house of Casimir Dessaulles. It leaves the field open to those who want to demolish our heritage and we fear that the new law is not a sufficient tool for it to be otherwise since one of the risks of Bill 82 is precisely that it transfers responsibilities to municipalities, but without the financial resources or expertise to adequately discharge them. Meanwhile, Quebecers are witnessing the loss of invaluable cultural assets, ”concluded MP Yves-François Blanchet.
