Quebec - Present at the screening of the documentary Trou Story at the Festival du cinéma international en Abitibi-Témiscamingue last Saturday in Rouyn-Noranda, the member for Vachon and official opposition spokesperson for mines and shale gas, Martine Ouellet notes a striking constant: mining development in 2011 continues to be a colonialist development as it did in 1870. It is pitiful to see the Liberal Party perpetuating this colonialist development for the benefit of foreign multinationals rather than for the benefit of Quebeckers.
“This documentary by Richard Desjardins and Robert Monderie provides an excellent history of mines in Quebec. Admittedly, there have been marked improvements in working conditions and in environmental protection, but the issue of orphan sites remains a major issue. Be that as it may, this documentary unfortunately illustrates too well that the development of mines in Quebec is still not working to the advantage of Quebecers today, ”said Martine Ouellet.
The Parti Québécois is delighted with the mining boom underway in Quebec for several years. This mining boom is not attributable to the Liberal government&#39;s northern marketing plan, but to the price of metals. However, despite the fact that the price of gold is five times higher than eight years ago, that the price of nickel is three times higher and that the price of iron is also five times higher for this same period, the current royalty regime is giving the Quebec government crumbs. We lose hundreds of millions of dollars every year, despite the 300 million announced by Mr. Bachand. “Again in 2010, 10 out of 19 mining companies did not pay any royalties. Why? Because our royalty regime applies to net income, so after a whole series of deductions. Even if the Minister of Finance is pleased to have lowered the rate from 12% to 16%, the fact remains that for the 10 miners, 12% of 0 = $ 0 and 16% of 0 = still 0 $ ”, Denounced the member for Vachon.
Given the non-renewable nature of mining and gold resources and after viewing the documentary Trou Story, the Parti Québécois is calling more than ever for an in-depth review of the royalty regime. “Our basement is sold to multinationals for a pittance. These resources belong to us and it is normal to claim the maximum benefit from them, ”continued Martine Ouellet.
Faced with this reality decried in the documentary, the Parti Québécois asks the Liberal government to show openness and accept the amendments for a suitable royalty regime and to promote transformation in Quebec. “What the documentary Trou Story tells us is that Quebecers do not profit enough from the exploitation of gold, iron, nickel and other minerals, as was the case in 1870. C &#39; is why the position of the Liberal Party during the study of Bill 14 does not hold.
In fact, for nearly 40 hours, the Parti Québécois has been trying to have amendments adopted so that Quebeckers can regain control of their natural resources, but in vain. The Liberal government even voted against amendments calling for more processing in Quebec, which would create four times more jobs than just extraction. Unbelievable!
“It is time that we regain control of our natural resources. It is a treasure that belongs to all Quebecers. At the Parti Québécois, we are therefore proposing to extract better royalties, increase processing in our territory, implement a sharing of the surplus profit and take stakes in operating companies. What we can see is that the Liberal Party does not have the economic development of Quebecers at heart, but only the enrichment of foreign mining companies. Minister Serge Simard will harm the Quebec economy if he does not change his attitude during the study of Bill 14, ”concluded Martine Ouellet.
