Quebec - The Parti Québécois candidate in Jean-Talon, Clément Laberge, supports citizens who question the special planning program (PPU) of the Sillery heritage site, which is currently the subject of a public consultation.
Remember that the PPU of the Sillery heritage site is not an exclusively municipal issue. Indeed, under the Cultural Property Act, the City of Quebec must obtain the authorization of the Minister of Culture before modifying the land use or authorizing new constructions on this unique heritage site, which bears witness to of the beginnings of New France. The Liberal candidate seems to ignore this reality.
According to Clément Laberge, in its current form, the PPU is not in the interest of the citizens of Quebec. Not only because it would jeopardize a heritage site of great value and cause a markedly exaggerated densification in the Faubourg Saint-Michel sector, but also because it leaves too many important questions unanswered.
“I was with the hundreds of citizens who came for the information session and the neighborhood council. The answers they got are generally imprecise and cause more concern than reassurance. It is essential to take the time to better define the public uses of the heritage site and to require developers to then register their projects in this vision, rather than doing the opposite, as is currently the case ”, supported the candidate.
In addition, Clément Laberge said he was particularly surprised to learn that the Minister of Culture and Communications, Hélène David, had negotiated and confirmed that she was in agreement with the PPU of Quebec City, and this, even before the public consultation process could take place. “It&#39;s a way of doing things that doesn&#39;t respect citizens. As in the case of the Saint-Sulpice library, the Minister must admit her error, favor consultation and cancel the authorizations that she could have issued in the meantime. If he was attentive to the population he wishes to represent, Sébastien Proulx would join this request, ”he concluded.
