Quebec - The most recent employment data, released this morning by Statistics Canada, indicates that the labor force increased by 9,200 in April, a sign that Quebec remains positive about the job market. We should also note a significant performance in the census metropolitan area (CMA) of Montreal.
In fact, job creation was most vigorous in the Montréal CMA, with 16,500 new jobs. The unemployment rate also fell by 0.1 percentage point. Compared to the first four months of 2012, the Montréal CMA has 72,600 more jobs than the same period in 2013.
“At less than 8%, the unemployment rate remains one of the lowest rates of the past 30 years in Quebec. The steady increase in the working population testifies to the constant confidence of Quebeckers in the job market, ”underlined the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible. of the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais.
In April, the level of employment increased in Quebec with the creation of 2,700 additional jobs. This brings the increase in jobs to 43,600 compared to April 2012. During the first four months of 2013, Quebec has 87,000 more jobs compared to the same period last year.
The manufacturing sector and the accommodation and food services sector experienced the largest increase in the number of jobs in Quebec, with 17,100 and 15,900 respectively created, compared to March 2013.
The Ministère de l&#39;Emploi et de la Solidarité sociale, through Emploi-Québec, acts as a producer, user and distributor of national and regional labor market data. In particular, it produces the Bulletin sur le marché du travail au Québec, which reports monthly on changes in employment, the active population and unemployment in addition to listing information by region, by sector of activity and by occupation, as well as comparisons with Canada and Ontario. This will be available at the end of the day on the Emploi-Québec website at the following address: www.emploiquebec.gouv.qc.ca/imt/emploi-au-quebec.asp.
