Quebec - The most recent employment data, released this morning by Statistics Canada, show that employment increased significantly in October with 34,100 new jobs. It should be noted that in terms of full-time jobs, the gain is 39,600. Compared to the rest of Canada, where 20,900 jobs have been lost, including only 14,700 in Ontario, the Quebec economy is showing its robustness. The unemployment rate stood at 7.5%, 0.1 percentage point lower than last month. In Quebec, 4,047,900 people are employed, only 1,800 less than the peak reached in January 2013. These figures clearly demonstrate the great confidence of Quebecers in their economy and the labor market. .
In October, in the census metropolitan area of Montreal alone, 15,300 jobs were created, while the unemployment rate fell by 0.2 percentage point to 7.9%. Compared to the same period last year, 56,400 jobs were created there during the first ten months of the year, a performance to be highlighted.
“Employment is at the heart of our government&#39;s action and the tools of the Priorité Emploi economic policy will allow Québec to continue its development. The new economic and social policies will continue to support the creation of jobs and wealth, which certainly has a positive impact on the confidence of citizens and entrepreneurs in the economy of Quebec, ”declared the Minister of Finance and the Government of Quebec. &#39;Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau.
“Quebeckers are right to remain confident in the job market. The increase in the active population of 32,400 people demonstrates this. Jobs are available and I invite all those who are not employed to contact their local employment center. They will be able to find advice and support there, as well as a wide range of training options to improve their situation, ”indicated the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women. , Mrs. Agnès Maltais.
Moreover, it should be noted that from January to October 2013, employment increased by 53,300 (+ 1.3%), including 47,500 (+ 1.5%) full-time, compared to the same period of 2012.
The Ministère de l&#39;Emploi et de la Solidarité sociale, through Emploi-Québec, acts as a producer, user and distributor of national and regional labor market data. In particular, it produces the Bulletin sur le marché du travail au Québec, which reports monthly on changes in employment, the active population and unemployment in addition to listing information by region, by sector of activity and by occupation, as well as comparisons with Canada and Ontario. This will be available at the end of the day on the Emploi-Québec website at the following address: www.emploiquebec.gouv.qc.ca/imt/emploi-au-quebec.asp.
