Quebec - The Minister responsible for Government Administration and President of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, today unveiled, in the presence of the mayors of Quebec, Montreal, Gatineau and Sherbrooke, an agreement providing for the adoption, in a spirit of openness and collaboration, a common license to use their open data. This announcement comes on the heels of the 3rd International Open Data Day which will take place on February 22.
The Quebec government and municipal administrations already engaged in an open government approach have adopted the brand new version 4.0 of the Creative Commons license. Internationally, this version is recognized as one of the least restrictive in terms of rights to use open data while protecting copyright. In this sense, Quebec is at the forefront of the licenses used elsewhere in the world.
“Today we are taking an important joint action in support of open government. The use of a harmonized open data license with the cities is essential since it allows the standardization and compatibility of our respective data. The proactive dissemination of government information is one of the concrete solutions to fight corruption and restore citizens&#39; confidence in their institutions, ”said Minister Bédard.
In addition to the new license, large cities and the Quebec government are committed to standardizing their datasets in order to promote simplified access for developers and facilitate the design of universal applications that can be reused by citizens. For example, applications developed from open data from the City of Gatineau, such as the location of parking lots or road works in progress, could be functional in each of the other cities.
“In 2011, the City of Quebec undertook, in collaboration with the Capitale Ouverte group, a process of upgrading its public data which led, in February 2012, to the launch of its open data portal. More than 50 datasets are currently available on subjects as varied as major events, parking terminals or cycle networks. It is with pride that the City of Quebec adheres, like several other administrations around the world, to the movement of standardization of the license of use and standardization of open data. It is undeniable that this will make it possible to create even more wealth by facilitating the work of developers: it has never been so easy for our community to design universal applications or to carry out a multitude of developments on the Web ”, underlined the mayor of Quebec, Mr. Régis Labeaume.
&quot;I am optimistic that the adoption by our cities of a common license to use open data will increase the opportunities for collaboration and open the door to further exploitation of this valuable data, which is the basis of the smart city concept. Moreover, the Smart and Digital City Office that we are setting up will give an essential place to open data not only to promote transparency, but also because this data will allow the development of applications desired by citizens ”, specified the mayor of Montreal, Mr. Denis Coderre.
“It is in a desire for transparency that the City of Gatineau is pleased to participate in the agreement for a common license for the use of open data. Gatineau opened its data portal in January 2013 to better meet the expectations of citizens and to take another step towards transparency in municipal activities. I am pleased to announce that Gatineau is the first city in Quebec to make information on elected officials&#39; election expenses available on its website, in an accessible and reusable format, ”added the mayor of Gatineau, Mr. Maxime Pedneaud- Jobin.
“At the start of the 21st century, we have resolutely entered the digital age. I am therefore very proud that Sherbrooke is associated with this forward-looking initiative, along with its peers from the municipal sector and the government of Quebec, ”added the mayor of Sherbrooke, Mr. Bernard Sévigny.
In order to highlight the adoption of the common license for the use of public data, hackathons will be held simultaneously on March 22 and 23 in the cities of Gatineau, Quebec, Montreal and Sherbrooke. A $ 5,000 grant will be awarded to each of the municipalities. The cities of Gatineau, Lévis, Longueuil, Montreal, Quebec and Sherbrooke will make their first standardized data sets available on this occasion.
In addition, the government of Quebec and the participating cities will unite to welcome the community of developers and interested citizens during a Quebec hackathon that will take place in Quebec from March 24 to 29. The Government of Quebec and the municipalities will then award a prize of $ 2,500 each for the best application developed for a total amount of $ 12,500.
Remember that the Quebec government has adopted, like the precursors of the United States and several European countries, the principles of open government which, thanks to new technologies, allow greater transparency of government data. , more active citizen participation as well as improved collaboration between government employees.
To date, 343 datasets have been released on the www.data.gouv.qc.ca portal. It includes data from the Electronic Tendering System (SEAO), the Société de l&#39;assurance automobile du Québec (SAAQ), the Ministère des Transports (MTQ), the Ministère des Ressources naturelles (MRN) and from the Ministry of Health and Social Services (MSSS). The potential for reuse of this data by civil society ranges from the development of user-friendly and innovative applications to research and development as well as data journalism.
