Quebec- The most recent employment data, published this morning by Statistics Canada, show that the labor market remains dynamic in Quebec since a new peak of Quebecers in employment was reached last November. “With some 4,056,500 people in employment, 8,600 more than in October and 6,800 more than at the last summit in January, there have never been so many workers on the market. of work in Quebec. From January to November 2013, employment increased by 50,100 compared to the same period in 2012. For the private sector, this increase is 55,900. participate in the economic development of Quebec and thus, to ensure a better future ”, indicated the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Mrs. Agnès Maltais .
The strength of the labor market has been sustained in recent months and the past year, allowing Quebec to post an unemployment rate in November at 7.2%, which represents the lowest rate since January 2013 and a rate comparable to that which prevailed before the 2008-2009 recession. “The employment data unveiled this morning confirm the growth of the labor market forecast in the 2013-2014 budget. The Priority Jobs economic policy will also make it possible to accentuate this growth, by supporting businesses in order to increase their investments. Over the next three years, it will create more than 43,000 additional jobs, for a total of nearly 117,000, ”said Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau.
The Quebec labor market has therefore continued to grow, in particular due to the dynamism of the Montreal metropolitan region, which recorded a gain of 55,400 jobs during the first eleven months of the year compared to the same period of the year. past. The unemployment rate for this region is now 7.5%; it was at 7.9% last month.
The Ministère de l&#39;Emploi et de la Solidarité sociale, through Emploi-Québec, acts as a producer, user and distributor of national and regional labor market data. In particular, it produces the Bulletin sur le marché du travail au Québec, which reports monthly on changes in employment, the active population and unemployment in addition to listing information by region, sector of activity and profession, as well as comparisons with Canada and Ontario. This will be available at the end of the day on the Emploi-Québec website at the following address: www.emploiquebec.gouv.qc.ca/imt/emploi-au-quebec.asp.
