Quebec- The most recent employment data, published this morning by Statistics Canada, show the underlying trend towards positive progress in Quebec with the creation of 15,000 jobs. Quebec has more than 4 million jobs, for 4,013,800 Quebecers in employment. We can observe a drop in the unemployment rate, which stands at 7.6%, a second drop of 0.3 percentage point in a row. Note that the unemployment rate was 7.9% during the same period last year, in September 2012.
“These figures confirm that the labor market offers good prospects for the coming months. From January to September 2013, employment has already increased by 56,400 (+ 1.4%), of which 47,300 (+ 1.5%) are full-time, compared to the same period in 2012. In addition, Emploi-Québec&#39;s analyzes predict that between 2012 and 2021, 1.4 million jobs will need to be filled throughout Quebec. Everyone must be able to take advantage of this opening up of the labor market, ”said Agnès Maltais, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women.
“The new economic policy that our government recently unveiled will give new short-term impetus to the Quebec economy since it includes considerable public investments as well as tax measures that are now benefiting families and businesses in Quebec. A series of structuring measures will also stimulate our niches of excellence and private investment. Because this policy has specific objectives and offers the means to respond to them forcefully, it will have a major impact in terms of job creation, ”added the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau. .
In addition, in September, 11,100 jobs were created in the census metropolitan area of Montreal and the unemployment rate fell 0.5 percentage points to 8.1%. Over the past 12 months, 36,600 jobs have been created.
The Ministère de l&#39;Emploi et de la Solidarité sociale, through Emploi-Québec, acts as a producer, user and distributor of national and regional labor market data. In particular, it produces the Bulletin sur le marché du travail au Québec, which reports monthly on changes in employment, the active population and unemployment in addition to listing information by region, sector of activity and profession, as well as comparisons with Canada and Ontario. This will be available at the end of the day on the Emploi-Québec website at the following address: www.emploiquebec.gouv.qc.ca/imt/emploi-au-quebec.asp.
