Quebec - The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, invites the population to participate in large numbers in the Open House on Quebec Farms, which will be held on Sunday, September 8, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., in all regions. Once again this year, more than a hundred producers have responded to the call and are preparing to receive on their farms, completely free of charge, the 100,000 or so visitors who are expected.
“The Open Doors on Quebec farms are an opportunity to see what the Quebec biofood offer is based on. I am pleased to invite citizens to visit farms in Quebec and find out where the products they have on their plates come from, ”said the Minister.
Once again this year, Department employees will be present on nearly half of these farms across Quebec. They will work in particular to promote short distribution circuits in the regions and to answer consumers&#39; questions. Among the activities offered, a quiz will allow participants to learn more about Quebec foods.
The Ministère de l&#39;Agriculture, des Pêcheries et de l&#39;Alimentation (MAPAQ) and La Financière agricole du Québec are long-standing partners of the Open Doors on Quebec Farms. Thus, they are proud to support host producers and the Union des producteurs agricoles, the instigator of the activity, in their desire to raise awareness of the various facets of agriculture. A sector of activity of importance for the economic development of the regions, agriculture also plays an essential role in the daily life of the population.
Following last year&#39;s success, the agricultural festival is back at Parc Jean-Drapeau in Montreal. Nearly 35,000 visitors attended this activity where agriculture meets the metropolis. The MAPAQ will be on site and will take the opportunity to introduce city dwellers to Quebec foods.
“The Open House on Quebec farms fits perfectly with the objectives pursued by the Food Sovereignty Policy by highlighting the offer and the specific features of Quebec products,” added François Gendron.
For more information on the Open House on Quebec Farms, visit the Internetwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca site or visit the activity&#39;s website at portesouvertes.upa.qc. it.
To find out more about the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can consult the blog (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or the Internetwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA) website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec
