Montreal - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, took advantage of her presence at the Axium inc. to reiterate his government&#39;s support for industrial automation and robotics in the manufacturing sector. She reminded the members of the Industrial Automation Equipment Manufacturers&#39; Group (REAI), present for the occasion, that the Industrial Policy, which will be tabled shortly, will reflect this concern.
&quot;The competitiveness of our manufacturing companies on a global scale necessarily depends on industrial automation, which allows them to increase their productivity and green their activities,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “This is why I salute the commitment of Axium inc. and the Group of industrial automation equipment manufacturers in this regard. They are valuable partners who help our manufacturing companies meet the challenges of the 21st century. &quot;
The company Axium inc. specializes in engineering services in automation and industrial robotics. It is structured into three operational units, namely industrial automation, assembly line robotization and handling robotization. This structure gives it a certain flexibility allowing it to design, implement and integrate complete and personalized automation solutions.
The companies within REAI have more than 3,000 employees. Its mandate is to promote the development of a network of multidisciplinary skills in the field of the design of equipment intended to promote the automation of production in manufacturing companies.
“Despite the rise of the tertiary sector, the manufacturing sector remains a key component of our economy,” added Élaine Zakaïb. “But for our companies to be able to face the competition, they must catch up with the delay they have taken in the integration of ICT and robotization compared to OECD countries. Our industrial policy will be based on a vision of economic development based on innovation and increased productivity, in order to enable our manufacturing companies to close the gap and become more efficient and competitive on world markets. &quot;
The industrial policy will aim to promote the development of the entire manufacturing sector by investing, in particular, in digital technologies and industrial automation. The Government of Quebec will also pursue its objective of consolidating and creating Quebec strategic sectors such as clean technologies and their flagship project, the electrification of transport.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
