Quebec - “After the Capitale-Nationale, Estrie, Lanaudière and Montreal regions, the Quebec Health Record (DSQ) will be gradually rolled out in all regions of Quebec starting this summer. We are now moving from an experimental project in just four regions to a concrete project of national scope ”. This was announced today by the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, on the occasion of the official launch of the national information campaign on the Quebec Health File.
The main purpose of this campaign is to inform citizens about the Dossier Santé Québec and to inform them of their rights, in particular the right to refuse to participate in the DSQ. It also aims to support the benefits that citizens can derive from their participation in the Dossier Santé Québec. In accordance with the law, the campaign is disseminated within 30 days of the deployment activities. Thus, from today until June 14, 2013, messages will be broadcast by various media: TV, radio and Internet, as well as through an information leaflet, which will be distributed to all homes in new regions where the Quebec Health File will be deployed.
“In addition to announcing the launch of deployment activities across Quebec, the campaign presents the benefits that citizens can derive from this modernization of the health system. The Dossier Santé Québec will make a significant contribution to consolidating front-line services and ensuring better patient follow-up, wherever they may be. Its deployment across Quebec is good news for citizens and for the health and social services network, ”Minister Hébert also said.
The Quebec Health Record is an information system that aims to make certain health information essential to front-line services accessible to authorized health professionals. This information is quickly and securely made available to doctors, nurses and pharmacists. This tool will make a major contribution to the efficiency of the health and social services network, in particular by promoting faster intervention and more effective monitoring.
Health information deemed essential that is or will eventually be collected by the DSQ includes:
For more information about the Quebec Health File, or to find out how to express a refusal to participate, citizens are invited to visit www..dossierdesante.gouv.qc.ca or call Services Quebec at:
514 644-4545 for the Montreal region; 418 644-4545 for the Quebec City region; 1 877 644-4545 (toll free) for other regions; 1 800 361-9596 (TTY, toll free) for the hearing impaired or dumb.
