Quebec - While the management of Bombardier confirmed having held discussions with the Airbus company, the member for Saint-Jérôme and leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the member for Sanguinet and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on of economy and exports, Alain Therrien, and the member for Rousseau and spokesperson for finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, called on the liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard and his Minister of the Economy, Jacques Daoust, to find out what measures they will take to defend the interests of Quebec taxpayers.
“Bombardier is not just the business of shareholders, it is the business of all Quebecers. Taxpayers have supported the business in a significant way over the years. The Government of Quebec is financially involved in the development of Bombardier, particularly the CSeries program. If the Quebec government now accepts that a majority stake in the program be transferred to foreign investors, Quebecers will find themselves paying to finance planes sold by a foreign company. It would be unacceptable. Premier Couillard must tell Quebeckers what he will actually do to prevent this from happening, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
Alain Therrien for his part recalled that a loan of 117 million was granted to Bombardier for this purpose, as well as assistance of one billion dollars to finance the sales of CSeries aircraft. “The government has become a specialist in empty marketing ads, such as those concerning the Plan Nord and the Maritime Strategy. This time, he must take concrete action and specify what measures will be taken. Minister Jacques Daoust must tell us what he will do to protect this Quebec flagship, ”he added.
“The possibility of Bombardier being sold also reminds us of the importance of taking legislative action to better protect our head offices. A broad consultation with the business community was held in the spring of 2014 and a report had been produced. The government has no reason not to implement it, ”said Nicolas Marceau.
“It is about the economic development of Quebec and the defense of our interests. The Liberal Prime Minister has no economic plan. We know it and see the effects every day. It does not act either to protect our head offices or to promote their maintenance in Quebec. It is high time that concrete measures were put in place by the Liberal government, ”concluded the leader of the official opposition.
