Montreal, February 18, 2018 - The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesperson for health, accessibility to care and home support, Diane Lamarre, and the spokesperson for services Social and Youth Protection, Dave Turcotte, presented the Parti Québécois government&#39;s health work calendar. The aim is to quickly rectify the situation of access to care for Quebecers, as of October 2018 and in the 12 months that follow, in particular by redistributing resources in the right place, by making Quebec a fitter nation, and by supporting health professionals and community organizations.
IN SHORT
“For 15 years, Quebeckers have paid the price for the poor management of the health care system by the Liberals. We are inheriting a weakened and demobilized health system. Without promising to fix everything in a few weeks, we will completely change our approach and lay the foundations for a system centered on the patient, no longer on the remuneration of physicians. As of October 2018, we will begin to decompartmentalize professions, and we will add resources in home care as well as for families with a child struggling with an autism spectrum disorder or an intellectual disability ”, the leader of the official opposition immediately indicated.
“We can do better than give yet another $ 2 billion to medical specialists, something that should never have happened. Because, contrary to what the Liberal government is trying to swallow, there is no savings to be made by further increasing the remuneration of physicians. The billions announced must be urgently invested in home support and community care for all Quebecers. As soon as we take office, we will freeze the remuneration of doctors. We are going to ask for the electoral mandate to do this, ”added Diane Lamarre.
“We also know that in order to improve the health of Quebecers in the long term and save significant sums of money in health care, we must take the turn of prevention. Our plan therefore provides for the tabling of an ambitious sports, leisure and physical activity policy, in order to make the Quebec nation one of the fittest in the world, ”Sylvain Pagé said, the official opposition critic for prevention, public health and healthy lifestyles.
“Our government&#39;s first budget will make it possible to reinvest in home care, youth protection, public health and to support vulnerable people. Our networks have suffered major cuts, and we know that our duty is to support the staff and community organizations who work every day to help our world, ”concluded Dave Turcotte.
Here is the implementation schedule.
