Quebec - The Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Régie des rentes du Québec, Ms. Agnès Maltais, presented to the National Assembly the bill creating voluntary savings plans -retirement (VRSP). These plans will target all Quebec workers, salaried and self-employed, who do not have access to an employer-sponsored retirement savings plan. The tabling of this bill was announced during the reading of the November 2012 budget and the relevance of its measures confirmed by the committee of experts on the future of the Quebec retirement system chaired by Mr. Alban D&#39;Amours.
“With this bill, the Parti Québécois government wishes to endow Quebeckers with an additional effective tool to enable them to acquire better financial security at retirement age. Too many workers do not have enough savings when they retire. We must help them go beyond the basic income of public plans. In this sense, VRSPs represent an interesting tool insofar as they are collective, voluntary and allow economies of scale ”, declared Minister Agnès Maltais.
The bill provides that, as of January 2014, the approximately 90,000 companies with at least five employees, which currently do not offer any registered retirement savings plan or tax-free savings account for which a payroll deduction is made or no registered pension plan, will have two years to comply with the obligation to offer a VRSP to their employees. Once this step has been taken, the choice of whether or not to join a VRSP will remain the responsibility of each worker.
Thus, VRSPs will allow workers to have access to a retirement savings plan that will include the advantages of a group plan. VRSPs will ensure both professional management of savings by administrators subject to rigorous requirements and advantageous management fees resulting from the accumulation of a large volume of savings and an uncomplicated product offering.
Easily accessible, simple, flexible, inexpensive, tax deductible and adapted according to the age of the contributor, VRSPs will also allow workers to choose or modify their contribution rate according to their ability to save. The default contribution rate will be 2% on the effective date of the plan. It will gradually increase in subsequent years. Another advantage is that a change of employer will have no effect on the worker, who can keep the amounts accumulated in his plan or transfer them to another plan.
VRSPs will allow employers to set up a retirement savings plan that is simple, economical, easy to manage and conducive to employee retention. This bill responds to requests repeatedly repeated by economic players and the low cost of managing these plans will make them even more interesting.
Third parties such as investment fund managers, trust companies and life and health insurers will administer these new plans. The Autorité des marchés financiers must issue an authorization to each administrator, which will allow this VRSP to be registered with the Régie des rentes du Québec. The Régie will be responsible for monitoring these plans and will ensure compliance with the law on VRSPs.
The Commission des normes du travail, for its part, will see to it that all the employers concerned offer these plans to their employees on time.
“With the implementation of VRSPs, we want to remove the two obstacles that usually prevent workers from saving, namely the discipline of contributing regularly and the management of accumulated sums. This is one more step towards a comprehensive solution to ensure better financial security in retirement for all Quebecers, ”concluded Minister Maltais.
