Quebec City - Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Use, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, today tabled in the National Assembly the bill on the Quebec Transportation Infrastructure Agency .
“With the tabling of this bill, we are taking an important step. This agency is the autonomous and efficient organization that Quebec needs to meet the high expectations of the population and meet the many challenges in terms of transport infrastructure in the years to come, ”said the Minister.
“The Agence des infrastructures de transport du Québec will aim to control the cost of road projects, strengthen the expertise of the Quebec government, remove political influence from carrying out the work and ensure decentralization throughout of the territory, ”continued Mr. Gaudreault.
The creation of the Transport Infrastructure Agency follows on from government initiatives to ensure sound management of public investments in road projects. The Integrity Act in Public Contracts, the Quebec Infrastructure Plan as well as the actions put in place by the Ministry of Transport following the recommendations of the SECOR-KPMG reports are among these measures.
“For a little over a year, our government has acted with determination and diligence to ensure that Quebecers pay the fair cost for public infrastructure. The Agency that we wish to set up meets this objective, ”added the Minister.
The Agency&#39;s mission will be to maintain and improve the road network, which is currently managed by the Minister of Transport. It will have the mandate to plan, program, design and monitor conservation and improvement interventions on this network in addition to being responsible for its operation and maintenance.
The Agency will be administered by an independent board of directors in accordance with the rules of the Act respecting the governance of state-owned enterprises. It will be composed of 9 to 13 members, including the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The members will be appointed by the government, on the recommendation of the board of directors and taking into account the skills and experience profiles drawn up and approved by the board.
The Agency will be accountable for its results to the National Assembly, the government and the population. To do this, it will have to produce a strategic plan, a declaration of service to citizens and an annual management report. It will also have to act within the budgetary limits allocated by the government. The books and accounts of the Agency will be audited by the Auditor General each year and whenever the government so orders.
In addition to the mechanisms provided for by law, a project monitoring committee, reporting to the council, will be created. Among other things, it must recommend, when necessary, the implementation of corrective measures to guarantee optimal management of risks, costs and schedules at all times.
The Agency will have more autonomy in the management of its resources. Indeed, it will not be subject to the Civil Service Act. It will thus have more flexibility in the hiring, remuneration and classification of its employees. Therefore, it will consolidate and develop its expertise more quickly.
The mission of the Ministry of Transport will be refocused on its strategic role: defining the orientations and major policies in the field of transport with a view to supporting sustainable mobility and modal integration. The Department will retain its jurisdiction to develop laws, regulations and financial assistance programs in the field of transport. It will continue activities related to land, sea and air transport modes.
“The Agency we are proposing is a normal development of the Department of Transport, which celebrated its 100th anniversary last year. Thanks to the approach we are advocating, public funds will be used more efficiently than ever to optimize the road network, thus contributing to Québec&#39;s economic development, ”Minister Gaudreault concluded.
