Quebec - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, announced today that he will table the 2013-2014 budget on November 20 at 4 pm.
“The tabling of a budget this fall is necessary in order to immediately implement the provisions that will allow us to meet our commitment to return to a balanced budget in 2013-2014. Since government formation, we have found that the scale of the turnaround we need to make requires us to act quickly. Waiting until spring 2013 would only delay the identification and implementation of the actions that are necessary to put Quebec back on the path to a balanced budget for next year, ”explained the Minister.
The Minister also indicated that beyond the shortfall of around $ 1.6 billion already identified in 2012-2013, several decisions taken by the former government have the effect of putting significant pressure on public finances.
“We have seen significant cost overruns in several infrastructure projects and the extension of costly measures in a difficult budgetary context. In addition, the use by the former government of the compensation of $ 2.2 billion for the harmonization of sales taxes in order to make up the deficit, without identifying the recurring actions that are necessary to maintain the balancing the budget turned out to be a particularly ill-advised choice in the circumstances since there remains an additional gap of $ 875 million that will have to be corrected in less than two years, ”added the Minister.
“Despite the difficult situation we are facing, I would like to reiterate the government&#39;s commitment to restore fiscal balance as of next year. Delaying this deadline would have major consequences for Quebec&#39;s finances and economy. We will protect the interests of Quebecers by assuming our responsibilities and achieving a balanced budget, ”the Minister concluded.
Media representatives will be invited to participate in an in camera briefing to review the budget. Details of this invitation will be sent shortly.
