Quebec - The Minister responsible for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, as well as the Minister responsible for Social Services and Youth Protection, Ms. Véronique Hivon, make public the Report of the expert committee on federal interventions in the health and social services sector from 2002 to 2013, a committee made up of Messrs Denis Lalumière and Pierre Malouin, two former deputy ministers at the Ministry of Health and Social Services.
The conclusion of the 121-page report is unequivocal. Experts say they are &quot;convinced that the cohesion and efficiency of the Quebec health system would be improved if the federal government withdrew from this area of Quebec jurisdiction and transferred the resources it devotes to it to the government of Quebec.&quot; &quot;
“Federal interference […] is a phenomenon that keeps repeating itself over the years. Although the amounts in question do little to modify the level of resources available to meet the needs of the Quebec population, these federal interventions disrupt the functioning and, above all, the governance of the Quebec health and social services system, ”note the experts.
More specifically, the experts identified 37 federal interventions1 which, for the most part, are implemented under the “federal spending power”, which has never been recognized by the Quebec government. These interventions have multiple repercussions on the orientations, priorities and approaches specific to Quebec, on the level of available resources, on the management and administration of the Quebec health and social services system, as well as on its governance. These impacts are attributable in particular to:
On the financial level, the experts note that Quebec does not obtain a fair share of the sums devoted by the federal government to these interventions in health and social services. The difference between what he received and the sum he would have been entitled to receive based on his demographic weight is $ 830 million for the period 2002-2013.
Experts also point out that the number of federal officials in the health sector is downright astonishing if we compare it, all things considered, to that available to the Government of Quebec, which, however, is responsible for managing the health care system. health and social services. They believe that significant resources could be transferred to Quebec, as to the other provinces, if the federal government respected the division of powers.
“Despite Québec&#39;s constant efforts to fully exercise its jurisdiction in the area of health and social services, the Report confirms the existence of overlaps and duplication between the two orders of government, to the detriment of the people of Québec. In addition to creating undue confusion, it disrupts the functioning of our healthcare system. The Report indicates, among other things, that the interference of the federal government causes a rupture in the fluidity of the services offered, the projects financed by the federal government offering no guarantee as to the sustainability of their funding. This reality is unacceptable. In a difficult budgetary context, where the entire network must make colossal efforts to improve its efficiency, Quebec must be able to act as the sole prime contractor in the field of health and social services, ”declared Minister Réjean. Hébert.
“This report allows us to understand the direct impacts of federal interference in the Quebec health network. In addition to intervening in a disparate manner in our health network, the federal government, by doing so, creates significant problems of efficiency and ethics. Today, the federal government cannot deny that its interventions in the health sector are counterproductive and, in addition, unfair for Quebec. The mismanagement and waste of public funds must stop, ”stressed the Minister for Intergovernmental Affairs and Sovereignty Governance, Alexandre Cloutier.
“The report notably uses the Homelessness Partnering Strategy (HPS) as a case study. At the very moment when Quebec is adopting its first National Policy against Homelessness, this review shows that the federal government wishes to unilaterally dictate the orientations in the field and that, moreover, a significant gap exists between the federal framework. and Québec orientations and priorities in this area. To be able to prevent and counter homelessness effectively, it is imperative that Quebec guidelines be respected and that the federal government stop denying respect for Quebec&#39;s specificity in an area of its jurisdiction, ”added Minister Véronique. Hivon.
It should be remembered that it was in June 2013 that the Council of Ministers agreed to form a committee of experts responsible for drawing up an overall portrait of the federal government&#39;s interventions in the area of health and social services, at the same time as another committee. mandated to carry out a similar exercise in the field of municipal affairs.
The Report of the Committee of Experts on Federal Interventions in the Health and Social Services Sector from 2002 to 2013 can be viewed at the following address: www.msss.gouv.qc.ca/presse
