Quebec - The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane De Courcy, today tabled in the National Assembly a new law on immigration to Quebec aimed at replacing the Current law dating from 1968. The new law notably makes it possible to update the issues related to immigration and to introduce a new way of choosing immigrants based on a declaration of interest.
“Quebec is seen as a destination of choice and we want it to stay that way. Our current deadlines are, however, too long. Too long for immigrants who put their life project on hold while waiting for our response. Too long also for Quebec society, since we select today based on the files received a few years ago and the needs of several years ago. Quebec and the people who want to live there deserve to do things differently and to do better, ”said Minister Diane De Courcy.
The bill promotes francization, regionalization and integration, and more particularly employment integration. He recalls that integration is a shared responsibility between the immigrant and the host society. He also underlines the importance of promoting the common values of Quebec society among immigrants. &quot;Francization, integration and regionalization are not even mentioned as objectives in the current law&quot;, underlines the Minister to illustrate the importance of a new law.
Applications for immigration to Quebec in the economic category have grown steadily in recent years. The increase in requests contributes to generating an inventory that is increasingly difficult to control, at the same time extending processing times. From 2009 to 2011, the inventory reached nearly 100,000 immigration applications; it is currently made up of approximately 80,000 files.
One of the objectives of the new law is to ensure that this popularity enjoyed by Quebec on the international scene is an asset in choosing immigrants. The instrument of this asset will be the establishment of the declaration of interest, a system which has already proved its worth, in particular in Australia and New Zealand.
According to this new system, the candidate must first submit a declaration of interest and meet a certain number of criteria in order to join the bank of candidates. According to an order of priority defined according to the needs of Quebec, the targeted candidates will then be invited to make a formal immigration request. The Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities will thus be able to continuously select the candidates most able to meet the needs of Quebec.
Applicants who have not been invited to apply and whose declaration has expired will have their declaration withdrawn from the bank. However, they can submit a new expression of interest if they wish.
“This method has many advantages. The large number of immigration applications linked to the popularity of Quebec will become an advantage rather than clogging the system. The bank of candidates will allow us to choose the best talents to ensure the development of Quebec society and the blossoming of our common language, ”said the Minister.
Several other provisions aim to improve good governance practices: acquire the necessary levers to prevent and repress fraud, protect immigrants and Quebec society, and strengthen the integrity of immigration programs. For example, immigration consultants will be accountable, on pain of penalty, for the veracity of the information provided.
“The Department of Immigration and Cultural Communities has invested significant efforts to modernize its processes and improve the services it offers to immigrants. I am proud to help accelerate this modernization and to have helped to better define the coherence and continuity of interventions in matters of immigration, francization, integration and regionalization. As of 2014, Quebec must have a modern immigration system in order to achieve an objective to which we all adhere, that of a Quebec strong in its immigration, ”concluded the Minister.
Listen to the Minister table the bill in the National Assembly!
