Quebec - Following the tabling of the 2014-2015 budget by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, welcomed the ambitious investments in the cultural sector.
“Despite the deplorable state in which the previous government left public finances, we have found a way to clearly show our desire to contribute to the cultural development of Quebec. The measures announced today demonstrate our commitment to Quebec creators, ”said Maka Kotto.
The government is announcing investments of $ 150 million for the implementation of the new digital culture strategy, thereby creating favorable conditions enabling businesses in the cultural sector to make the digital shift. This strategy will have spinoffs for the Quebec economy and the entire cultural chain by allowing the consolidation and development of direct and indirect jobs.
“We are entering the digital shift with both feet firmly rooted in the 21st century. It was time. These investments demonstrate that it is a priority for our government to improve and facilitate the process of creation, production, distribution and consumption of artistic works and to give full access to Quebec culture in the digital space ”, Maka Kotto added.
The 2014-2015 budget formalizes the creation of the Avenir Mécénat Culture Fund, announced by the Premier of Quebec in July 2013. An omnibus bill will be presented by the Minister of Finance and the Economy and will aim in particular to create this funds. An amount of $ 5 million will be used to perpetuate the Mécénat Placements Culture program and thus meet the funding needs of cultural organizations. An annual levy of $ 5 million on revenue from the specific tax on tobacco products will ensure the sustainability of the program and thus meet the funding needs of cultural organizations.
The investments provided for in the 2014-2015 budget to provide Québec with quality cultural infrastructure are ambitious. It should be remembered that the government will contribute financially to various structuring projects across Quebec, including the expansion of the Musée d&#39;art contemporain de Montréal to the tune of $ 18.9 million, as well as that of the Longueuil cultural complex to the tune of $ 20. M $. These achievements will provide the population with access to the arts and culture and a quality offer throughout the territory.
The Orchester symphonique de Montréal, an artistic organization whose reputation is well established, sees its funding renewed for the year 2014-2015, thanks to the renewal of the agreement between the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications and Loto -Quebec.
“The Orchester symphonique de Montréal does us honor all over the planet. Each year, this virtuoso ensemble welcomes the biggest names in symphonic music from around the world and helps to make Quebec known as a hotbed of culture and talent, ”said Maka Kotto.
In addition, the government will support promising and sustainable projects surrounding the celebrations of the 375th anniversary of the founding of Montreal. To do this, an amount of $ 25 million will be granted to the Montreal Museum of Archeology and History for the expansion of Pointe-à-Callières. This project will help preserve national archaeological and historical sites and make them accessible to all Quebecers.
The government maintains its position concerning the debate on the selling price of books and will soon table a bill regulating the selling price of new printed and digital books. This approach aims to preserve the network of independent bookstores, which guarantees diversified access to books in all regions of Quebec, for the benefit of the population of Quebec.
“This is the budget that Quebec needs: responsible, united and visionary. Not only are we heading towards achieving a balance, but we are continuing to create jobs and wealth, thanks to the Priority Jobs economic policy, which is producing results: in four months, we have supported projects totaling $ 4 billion in investments. Remember that in 2013, nearly 48,000 more jobs were created than in 2012 in Quebec. We anticipate the creation of 45,000 jobs for 2014, ”concluded the Minister.
