Quebec - The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports and Minister responsible for the Montérégie region, Ms. Marie Malavoy, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, welcome the report of the Task Force on the Agglomeration of Longueuil.
Chaired by Mr. Pierre Deland, this group was created in December 2012 by the government of Quebec. Its mandate consisted of analyzing the needs of the agglomeration and proposing the means to enable it to meet the challenges specific to its development, whether regional or metropolitan.
The work made it possible to bring out interesting avenues of work and it is in this sense that the Working Group formulated a series of recommendations to respond to the findings identified. Among other avenues, the report proposes to lead a campaign to promote the specificities of the territory, to obtain a partnership agreement in tourism and to carry out a major project of recreotourism development of a metropolitan nature.
&quot;The Government of Quebec has conducted this concerted exercise seriously and it is in this same spirit that we intend to continue our efforts and work with the agglomeration of Longueuil to develop its full potential,&quot; said Minister Gaudreault.
The agglomeration of Longueuil has experienced remarkable economic development and the strong population growth expected over the next few years should support this growth. “With this report, the government recognizes that the agglomeration is faced with problems that are specific to it. As soon as possible, we want to take a new step, that of identifying, jointly with the president of the agglomeration of Longueuil and the mayors of related cities, the follow-up to the report&#39;s recommendations, ”said Minister Malavoy. She also wished to thank the president, Mr. Deland, and the members of the working group for having invested in this consensual process.
“The development of Montreal and that of the agglomeration of Longueuil are intimately linked. It is therefore important that a tie-up can properly situate the challenges of the agglomeration in the perspective of the development of Greater Montreal. By improving government coordination, as reflected in the report&#39;s recommendations, our government will allow the agglomeration of Longueuil and Montreal to join forces and become complementary for the benefit of their citizens, ”added Minister Lisée.
The report can be found at the following address: www.mamrot.gouv.qc.ca.
