Quebec - The Quebec government has taken note of the report published by the committee of experts on the future of the Quebec pension system. “A full and serious analysis of the report must now be done so that we, both as a government and as a society, can decide what to do next on this complex and important issue. The issue of retirement affects us all. The choices we will make today will affect both retirees and young people, employers and their workers, ”declared the Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Régie des rentes du Québec, Ms. Agnès Maltais.
His colleague, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, echoed the new social contract mentioned by the group of experts: &quot;The situation of pension plans municipal government is worrying and the issue of pensions concerns us all. We will have to make important and necessary decisions for all of Quebec society, ”said the Minister.
Ms. Maltais and Mr. Gaudreault also wish to sincerely thank the seven members of this prestigious independent committee. They volunteered many hours to prepare and write this report. They generously put their time, their expertise and their credibility at the service of Quebecers. At the request of Minister Agnès Maltais, the chair of the expert committee, Mr. Alban D&#39;Amours, will explain his committee&#39;s report to Quebecers by touring the regions of Quebec. This tour will allow all of Quebec society to understand the importance of the question of the future of retirement in Quebec.
“Without presuming which solutions will be chosen, it is clear that the status quo is no longer a viable option in terms of retirement. Added Ms. Maltais. “The challenges are great and our government will assume its responsibilities, but given the scale of the choices to be made, it is essential that a real social debate be held in Quebec. We are therefore going to propose to the National Assembly that a public consultation be held on the retirement system next fall, ”explained Ms. Maltais. The latter believes that parliamentarians from all parties have the same objective: to offer a suitable retirement to all Quebec workers. &quot;Involving all parliamentarians in identifying the measures to be taken with regard to retirement plans is the best way to achieve this objective,&quot; added the Minister. This debate will also allow all groups and citizens who wish to participate actively in building a new social contract in this area.
In the short term, given the urgency of the situation, concrete action must be taken with regard to pension plans. “Over the next few months,” she adds, “I will ask the government:
Minister Sylvain Gaudreault, for his part, announced that he intends to quickly amend the regulations applicable to municipal pension plans in order to give them additional tools that they could use in the short term.
Let us recall that the expert committee on the future of the retirement system in Quebec began its work in November 2011. The expert group had the mandate to examine the Quebec retirement system in order to improve it so that it be viable and efficient in the context of new economic and demographic realities.
The committee is chaired by Mr. Alban D&#39;Amours, President and Chief Executive Officer of Desjardins Group (2000-2008).
It is composed of :
