Quebec - “We can well discuss the issue of union placement in the construction industry. However, when we know that the placement by the unions represents barely 15% of the total placement, we understand that Minister Thériault&#39;s game is to want to give the impression that the Liberal government is working to bring the construction industry when in fact it turns a blind eye to clearly more urgent and important problems ”. This was stated by the member for René-Lévesque and official opposition spokesperson for labor, Marjolain Dufour, reacting to the tabling by the Minister of Labor, Lise Thériault, of Bill 33.
He recalls that the Liberal government has already taken measures to curb the phenomenon of bullying in the construction industry. “The National Assembly passed a law in 2004 to end harassment and discrimination on construction sites. Minister Thériault already has a toolbox, why is she not using it? », Wonders Marjolain Dufour.
The member is also offended by the fact that the minister admits that Bill 73, adopted two years ago, contains many holes, but that she is still postponing the tabling of another bill to seal it. “Law 73 was to prevent any legal person accused of defrauding the State from being able to obtain contracts from the State for five years. We know the result: even if a contractor admits being guilty, even if the minister says that there will be a sanction, the Régie du bâtiment does nothing. Meanwhile, even though they are found guilty of defrauding the state, contractors are pocketing millions of dollars and still getting contracts. It is total impunity ”, denounced the deputy.
The Parti Québécois intends to collaborate on the study of Bill 33, as it has done with the dozen other bills that the Liberal government has passed over the past two years to avoid a public inquiry. &quot;Parliament can have laws passed, but they still have to be applied!&quot; Either way, only a public inquiry into the construction industry is needed. Correcting before this public inquiry constitutes a “plaster” on a gaping wound, ”concluded the deputy.
