Quebec - As part of Small Business Week, which takes place from October 20 to 26, 2013, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, released the document Simplifying Businesses and Better Regulation -Report on the implementation of government regulatory and administrative relief measures.
“In the wake of the Priority Jobs economic policy, our government is resolutely committed to reducing the regulatory and administrative burden on businesses, in particular SMEs. In this regard, we plan to reduce the cost of administrative formalities by 20% by 2015, which will result in annual savings of more than $ 300 million for businesses, ”said Minister Marceau.
This report describes measures implemented by the government to lighten the burden of regulations and administrative formalities affecting businesses. Government action is grouped under four main components:
The Minister recalled that last January, the government set up a monitoring committee, co-chaired by Mr. Jean St-Gelais, Secretary General and Clerk of the Executive Council, and Ms. Martine Hébert, Vice-President for Quebec from the Canadian Federation of Independent Business, to ensure rigorous implementation of government measures. &quot;It is essential that the government and businesses work together on this project,&quot; added the Minister.
“The entire government apparatus is involved in reducing red tape. In accordance with the recommendations of the task force, almost all of the departments and agencies concerned have submitted a plan to reduce the cost of administrative formalities under their responsibility, ”declared Mr. St-Gelais.
In this regard, Ms. Hébert said that the work of this committee, which brings together departments, organizations and partners from the private sector, makes it possible to take concrete action to support businesses. “The government is committed to ensuring that, as part of the review of the government policy on regulatory and administrative streamlining, an &#39;&#39; SME &#39;&#39; clause obliges departments and bodies to develop application methods adapted to SMEs. or, if not, to justify their decision. This is a decision that will have tangible and beneficial effects for Quebec businesses, ”she said.
The report outlines concrete measures for businesses. For example :
&quot;The government&#39;s efforts to reduce the regulatory and administrative burden on businesses will continue in order to maintain a competitive business environment, while acting in pursuit of the major objectives of protecting the public interest and the environment,&quot; said concluded Minister Marceau.
The report is available on the website of the Ministère des Finances et de l&#39;Économie, at the following address: www.finances.gouv.qc.ca.
