Quebec - “Today, we are taking another step to restore integrity to politics. We continue to work to restore confidence and combat cynicism. By tabling this bill, which abolishes bonuses for Members who leave during their term of office, the government is thus respecting another commitment made by the Parti Québécois during the last general election, ”said the Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen participation, Bernard Drainville.
Bill 33 tabled today in the National Assembly provides that a deputy who resigns during his term of office will no longer be entitled to receive a transition allowance, except for health or family reasons. If the Office of the National Assembly considers, on the advice of the Ethics and Professional Conduct Commissioner, that the health or family reasons invoked prevent him from carrying out his duties, the Member may receive his transition allowance. .
“An elected official who chooses of his own free will to resign during his term of office does not respect the moral contract he has made with his electors. There is no reason why he should be rewarded for that. He should therefore not be entitled to receive his transition allowance, ”said Bernard Drainville.
“We must set an example if we want to restore the confidence of Quebecers in the political class. If a candidate said: &quot;It is quite possible that I get tired of politics and that I leave my seat before the end of the mandate that you are going to entrust to me&quot;, I am not sure that the population would vote very strongly in his favor &quot; , added the chief government whip, Marjolain Dufour.
Finally, Bernard Drainville invites all parties to collaborate in adopting the bill. “The goodwill expressed by the opposition parties on the government&#39;s intentions must now translate into good collaboration so that the bill is passed quickly. We have the opportunity to send a clear message to the public that their MPs intend to fulfill their mandate, that the voters&#39; vote is meaningful and that it will be respected by all of us. &quot;
