Quebec- The Member for Laval-des-Rapides and Parliamentary Assistant to the Premier for Youth Affairs is very proud of the tabling yesterday, by the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, in the National Assembly, of the white paper on the Quebec youth policy.
“I am committed to continuing to bring the concerns of young people to the National Assembly. During the upcoming parliamentary committee, we will hear suggestions from youth groups and other parliamentarians in order to draw inspiration from their recommendations to improve the work that has been done so far, ”said Mr. Léo Bureau-Blouin.
The White Paper A Generation with Multiple Aspirations is the direct result of the many suggestions and proposals presented by Quebec youth during the regional youth consultation tour, led by Mr. Léo Bureau-Blouin, as well as from the Web platform that accompanied it. It proposes several new initiatives which correspond to the aspirations of young people and constitute an important stage in the preparation of future youth policy. The discussions it will generate in parliamentary committee will enrich and clarify the proposals presented by the government.
The white paper comes in two parts. The first, Discovering your passions and taking action, addresses the projects raised by young Quebecers with regard to the acquisition of healthy lifestyles, to building a stimulating living environment at school, to make better academic and professional choices and to thrive in working life. The second, Building the Quebec of the Future, reports on the reflections heard during the consultation concerning the future of Quebec, more specifically the exchanges between young people, their social commitment and the development of intergenerational alliances.
The ensuing parliamentary committee will discuss these reflections as well as the ten new concrete initiatives contained in the white paper, in particular the implementation of a community service program, the development of pilot projects to aid homework in schools as well as the establishment of student parliaments in secondary schools.
“The tabling of the White Paper represents a new stage in the process which will lead to the adoption of the next youth policy. Ultimately, this policy will guide the service offer of a dozen departments and agencies which, in 2012-2013, represented investments of nearly $ 500 million. Our government intends to offer young people the support they need to face the new demographic realities of Quebec in 2030, ”concluded Mr. Léo Bureau-Blouin.
The Youth Secretariat&#39;s mandate is to advise the government on youth matters and to assist the Premier in exercising her responsibilities in this regard. It coordinates and monitors government action in this area.
To read the white paper, go to: www.jeunes.gouv.qc.ca To read the Premier&#39;s blog post: http: //go.pq.org/baJ
