Quebec - A few days before the adoption in the House of Bill 87, An Act to facilitate the disclosure of wrongdoing against public bodies, the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois for the Conseil du trésor, Nicole Léger, deplores shutting down the Liberal government to necessary improvements to its bill.
“The Parti Québécois strongly supported the creation of a general protection regime for whistleblowers, a pivotal recommendation in the Charbonneau commission report. The adoption of Bill 87 is therefore a step in the right direction. However, we note that it falls far short of the expectations expressed by the Charbonneau commission and the groups heard in the parliamentary committee. It would have been preferable for the government to act globally and not piecemeal, by tabling only one bill at a time, ”explained the member.
“Despite countless attempts to improve the bill, we encountered repeated refusals from the President of the Treasury Board, Carlos Leitão. Among other things, we regret the absence of protective measures for whistleblowers on the municipal scene. The government wrote a blank check by promising to table a bill applicable to municipalities, but we fear the creation of a two-tier protection regime, which the Charbonneau commission wanted to avoid, ”added Nicole Léger.
“A second major flaw in the bill is the lack of financial support for whistleblowers, another recommendation made by the Charbonneau commission. The Parti Québécois proposed, in vain, the creation of a fund to help whistleblowers, managed by the Québec Ombudsman, with the objective of supporting them financially in their legal proceedings. The minister even refused an amendment proposing the establishment of a working committee mandated to study the possibility of creating such a fund. This is proof that there is no political will on the part of the government to support whistleblowers, ”the spokesperson continued.
Although the bill contains other major flaws, the Parti Québécois has nonetheless obtained significant gains in terms of transparency and confidentiality for whistleblowers. &quot;We hope that the revision of the law, planned for the next few years, will make it possible to learn lessons and improve the protection of whistleblowers because, to promote disclosure, we must ensure that whistleblowers are properly supported, give them the necessary resources and protect them from any form of reprisal, ”concluded Nicole Léger.
