Quebec - Reacting to the tabling by the Coalition Avenir Quebec (CAQ) of a bill on the appointment of senators by the National Assembly, the Parti Québécois spokesperson for Quebec-Canada relations, Stéphane Bergeron, is sorry for the lack of realism of the Caquist proposal.
“After having slavishly proposed to put the fate of Quebec in the hands of the government of judges, instituted by the iniquitous Constitution of 1982 - which was shoved in his throat by the father of the current federal prime minister - the CAQ proposes to reform the Senate ... without reforming it! Because, in fact, what the CAQ is suggesting to us is to develop a complex process establishing a committee that will recommend a list of names which will then be submitted to a vote by the National Assembly. The problem is that despite this procedure, which is theoretically very attractive, the selected candidates will always be subject to the approval of the Canadian Prime Minister, ”noted Stéphane Bergeron.
Indeed, without a constitutional amendment, the power to appoint senators still rests with the Governor in Council, that is, ultimately, the Prime Minister. “By proposing a process that is based on the goodwill of the Canadian Prime Minister to accept the choices of Quebec, the CAQ is demonstrating a naivety that would have more its place in a jovialist conference on the virtues of federalism than in &#39;National Assembly. It would be laughable, if it were not so sad ... History has repeatedly shown us that the interests and demands of Quebec do not weigh very heavily in Ottawa, ”continued the Member for Verchères.
The Liberal Party of Quebec, for its part, had expressed a similar wish, namely that the list of candidates be submitted to Ottawa by the Government of Quebec. “On the side of the Liberal government, it is hardly more edifying! The Liberals are wasting their time defending and trying to reform this obsolete institution, which has never played the role of the Chamber of Regions which was assigned to it and which should be purely and simply abolished. The verdict of the population is however clear and without appeal: the Senate is a nest of dilapidated patronage and plagued by corruption. Looks like it&#39;s only Justin Trudeau, Philippe Couillard and François Legault who still want to maintain it and try to give it an appearance of respectability. The only reason the Senate still exists is because the federalists are afraid to negotiate its abolition, knowing that this would open the door to a constitutional round which would bring to light the irreconcilable differences of view between Quebec and Canada ” , concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
