Quebec - The Minister of Public Security, Stéphane Bergeron, today tabled a bill to establish an Independent Investigations Office.
This Office will investigate when a person, other than a police officer on duty, dies or is seriously injured or by a firearm used by a police officer during a police intervention or during his detention by a police force. The objective of independent investigations is to determine whether there is any evidence to show that a criminal offense was committed by the police officers involved in the event.
“This bill responds to our government&#39;s commitment to review the current mechanism by focusing on the participation of civilians in the conduct of investigations. Our challenge was to create a system that was both independent and impartial, while being able to count on the necessary expertise in criminal investigations. With the proposed model, we are meeting this challenge, finally putting an end to the doubts that remain among some as to the impartiality of the current process, which provides for a police force to investigate police officers from another police force ”, declared Minister Bergeron.
The Office will be responsible for the conduct of all independent investigations ordered by the Minister of Public Security. Headed by a civilian who has never been a peace officer, the Office will be a permanent, civilian body whose investigators will have relevant expertise in major crime investigations or, in the case of civilians who have never been police officers, will have held positions which enabled them to acquire skills relevant to the functions of the Office.
Minister Bergeron reiterated his confidence in the work of the police and underlined the excellent work they do on a daily basis. He specified that this bill will strengthen the public&#39;s confidence in our institutions, in particular those which ensure the safety of Quebeckers. “The police officers being invested with important powers, their activities must be framed by mechanisms at the same time fair and rigorous in the eyes of all and all. We are therefore proposing today a model which incorporates the recommendations of several stakeholders, in particular the Québec Ombudsman, and which will ensure the confidence of the population, ”the Minister concluded.
Consult the fact sheet (pdf) on the bill amending the Police Act concerning independent investigations.
