Quebec - As part of the work surrounding the study of Bill 62, on the religious neutrality of the State, the official opposition is presenting eight amendments to ensure that it meets the expectations of Quebecers on this issue. The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, enumerated this during a press briefing with the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on secularism, Agnès Maltais.
“Bill 62 can be a first step towards secularism. However, its current version has a large number of shortcomings. We are therefore proposing eight significant amendments to strengthen the affirmation of the secularism of the State and to protect the principle of equality between women and men ”, declared Jean-François Lisée.
He stressed that these amendments reflect a very broad consensus in Quebec society. Let us add that the global position of the Parti Québécois in matters of secularism will be debated and adopted at the congress in September 2017.
Include the principle of the secularism of the state in the Quebec charter of rights
First of all, we must include the principle of the secularism of the State in the Charter of human rights and freedoms, so as to strengthen the Quebec model of secularism developed since the Quiet Revolution, which differs greatly from the model conveyed by Canadian multiculturalism.
“Then there is the ban on signs of beliefs, including religious ones, for people in positions of authority - police officers, judges, prosecutors and prison guards - as recommended in the Bouchard-Taylor commission report. Then comes an amendment to add the duty of reserve of officials in the expression of their convictions, including religious ”, detailed Agnès Maltais.
The official opposition will also demand that municipalities be subject to the application of the law. “In current Quebec society, it would be incongruous for a law on the religious neutrality of the State not to apply to employees of municipalities, which are nevertheless very numerous throughout Quebec, and who provide local public services to citizens of all regions, ”added the spokesperson.
Protect equality between women and men
The Parti Québécois is also calling for the removal of the exception concerning the prohibition of the covered face in the provision and reception of public services. In addition, as several groups heard in parliamentary committee demanded, the official opposition will demand that the express ban on wearing the chador in the Quebec public service be added, in particular to protect the principle of equality between women and men.
Regain control over requests for religious accommodation
On the issue of religious accommodation, as several groups in the education and health sectors have also expressed, the official opposition does not believe that the directors of public establishments should be left to themselves to manage case by case. Moreover, the population has long demanded that clear guidelines be drawn up by the government so that the application of these accommodations is facilitated and uniform throughout the two major public service networks. &quot;The issue of religious accommodation is too important to be left on the shoulders of employees and management, who are faced with these increasing demands,&quot; continued Mr. Lisée and Ms. Maltais.
Finally, the Parti Québécois proposes to replace the criterion of &quot;undue hardship&quot; in matters of religious accommodation by that of &quot;more than minimal constraint&quot;, to restore the balance between employers and employees in the resolution of requests for accommodation. religious.
