Quebec - Lac-Saint-Jean MP and official opposition justice spokesman Alexandre Cloutier, Matane-Matapédia MP and public safety spokesman Pascal Bérubé and MP of Verchères and Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs Spokesman Stéphane Bergeron are pleased that the Liberal government has finally sided with the Parti Québécois in expressing concerns about Bill C-51 of the federal government.
“After brushing aside the issue, saying that it was the prerogative of the federal government, the Minister of Justice is waking up and taking our stand. In fact, in a letter sent to the Conservative government, ministers Stéphanie Vallée, Lise Thériault and Jean-Marc Fournier now express the same concerns as we do and denounce federal unilateralism. But a letter is not enough; we are asking the government of Quebec to demand amendments to Bill C-51, currently being studied in Ottawa, ”said Alexandre Cloutier.
The member recalls that the current Prime Minister of British Columbia, Christy Clark, as well as former Prime Ministers, Supreme Court justices, as well as many experts and lawyers, have already expressed concerns about the scope of Bill C-51, as he himself has done on several occasions.
“The Conservative government must fight terrorists and not confuse targets. Opponents of the Harper government&#39;s political line should not be investigated or gagged. We are satisfied to see the change in the government of Quebec and we hope that only real terrorists will be targeted by the new version of the anti-terrorism bill, ”added Pascal Bérubé.
“In the end, the Liberal government realized the obvious and recognized the overbreadth of several provisions of C-51. Its members sided with our arguments, particularly with regard to the restriction of fundamental rights and freedoms and CSIS monitoring mechanisms for the application of the new powers provided for. Now, Ministers Vallée, Thériault and Fournier must make Stephen Harper hear the concerns of Quebecers, ”concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
