Québec, November 14, 2019 - The MNA for René-Lévesque and parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois, Martin Ouellet, as well as the MNA for Jonquière and energy critic, Sylvain Gaudreault, wish to emphasize the importance of seriousness warning given by the President of the National Assembly to Hydro-Quebec today about Bill 34, on electricity rates.
IN SHORT
During a recent hearing with the Régie de l&#39;énergie, Hydro ‑ Québec presented the adoption of Bill 34 as a fait accompli, given that the government has a majority. “By acting in this way, Hydro ‑ Québec is dismissing the importance of debates between members of the Assembly with the back of its hand and presumes the decisions that will be taken therein, with the aim of avoiding the law currently in force. It is a blatant lack of respect for members of Parliament and their freedom of decision. On October 29, therefore, I wrote to the President of the National Assembly asking him to call Hydro-Québec to order, ”said Martin Ouellet.
However, the president of the National Assembly affirmed today that he understands very well the feeling of indignation of the parliamentarians, who perceive there a lack of consideration and a devaluation of the work that they accomplish in parliamentary committee, even if he cannot conclude, prima facie, that Hydro ‑ Québec&#39;s argument constitutes contempt of Parliament. He added that it was &quot;completely inappropriate to say that Bill 34 sets any tariff whatsoever&quot;, and that Hydro-Québec has shown &quot;flagrant ignorance of the role of Parliament&quot;. He concludes with a serious warning to Hydro-Québec: he urges the Crown corporation to &quot;act with respect towards Parliament and its members and never underestimate the essential role entrusted to them by citizens. who elected them ”. The president even specifies explicitly: “I hope that this message will be understood correctly. &quot;
“There is nothing more annoying, for an MP, to see that his vote, an essential exercise in our parliamentary democracy, is taken for granted by a third party. It is even worse when it comes to a government corporation, like Hydro ‑ Québec, which belongs to all Quebecers, ”added Martin Ouellet.
“From now on, Hydro-Québec will have to show more respect for the National Assembly. I invite him to show humility in the analysis of the rate request which is currently before the Régie de l&#39;énergie and to publicly transmit the necessary data. This serious warning from the President of the National Assembly constitutes another misstep by the government in the fiasco of Bill 34. Therefore, we once again call on the government to withdraw this bill and reimburse all of the overpayments. to Quebecers, without delay and without weakening the Régie de l&#39;énergie, ”concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
