Quebec, March 17, 2021 - The day after the adoption - in an accelerated formula - of the bill aimed at capping the fees charged to restaurateurs by the big players in the field of delivery, the member for Gaspé and spokesperson for the Party Quebecer for SMEs as well as in terms of the economy and recovery, Méganne Perry Mélançon, is still taken aback by the responses she received from the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, André The mountain.
IN SHORT
- Bill 87, adopted in disaster, only includes a part of the restaurants, while all are suffering from the pandemic - What is more, its duration of application is much too short - The proof is now fact: the CAQ cares very little about restaurateurs, despite they are among the most dynamic of our entrepreneurs.
Indeed, the measures that will come into force next Monday - while they have been demanded for months - are limited to restaurants whose opening hours are restricted by the application of the curfew. This means that, on the one hand, restaurants in yellow zones, whose capacity is restricted according to health rules, are excluded from the outset from the bill and that, on the other hand, with the lifting of the curfew, the predatory practices of multinational delivery companies will come back in force.
The member for Gaspé questioned the minister at length about this inequity. She also tabled an amendment to broaden the scope of the bill to all restaurants, as well as to extend its provisions over time. But she came up against a categorical refusal on the part of Minister Lamontagne.
“First, when I asked the minister what we had to lose by including all the restaurants, he stupidly replied that no one had asked him. This non-response raises a question: between the tabling of the bill last Thursday and its adoption five days later, has the industry had time to make its points? », Underlined Méganne Perry Mélançon.
“Then, I proposed that the measures apply for a period of two years after the lifting of the health emergency, in order to give restaurant owners time to recover and return to profitability. Once again, it was an end of inadmissibility. However, Sylvain Charlebois, professor of distribution and agrifood policies at Dalhousie University, said in an open letter that the amounts spent on restaurants by households could take several years to return to their pre-pandemic level - or about 35% of their expenses ”, recalled the member.
“After months of chasing the Minister of the Economy to improve the assistance programs for restaurateurs, I would have thought that the Minister of Agriculture would be more sensitive. I am amazed to see that the lack of consideration towards these SMEs found throughout Quebec is widespread within the CAQ. What would we have lost by including all the restaurants? Nothing. Instead, the government has created an oligopoly whose biggest players do not even pay tax here, ”concluded Méganne Perry Mélançon.
– 30 –
SOURCE :
Laura Chouinard-Thuly
Press Officer
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois
514 880-9594
Laura.Chouinard-Thuly@assnat.qc.ca
