Québec– The member for Lac-Saint-Jean and official opposition critic for justice, Alexandre Cloutier, and the member for Verchères and critic for Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, ask the government of Quebec to intervene to protect the rights and freedoms of Quebecers, within the framework of the study of Bill C-51 by the House of Commons in Ottawa. In particular, the government of Quebec must ensure that the new anti-terrorism law only targets terrorists, so that groups that claim ideals different from those of the federal government do not become the target of the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS).
Sharing the objective and the firm will of the federal government to fight terrorism more effectively, the Parti Québécois is however wondering about certain means used to achieve this.
“Bill C-51 opens the door to dangerous abuses for the respect of the rights and freedoms of Quebecers. We call into question the right of citizens to dissent and we go far beyond the raison d&#39;être of the law, that is to say to fight against the terrorist threat. Individuals could be listed by CSIS and 16 other federal agencies simply because they campaign against climate change, for Quebec to become a country or for more justice for Aboriginals, students or workers. This is unacceptable! », Mentioned Alexandre Cloutier.
According to the member, amendments are needed to the Security of Canada Information Sharing Act introduced by Bill C-51, which will allow CSIS and 16 other federal agencies to release information on any “Activity that undermines the security of Canada”, in particular in connection with “the detection, identification, analysis, prevention or disruption of these activities or an investigation thereof”.
As it currently stands, the law broadens this notion to any &quot;activity that undermines the sovereignty, security or territorial integrity of Canada&quot;, including &quot;interfering with the ability of the federal government ... for economic stability. or financial institution of Canada ”, or“ cause a change of government or unduly influence such a government ”, or“ hamper the operation of critical infrastructure ”.
“Such a broad and arbitrary definition opens the door to very serious slippages. The fight against terrorism must not become a witch hunt. The Quebec government must put pressure on us to review the wording of the bill and ensure that sovereignists, workers and other movements that claim political ideas in a completely legitimate way are not hunted down. unfairly by the intelligence services, ”continued Alexandre Cloutier.
Defending the freedoms of Quebecers
The scope of the new powers of intervention entrusted to CSIS and the lack of monitoring mechanisms to counterbalance them also raise serious questions for the Parti Québécois. Former prime ministers and Supreme Court justices, as well as many experts and jurists, have already expressed their concerns about the scope of Bill C-51.
“Once again, the Liberal government is letting the federal government decide for it. Ministers Fournier and Vallée did not even worry about the effects of Bill C-51 on the rights and freedoms of Quebecers. However, there will be major impacts if this bill is adopted. The government must measure the extent of these and act accordingly, ”declared Stéphane Bergeron.
Under the circumstances, the Parti Québécois is asking the Quebec government to take a position and demand amendments to Bill C-51, the study of which will begin next week in a parliamentary committee in Ottawa.
“Our history has taught us the extent of the abuses that can result from the use of the police for political ends. The Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister have a responsibility to act to prevent the errors and injustices of the past from being repeated, ”concluded Alexandre Cloutier.
