Quebec - Diane Lamarre, the member for Taillon and official opposition spokesperson for health and access to care, considers that Bill 20, tabled by the government, is a new chapter in the quest for power undertaken by the Minister of Health and Social Services, Gaétan Barrette. Covering two important subjects - assisted procreation, on the one hand, and access to the services of a family doctor and specialized medicine, on the other - this bill must be split, and it is what the member is asking the government.
“Once again, the minister is giving himself a lot of power and this is very worrying. As in the case of Bill 10, he worked alone, without collaborating with the professionals of the network, the doctors in this case. He chooses to impose a coercive approach on them. Several scenarios presented at a press briefing earlier today make it difficult for us to believe in the applicability of this bill, in which we seem to want to favor quantity to the detriment of quality and results. Patients are humans, not numbers. You don&#39;t treat a depressed or suicidal patient like you treat a broken finger or other physical injury. We do not manage patients and the health system with columns of numbers! ”Said Diane Lamarre.
What does the government have against families in Quebec?
As for assisted procreation, even if the member considers that certain guidelines that the minister at the time, Yves Bolduc, did not have in place are necessary, it is obvious that access to the program will be greatly reduced.
“In the current situation in Quebec, family policy and its measures must be supported. Instead of taking into account the thoughtful recommendations of the Commissioner for Health and Welfare, Minister Barrette is withdrawing in vitro fertilization from insured services. What is the next health care or service that the minister will unilaterally exclude from the basket in the name of liberal austerity? This is very worrying, and it constitutes yet another attack on families in Quebec. From now on, the amounts to pay for an in vitro fertilization cycle will be very important for parents. Who will have the means to pay several thousand dollars while waiting for the tax credit? It is a real obstacle to access to the service, ”concluded Diane Lamarre.
