Quebec– Sylvain Gaudreault, MP for Jonquière and official opposition spokesperson for sustainable development and the environment, and Bernard for Marie-Victorin and spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, denounce the double talk of the Liberals in the TransCanada file. Behind closed doors, the government has indeed authorized drilling in the marine environment, off Cacouna, even before waiting for the start of the work of the Office of Public Hearings on the Environment (BAPE), which it nevertheless has. itself advertised.
“The Minister of the Environment allows drilling in the St. Lawrence estuary to go on, even though the BAPE has not yet started its work or made its recommendations. Its duty is to protect wildlife and its habitats, not to protect the agenda of the TransCanada company. By acting in this way, the Minister confirms that he does not give any credibility to the environmental assessment procedure, ”declared Sylvain Gaudreault.
The Parti Québécois demands that Minister David Heurtel immediately make public the scientific opinions of his department and those of Fisheries and Oceans Canada, on which he bases his decision to grant a certificate of authorization.
Liberal transparency does not exist
Members also point out that it is thanks to the action of the Parti Québécois that the government agreed to hold a specific BAPE on the entire Energy East pipeline project.
“In reality, today, the government is adopting exactly the same attitude as the 2010 Liberal government on the shale gas issue: total improvisation and disregard for environmental impacts. The alleged transparency promised by the Liberal government simply does not exist, ”continued Bernard Drainville.
Remember that last May, TransCanada did not obtain a certificate of authorization from the Ministry of the Environment to proceed with geophysical surveys, due to the emission of contaminants in the St. Laurent who would threaten the recovery of the beluga population.
