Quebec - The MP for Duplessis, Lorraine Richard, and the MP for Vachon and official opposition spokesperson for transport, Martine Ouellet, denounced the Liberal government&#39;s refusal to shed light on the Pakatan Corporation file Meskanau.
Indeed, yesterday in the National Assembly, Lorraine Richard, together with the Member for Groulx and the Member for Mercier, tabled a motion asking the Auditor General to take up the matter; unfortunately the motion was defeated by the Liberal government.
“Several villages on the Lower North Shore are still isolated, despite the $ 47 million spent on the road. Numerous allegations of irregularities were expressed in the management of this project. Only 12 kilometers of road have been built; the Auditor General must shed light on this situation, ”said Lorraine Richard.
“For a government that wanted to be transparent, I find it strange that the Liberals rejected this motion. We are talking about $ 47 million in public funds! The Liberal government must assume its responsibilities in this matter, ”added Martine Ouellet.
The motion defeated by the Liberals reads as follows:
&quot;That the National Assembly recall that in July 2013, following allegations of numerous irregularities in the management processes, the Ministry of Transport of the Parti Québécois government decided to terminate the framework agreement with the Corporation Pakatan Meskanau of the Great Seduction (Pakatan) in the road access project of several villages of the Lower North Shore.
That the National Assembly emphasize that as of today, $ 47 million of public funds have been spent and that only 12 kilometers of road have been built.
That the National Assembly emphasize that as of today, several villages on the Lower North Shore are still isolated, despite the sums spent.
That the National Assembly ask the Auditor General of Quebec to take up the matter in order to shed light on the reasons that explain the failure of the agreement between the government of Quebec and the Pakatan group. &quot;
