Rimouski - &quot;The Rimouski-Neigette Health and Social Services Center is designated, after a rigorous analysis process, the Eastern Quebec Regional Cancer Center,&quot; the Minister announced today. of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, in the presence of the Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Minister of Tourism, Pascal Bérubé, and the Member for Rimouski, Irvin Pelletier.
&quot;We thus recognize the remarkable clinical expertise of the specialists and professionals of this establishment, which offers specialized services of investigation, surgery, systemic treatment and radiation oncology to people with cancer in the East of the region. Quebec. In this new context, stakeholders in the interregional network will continue to benefit from consultation services with physicians, pharmacists and other professionals in the establishment, ”added Minister Hébert.
A regional center like the one in Rimouski offers a whole range of specialized services that help boost the Quebec cancer network at the regional and interregional levels. The clinical and management experts are called upon to participate in the network&#39;s consultation and coordination activities, thus helping to make the Center a real crossroads for the fight against cancer in the region. The establishment and animation of communities of practice linked to the various disciplines which, with the support of the health and social services agency and the Direction québécoise de cancérologie, will promote the development of closer ties between the teams.
“Our government is making the fight against cancer a priority, and it is with the help of local, regional and supraregional teams that we can meet this great challenge. The new designation of the Rimouski-Neigette Health and Social Services Center will make it possible to consolidate and develop, throughout eastern Quebec, a structured and patient-centered oncology service offer, through all stages of the continuum of care and services, ”explained the Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Minister of Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé.
“Rimouski-Neigette&#39;s recognition in cancerology is excellent news, not only for Bas-Saint-Laurent, but also for all of eastern Quebec. I would like to pay tribute to the staff of the Health and Social Services Center and to the teams who dedicate themselves to people fighting against cancer, ”concluded the Member for Rimouski, Mr. Irvin Pelletier.
