Quebec - The Parti Québécois spokesperson for education, research and school perseverance, Alexandre Cloutier, calls on the Liberal government to stop provoking teachers and other education workers, and to negotiate in good faith in order to reach a settlement that will allow the renewal of their collective agreements.
“The Liberal government has only itself to blame for the week of disruption that we have just experienced in schools in all regions of Quebec. After months of discussions, he still has not deigned to make a decent offer to teachers and education professionals, preferring to play the card of provocation. The government must give up its intention to impoverish workers and start negotiating in good faith, ”said Alexandre Cloutier.
Today, after four days of strike affecting all public schools in Quebec, the Parti Québécois questioned the Minister of Education for two hours in the National Assembly, during a questioning session on the generalized loss of confidence of the education network in it. On this occasion, Alexandre Cloutier insisted on the fact that the mobilization of the last days is unprecedented. “Never have I received so many messages from parents, teachers and other education professionals. Unanimously, they say they are worried about the impact of cuts in education, the elimination of hundreds of specialist positions - special education technicians, speech therapists, remedial teachers, psychoeducators - and the reduction in services for students in special needs, among others. These people are right. The cuts imposed by the minister are directly compromising students&#39; chances of success. It&#39;s a whole generation that risks paying the price for Liberal short-sighted policies, ”he added.
Finally, with regard to the renewal of collective agreements for teachers and other education workers, Alexandre Cloutier believes that the government must stop fueling social tension and recognize the fair value of their work. “I don&#39;t know a worker in Quebec who would agree to have their purchasing power reduced every year for five years. The intransigence of the President of the Conseil du trésor makes any settlement impossible. I remind him that education is not just a column of numbers. It is an investment in our collective success, ”he concluded.
