Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, is satisfied with Urgence-Environnement&#39;s interventions on the site of the spill of approximately 450,000 liters of fuel oil in the bay of Sept-Îles, in particular during episodes of difficult weather conditions. Urgence-Environnement teams have been constantly monitoring the situation since the heavy fuel oil spill at the Cliffs Ressources naturelles pelletizing plant in Pointe-Noire. According to estimates, approximately 450,000 liters of fuel oil were dumped into the plant&#39;s emergency basin overnight from Saturday to Sunday, of which approximately 2,000 liters reached the bay of Sept-Îles. Emergency measures were deployed quickly as soon as the incident was reported in order to limit the progression of the water table.
Booms were also installed in the bay to contain the spill and bring the iridescence back to the shore. Aerial overflights are carried out regularly to check the condition of the sector. The difficult weather conditions in the region on Tuesday complicated operations, but the Ministry is ensuring that all required actions are taken to contain the damage. Moreover, in order to ensure that there was no negligence on the part of the company, the file was transferred to the Investigation Department of the Ministry.
In addition, in order to initiate a reflection on better prevention protocols, Minister Blanchet requested a report drawn up on the causes of the accident, even if the effects will be limited. “If people or the company are found guilty of negligence warranting punishment, we will act accordingly, but that is not my core concern. The equivalent of the contents of four train tank cars were spilled and 2,000 liters reached the sea. I want to know how and why this situation could have arisen so that we can adapt our way of doing things, together with all the people. in good faith as it relates. The level of risk will never be really zero, but we can ensure that it comes as close as possible to it, ”declared Minister Blanchet.
Subsequently, the Department will assess the possible interventions in order to tighten the requirements and significantly reduce the risks associated with the management of hazardous materials, and of course the frequency and extent of environmental accidents.
