Quebec - While the federal Minister of the Environment has decided to authorize, subject to conditions, the discharge of 8 billion liters of wastewater into the St. Lawrence River, the Parti Québécois spokesperson for the environment , sustainable development and the fight against climate change, Mathieu Traversy, believes that what we will remember from this crisis is that David Heurtel no longer has any credibility as Quebec Minister of the Environment.
“The new conditions established by the federal government prove that David Heurtel hastily authorized the City of Montreal to carry out this spill, without having all the scientific information available. Consequently, it has failed in its role of protecting our water and our environment, ”said Mathieu Traversy.
The Parti Québécois recalls that David Heurtel refused to make public all the documents relating to the authorization request made by the City of Montreal. “More than a month after the start of this crisis, Quebeckers have noticed that the minister based himself on documents to which citizens have never been able to have access to make his decision. However, we have repeatedly asked him, without success, to make public the opinions consulted by his department, the assessment of the other options as well as that of the cumulative impacts on the St. Lawrence River, ”added the MP.
In addition, the situation will have highlighted the shortcomings in the procedures concerning the discharge of wastewater by the municipalities. Added to this is the fact that the Liberal government remains passive; it reacts to crises rather than proposing solutions. The Parti Québécois, like many players who are concerned about water quality, thinks that we must learn lessons from this episode. “The Government of Quebec needs to look at sustainable solutions for wastewater treatment. Yes, there are! The problem is the current bearer of these solutions. In our opinion, with his repeated blunders, David Heurtel is irremediably disqualified, ”continued the spokesperson.
Finally, the Parti Québécois deplores the federal government&#39;s decision to authorize this spill, while the expert report states that a lot of information remains unavailable, including that concerning the cumulative impacts on the fauna and flora of the St. Laurent. He reminds the new federal government that it has promised, in the campaign, to invest, within 10 years, 20 billion in green infrastructure, which includes those dedicated to water, especially wastewater treatment. “The federal government cannot just wash its hands of it and close its eyes. It will have to collaborate better with the government of Quebec, always based on the priorities that Quebec will have established, ”concluded Mathieu Traversy.
