Laval– The Member for Laval-des-Rapides and Parliamentary Assistant to the Premier (youth section), Mr. Léo Bureau-Blouin, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), Sylvain Gaudreault, today unveiled the details of a major housing project intended for families, single people and seniors in slight loss of life. autonomy, low or modest income. This initiative, led by the Coopérative de solidarité du Bois Ellen in collaboration with the technical resources group Réseau 2000+, plans, in the long term, for the construction of a building with 166 affordable housing units in Laval.
The SHQ granted a start-up loan of $ 500,000 to the organization, which is continuing its efforts to carry out its project. When all the criteria of the AccèsLogis Québec program have been met, the SHQ will give its final approval and financial assistance of nearly $ 12 million will be granted for the construction of this housing complex, much awaited by the community.
“This future housing complex will allow families and seniors to evolve in a quality environment adapted to everyone&#39;s needs. Social diversity will contribute to the creation of wealth where the strengths of each can be used for the well-being of all. This intergenerational solidarity is a very important value for our government and that is why we are very proud to be associated with this project, ”indicated the deputy Léo Bureau-Blouin.
The project provides for the construction of a building which will be erected in two parts; one with 13 floors for family accommodation and the other 6 floors for single people and seniors. It should also be noted that this project includes innovative energy efficiency measures such as a heat recovery system and an air preheating system using solar energy.
Through its AccèsLogis Québec and Affordable Housing Québec programs, the SHQ has contributed to the construction of nearly 32,500 affordable housing units throughout Québec. Some 5,700 other housing units are under construction, representing a total investment of more than $ 4.6 billion on the part of governments and their partners.
In addition, in the 2013-2014 budget, the Quebec government announced a budget envelope of $ 231 million for the construction of 3,000 affordable housing units.
In the Laval region, 1,053 community and affordable housing units have been delivered, or are in the process of being delivered, representing construction costs totaling nearly $ 156 million and significant economic benefits for the community. region.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec contributes to improving quality. life of 230,000 households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
