Quebec - In response to the tabling of the Liberal government&#39;s economic and financial update, the Parti Québécois finance and revenue critic, Nicolas Marceau, and the economy critic, Alain Therrien, consider that the poor economic performance of the Liberal government as well as its austerity regime have deteriorated the situation of Quebec&#39;s public finances.
“The budget balance projected for 2015-2016 could give the impression of an improvement in the health of our public finances. However, the debt-to-GDP ratio, the benchmark measure to assess the health of our public finances, will increase by 1% in 2016 to 55%, while it was to fall to 54%, according to the budget. This therefore means a deterioration of our finances. Debt has grown faster than our GDP, which is growing at a very slow pace. Economic growth is sluggish; for example, nominal GDP growth is only 2.4%, and own-source revenue is $ 203 million less than expected. This very slow growth can be explained by the choices of the Liberal government, ”declared Nicolas Marceau.
“The austerity government has cut spending sharply, while increasing the tax burden on citizens and businesses. This is an absolute record. The government still has no economic policy. He sails on sight, with empty marketing plans that don&#39;t yield any results. The only things that are increasing in Quebec are the debt / GDP ratio and the unemployment rate, ”added Alain Therrien.
The promise of 250,000 jobs: the end of a myth
“The liberal effect is being felt: ever lower economic growth and the end of the myth of the creation of 250,000 jobs. Employment is stagnant; only 6,600 full-time jobs were created in 19 months of Liberal rule. Let us also recall the increase in the tax burden of $ 1,500 for citizens of Quebec and the increase in that of businesses, through the tightening of tax credits, in particular. Creating 250,000 jobs was a promise, then a target, and today it is a myth, ”added the member for Rousseau.
Productivity growth
“While the Minister of Education judges that investing in education would be awkward, the Minister of Finance says it is wise. But after all the cuts, it is only injecting $ 20 million this year. On the same day, the government announced $ 80 million in education, but we also learned that childcare centers were cut by $ 120 million; it is therefore only a displacement of money. The cuts already made and those to be planned will result in an increase in school dropouts. This will have economic impacts in the medium and long term. To improve our economic performance, we must make progress in terms of schooling and accelerate private investment. In this regard, there was a drop of 9.7% in 2014, and the ISQ forecasts a drop of 2.4% this year, ”continued Nicolas Marceau.
Very strong pressure on public finances
Spending on infrastructure, the explosion in the remuneration of doctors and the major cuts in public services - difficult to renew over the next few years, the needs being still present - are exerting significant pressure on public finances.
“The worst part of all this is the cynicism of the government&#39;s approach. The government is not aiming for a balanced budget, it is aiming to make Quebec a province like any other and to offer electoral giveaways in 2018. When it comes to tax cuts in 2018, Quebeckers will remember that This will be the beginning of a reimbursement of everything the government has taken in their pockets since 2014, ”Nicolas Marceau concluded.
