Québec, April 25, 2020 - Having participated in the first virtual parliamentary sessions yesterday, the member for René-Lévesque and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of the economy and for SMEs, Martin Ouellet, as well as his colleague from Rimouski and spokesperson for employment, social solidarity and the fight against poverty, Harold LeBel, are satisfied with the results. They have indeed managed to obtain several answers to the questions posed by thousands of Quebecers from all regions.
“We were pleased to learn that the government intends to quickly inject new funds into the MRCs. However, a question remained unclear: if certain companies are not able to honor their loans, will it be up to the MRCs to repay the government? Entrepreneurs can also be reassured: it is possible to be entitled to both the Emergency Account for Canadian businesses and Emergency Assistance for Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises in Quebec. This clarification was essential, ”said Martin Ouellet.
The Minister of the Economy, Pierre Fitzgibbon, recognized the injustice suffered by specialized businesses, which see supermarkets taking market share from them by selling non-essential goods. “Unfortunately, the minister stuck to his position; it is very disappointing, ”continued the member for René ‑ Lévesque.
The government also assured Martin Ouellet that discussions are underway to promote a greater proportion of Quebec content in public contracts. “We are very anxious to learn what the fruits of this exercise will be. However, we would have liked the Minister to open the door to a review of the legislative framework, so as to facilitate the movement of Quebec products in our region, ”he noted.
Regarding the working conditions of PABs in the private sector, the Minister of Labor and Social Solidarity, Jean Boulet, spoke of the worn-out argument of the necessary consensus for the adoption of a decree. “As for the nationalization of private CHSLDs, the Minister was evasive. He said it was &quot;a reflection of the Prime Minister&#39;s great concern about the conditions of orderlies.&quot; A response that suggests that he was probably not consulted, ”said Harold LeBel.
In terms of solidarity, for people on social assistance and those in a situation of poverty, spokesperson Harold LeBel underlines that Minister Boulet mentioned the idea of expanding access to certain existing programs and funding. &quot;I would have liked that during one of his press conferences, the Prime Minister came up with something to say to these people: one does not forget you&quot;, declared Mr. LeBel during the commission, to which the Minister Boulet replied: “If there are actions to take, I will take them. Remember that two weeks ago, together with the other opposition parties and the Collective for a Quebec Without Poverty, Harold LeBel gave his support to the simple initiative to improve the solidarity tax credit. This proposal was unfortunately ignored by the government.
Regarding agricultural labor needs, Minister Boulet acknowledged that the financial assistance measures announced by the federal government this week could deter potential candidates, even if, so far, the ministry has received around 3,750 service offers. &quot;While the federal government is distributing envelopes, Minister Boulet was not at all reassuring about the measures to come to support Quebecers during the restart,&quot; lamented the member for Rimouski. Finally, the Minister confirmed our doubts about the ability of the CNESST to ensure compliance with the new health standards in the workplace, without adding resources. &quot;With 300 inspectors, it will be difficult to visit all the factories, construction sites and other businesses in a few weeks to see if all the employers comply with the standards, to accompany them and support them if necessary, and this, in order to properly protect workers, ”concluded Harold LeBel.
