Quebec - The Parti Québécois finance critic, Nicolas Marceau, is indignant at the fact that the Liberal government is announcing budget surpluses of $ 2.2 billion, which have turned out to be entirely achieved thanks to additional draconian cuts that have had serious consequences. direct impacts on our patients, our students, the vulnerable people of our society, as well as on economic growth, which remains neutral.
“While we neglect the hygiene of our seniors in CHSLDs, and we ask them to eat powdered potatoes in six minutes, the government announces surpluses that will be used to finance election candy. These are the surplus of the powdered potatoes, ”declared Nicolas Marceau. “Let&#39;s be clear: these surpluses are not the sign of an economy that is doing well, but the result of a rampage. There is really nothing to be proud of, ”he added.
While last spring the government presented a budget that seemed balanced, it had in fact cut, in a purely ideological way, more than $ 1.6 billion in additional spending in 2015-16. The Liberals have gone too far; we see the results in our schools, our CHSLDs, in community organizations and in emergencies. “The Liberals have really hit rock bottom. Quebecers are not fooled; they understand that the election sweets that will be advertised are being offered because seniors are not receiving the hygiene care to which they are entitled. The Liberals should be embarrassed, ”said Nicolas Marceau.
“&#39;The house is in order,&#39; according to Finance Minister Carlos Leitão. If the house is in order, it is only because the Liberals sold the furniture and there is none left! The government has created a mess throughout society, especially among the most vulnerable citizens. The Ombudsperson was clear: austerity hurts, ”continued the spokesperson.
Austerity disguised as investments
Today we are being told of an investment of $ 300 million in the health care network, when the government had cut close to $ 1 billion. We are being told $ 110 million in the education network, when it had to deal with cuts of just over $ 1 billion. We are told 100 million for the regions, while the government has removed their development tools. We should also note the absence of reinvestment in childcare centers. “For the current year, the reinvestment that the government announces is 11% of what it has cut in health, and 3.5% in education. We are witnessing a sad spectacle of pure electoral strategy, ”summed up the spokesperson.
No oxygen for families
If only the government had succeeded in giving oxygen to families… but it is not. “The Liberal government has taken nearly $ 1,500 out of every family&#39;s pockets since it was elected. We should now applaud him for the partial abolition of the health tax, which will give back $ 200 to each of them. Regardless of the calculation method, families are still $ 1,300 in the hole, ”Nicolas Marceau concluded.
