Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, today presented the new Economic Policy Priority Employment, a policy with immediate effects, endowed with significant resources, including The main objective is job creation. This policy will generate private and public investments of nearly $ 13 billion within 10 years, and will create more than 43,000 jobs by 2017. These jobs will be added to the new jobs already planned for the same period. In total, the government is targeting the creation of 115,000 new jobs over the next three years.
The Prime Minister stressed that in recent months, the government has identified the most effective approaches to increase investment in research and development as well as innovation, improve business productivity, increase exports and deepen its project of electrification of transport. These different projects converge to form the Priorité emploi economic policy. This policy will be based on a major asset, namely the availability of abundant, clean and renewable electricity.
“Concretely, the government is integrating into a coherent and orderly action the National Research and Innovation Policy, the Québec Industrial Policy and the Foreign Trade Development Plan developed over the past few months. We will also implement the Transportation Electrification Strategy, ”said the Prime Minister.
Minister Marceau explained that the economic policy will be structured around two components. The first will be devoted to four flagship measures implemented by the government to immediately stimulate job creation and investment, namely:
The second part is devoted to the four strategic initiatives implemented as part of an integrated approach to create jobs:
In addition, two targeted sectoral measures, in tourism and in the forestry sector, are added to these strategic initiatives.
&quot;These four strategic initiatives pursue well-defined objectives such as: accelerating research and development, making our companies more efficient, increasing Québec&#39;s economic presence in the world and establishing ourselves as a benchmark in transportation electrification,&quot; said the Minister. minister.
The Prime Minister pointed out that the means used for the deployment of the Economic Policy Priority Jobs are very important. In terms of public investment alone, the policy will be accompanied by budgetary and fiscal measures reaching $ 2 billion for the period 2013-2017, namely:
“Quebec has all the assets to be one of the most efficient economies. From today, all our efforts will be devoted to the success of this new economic policy and the achievement of this ambition, ”concluded the Prime Minister.
Read the press release: Economic policy Priority employment: flagship measures for the creation of jobs and wealth in the short term
Consult the Economic Policy Priority Employment: economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueeconomique
