Sherbrooke– The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, accompanied by the Member for Sherbrooke, Mr. Serge Cardin, confirms the financial participation of the Government of Quebec in two innovative projects in Sherbrooke. An amount of $ 25,000 is thus allocated to Gestion SOCPRA for a business support project in intellectual property valued at $ 100,000. In addition, a financial contribution of $ 284,000 is paid to Groupe IXTROM to support a technology showcase project of more than $ 700,000.
“Our government is present in all regions of Quebec to support the implementation of innovative projects such as Gestion SOCPRA and Groupe IXTROM. We are also happy to support technology showcase projects, ”said Élaine Zakaïb. “In order to improve the effectiveness of our actions in the regions in terms of economic development and, above all, to simplify the lives of our entrepreneurs, we recently tabled the bill creating the Banque de développement économique du Québec. This will act as an important lever for economic prosperity by promoting promising, innovative and, above all, job-creating projects. &quot;
“Sherbrooke is one of the most economically dynamic cities in Quebec. It is truly an essential growth pole, where the knowledge economy and the manufacturing sector develop in harmony, ”said Serge Cardin. “The projects presented today demonstrate, beyond any doubt, its great economic vitality and its strength in terms of innovation and research. I welcome the contribution of our government and I congratulate Gestion SOCPRA and Groupe IXTROM for the implementation of their projects, which herald very interesting benefits for the region. &quot;
Since 2007, Gestion SOCPRA has offered management services for intellectual property linked to the research results of the University of Sherbrooke and its affiliated institutions, with the aim of advancing technologies. As part of its project, the organization will be able to offer an intellectual property support service to companies established in the Estrie region. Gestion SOCPRA targets in particular companies that are part of the key sectors of the Sherbrooke Innopole organization and those participating in the ACCORD process of the Government of Quebec, according to the niches of excellence in the region. Two files are in progress within the organization and three others are currently being analyzed.
“For businesses, having access to a resource specialized in intellectual property can sometimes be difficult,” said Josée Fortin, President and CEO of Gestion SOCPRA. “Companies developing innovative technologies are also in great need of advice on protecting their intellectual property. Gestion SOCPRA can support them and thereby contribute to the success of their innovation process. I salute the participation of Sherbrooke Innopole and that of the Government of Quebec in this promising project. &quot;
&quot;At a time when companies must innovate in order to distinguish themselves, they will benefit, thanks to this project, from privileged access to resources and advice relating to intellectual property&quot;, rejoices Mr. Pierre Bélanger, CEO of Sherbrooke Innopole. “The new SOCPRA service will also promote the commercialization of local innovations, whether by transferring them to existing companies or by creating new companies within key sectors. &quot;
IXTROM Group specializes, since 2009, in the design of software for decision support and coordination of interventions to ensure better management of risk and emergency situations. The company&#39;s project consists in installing the IXGMAS M2 software at the General Directorate of Civil Security and Fire Safety of the Ministry of Public Security in order to demonstrate its functionalities. This software will allow the Department and its partners to effectively manage alerts, assess their level of risk and respond optimally to emergency situations.
“Our vision is to become a leader in the design of real-time decision support and emergency management software,” said Soledad Recatala, President of IXTROM Group. “We develop innovative software, unique in the global market, which can interact in a user-friendly way with the complex technological environment of our customers. The system that is the subject of the technological showcase is a platform for communicating without the Internet or telephone network during critical situations. The installation of our software within the Ministry of Public Security will help to increase awareness of our company with other governments or public sector organizations. &quot;
