Quebec - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, and the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, have announced a consultation tour in order to develop a strategic vision for the economic development of the Autoroute 30 corridor between Sorel-Tracy and Vaudreuil-Soulanges in Montérégie.
This approach will appeal to elected officials and representatives of partner organizations of the three regional conferences of elected officials (CRE) of the Montérégie concerned by the project, namely the CRE Vallée-du-Haut-Saint-Laurent, the CRE de la Montérégie-Est and the CRE of the agglomeration of Longueuil, the aboriginal community of Kahnawake and the metropolitan region. Its objective is to ensure a common and global understanding of the various issues linked to economic growth along Highway 30.
“Thanks to this consultation tour, we will be able to mobilize our partners in order to develop and implement a coherent, shared and strategic vision promoting the sustainable development of the Highway 30 corridor,” declared Élaine Zakaïb. “We are convinced that this approach will have positive spinoffs for the whole of Montérégie and for the metropolitan region. It is an important project which requires the commitment of all the actors concerned. &quot;
In May 2013, an interministerial committee made up of eight ministers was created to develop a strategic government vision relating to the corridor of Autoroute 30 from Sorel-Tracy to Vaudreuil-Soulanges in Montérégie and a related development plan. This committee, co-chaired by ministers Élaine Zakaïb and Sylvain Gaudreault, reports to the Ministerial Committee of the metropolitan region.
“Autoroute 30 will provide the metropolitan area with a bypass through the south of the island of Montreal in order to reduce congestion on the motorway network,” added Sylvain Gaudreault. “It is therefore essential to favor a common vision of economic development that will respect the vocation of Autoroute 30 and the government orientations in terms of land use planning and development, throughout the Montérégie. &quot;
The consultation process with partners will be led by Minister Élaine Zakaïb and by the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport and Minister responsible for the Montérégie region, Ms. Marie Malavoy. “Highway 30 has strong development potential. The business opportunities and projects emerging from east to west are numerous and will make this road axis a motor of economic development for the Montérégie, ”commented Minister Malavoy.
In addition, the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Minister responsible for the Montreal region and Chairman of the Ministerial Committee of the Metropolitan Region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, will participate in the consultation day with metropolitan partners. , while the Minister for Native Affairs, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, will be present at the consultation day with members of the Kahnawake community.
The consultations will take place on November 18, 22 and 25, 2013. They will begin with the representatives of the Vallée-du-Haut-Saint-Laurent, to continue with those of the agglomeration of Longueuil and Montérégie-Est and end with partners from Kahnawake and the greater Montreal region.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
