Québec, November 7, 2019 - The member for René-Lévesque, parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois and finance and economic critic, Martin Ouellet, affirms that the main finding that emerges from the economic update and financial statement presented today is that the CAQ government has the means to do much more to improve the lives of Quebecers, but it is hiding money.
IN SHORT
“Unfortunately, the CAQ continues to apply the maneuver invented by the Liberal Party to hide its surpluses. For 4 years, we have been told at the beginning of the financial year that finances will be tight. Then, as if by magic, during the year, we discover surpluses! In all, it is a sum of 12 billion that the Liberals and the CAQ have hidden in 4 years. But, each time, the government affirms that we owe this pleasant news to the “good performance of the economy”… whereas it is simply a questionable accounting maneuver ”, indicated Martin Ouellet.
As proof, today, we can see that the surplus has almost doubled in six months; it went from 2.5 to 4.8 billion! “Thus, the CAQ is continuing the liberal ploy: lowering expectations by saying that they have no money available, then rain the billions at the opportune moment. For the current year, the government is forecasting a $ 1.4 billion surplus, but everything suggests that in the next budget, this surplus will have increased and the government will announce more spending. We know the song! », Lamented the spokesperson.
Moreover, the government is trying to make us believe that it is making automatic the payment of the solidarity tax credit to all social assistance recipients entitled to it, barely a month after rejecting a motion by the government. Parti Québécois on this subject. “It&#39;s a hoax !, continued Martin Ouellet. Only the basic component, that is to say an amount of less than $ 300 per month, will be paid automatically this year. Nothing changes, however, for large amounts mainly related to where the person lives. Is the government telling us that it needs a tax return to find out if a person lives in a CHSLD or in a northern village, when it only has to look at the address on the check? &quot;
However, two weaknesses in the last budget have now been corrected. “First, the return to the single rate for subsidized childcare, at $ 8.25 per day. It was eagerly awaited; it means the abolition of the Liberal tax on families. Second, the widening of the supplement for handicapped children - the big missing from the spring budget. Moreover, it was the Parti Québécois which had signaled this &quot;oversight&quot;, and it was the parents of these children who forced the government to come to their senses, &quot;said Martin Ouellet.
The table below illustrates the liberal-Caquista maneuver:
