Saint-Patrice-de-Beaurivage– The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, participated in the announcement of the first phase of construction of Innoventé&#39;s new cogeneration plant . Innoventé&#39;s facilities, located in Saint-Patrice-de-Beaurivage, will allow the production of electricity through cogeneration from organic residues. It should be remembered that Investissement Québec supported the company by granting it loans totaling $ 5 million to carry out this $ 18 million project, which will create more than 30 new jobs.
“The economic future and wealth creation in Quebec depend on a green and sustainable economy,” said Minister Delegate Élaine Zakaïb. &quot;It is by supporting innovation and the manufacturing of green products that Quebec will stand out for its avant-garde in a world where competition is increasingly dynamic and the market increasingly concerned with the environment. . I salute the entrepreneurial spirit of the President of Innoventé, who has managed to bring such a promising process to commercialization. It represents a fine example of success in the green energy sector. &quot;
Thanks to its process, the company carries out the biological drying (bio-drying) of organic residues from the agricultural, industrial and municipal sectors. This unique and patented process developed by the Institute for Research and Development in Agri-Environment (IRDA) allows the production of a biofuel with high calorific potential serving as alternatives to fossil fuels. Thus, while producing green electricity, Innoventé provides a sustainable solution to the problems of waste management.
&quot;I am very proud that this avant-garde project is being carried out in a picturesque village in the MRC de Lotbinière, in the heart of the Appalachian region,&quot; said Agnès Maltais, Minister of Labor, Employment and Solidarity social and minister responsible for the Status of Women and the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions. “This clearly shows that innovation and green technologies have their place in rural areas as well as in large urban centers. It only takes the boldness and determination of an entrepreneur to start a business and generate jobs. &quot;
The President of Innoventé, Mr. Richard Painchaud, was delighted to finally see the results of his efforts. “The imminent production of our first kilowatt-hours is an important milestone for Innoventé,” he said. &quot;This required considerable investment, but, thanks to the support of financial partners such as Investissement Québec, we were able to carry out all stages of the project, thus allowing the creation of around thirty new quality jobs and others to come thanks to to our growth plans for the coming years. &quot;
The production of green energy by Innoventé in Saint-Patrice-de-Beaurivage is based on a 25-year electricity supply contract with Hydro-Québec. This is Innoventé&#39;s first factory. A second will see the light of day in Trois-Rivières in 2015.
Located in Quebec, Innoventé produces renewable energy by providing communities, thanks to its technology patented in Canada and the United States, a green and sustainable solution to the management of organic residues. Innoventé&#39;s shares are listed on the TSX Venture Exchange under the symbol IGE (TSXV: IGE). To learn more, visit www.innovente.ca.
