Montreal - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, supports the Urban Greenhouse project of Fermes Lufa Inc. This new venture is added to the Cycle-C3E Seed Fund portfolio. , part of the financing of which comes from Investissement Québec, which injected $ 16.5 million into it as main sponsor.
This fund intended for business start-ups, and managed by Cycle Capital Management, aims to strengthen the clean technology sector in Quebec. It is supported by managers who have recognized expertise in several areas essential to the creation of technology companies.
Active in the urban agriculture sector, Les Fermes Lufa inc. benefits from an investment of $ 1.3 million from the Cycle-C3E sec seed fund. This financial support will mainly be used to build two new farms in the Montreal region. His project consists of transforming roofs into market gardening. Thus, the leaders of Lufa Farms inc. were the first in the world to design a commercial greenhouse on the roof of a building. Located in Ahuntsic-Cartierville, this new model of responsible agriculture feeds nearly 2,000 people per week. This project is in fact part of the government&#39;s desire to achieve food sovereignty for Quebec.
“Les Fermes Lufa inc. is an innovative company that puts forward a unique project in line with the current trend of urban agriculture. This project combines cutting-edge energy efficiency technologies, computer technologies, agronomic knowledge and an evolving distribution system. Increasingly, organizations around the world are interested in clean technology. They are a means of growth and a source of efficiency, but also a competitive advantage. In this regard, I firmly believe that prosperous economic development depends on respect for the fundamental principles of sustainable development, ”said Minister Zakaïb.
A recent study produced by Écotech Québec, in collaboration with the Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec, shows that Québec has the necessary assets to succeed in the energy efficiency, biomass and residual materials sectors. .
“It is clear that Quebec can become a model in several sectors of activity related to green technologies. Like France and California, Quebec must commit to promoting the emergence of clean technologies to give an environmental component to its economy. The green economy involves projects such as Lufa Farms Inc., a project hailed by both the financial sector and environmentalists. By contributing financially to the start-up of businesses in the clean technology sector, Quebec has demonstrated that it is possible to reconcile economic growth and sustainable development, ”added Ms. Élaine Zakaïb.
