Quebec– The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, today presented the economic and financial update for fall 2013. The government will return to balanced budgets in 2015 thanks to a responsible approach , without any increase in taxes or levies, supported by the pursuit of rigorous control of expenditure and by the implementation of the Priority employment economic policy.
“It is fundamental for the economic and social development of Quebec to return to a balanced budget as soon as possible. That is why we have rigorously controlled spending. In addition, a shortfall in revenue makes it difficult to achieve a balanced budget from 2013-2014. In the current conjuncture, pursuing this objective dogmatically could only have been achieved at the cost of measures which would have been detrimental to economic growth. We are therefore making the responsible choice to postpone the deadline for a balanced budget to 2015, ”said Minister Marceau.
“Unlike the previous government, which missed its targets every year, we have regained control of public spending. For a second consecutive year, the government will meet its spending growth targets. This is the best performance of the last ten years. For 2013-2014, the level of program spending forecast in March 2013 will be respected to the nearest dollar. For the years 2014-2015 to 2016-2017, both the growth of program spending and that of consolidated spending are set at 2.0%, ”the Minister indicated.
“We have control over expenses, but it must be noted that the income is not there. Several factors explain this situation. First, Quebec&#39;s economic growth for 2013 will be lower than that forecast in last March&#39;s update, standing at 0.9% instead of 1.3%. This situation is part of a slower-than-expected recovery on a North American and global scale. In Quebec, this slowdown was accentuated by the tightening of mortgage rules imposed by the federal government, which led to a larger drop in housing starts than elsewhere in Canada. However, the main reason for the drop in income is the very low inflation observed in recent months. In addition, the higher than expected savings rate is leading to a slowdown in consumer spending. Finally, we observed an erosion of income related to consumption, following the two point increase in the Quebec sales tax. All of these factors have a downward effect on own-source revenue, ”explained the Minister.
In total, government revenues will be cut by $ 2.5 billion in 2013-2014 compared to what was forecast last March. To this will be added the impact of the new actuarial valuations on the retirement plans of the personnel of the public and parapublic sectors, which represents an additional pressure of $ 400 million on expenditure and $ 100 million on the service of the debt.
The government&#39;s financial framework forecasts deficits of $ 2.5 billion for 2013-2014 and $ 1.75 billion for 2014-2015. These shortfalls are entirely attributable to the drop in income. Budgetary balance will be achieved in 2015-2016. The government&#39;s plan to return to balanced budgets is based on two major elements. To act on the income column, the government has implemented an economic development policy that adds more than 43,000 jobs and supports 7.6 billion in investments to accelerate economic growth. Moreover, in order to act on the expenditure column, the government exercises a very demanding control of expenditure, which limits its growth to half of what it has been during the last ten years. In addition, the government excludes resorting to tax increases for individuals and businesses.
“In the context of a still fragile and uncertain global economy, it was out of the question to cut spending by $ 2.5 billion to achieve a balanced budget. This decrease would have resulted in a negative impact equivalent to 0.7% of GDP. It would have been just as irresponsible to increase the tax burden on Quebecers, ”said the Minister.
“Achieving Quebec&#39;s debt reduction objectives is essential to maintaining sound public finances to ensure economic growth and quality public services. The objective is maintained to reduce the gross debt to 45% of GDP and the debt representing accumulated deficits to 17% of GDP by 2025-2026. To meet these objectives, the impact of the additional deficits forecast on the debt will be fully offset by additional deposits in the Generations Fund from 2016-2017, ”announced the Minister.
Minister Marceau reiterated that job creation is at the heart of government action and is embodied in the implementation of the Economic Policy Priority Employment.
&quot;This policy, which provides for budgetary and fiscal measures of $ 2 billion, will strengthen the growth potential of the private sector by helping companies to diversify their products and gain new markets by banking on improving the competitiveness of companies. , innovation and exports. The budgetary and fiscal measures it contains will support the economy and will create more than 43,000 new quality jobs by 2017. In total, 116,800 new jobs are expected to be created over the next three years ”, specified the minister.
Minister Marceau concluded the presentation of Quebec&#39;s economic and financial update by announcing the launch of the 2014-2015 pre-budget consultations. &quot;We have to make a place for the population in the preparation of the budget so that the government can know its opinions, its ideas and its solutions to the issues we are facing,&quot; he said.
Quebecers are invited to come and find out more about the pre-budget consultations website at the following address: consultations.finances.gouv.qc.ca.
