Montreal - The Parti Québécois candidate for Rousseau&#39;s constituency and Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, denounces Philippe Couillard&#39;s resumption of the same old economic recipe that Jean Charest used, and which is based only on indebtedness.
“Nothing has changed in the Liberal Party. By wanting to spend 15 billion more in infrastructure, Philippe Couillard wants to beat Jean Charest&#39;s debt record. The previous Liberal government put Quebec in debt like no other government before it, increasing Quebec&#39;s total debt by a third. What is damaging in Quebec is corruption, collusion and indebtedness, a recipe that has already cost Quebecers dearly under Liberal rule, ”said Nicolas Marceau.
&quot;Two weeks ago, the candidate of Philippe Couillard, Carlos Leitao, praised the budget that I tabled by recalling our&quot; targeted support for private investment and job creation &quot;as well as our decision&quot; to obtain 50 % of profits linked to oil development &quot;. Today, Philippe Couillard maintains his opposition to the development of oil and proposes an economic program which is based 100% on borrowed money. The Liberal Party has no vision for the development of our economy, ”continued Mr. Marceau.
The Parti Québécois government has proposed a clear strategy for economic development and job creation: the Priority Employment economic policy, which is based in particular on research and innovation, industrial policy, foreign trade and transport electrification.
Among the measures proposed by the PLQ, the home renovation tax credit is a measure already implemented by the government. The same goes for the use of surplus electricity to attract investment. &quot;Obviously, the three new PLQ bankers have not brought new ideas to their party,&quot; added Nicolas Marceau.
Regarding the CAQ, Nicolas Marceau notes his despair; she is ready to say anything to deceive Quebec families.
“The CAQ&#39;s financial framework is riddled with errors. She wants to cut 35,000 imaginary jobs, which are not planned by the government. The financial framework of the 2014-2015 budget does not provide for any amount relating to the increase in the workforce in the public sector. Most of the leeway that François Legault claims to have does not exist. For example, over the past three years, there has been an increase of 1,000 jobs for the entire public sector. Mr. Legault wants to cut jobs that will not exist! », Lamented Nicolas Marceau.
“On top of that, the CAQ proposes to limit consolidated spending to 0.9%, which represents massive cuts in health and education. I ask Mr. Legault to have the courage to say that he will cut the health and education budget, that he will cut schools and the care that we give to patients ”, indicated Mr. Marceau.
Mr. Legault plans to cut the 276 million planned this year for the government&#39;s economic policy. It eliminates the electrification of transport, investments in forests and job creation, in addition to cutting tax credits for businesses. Which companies will he cut their tax credits for the current year? Why is he hiding this information from businesses and workers? », Nicolas Marceau concluded.
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
Watch the video &quot;Employment - The PLQ&#39;s fear campaign denied&quot;
