Quebec - Reacting to the economic update made available at the end of the afternoon, the member for Rousseau and official opposition spokesperson for economic development and finance, Nicolas Marceau, noted that Minister Raymond Bachand has given up doing the housework he had promised to do.
&quot;On reading the documents unveiled by the Minister of Finance, it is clear that the Liberal government is delaying its commitment to better manage its spending and will use the fruits of the bad agreement on the harmonization of taxes to compensate his inaction. In terms of budgetary and political choices, we will have seen better, ”said the member for Rousseau.
In fact, in his last budget, Raymond Bachand promised to consolidate public finances through genuine expenditure control and in particular committed to finding $ 1,325 million over the next two years. However, the minister, rather than respecting his commitment to make an effort, prefers to use the agreement on the harmonization of taxes. “A good manager would have poured in the money to eliminate the deficit and cleaned up. Minister Bachand prefers the easy, ”said Nicolas Marceau.
In addition, the minister confirmed the analysis of the member for Rousseau to the effect that the economic strategy of the Liberal government, based on debt and investment in public infrastructure, had reached its limits.
During his press conference, the minister admitted that, faced with weaker than expected economic growth and the possibility of an even more pronounced deterioration, the Liberal government was at the end of its resources since It will be impossible for it to further increase infrastructure spending, the only remedy put forward by the Liberal government in recent years to support the Quebec economy.
“To weather the latest recession, the Liberal government borrowed over $ 30 billion to stimulate the economy on credit. Today, Minister Bachand admitted that he had reached the limit of this strategy and that he had no other plan. It&#39;s worrying, ”concluded Nicolas Marceau.
