Quebec - As the fall parliamentary session begins today, the MNA for Saint-Jérôme and leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, once again called on Prime Minister Philippe Couillard on the need and urgency of put in place measures that will stimulate economic development and job creation in Quebec, and that will create wealth so that the cuts, particularly in education, stop.
“This summer, the economic situation in Quebec has continued to deteriorate, particularly in terms of employment. Since last June, Quebec has 13,600 more unemployed. The reason for this continued decline is quite simple: the government has no job creation strategy. To help it find possible solutions, I therefore ask it once again to summon, as quickly as possible, the main architects of Quebec&#39;s economic development to a summit meeting, ”reiterated the leader of the official opposition.
Pierre Karl Péladeau also recalled that at the end of the first three months of the 2015 fiscal year, Quebec&#39;s deficit stood at $ 675 million. However, to compensate for this shortfall, instead of presenting a real economic and industrial policy that would increase our income, the Prime Minister has decided to cut what is most important for a community: education. “I invite the Prime Minister to start thinking about ways to create wealth in Quebec. Governing is not just about making cuts and increasing taxes and tariffs to balance the budget; instead, good government will act on the revenue column to stimulate growth and avoid weakening taxpayers. He must also go and seek all the income that is within his reach; for example, how come the Liberals have not yet tackled the tax losses associated with online shopping, as the retail industry has long claimed? Wouldn&#39;t that be a good start? &quot;, he added.
&quot;Will the Prime Minister continue his ideological cuts which suffocate families and jeopardize the future of an entire generation, or has he taken advantage of the summer to prepare a real development policy, which will whip up the economy and job creation, and who will enrich Quebecers? », Asked, in closing, the leader of the official opposition.
