Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu– The MNA for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, accompanied by the MNA for Labelle and Chairman of the Official Opposition Caucus, Sylvain Pagé, as well as the MNA for Saint-Jean and President of the Montérégie regional caucus, Dave Turcotte, gave an overview of the parliamentary wing caucus, which was held in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu.
Stéphane Bédard strongly denounced the wait-and-see attitude and inaction of the Liberals on all fronts, particularly with regard to the economy and job creation. “The Prime Minister hesitates, says a lot of words and never acts. He stays in his office and waits for the liberal effect to arrive. It must come out of its hibernation and act for economic development, ”he said.
“The impacts of liberal austerity are being felt everywhere; families and local development, in particular, are paying the price. We have seen it here, in Montérégie, and members are seeing it in all regions of Quebec. The government is doing nothing, proposing nothing to stimulate the economy and create jobs. Day after day, month after month, the numbers confirm it. The Liberals are the champions of job losses, ”he added.
Stéphane Bédard noted, moreover, that Quebec has the worst employment record in Canada. In short, since the Liberals came to power, 18,000 jobs have been lost in Quebec, while 54,000 have been created in Ontario. In addition, the ISQ announced today that Quebec&#39;s GDP fell 0.4% in October. We are therefore talking about two drops in the last three months. Finally, yesterday, we learned that Quebec exports fell by 11.5% in November (the last month measured); this fall is much more marked than in the rest of Canada.
“Our priorities are unchanged. We will fight for job creation, we will defend workers, we will propose actions to fight fundamentalism, we will be vigilant so that the wealth is well distributed and we will support families who are constantly the target of policies. of liberal-Caquist austerity, ”continued Stéphane Bédard.
The same liberal inaction on the issue of religious fundamentalism
“We have presented our intention to introduce a bill to create an observatory of religious fundamentalism, in order to understand and document the phenomenon, and to prevent the radicalization of people at risk. Fatima Houda-Pepin wanted this debate to be non-partisan; we are therefore reaching out to the government, because it is urgent to act. We must not wait for other tragic events to occur, ”concluded the leader of the official opposition.
