Quebec– Rousseau MP and Official Opposition Finance and Revenue Critic Nicolas Marceau denounces the Liberal government, which is applying the perfect little guide to what not to do when economic growth grows is not there, that is to say raising taxes, while job losses continue in all regions.
“This is the first time in a long time that the Minister of Finance has forecast a net drop in employment, ie a loss of 1,600 jobs for this year, instead of the 31,300 new jobs planned. The liberal effect is indeed negative; its positive side only existed in the reality of Prime Minister Philippe Couillard, far from people. The finance minister&#39;s economic update confirms the poor performance of the Liberal Party in terms of the economy. The financial framework for last June&#39;s budget completely collapsed. The government is making absolutely nothing for the recovery of the economy and stimulating job creation. The tax increases of $ 600 million announced today, in addition to the increase in childcare service fees, will have to compensate for the total lack of growth, ”declared Nicolas Marceau.
Nearly half a billion increase in the tax burden for families “It&#39;s the good old Liberal recipe: the drop in own-source revenue is offset by an increase in taxes. After attacking families by increasing childcare fees by $ 193 million, the tax burden on individuals is increased by $ 262 million. Families, young people, motorists, in particular, will pay for the government&#39;s poor economic performance. It tightens the work premium, fetching $ 29 million from the pockets of young people and students. It cuts the tax credit for union and professional dues, which are mandatory: an increase in personal income taxes of $ 112 million. And that&#39;s without counting the tax increases for insurance companies and financial institutions, which will have direct repercussions in the pockets of taxpayers, ”added the spokesperson.
No plan for the recovery of the economy The government took Luc Godbout&#39;s tax report and put it in the trash before it was published. He gave a flawed mandate to the Quebec Taxation Review Commission and sowed uncertainty since June. He therefore admits that he was wrong, even though he hardly touches the tax credits for businesses. He admits it was a bad measure and that last June&#39;s 20% parametric cuts hurt SMEs and job creation.
“The government offers nothing to the regions or to entrepreneurs to stimulate job creation. The only vision he has is austerity, an idea stolen from the CAQ. What is more, the Liberal government tried to charge $ 300 million in spending to the Parti Québécois government, to deliberately blacken the picture; the audited public accounts confirm the liberal fiddling with public finances, ”concluded Nicolas Marceau.
