The official opposition spokesperson for health, access to care and home support, Diane Lamarre, as well as the spokesperson for school perseverance and primary and secondary education, Carole Poirier, confirmed the support of the Parti Québécois for the Manifesto of Children and Youth Against Bullying and Violence in Quebec Schools. A petition to this effect, sponsored by Diane Lamarre, was also tabled in the House today. The four instigators of this petition - Nancy Woods, Véronique Perrault, Christine Gingras and Sonia Grenon -, as well as Nancy Gagnon, coordinator of the Regroupement des organisms ESPACE du Québec, and many signatories of the Manifesto accompanied the deputies during a press activity. .
IN SHORT
“It is an honor for me to present this petition. It is time to consider bullying in school for what it really is: a major problem that has long-term impacts on the health and well-being of the young people who experience it. We therefore join the voice of the Parti Québécois to that of personalities and organizations from all walks of life calling on the government to act - the Fondation du Dr Julien, the Fondation Jasmin Roy, the organization Together for the respect of diversity, youth author Louis Émond, the City of Saint-Bruno, the Association of Retirees and Retirees from Education and Other Public Services of Quebec and the Syndicat de Champlain, to name just a few, ”listed Diane Lamarre.
“Bullying and violence destroy lives. In the public, in the private, wherever they are, children have the right to safety and dignity. This is, in particular, what the Manifesto calls for. He also pleads in favor of the regular holding of awareness-raising workshops in schools, for young people as well as for adults, as well as a real empowerment of aggressors. To work, however, these actions must be overseen by the government; because the only way to overcome bullying and violence in schools is to tackle it all together, collectively. To make it a &quot;state affair&quot;, &quot;added Carole Poirier.
