Laval - “I have a lot of admiration for Marc Demers, he who has held the fort in Laval-des-Rapides for several years as an activist, but also as a candidate. He was ready to go into battle again because he is a man of conviction, an exemplary man, a devoted activist of the Parti Québécois and of the sovereignist project. The gesture that Marc Demers is taking today, by giving up his place and offering his full support to the new candidate for Laval-des-Rapides, honors him deeply. It is because he believes in the Parti Québécois, in the strength of the team and in the youth of Quebec. &quot;
This was declared at a press conference by the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, alongside Marc Demers, announcing that Léo Bureau-Blouin will be the candidate of the Parti Québécois in the riding of Laval-des-Rapides in view of the next general election.
“Léo Bureau-Blouin particularly distinguished himself last spring during the events that marked Quebec. Quebecers have seen to what extent, through his aplomb, his intelligence and his common sense, he embodies this fiery youth who believes in the potential of the new generation and in equal opportunities. Without a shadow of a doubt, he has the makings of a true leader and I am delighted to see him join the Parti Québécois team, a solid team that is being built day by day and that wishes to offer its experience. and his dedication to Quebecers, ”said Pauline Marois.
For his part, Marc Demers explained his choice to give way to a new candidate. “This decision is mine and I fully assume it. I took it with the members of the executive because we believe that Léo Bureau-Blouin, by joining the Parti Québécois team in Laval-des-Rapides, will be a major asset for Pauline Marois&#39; team and for all the activists who aspire to a prosperous, united and free Quebec. Without any hesitation, we will support Léo in order to put an end to the liberal regime and offer a breath of fresh air to Laval residents, but also to all Quebecers, ”said Marc Demers.
For his part, the new Laval-des-Rapides candidate, Léo Bureau-Blouin, made the decision to go into politics because he believes that Quebec deserves better than cynicism and social inequalities, two things that characterize the Liberal Party of Quebec. “The values of the Parti Québécois agree with me and with Pauline Marois and all her team, I choose to build a fairer, greener and stronger Quebec on the international scene. With the people of Laval-des-Rapides, I want to help improve the quality of our schools, develop our infrastructure, and increase the efficiency of our health system. I want Quebec to become a country and I want to build a more participatory democracy, ”said Léo Bureau-Blouin.
“We can tell, Quebeckers are thirsty for change. They want an honest government, a government that listens to them, a government that defends the collective interest rather than private interests. They want a talented, dedicated team that combines youth and experience. The Parti Québécois is there for them, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
