Saint-Jean-de-Matha– In the company of the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, and several deputies gathered in caucus in Joliette, the members of the Parti Québécois de Berthier again appointed the current deputy André Villeneuve to represent in the next election campaign.
“I have rarely seen a member as well established as André in his constituency. He knows everyone, or almost everyone, and he is known personally by everyone, or almost everyone. His experience as a former mayor of the municipality of Lanoraie and his in-depth knowledge of the municipal world make him a valuable asset for our team. As responsible for regional development and land use matters, he does vital work for Quebec. I need André Villeneuve in my team, the Parti Québécois needs him, Quebec needs him, ”said Pauline Marois.
Deputies, members and supporters of the party responded with fervor and enthusiasm to the unifying speeches of their leader and the deputy for Berthier. André Villeneuve underlined the importance of joining forces to achieve sovereignty. “Sovereignty is always the target to be reached. The objective that René Lévesque inscribed in the constitution of our political formation, sovereignty will grant us the levers necessary for the achievement of our full development and our full emancipation. And to achieve this goal, we still, and more than ever, need all of us to look and move in the same direction. We have a historic duty to come together since this cause transcends all inclinations, all personal ambitions, all dissensions. This is our common denominator. We have the best team to move Quebec forward. We have the best leader to lead this team and lead Quebec ”.
“The stake for the next campaign will be clear. Who will form the best team to embody the change Quebeckers want? Who will form the most honest team and whose sole objective will be the defense of the interests of Quebecers? This team, it is the Parti Québécois which will present it and it is to it that Quebecers will place their trust, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
