Lévis - In the wake of the 2013-2017 Transportation Electrification Strategy, the Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, today launched Branché au travail, a program to install electrical terminals in the workplace. Within three years, this program will contribute to the installation of 3,500 terminals in workplaces as well as the deployment of electric vehicles both within company vehicle fleets and in employee cars.
“Many of us are hoping for the day when it will be usual to see electric cars on the roads of Quebec. The Quebec government is determined to make this dream a reality. We believe in it and we act accordingly, ”said Martine Ouellet.
Thus, companies, municipalities or organizations that acquire and install a charging station before December 31, 2016, will be able to benefit from financial assistance covering 75% of the eligible costs for the acquisition and installation of an electric terminal in an environment. work up to a maximum of $ 5,000 per terminal. The program provides that recharging will be offered free of charge to employees of the organizations concerned. The Branché au travail program will promote the introduction of electric vehicles in Quebec and help reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in the transportation sector.
&quot;On behalf of the Desjardins Group, I welcome the decision of the Government of Quebec,&quot; said Ms. Pauline D&#39;Amboise, Vice-President, Governance, Social Responsibility and General Secretariat. Last October, as part of the consultation on Quebec&#39;s energy future, we wanted programs to support businesses and individuals in the transition to electric vehicles, including the establishment of infrastructure such as charging stations. loading. The Branché au travail program is therefore timely and we will be promoting it to our caisses and subsidiaries for the benefit of their employees. We believe that this is an effective lever for reaching critical masses of electric vehicles in the various regions of Quebec. Desjardins already has charging stations at the Desjardins complex in Montreal, at six caisses and, shortly, the Cité Desjardins de la Coopération in Lévis will be added.
Still in the fight against GHGs, Ms. D&#39;Amboise reminds that Desjardins Insurance grants its customers insurance discounts of 10% for hybrid vehicles to 20% for electric cars. In addition, its Ajusto program results in reduced fuel consumption through greener driving.
The Transportation Electrification Strategy provides for the deployment of 10,000 new electrical terminals throughout Quebec. To the 3,500 electric terminals announced today as part of Branché au travail, 1,000 electric terminals in government establishments and 500 electric terminals as part of the Electric Circuit will be added. In addition, 5,000 additional terminals will be added in the residential sector through the Roulez Électrique program.
&quot;The electrification of transportation will have very positive spinoffs for all of Quebec and will not only reduce our GHG emissions and our oil consumption, but will create value-added structuring jobs, both for the Quebec market and for the of export. This is why our government wants to make Quebec a world leader in this area, ”indicated Martine Ouellet.
More than $ 500 million will be allocated to encourage the electrification of transportation in Quebec. With its Transportation Electrification Strategy, the Quebec government wants to stimulate economic development and create quality jobs in all regions of Quebec. In addition to improving the supply of electric public transport, the use of electric vehicles as well as research and innovation will be encouraged. It should be noted that these actions will help reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 25% by 2020.
