Montreal– The leader of the Parti Québécois today announced the candidacy of Dr. Réjean Hébert for the nomination of the party in the riding of Saint-François for the next election campaign. “I am very happy to be able to count on Réjean once again. He is a doctor recognized by his peers and by the population. At a time when health is one of the priorities of Quebecers, her candidacy adds significant experience and knowledge to our team, ”said Pauline Marois.
“I choose the Parti Québécois because it is the party that best meets the needs of Quebeckers. I choose the Parti Québécois because it is the only one capable of responding to Quebeckers&#39; desire for change. I choose the Parti Québécois because Pauline Marois is the most apt and the most competent to lead Quebec, ”added Réjean Hébert.
Réjean Hébert is a geriatrician, gerontologist and epidemiologist. He was the dean of the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences at the University of Sherbrooke from 2004 to 2010. He was the founding director of the Center for Research on Aging at the Institut universitaire de gériatrie de Sherbrooke, Quebec Network for Research on Aging and the Institute of Aging of the Canadian Institutes of Health Research. He designed and validated the Functional Autonomy Measurement System (SMAF) to measure the needs of the elderly and disabled. He heads the PRISMA group (Research Program on the Integration of Autonomy Maintenance Services) which has developed and validated an original model of service coordination that improves the efficiency of the health system, while preventing the loss of autonomy. autonomy of the elderly. He was the co-chair of the public consultation on the living conditions of seniors in 2007.
During the last year, he was scientific advisor to the National Solidarity Fund for Autonomy where he studied European systems for financing long-term care. He also acted as an international expert in the debate on dependency set up by the President of the French Republic. In addition to being a professor at the University of Sherbrooke and a researcher at the Center for Research on Aging of the Institut universitaire de gériatrie de Sherbrooke, he now acts as a medical consultant at the Institut national de santé publique du Québec and with of the Quebec Health and Welfare Commissioner.
“Réjean Hébert is a competent and committed man to improve our health system and adapt our society to the needs of seniors. He embodies the determination and daring that characterize our party. He joins the real team for change, a team of men and women from all walks of life with steadfast convictions. A team that will offer a government at the service of Quebecers for Quebecers, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
