Montreal - The leader of the Parti Québécois today welcomed into her team of candidates the well-known ecologist and founder of the Maîtres chez nous - 21st century group, Daniel Breton. “I am delighted that Daniel Breton is joining my team. His experience, his convictions and his notoriety make him a major candidate, ”said Pauline Marois.
“If I join the Parti Québécois, it is because I believe that Pauline Marois is the most honest and the best leader to lead Quebec and achieve energy independence. Inspired by the great project initiated by René Lévesque and Jean Lesage entitled Maîtres chez nous, I founded the company Maîtres chez nous - 21st century with a group of experts in energy, economy and transport so that we do phase 2 which will lead us to control our energy future. Quebecers must enrich themselves thanks to 21st century energy projects initiated by Quebecers. As Jean Charest betrayed both the heritage of Jean Lesage and René Lévesque and the people of Quebec by dispossessing us of control over our resources in order to benefit some to the detriment of all Quebecers, j &#39;I decided to go and implement phase 2 of the Masters here with those who support this vision: the Parti Québécois and Pauline Marois, ”said Daniel Breton.
Former director of the Quebec Association for the Fight against Atmospheric Pollution, Daniel Breton is a long-time activist. Co-founder of the Green Party of Quebec, important activist in the Suroît, Bécancour and Rabaska issues within the QuebecKyoto coalition, he is now president of the Maîtres chez nous - 21e siècle group which is interested in energy issues. and transport. He has notably collaborated with the newspaper Le Devoir and Radio-Canada.
“The real team for change is the Parti Québécois that offers it. At the time of the election campaign, we will present the best team, a team made up of men and women from all walks of life with steadfast convictions. What we will offer Quebeckers is a government at the service of Quebeckers for Quebeckers, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
