Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, and the Parliamentary Assistant to the Premier - transportation electrification component, Daniel Breton, announces the allocation of financial assistance of $ 675,000 to Autobus Lion Inc. for a project to develop a fully electric school bus. This project is in the wake of the Priority employment economic policy and the Transport electrification strategy, recently made public by the government.
“Our government wants to make Quebec a world leader in transportation electrification. This is a milestone in the economic development of Quebec. By allowing projects like this one to see the light of day, we are investing in all of Quebec. In fact, it is about growing our economy using less oil and more electricity. Quebec has everything it takes to get there. We have the incomparable advantage of being able to count on clean, renewable and relatively inexpensive energy, ”said Pauline Marois.
The Lion Bus Inc. project, funded by the Innovation Energy Efficiency Program of the Ministère des Ressources naturelles, consists of developing and operating, in real operating conditions, a fully electric school bus. The company wishes to prove the technical feasibility and the economic viability of this motorization technology. She also wants to document the benefits from a massive commercialization perspective. Thanks to projects like this one, an annual reduction of more than 44,800 tonnes of GHG emissions would be obtained, thus removing the equivalent of some 13,000 cars from the roads of Quebec.
The electric school bus will be built on the chassis of a vehicle currently marketed by Autobus Lion inc., A 72-seat type C bus. This is particularly distinguished by its body made of composite materials, which increase its lifespan and reduce its weight, as well as a wider interior of 15 cm, which results in more spacious seats and a central aisle. more airy.
With the help of three Quebec partners, namely TM4, B3CG Interconnect and the National Advanced Transport Center, Autobus Lion inc. will develop an engine allowing it to reach a range of around 90 km. A mid-day recharge will bring this range to 180 km daily. As for energy consumption, the bus will use 8,000 liters less diesel annually than a conventional bus. Finally, Autobus Lion estimates that over the next few years, the market potential should gradually increase to reach 250 buses annually in 2018.
“The Lion Bus project is part of the Transportation Electrification Strategy announced by the Premier on November 1st. This initiative demonstrates, once again, that sustainable development goes hand in hand with economic development and that we must take advantage of Quebec&#39;s electrical know-how, ”said Daniel Breton.
“We can be proud of Autobus Lion. With this project, Quebec could produce the first electric school bus in North America. Our government intends to continue supporting such visionary and dynamic entrepreneurs who showcase Quebec know-how, ”Minister Martine Ouellet concluded.
