Quebec - As the Liberal government launches its 2015-2020 Transportation Electrification Action Plan, the Member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the Member for Vachon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in terms of transport and electrification of transport, Martine Ouellet, deplore the lack of ambition of the Liberal Party, which presents a plan half as ambitious for Quebec than that proposed by the Marois government.
“Our expectations were high, after the Liberal government&#39;s nearly 18-month procrastination. It has completely cut in half the budget dedicated to the electrification of transport in its policy, compared to the strategy presented by the Marois government. In fact, we were injecting more than half a billion dollars, or $ 516 million over 3 years, to stimulate the electrification of transportation. It was therefore an investment of $ 172 million per year. The Liberal government has decided to invest $ 420 million over 5 years, which is equivalent to only $ 84 million per year. Obviously, he did not understand that the transportation electrification project constitutes a major economic development potential for Quebec and its businesses, ”explained Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“The Liberal government is dangling with Quebecers that there will be 100,000 electric vehicles on the roads of Quebec in 2020. We are currently at nearly 7,500 vehicles, and this action plan does nothing more than what was already in place for electric vehicle owners. With the $ 8,000 rebate granted, if the Liberal government really wanted to achieve its goal of 100,000 vehicles, it would have to invest more than $ 750 million to achieve it, proof that this plan does not have the means to meet its ambitions ” , added Martine Ouellet.
Moreover, the Liberal action plan is muddled on the adoption of a zero emission bill. The Prime Minister was unable to move forward on a deadline and made the zero emission standard conditional on the will of other partners. “We will never be able to achieve real results under these conditions. We see that the Liberal government is setting fine goals, but is not taking the necessary measures to achieve them. We are simply asking him to call the zero emission bill tabled by the Parti Québécois last spring, ”said the leader of the official opposition.
Finally, in what is announced, there is no clear signal about the extension of the blue line of the Montreal metro, and studies and other studies on the SLR are still planned. “True to form, the Liberal government is doing great marketing. It leaves the idea of long-term benefits hovering, without however joining real investments to obtain them. Quebec can and must be more ambitious, because the electrification of transport is a promising axis for its future, ”concluded Martine Ouellet.
