Montreal - Parti Québécois candidates Bernard Drainville (Marie-Victorin) and Nicolas Marceau (Rousseau) denounce the attitude of the leader of the Coalition Avenir Québec, who refused to tell Quebeckers the truth last night during the leaders&#39; debate. Pressed with questions by the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, François Legault had to admit on the lips that he was taking over the electricity rate increases planned by the Liberal government.
As soon as the debate was over, the CAQ candidate in Chauveau, Gérard Deltell, confirmed that a possible Caquist government would increase electricity rates by arbitrarily unfreezing the heritage pool of Hydro-Quebec. This is an increase of $ 1.6 billion in total, an increase of $ 377 per year, per family. “Quebecers have been overtaxed by the government of Jean Charest since 2003 with excessive price increases. This is unacceptable. Families need oxygen, ”exclaimed Nicolas Marceau, denouncing the words of the head of the CAQ, who nevertheless swore not to want to increase taxes and tariffs.
The Parti Québécois is committed to maintaining the freezing of electricity rates for the heritage pool during its mandate. Instead, we will use additional mining royalties obtained through the application of a new, more demanding mining regime to increase the effort to repay the debt.
“Why did François Legault want to hide these rate increases yesterday during the debate, even if they appear in his financial framework? The CAQ, like the Liberals, wants to increase electricity rates from the heritage pool of Hydro-Quebec, protected from any increase since 2000. Why has François Legault not told Quebeckers the truth? “Added Bernard Drainville, wondering how François Legault can say that Quebecers are too taxed, while wanting to impose a new increase in tariffs. It&#39;s just not believable.
“Quebecers are already taxed enough. It is time to let them breathe and keep the rates as they are, as we are proposing. In the meantime, François Legault must explain why he refused to tell Quebecers the truth last night, ”concluded Bernard Drainville.
