Quebec - Stéphane Bergeron, the member for Verchères and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of Quebec-Canada relations and the Francophonie in America, called on the Minister responsible for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs and La Francophonie this morning at the Salon Bleu Canadian, Jean-Marc Fournier. The objective was to warn the pan-Canadian parties against the temptation to make commitments proposing to encroach on Quebec&#39;s jurisdiction, in this context of the federal election campaign.
“I took part in four federal election campaigns and I followed several others, but this one is more than ever the theater of promises in fields under the exclusive competences of Quebec. We are witnessing an escalation between Thomas Mulcair, Stephen Harper and Justin Trudeau who, one after the other, offer programs that encroach on our jurisdiction, providing, it seems, funds available for Quebec, but only on their terms. What does the government of Quebec intend to do to prevent these intrusions? », Stéphane Bergeron asked the Liberal minister.
The NDP, even more than the others, made specific commitments affecting Quebec&#39;s jurisdiction, particularly in health and social services. “Investments in home care, creation of long-term care spaces, improvement of access to palliative care, hiring of thousands of health professionals… the objectives are certainly laudable, but Canada does not have to dictate its priorities in Quebec. When we know that the NDP spokesperson said he wanted the federal government to play a leadership role in the health sector, we have to admit that our concerns are legitimate. The government of Philippe Couillard must make Quebec&#39;s voice heard and warn the federal parties that we will defend our skills tooth and nail! Added the member for Verchères.
Stéphane Bergeron also believes that the method used by the Liberals to assert the wishes of Quebec is not bringing any results. “In 2008, Jean Charest sent a letter containing 14 requests to federal political parties; only one was heard. This failure led Minister Pierre Moreau to say in 2011 that sending a list of demands to party leaders was an &quot;outdated formula&quot;; is that the reason why, this time around, the requests were so timid as the responses were too? Where are the concrete actions to assert Quebec&#39;s demands? », He concluded.
