Montreal - The leader of the Parti Québécois today announced the candidacy of the agricultural specialist, André D. Beaudoin, for the party&#39;s nomination in the riding of Laviolette for the next election campaign. “I am very happy to welcome a candidate of the quality of André D. Beaudoin to my team. His knowledge of the agricultural world and his experience will be an incredible asset for Quebecers. With André Simard and Marie Bouillé, he will complete an already very solid agricultural team, ”said Pauline Marois.
“Many challenges await Quebec in the agricultural sector as in all fields. I chose the Parti Québécois because it has the best team to meet all the challenges that lie ahead. I chose the Parti Québécois because it has the best leader to lead Quebec and make the changes Quebeckers expect from their leaders. I am making the leap into politics in particular because Quebeckers need more than ever to regain confidence in their elected representatives and in their institutions. I want to help fight cynicism, ”added André D. Beaudoin.
Secretary General of UPA Développement International, he has been a grain-fed calf breeder and grain producer for over 30 years. A graduate of the Institut de technologie agroalimentaire de Saint-Hyacinthe, he was president of the Fédération des unions de gestion du Québec for seven years and a member of the executive of the Confederation of the Union des producteurs agricoles (UPA) for four years. .
In 1992-1993, Mr. Beaudoin was responsible and cooperating for the first UPA project abroad in Dédougou in Burkina Faso. From 1994 to 2006, he was Director General of UPA Développement international. In his professional context, Mr. Beaudoin has participated in several overseas missions. Its involvement in international cooperation and in peasant-to-peasant solidarity with countries in West Africa and Latin America has earned it a significant place among groups of peasants on the land. He has given several conferences and signed a number of publications on the place of agriculture in international trade. He is also the author of four books.
“André D. Beaudoin embodies the determination, competence and daring that characterize our party. He joins the real team for change, a team of men and women from all walks of life with steadfast convictions. A team that will offer a government at the service of Quebecers for Quebecers, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
