Quebec - The member for Saint-Jérôme and leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the member for Saint-Jean and spokesperson for employment, vocational training, literacy and youth, Dave Turcotte, the member for Chicoutimi and spokesperson for the economy, entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports, Stéphane Bédard, as well as the member for Rousseau and spokesperson for finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, deplore economic stagnation since the Liberal government came to power. They are asking the Prime Minister to hold a major forum on the economy and jobs.
“This is Quebec&#39;s worst performance since May 2005. The Liberal government is breaking its own record for mediocrity. The Prime Minister must pull himself together. We must be more efficient in order to move Quebec forward. The development of the North and the Maritime Strategy will not be sufficient and will have no impact in the short and medium terms. I reiterate my offer to cooperate with the Prime Minister, he must bring together all the players to endow Quebec with a real full employment policy, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“Employment has stagnated in Quebec since the Liberals came to power in April 2014, when barely 7,600 jobs were created. During the same period, 163,000 jobs were created in the rest of Canada. Where is their election promise to create 250,000 jobs? », Continued Stéphane Bédard.
“The stagnation of the economy must end. Job losses in several sectors of the economy are piling up without the government reacting. Women and men who lose their jobs live in difficult situations and must be supported, ”added Dave Turcotte.
MEPs also note that the unemployment rate drops from 7.6% to 8.0%, in addition to a drop in the activity rate (0.4%) and the employment rate (0.5%) .
“Liberal austerity and the economic inaction of this government are the causes of the decline in economic growth. The cuts are piling up; there is no economic development policy and the tools for economic consultation in the regions have been weakened. The government must pull itself together and bring together all the stakeholders so that we have a real economic development policy, ”Nicolas Marceau concluded.
