Quebec - The leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the Parti Québécois spokesperson for finances and revenue, Nicolas Marceau, the spokesperson for the economy, energy and natural resources, Alain Therrien, as well as the spokesperson for employment and social economy, Dave Turcotte, deplore the fact that under the liberal reign, Quebec finds itself in a situation of stagnation of the job market.
“Employment in Quebec has been stagnant since the start of 2015. While the Prime Minister dangled better days for us, it is clear that, once again, it is only a question of magical thinking. In two years of Liberal government, only 46,100 jobs have been created. This is not even half of what the Prime Minister promised during the election campaign. Again and again, we are witnessing the consequences of liberal laissez-faire in terms of the economy, which are felt in all regions, ”lamented Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“We can see that Quebec is stagnating: 3,400 jobs were created in February, which is lower than Statistics Canada&#39;s standard error! There was therefore no real job creation in Quebec in February. It will soon be a year since not a single job was created in Quebec! », Added Nicolas Marceau.
Every day, the Liberal government moves further away from its promise to create 250,000 jobs. “Since the beginning of 2016, it&#39;s been a slaughter! Unfortunately, the bad news is piling up, especially with the death of projects such as FerroAtlántica, Stolt LNGaz and IFFCO. Just yesterday, we learned that there were 187 layoffs at Davie, and this time the government is directly responsible. Add to this the following job losses: 2,400 at Bombardier, 200 at Rio Tinto, 200 at Bell Helicopter, 934 in the pharmacy network, 120 at Colabor, 140 at Transcontinental, 148 at Tembec ”, enumerated Alain Therrien.
“The Quebec economy needs an electric shock; everyone recognizes it except the Liberal government! All over Quebec, families are suffering the consequences of liberal inertia. The government is doing nothing to rekindle the hope of workers and their families, ”concluded Dave Turcotte.
