Quebec - As Quebec continues to lose full-time jobs, Official Opposition Leader Pierre Karl Péladeau, Parti Québécois Finance and Revenue Critic Nicolas Marceau, economy, Alain Therrien, and the spokesperson for employment and social economy, Dave Turcotte, deplore the complete inaction of the Liberal government making the economic gloom persist.
“We are a long way from the Prime Minister&#39;s campaign promise to create 250,000 jobs. In December, we lost another 9,700 full-time jobs. Since last April, Quebec has lost 1,500 jobs. During the same period, the rest of Canada created 116,200 and Ontario, 77,900. We have repeatedly proposed to the Prime Minister to bring together all the players in society to remedy the situation. We need leadership, which Philippe Couillard does not currently offer at all, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
Note also that Quebec has 9,100 more unemployed since the arrival of the Liberal government. “The unemployment rate rose to 7.8% in December, increasing the number of unemployed by 18,800 for that month alone. In all regions, jobs are being lost. Despite this, the Prime Minister remains inactive. Liberal promises are gone, but the damage remains. And it is the citizens who pay the price, ”added Nicolas Marceau.
“Everyone in Quebec says we need an economic plan, except the Prime Minister and his supposed economic team. No one in this government is exercising economic leadership. Even the former liberal ministers Nathalie Normandeau and Michel Audet deplored the incapacity of the government of Philippe Couillard in economic matters. The only Liberal plan in this area after more than a year and a half of governance is the Plan Nord and its 6 administrative jobs created on the North Shore: a dismal failure! “, Continued Alain Therrien.
“More and more Quebec workers are unemployed, and are paying for this government&#39;s lack of a structuring vision to stimulate employment. The Liberals are even going so far as to cut employment assistance measures! When will the attacks on workers, job seekers and the most vulnerable in Quebec end? », Concluded Dave Turcotte.
