Quebec - The Leader of the Official Opposition and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, the Parti Québécois Finance and Revenue Spokesperson and Rousseau Member of Parliament, Nicolas Marceau, the Economy Critic and Member of Parliament de Sanguinet, Alain Therrien, as well as the spokesperson for employment and MP for Saint-Jean, Dave Turcotte, urge Prime Minister Philippe Couillard to face the finding corroborated by the employment figures for the month of July : the job market in Quebec is doing badly, very badly.
Statistics Canada confirms that 4,000 jobs were lost in Quebec in July. This report is the result of the creation of 15,400 part-time jobs, but combined with the disappearance of 19,500 full-time positions. “Let us remember: in May, the Prime Minister loudly congratulated himself on the jobs created. However, in June and July, Quebec lost nearly 47,000 full-time jobs; Philippe Couillard is now less quick to broach the subject. However, it is now that he must act and implement concrete and energetic actions, ”explained Sylvain Gaudreault.
“Just over 40,000 jobs have been created in Quebec in nearly two and a half years of Liberal government. We are far from the electoral promise to create 250,000! How does the Prime Minister plan, with these disturbing figures, to keep his word and create wealth in Quebec? At the end of the last parliamentary session, he congratulated himself on his so-called economic prowess. Is he still so proud? “, For his part asked Nicolas Marceau.
“Quebec&#39;s economic development is stagnating. There are fewer jobs at the moment than in December 2015 and, as the Prime Minister does not seem to have a solution to propose, no improvement in this area is to be expected. As proof, Olymel announced this morning that it would soon be cutting 340 jobs at its Saint-Hyacinthe plant ”, for his part illustrated Alain Therrien.
“What we hear on the ground every day is unequivocal: young people, families, people in the regions, all Quebecers want the government to act forcefully and without delay to stimulate the creation of good jobs, that is, that is, paying and stable jobs throughout the country. But, for now, the Liberals have nothing but wind to offer them, ”concluded Dave Turcotte.
