Quebec - The Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the MNA for René-Lévesque, Martin Ouellet, called on Liberal Premier Philippe Couillard about the changes made to the employment insurance plan in the last federal budget : Quebec workers who lose their jobs have been completely forgotten.
“The decline of the manufacturing industry in Quebec continues with complete indifference from the federal government. Manufacturing employment is at its lowest in 40 years. Factories are closing, the forestry industry is struggling, and the federal government is not doing its part. In terms of employment insurance, the changes made favor Canada and neglect Quebec. Despite everything, the Prime Minister is still standing there doing nothing to improve the lot of workers here in Quebec, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“For Ottawa, the loss of 160,000 manufacturing jobs and 20,000 forestry jobs in Quebec doesn&#39;t count. Can Premier Couillard tell forestry workers who have lost their jobs in Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean, his region, why his government does not say anything when they are left behind? However, it should demand the same treatment for workers in Quebec as that enjoyed by workers in the twelve regions favored by the federal government, ”he added.
In the last federal budget, employment insurance benefits were extended up to 20 weeks for twelve regions of Canada whose economy is based on commodities: Newfoundland, Sudbury, Calgary, northern l &#39;Alberta, southern Alberta, northern British Columbia, Whitehorse, Nunavut, northern Ontario, northern Manitoba, Saskatoon, northern Saskatchewan.
“People back home feel like shipwrecked people: after the failure of the Plan Nord, they have to endure this new setback. They are looking for jobs and not getting any. Last year, 1,139 people left the Côte-Nord. In four years, this is the worst exodus. The federal government has just increased the duration of employment insurance benefits for the people of Sudbury and Saskatoon, but has completely forgotten Quebec and its resource regions. Will the Liberal government defend the federal decision, or fight for our workers, especially those on the North Shore? », Concluded Martin Ouellet.
