Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, and the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announce officially the holding of a public consultation on the project of the company Enbridge, which wishes to reverse the flow of the pipeline 9B.
The mandate to hold special consultations is given to the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries, Energy and Natural Resources. The hearings will be held from November 26 to December 5, 2013 and the filing of a report to the National Assembly will take place no later than December 6, 2013. Minister Zakaïb will be a member of this commission for the entire term of office. The Commission will also hear from Enbridge, the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, the Minister of Natural Resources, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, as well as representatives of economic, environmental, municipal circles and experts. The Commission may also receive briefs from any group or citizen who wishes to contribute to this consultation.
Interested persons and organizations will thus be able to formulate their comments and recommendations on the implementation of the three principles retained for the management of the oil industry: ensuring the safety of people, protecting the environment and obtaining economic benefits for all Quebecer.
“The exceptional nature of the project and the questions raised required that the very elected representatives of the National Assembly be called upon to hear experts, interested parties, environmental groups, municipalities and citizens. I hope that this consultation exercise will allow all the issues of interest to Quebec society to be addressed, both environmental and economic issues, and that representativeness from all points of view will be ensured, ”said Minister Zakaïb.
Approaching this issue rigorously, the Quebec government is aware that the environmental issues go beyond the issue of transporting hydrocarbons by pipeline.
“As soon as we recognize the economic issues, for jobs and for Quebec&#39;s expertise in petrochemicals, we have to wonder about the safest method of supplying and transporting oil. In addition to this question, there are issues of energy independence, diversification of supply sources and environmental footprint. The Government of Quebec takes these issues seriously and considers that Quebecers must provide themselves with a forum of the highest level to discuss them. This is the reason why we decided that it was necessary to entrust the mandate to a special parliamentary commission, ”specified Minister Yves-François Blanchet.
“Pipelines have been used to transport hydrocarbons since the very beginning of petroleum activities. The fact remains that there are risks associated with equipment malfunction or breakage. The various points retained by the government must be carefully studied in order to minimize the potential environmental impacts of the reversal of the flow of pipeline 9B ”, declared Minister Blanchet.
With regard to the safety of equipment in the event of reverse flow and their general condition, the government is also asking Enbridge to make available the data collected during its own recent inspections, as well as the methodology of the inspections. carried out. These data will be submitted to an independent second opinion which will make it possible to characterize the condition of the installations, to establish a diagnosis and to formulate requirements, if necessary, with regard to the safety of the reversal project.
It should be remembered that Enbridge&#39;s Line 9, a 30-inch-diameter pipeline in operation since 1976, located between Montreal (Quebec) and Sarnia (Ontario), currently transports, westward, crude oil from regions such as the North Sea, West Africa and the Middle East. Enbridge plans to reverse the flow of oil and increase the overall capacity of this pipeline. The National Energy Board (NEB) already approved, in July 2012, the reversal of Line 9A between Sarnia and the North Westover substation (Ontario). Enbridge is now seeking the necessary authorizations to reverse the flow of oil from Line 9B, located between North Westover and Montreal. With the completion of this project, Enbridge aims to meet demand from refineries in Eastern Canada.
