Québec– The MNA for Vachon and official opposition critic for transport, maritime strategy and transport electrification, Martine Ouellet, and the MNA for Verchères and spokesperson for ethics and integrity, Stéphane Bergeron, denounce the unjustified end of contract of the President and CEO of the Metropolitan Transport Agency (AMT), Nicolas Girard.
“It was Mr. Girard who straightened out the AMT following the train de l&#39;Est fiasco, which occurred during the passage at the head of the AMT of the former director general of the Liberal Party, Joël Gauthier. Thanks to the work of Mr. Girard, Joël Gauthier is currently under investigation by UPAC, which earned Mr. Girard congratulations from the Minister of Transport, Robert Poëti. Mr. Girard cleaned up and demonstrated his managerial qualities on numerous occasions. The Liberal government has no valid reason to give Quebeckers to justify this end of contract. Does Philippe Couillard put his threat of &quot;I will not give sovereignists an inch&quot; to carry out, with an unwritten policy of intolerance? », Asks Martine Ouellet.
It is important to underline the managerial qualities of Nicolas Girard. In 2014, the overall punctuality rate for AMT trains was 96.6%, the best of the commuter train networks in North America, ahead of operators in Chicago, Boston, New York and Toronto. Under the leadership of Mr. Girard, the AMT reduced its workforce by 10%, while increasing its service offering by 20%. In 2015, the AMT also won two Business Leadership Awards presented at the annual congress of the Canadian Urban Transit Association.
“What exactly do we blame Nicolas Girard for? Certainly not to have cleaned up and rectified the finances of the organization! Where is the problem, in this case, if not the fact that Nicolas Girard was guilty of an even more serious fault, in the eyes of the liberals, than corruption or incompetence: to be sovereignist! Clearly, the Prime Minister&#39;s witch hunt against sovereignists is well and truly launched. In the case of the AMT, the obsession of Philippe Couillard will cost Quebeckers dearly; we are losing an outstanding manager, and public transport planning in the metropolis is likely to suffer again from the pitfalls to which liberal management has accustomed us, ”concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
