Montreal - The Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, today announced that an investment of $ 27 million is planned for the expansion of the Novoclimat 2.0 program to the Small multi-unit building component, as well as improvements to the Large multi-unit building component. These two components encourage the construction of multi-unit dwellings with high energy performance and modify construction practices in order to incorporate energy efficiency measures above the standards in force.
&quot;Homes certified Novoclimat 2.0 reconcile lower energy bills, improved construction quality, increased comfort for occupants and better air quality for buyers who choose instead to invest in a more efficient home,&quot; said Martine. Ouellet.
The goal of the Novoclimat 2.0 program is to have a multi-unit dwelling three stories high or less approved, built by contractors certified by the Bureau de normalization du Québec. Buildings are inspected, tested and delivered with government approval confirming their energy superiority. Ultimately, this increase will help reduce the energy consumption of new buildings by about 20% compared to the new requirements of the Quebec Construction Code. The maximum financial assistance for this component is $ 3,400. An investment of $ 15 million over three years is planned for this part of the program.
Developers wishing to build a multi-unit dwelling with a minimum height of four floors up to a maximum of ten floors can also benefit from the Novoclimat 2.0 program. The building appraisal process carried out at different stages of construction, financial assistance and technical support are also part of the program. The maximum financial assistance for this component is $ 2,925. An investment of $ 12 million over three years is planned for this part of the program.
Since 2004, the Novoclimat housing component program has reduced greenhouse gas emissions by more than 5,400 tonnes of CO2 equivalent, which is equivalent to removing 1,600 vehicles from the road network. Economically, this program has enabled more than 2,650 builders and 635 ventilation specialists to build nearly 15,000 housing units with financial assistance. They were awarded a total of over $ 22 million.
The Minister of Natural Resources reminded everyone of the new government&#39;s major investments in energy efficiency. “$ 465 million was announced to support four energy efficiency programs, namely EcoPerformance and Technoclimat ($ 400 million), Novoclimat 2.0- Maison ($ 25 million) and Chauffez vert ($ 65 million). No other government has made such significant investments in energy efficiency, testifying to our government&#39;s deep desire to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions, ”said Martine Ouellet.
