Montreal - The Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, announces financial assistance of $ 400 million for the establishment of EcoPerformance and Technoclimat, two new energy efficiency programs designed for businesses. They aim to help companies significantly reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
“EcoPerformance and Technoclimat are banking on innovation in the transport sector as well as in industrial, commercial and institutional settings, and promote the creation of more than 11,100 high-quality jobs. The efficient use and conversion to energies from renewable sources allow companies to make significant energy gains and reduce their operating costs, while contributing significantly to the reduction of greenhouse gases ”, underlined Martine Ouellet.
EcoPerformance aims to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and the energy consumption of companies by financing projects or measures related to energy consumption and production, as well as improving processes. A total budget of $ 344 million is planned to support the actions of the program, which will create 9,600 jobs. EcoPerformance aims to reduce GHG emissions by 1,475,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent, which is equivalent to removing 435,000 vehicles from the road network. To do this, the “Analysis” section of EcoPerformance will identify and quantify potential measures for saving fossil fuels and reducing greenhouse gas emissions, as well as the costs of implementing them. In the “Energy management” component, the hiring of managers as well as their training and the purchase of the tools necessary for their work is planned. The “Implementation” component will provide financial support for energy efficiency projects, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions or conversion to energy sources with low GHG emissions.
Technoclimat aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and encourage the development of new technologies or innovative processes in terms of energy efficiency, transport and emerging energies. With a budget of $ 55 million, Technoclimat will create 1,500 jobs. Technoclimat offers financial support to project promoters that are part of various stages of the innovation chain. Financial support is offered for eligible expenses allocated to the demonstration, measurement, pre-commercialization and dissemination of technological innovations as well as research and development in recognized research centers. The amounts allocated to each type of activity can add up, and the maximum amount of financial assistance granted to a project is now $ 3 million, or $ 5 million if a project is deemed strategic in electrification of transport.
For more information on ÉcoPerformance and Technoclimat, consultultezefficaciteenergetique.mrn.gouv.qc.ca.
