Quebec - The member for Jonquière and official opposition spokesperson for sustainable development and the environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, demands from the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment and the Fight against Climate Change, David Heurtel , that it renounce issuing certificates of authorization to TransCanada until the company agrees to recognize Quebec jurisdiction. At present, by not requiring compliance with Quebec environmental laws and by setting up a front BAPE, without a project notice or impact study, the Liberal government is in the process of abdicating its decision-making power for the benefit of the federal government.
The Parti Québécois considers, moreover, that by entrusting the reins to a committee of experts, David Heurtel is relieving himself of his responsibilities; one can think that he simply does not wish to repeat his mistake of last year in Cacouna, mistake for which he should have resigned, moreover. “There should not be a certificate of authorization issued without a clear commitment from the company that it will respect Quebec jurisdiction. To do this, TransCanada must submit a project notice and an impact study to the Government of Quebec. If not, what credibility will this BAPE have? », Asked Sylvain Gaudreault.
The Parti Québécois notes that the Energy East project remains vague, and that Quebec will not benefit from it. “Certain fundamental aspects of the project remain unknown to this day, including the final route and the construction of an oil port in Quebec. David Heurtel must ensure that Quebec&#39;s jurisdiction over the environment is respected, ”the spokesperson continued.
Moreover, what has David Heurtel done in the Energy East file since taking office? In particular, it authorized, contrary to the precautionary principle, the holding of boreholes in Cacouna in the heart of a nursery for belugas, an endangered species. It also decided not to take into account the overall greenhouse gas emissions of the project. Then last week, recognizing the authority of the National Energy Board to assess the Energy East project, he abdicated his responsibilities. And, now, it bypasses the BAPE. &quot;In the eyes of the Parti Québécois, all these errors explain why David Heurtel should resign or be removed from his post,&quot; concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
