G aspé– The Minister for the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, on behalf of the Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, announces that government assistance of $ 228,954 has been allocated to Merinov, Quebec Aquaculture and Fisheries Innovation Center, for the realization of a project to use wind energy as a means of propulsion to replace the fuel consumption of a trawler.
“Replacing oil with wind is what Merinov is proposing. We encourage fishing companies here to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and fuel costs. The Government of Quebec is proud to encourage the development of new energy-efficient wind technology, ”said Martine Ouellet.
Merinov&#39;s project consists of developing and testing an innovative kite device specifically designed to tow a fishing vessel in order to reduce the motive power required for its propulsion. The project will take place over 2 years. A fuel saving of 20% is targeted when the system has been optimized. For example, we can consider that a shrimp fishing vessel consumes on average 100,000 liters of fuel per year. Fuel savings would reduce operating costs and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This technology could generate fuel savings of around 20%, or 20,000 liters per year. Thus, this avoids more than 50 tonnes of GHGs.
Supporting innovation in the fisheries and aquaculture sector in partnership with Merinov is one of the actions of the 2013-2018 Action Plan “Developing our commercial fisheries and aquaculture industry” that I recently announced to Magdalen Islands. The Department is proud to contribute financially to this project, the results of which could offer our fishing companies an additional tool to reduce their operating costs while encouraging sustainable fishing practices ”, added François Gendron, Deputy Prime Minister. and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
“As Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region and Member of Parliament for the riding of Gaspé, I am very happy to see this innovative project come to fruition. This green and clean energy is a significant asset for the riding of Gaspé and, above all, for the economic development of our region. This project also bears witness to the innovation efforts being made in the fisheries sector in order to improve the efficiency and reduce the ecological footprint of this important industry for the region, ”said Gaétan Lelièvre.
The Ministry of Natural Resources and the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food respectively grant $ 215,693 and $ 13,261 under two complementary programs.
The Energy Innovation Assistance Program of the Ministry of Natural Resources is financed by the share of energy distributors and encourages the development of new technologies or innovative processes, in energy efficiency or for emerging energies. The Innovamer program, of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, aims to improve competitiveness and increase added value in the commercial fisheries and aquaculture sector by supporting activities research, experimental development and technology transfer.
