Quebec - In reaction to the presentation of the Liberal government&#39;s energy policy, the member for Sanguinet and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in energy and natural resources, Alain Therrien, denounced the lack of resources, the lack of consistency and the maintenance of the uncertainty that characterizes it.
“The Prime Minister affirms that his energy policy is based on his economic policy, ignoring the fact that the latter does not exist! For the moment, energy policy boils down to five targets with no new means to achieve them. The $ 4 billion over 15 years announced today essentially only represents the spending already planned for the Green Fund, ”said Mr. Therrien.
After a long wait, we see that few new means have been identified. The adoption of concrete measures is once again postponed. Another waiting period begins for the filing of three action plans and several changes to the legal framework.
“The resources to come will be essential in order to judge the efficiency of this energy policy. We are used to Liberal targets that have never been reached: 250,000 jobs, debt reduction, economic growth. All promises, which have become targets, which have not come to pass, ”declared Alain Therrien.
The uncertainty for which the Prime Minister is responsible continues and harms the economy and the development of our regions. “The chaos that surrounds the hydrocarbon sector continues, investors and our entrepreneurs have only obtained&quot; ifs &quot;from the Minister of Energy. With regard to the wind power sector, the absence of clear commitments in terms of projects risks causing hundreds of job losses in an industry that is key to the Quebec economy. The industry was only entitled to wind, ”added the deputy.
Moreover, while last December, on the sidelines of COP21, the Prime Minister announced the end of natural gas in Quebec, it is surprising to note the great place given to natural gas in energy policy. Another liberal inconsistency.
Finally, the government announced the tabling of a zero emission law, one year after the one proposed by the Parti Québécois. “In terms of transport electrification, among other things, our policy was really more ambitious than that of the Liberals. Another lost year, ”concluded Alain Therrien.
