Quebec - By authorizing the company TransCanada to carry out seismic surveys with explosives near a protected nature reserve of the St. Lawrence River, the flats of Saint? Augustin? De? Desmaures, David Heurtel has just proven once again that he does not have the judgment required to exercise the important functions of Minister of the Environment of Quebec. Mathieu Traversy, spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of sustainable development, the environment and the fight against climate change, cannot understand how David Heurtel came to make such an insane decision. He asks him to suspend the certificate of authorization granted to TransCanada.
Let us recall that the flats of Saint-Augustin-de-Desmaures are home to an extremely rich biodiversity, among other 200 species of birds, a significantly diversified flora, and three species of endemic plants, that is to say that we do not find nowhere else in the world.
The BAPE has still not started its work and is still awaiting the announcement of the final route of the pipeline. &quot;There will soon be explosions near Saint? Augustin? De? Desmaures, but the BAPE will not even have completed its environmental assessment. TransCanada will carry out seismic surveys in a nature reserve, but it refuses to provide a project notice and an environmental impact study. And we still don&#39;t know if there will be an oil port somewhere on the shores of the St. Lawrence! Does the minister realize that the steps are not in the right order and that he is being laughed at by TransCanada? Asks the spokesperson.
Moreover, it is unacceptable for the Liberal government to authorize work, when TransCanada does not even recognize Quebec&#39;s power to decide on environmental matters on this pipeline project. “Decidedly, David Heurtel is incapable of protecting environmental interests and enforcing Quebec laws. Remember: he authorized drilling in a beluga nursery, he refuses to assess the overall GHG emissions of the TransCanada Energy East project, he gave a front mandate to the BAPE and, today, we learn that &#39;it authorizes preliminary work to advance a project about which we still know nothing and which Quebecers do not want. We are entitled to ask ourselves whether the minister is working for the interests of citizens, or for those of TransCanada, ”said Mathieu Traversy.
“David Heurtel, for several months and in all the files that concern him, has been doing the exact opposite of what Quebeckers are entitled to expect from their Minister of the Environment. He is not credible and has no authority. The ideal would be for him to leave his post immediately after having suspended the certificate of authorization granted to TransCanada, ”claimed Mathieu Traversy.
