Quebec - Following the publication of the opinion of the Régie de l&#39;énergie on the supply of natural gas in Quebec, in particular on the impact of the TransCanada pipeline project on it, the member for Marie -Victorin and official opposition spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, as well as the member for Jonquière and spokesperson for sustainable development and the environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, once again urge the Prime Minister to defend the interests of Quebec by opposing the TransCanada project.
&quot;In addition to the enormous risks it would entail for Quebec in terms of the environment, the Régie de l&#39;énergie has confirmed today that the Energy East project would be just as risky for the economy of Quebec, our industries. and our businesses. In fact, in its current form, the project does not ensure the availability of gas infrastructure or the reliability of supply for natural gas consumers in Quebec, ”said Bernard Drainville.
In its opinion, the Régie also says it is concerned about the costs associated with carrying out the TransCanada pipeline project, in particular because they will be borne by Quebec consumers. She notes that Energy East is primarily designed for the benefit of oil producers, and that the gas component of the project introduces costs and risks that natural gas shippers do not have to bear.
“The liberal management of the TransCanada file is extremely worrying; just think of the declarations of Philippe Couillard on the transport of bituminous oil and equalization, the retreat made on the assessment of greenhouse gases, or the bad decisions of the Minister of the Environment, David Heurtel, with regard to in Cacouna. The Prime Minister must finally listen to reason, stop placing the interests of western Canadian oil companies ahead of those of Quebec, stand up and say no to TransCanada, ”added the Member for Marie-Victorin.
“The Couillard government cannot wait for the National Energy Board or the Harper government, propétrole, to take the decision for us, especially since we have regularly seen that the federal government makes its choices without taking account - sometimes even going against - the interests of the Quebec nation. The TransCanada pipeline file, with its apprehended negative impacts on natural gas supply, is a concrete example of the need for Quebec to be the only one to make decisions on what is happening on its territory, ”insisted Bernard Drainville.
&quot;To this end, the Parti Québécois urges the government to call on Bill 390 in order to affirm the primacy of Quebec&#39;s environmental jurisdiction,&quot; concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
