Quebec - The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of sustainable development, the environment and the fight against climate change, Mathieu Traversy, demands that the Minister of the Environment, David Heurtel, be consistent with the approach judicial review that he undertook in the Energy East case.
“The Minister of the Environment must ensure that Quebec laws are respected. Note that in his motion for an injunction filed yesterday, he specifies that TransCanada is in the process of obtaining a 7th certificate of authorization to carry out seismic surveys in the Ottawa River. David Heurtel must therefore, in addition to resuming the BAPE process from the start, suspend the analysis of TransCanada&#39;s request until the company files the documents essential for the BAPE&#39;s work, ”said Mathieu Traversy.
Moreover, in the letter of December 2, 2014 that he sent to TransCanada, the Minister told the company that “the analysis of [his] file will begin only upon receipt of all the documents forming the study of &#39;impact of the Quebec portion of the Energy East Pipeline project ”. “The minister must stop granting privileges to TransCanada now. He must have in his hands a complete file that will allow the BAPE to conduct a comprehensive environmental assessment. Quebec laws apply in the same way to everyone, ”added the spokesperson.
The Parti Québécois therefore demands two immediate actions from the Minister:
First, David Heurtel must resume the BAPE process from the start, giving it a new mandate that fully respects Quebec law. The current mandate of the BAPE violates Quebec law, being based on incomplete information and giving the Quebec government no decision-making power.
Remember that yesterday, the Union of Quebec municipalities also asked Minister Heurtel to suspend the work of the BAPE on Energy East until TransCanada has submitted a project notice and an impact study. Environmental groups and citizens have also filed a request for an injunction to this effect. Finally, the Montreal Metropolitan Community insisted on the fact that the BAPE would not be in possession of all the documents required at the start of the hearings.
