Quebec - While, in the case of the Energy East Pipeline project, the Quebec government files a motion for an injunction to ensure that Quebec laws are respected, the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of sustainable development, the environment and the fight Against climate change, Mathieu Traversy, notes that the Minister of the Environment, David Heurtel, is once again following the environmental groups and citizens who filed, two weeks ago, an identical request before the courts.
The member notes the total inconsistency of the Minister of the Environment. &quot;In his letter of December 2, 2014 sent to TransCanada, the Minister told the company that&quot; the analysis of [his] file will only begin upon receipt of all the documents forming the impact study of the Quebec portion of the Energy East Pipeline project &quot;. However, despite TransCanada&#39;s refusal to provide the required documents, on June 8, 2015, David Heurtel decided to mandate a truncated BAPE, in violation of Quebec law, based on incomplete information and without any decision-making power. Then, this morning, the minister files a motion for an injunction. His position is, to say the least, difficult to follow; obviously, David Heurtel got stuck by the citizens&#39; legal recourse, ”said Mathieu Traversy.
In light of the Minister&#39;s remarks this morning at a press briefing, the Parti Québécois also notes that the Minister of the Environment is upholding the current mandate of the BAPE. In concrete terms, there is still no overall assessment of the impact of the project on greenhouse gas emissions, no study or emergency response plan in the event of a spill in the St.Lawrence River or rivers. of Quebec, no assessment of economic impacts or gas supply, no place for consultation with First Nations. “We are in favor of a BAPE on the Energy East project, but we want a real BAPE! David Heurtel must demand that all relevant documents be filed, otherwise the current BAPE will turn out to be completely useless. The injunction request is a fine political spectacle, but does not change anything in the facts. The minister triggered a BAPE in violation of the law, ”added the member for Terrebonne.
Finally, remember that in addition to contravening his own law since June 2015, two weeks ago, David Heurtel voted against a motion by the Parti Québécois which demands respect for Quebec laws. “If the minister really intends to enforce Quebec laws, why did he vote against our motion? The truth is that the Couillard government is biased in favor of the Energy East project. He simply had his hand forced by the citizens who demand from their government the defense of their interests, starting with the application of the law, ”concluded Mathieu Traversy.
