Quebec– Sylvain Gaudreault, MP for Jonquière and Official Opposition spokesperson for sustainable development and the environment, and Bernard for Marie-Victorin and spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, supported the request for suspension of the analysis of the Energy East project of TransCanada, formulated by the Metropolitan Community of Montreal (CMM) and the Union of municipalities of Quebec (UMQ). They in turn demand from the Minister of the Environment the filing of complete and updated documents by TransCanada, with a view to the public hearings of the BAPE. In addition, the Parti Québécois is asking the Quebec government to put pressure on the National Energy Board (NEB) to immediately suspend the study of the Energy East project, while the company fulfills this condition.
“The Minister of the Environment must refuse to submit incomplete documents to the BAPE. We join with the CMM and the UMQ in demanding that all the documents necessary for the fulfillment of the BAPE&#39;s mandate be filed. In particular, a complete environmental impact study is required that meets the seven conditions sent by the Minister and the wording of the motion unanimously adopted by the National Assembly. This is essential if we wish to analyze adequately and in a relevant manner the overall contribution of the Energy East project to greenhouse gas emissions, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
In addition, we learn that TransCanada does not wish to make public its emergency plan before having a final route and the green light from the NEB. “It is unacceptable that TransCanada does not care about the legitimate concern of citizens. The BAPE must now look into the environmental security of the Energy East project, not in 15 months! The government must obtain as quickly as possible all the details of the response plan, emergency measures in land and maritime environments, as well as the financial guarantee, among others, ”added Bernard Drainville.
Finally, the Parti Québécois reiterates that it is up to Quebec to have the last word on the Energy East project.
