Montreal - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, is committed to resolving the student crisis if her team is brought to power on September 4. “The solution we are proposing is the only responsible outcome to resolve the social crisis that we have been experiencing for six months. &quot;
Pauline Marois pledges to cancel the 82% tuition hike in the first 100 days of a Parti Québécois government, to repeal Bill 78 and to hold a summit on higher education to review funding and university management. During this summit, which will bring together all stakeholders in the world of education, both students and representatives of academia and civil society, all subjects can be addressed, up to the indexation of rights. of schooling.
“The social crisis created by Jean Charest has lasted long enough. The population has been in the streets for six months expressing their discontent with a worn out and corrupt government. It is time to fix the problem and stop fueling the crisis like the Prime Minister is doing. By freezing tuition fees and holding a summit on higher education in the first 100 days, social peace can be restored and young people can all attend their classes, ”added Pauline Marois.
In the Parti Québécois, our position is clear and realistic. There will be no tuition hike of $ 1,778. We believe that education is fundamental for the advancement of Quebec society. This is why we want to keep tuition fees accessible to allow as many young people as possible to receive higher education.
“On September 4, Quebeckers will have to choose between the Liberals and the Caquists, who want to drastically increase tuition fees, put young people in debt and make the crisis last with Bill 78, or the Parti Québécois, which proposes a responsible solution to resolve the crisis, ”she said, recalling that a Repère poll showed that 85% of respondents were in favor of holding a summit on higher education. If the crisis lasted so long, it is because Jean Charest&#39;s liberals had a strategy of using the student conflict to hide their record. It&#39;s up to us to choose now. &quot;
“If Jean Charest has been so hard on our young people, it is to make people forget how soft he has been in the face of corruption. The Liberals have used the student crisis enough to manipulate the population. It is time to change direction and change this worn out and corrupt government. Jean Charest has already shown that he was incapable of resolving the crisis. The Parti Québécois proposal is the one that will make it possible to settle the crisis once and for all, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
