Sorel-Tracy– The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, proposes to create the Banque de développement économique du Québec. This is the commitment she made this morning when she presented the Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Richelieu, Élaine Zakaïb, specialist in regional economic development.
This Bank will bring together all the programs, organizations and departments of the Quebec and federal governments dedicated to economic development. The main objective of this measure is to provide a one-stop shop for entrepreneurs and to improve the consistency and management of Québec&#39;s economic development. The Bank will also have a mandate for local and regional consultation with, in particular, the local development centers.
“The Bank will be present in the 17 regions of Quebec. Its mission will be to support the creation and growth of our businesses. It will offer patient capital, risk capital, direct loans and loan guarantees to SMEs, social economy enterprises and communities. One of the tools it will have at its disposal will be a resource development fund administered by and for the regions, ”she explained.
The Parti Québécois proposal will make it possible to completely review the allocation of public venture capital, in particular the controversial formula of regional economic intervention funds (FIER). The Parti Québécois undertakes to stop entrusting the management of mainly public sums to private interests.
“The FIERs have shown us that too often private interests linked to the Liberal Party have been able to divert essentially public funds intended for regional entrepreneurs. We must be able to exercise more rigorous control over the allocation of funds devoted to the development of our regions. We have to make sure that this money is really used for regional economic development, ”said Pauline Marois.
Underlining the Parti Québécois&#39; commitment to the harmonious and sustainable development of natural resources, Pauline Marois explained that “the Bank will also include a sectoral entity dedicated solely to the development of natural resources: the Société québécoise de développement des ressources naturelles. This will allow us to take the means to maintain or even increase Québec participation in companies linked to the exploitation of our resources and to bring together Québec expertise in the field. &quot;
“We offer a clear and daring vision of State action in the economic development of all regions. We have the ideas, we have the team and above all, we have the political will to enrich all Quebecers in all regions, ”concluded Pauline Marois, mentioning that it is now up to us to choose.
