Quebec - The Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Ms. Véronique Hivon, announced an unprecedented increase in funding for community organizations working in the fields of health and social services, a measure stemming from major government orientations in terms of solidarity. More specifically, 40 million additional and recurring dollars per year for a period of three years will be granted in support of the overall mission of community organizations in health and social services, starting in 2014-2015, for a total of 120 million more dollars.
“As soon as I arrived, I met with community organizations and, driven by a desire for collaboration and transparency, I saw the establishment of a working group to determine the optimal partnership between them and the government. I am proud of this work with the community sector, which took place in an excellent climate, and of the historic results that resulted from it. This is a clear example of the power of dialogue, ”Minister Hivon said.
Let us recall that it was under a government of the Parti Québécois that the Government policy for the recognition and support of community action was published in September 2001. This policy continues to be a recognized foundation in the governance of community action in Quebec and a reference for thousands of community organizations.
As part of the work carried out jointly with the community sector since last March, national guidelines have been identified, in particular for the sake of fairness, guidelines that will guide the regions in the distribution of sums. It should also be noted that organizations with a national mission are also targeted by the enhancement.
“Community organizations meet essential and very diverse needs and are there for all the members of their community. The investment announced today therefore aims to support those who help people and who invest themselves on a daily basis to improve the quality of life of hundreds of thousands of Quebeckers. They are all the more essential partners as they allow the deployment of genuine and precious local solidarity, ”Minister Hivon concluded.
It should be noted that the Ministry of Health and Social Services supports more than 3,000 community organizations that work, among other things, with people with mental health problems, homelessness or addiction, young people in difficulty, people with a disability as well as their families, elders and poor people who need to be supported.
