Mont-Saint-Hilaire– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, accompanied by the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology and member of Borduas, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, participated today in the inauguration of the expansion of the Piémont-du-Mont-Saint-Hilaire nature reserve. With the addition of more than 34 hectares, the nature reserve now has a total of 1,013 hectares of protected areas.
“Montérégie&#39;s natural jewel, Mont Saint-Hilaire deserves the attention it receives and the increased protection it enjoys today. Let us express our gratitude to the City for its involvement in the protection of Mont Saint-Hilaire, the creation of a green belt and that of green spaces accessible to citizens. I hope this announcement will inspire several other municipalities in Quebec and thus promote increased protection of our natural heritage, ”said Minister Blanchet.
Recognizing the importance of protecting the biodiversity of this mountain, the Ministère du Développement durable, de l&#39;Environnement, de la Faune et des Parcs (MDDEFP) has invested more than $ 389,000 over the years to support the acquisition. , for conservation purposes, of properties at Mont Saint-Hilaire, through nature conservation assistance programs in private areas.
Remember that the status of a nature reserve makes it possible to recognize the will of an owner who wishes to dedicate his land to conservation for 25 years or in perpetuity. The second municipality in Quebec to request recognition of a nature reserve on its property, the City of Mont-Saint-Hilaire is therefore showing leadership in conservation.
Today&#39;s announcement is also the result of the involvement of other partners, including the Mont Saint-Hilaire Nature Center and Nature Conservancy, which have been working for several years to protect the Mont Saint-Hilaire in collaboration with the City.
&quot;The expansion of the Mont Saint-Hilaire protected area is a happy initiative that is part of the tradition of preserving nature in our region and which shows that it is now part of the concerns of the entire community,&quot; said concluded Mr. Pierre Duchesne.
