L&#39;Assomption - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, today announced the authorization to implement the Visual Orthosis Techniques study program at the Cégep régional de Lanaudière from the 2014-2015 school year. In addition, an allocation of $ 2.8 million is granted to this establishment for the expansion of the building in order to meet the new needs related to the addition of this program.
“Today&#39;s announcement confirms once again the importance I attach to CEGEPs in the Quebec post-secondary education network. Since taking office, I have been working to enhance the role and place of CEGEPs. The latter play a strategic role in the economic and social development of our regions by making it possible to retain a greater number of young people. They also allow a greater number of young people to pursue higher education, which is crucial in a knowledge-based economy and an innovative society like that of Quebec, ”said Minister Duchesne.
“This is excellent news for our region, local families as well as all future graduates of this specialized field. The demand for qualified succession in visual orthosis techniques is good and constant and L&#39;Assomption suddenly becomes one of the only three places in Quebec to offer this program. I am therefore very happy that the authorization for its establishment is taking shape and that such significant investments in higher education are being made here. Our government is well aware of the dynamism and rapid development that Lanaudière is experiencing and it wishes to contribute significantly to its development, ”Minister Véronique Hivon said.
A sum of $ 2.2 million is granted for the expansion of premises and specialized laboratories. In addition, a sum of $ 654,000 is earmarked for the acquisition of specialized equipment. Given the growing need for manpower in the field of visual orthosis, this program has been prioritized in the framework for managing the supply of vocational and technical training. The total cost of the study program implementation project is therefore $ 2,854,000 (premises and equipment), an amount authorized in the 2010-2015 and 2011-2016 Five-Year Capital Plans.
Previously, only two CEGEPs offered this study program: Cégep François-Xavier-Garneau in Quebec City and Cégep Édouard-Montpetit in Longueuil. This authorization will make it possible to balance labor supply and demand in order to better meet needs throughout Quebec.
“This announcement is excellent news for the Cégep régional de Lanaudière and its constituent college of L&#39;Assomption. The expansion of the Cégep&#39;s facilities will provide students and staff with suitable physical spaces and thus improve college life at L&#39;Assomption. The new spaces will meet the needs of the clientele which, like its region, continues to grow from year to year. In addition, the addition of the Visual Orthosis Techniques study program will make it possible to diversify the training offer at L&#39;Assomption. We would like to thank the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, the City of L&#39;Assomption as well as our various partners for their support in carrying out this major project ”, underline Mr. Marcel Côté, Director General of the Cégep régional de Lanaudière.
As the Lanaudière region is characterized by strong population growth, the Ministry authorized in December 2010 a 30% increase in the school budget of the Lanaudière Regional Cégep, allowing it to increase its enrollment from 1,270 to 1,645 students. .
