Acton Vale– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions and Member of Parliament for Johnson, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announced, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation, through Investissement Québec, of a loan of $ 351,033 to the Volunteer Center of &#39;Acton Vale. The non-profit organization, which helps poor families, will use these funds to renovate and expand its facilities, a project valued at $ 630,000.
The work, which began in mid-June, includes the expansion of the clothing counter, the installation of a reception and waiting area, the construction of new offices and a therapeutic room, the installation an elevator and the addition of a bathroom adapted for disabled people. These should end in mid-November 2013.
&quot;The Acton Vale Volunteer Center is an important agent of change in the region,&quot; said Minister Yves-François Blanchet. “By watching over people who have suffered and helping them to recover, it contributes to the socio-economic vitality of the territory. I am very happy that this project is coming to fruition, especially since the Center will add two people to its team, in addition to the twelve current employees. &quot;
The Acton Vale Volunteer Center has been in existence for over 40 years. It helps people in need in the eight municipalities of the region. In addition to the clothing counter, it offers community dinners and a popular and collective kitchen service, as well as leisure activities for seniors and a support group for natural caregivers. The Center also manages the Pair program, an automated call service that reaches out to seniors to ensure their good health.
&quot;Our government recognizes the importance of the social economy as an engine of economic and sustainable development,&quot; said Minister Élaine Zakaïb. “We are determined to support businesses that work for the good of their community and we are proud to support initiatives that promote a socially responsible economy. &quot;
The Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mr. Mario Chabot, thanked Investissement Québec and recalled the organization&#39;s mission. “We have been in the community since 1969 and have always supported the families of Acton Vale who are going through difficult times. Our dedicated team does everything to promote the development and support of each person on a personal, social, financial and family level. Thanks to the government&#39;s collaboration, we can make this great expansion project a reality. We look forward to continuing to give back to the community. &quot;
Investissement Québec&#39;s mission is to promote the growth of investment in Québec, thereby contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The Company provides businesses with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity investments, to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, she is responsible for administering tax measures and prospecting for investments abroad.
