Québec– Sylvain Gaudreault, MP for Jonquière and official opposition spokesperson for sustainable development and the environment, Agnès, MP for Taschereau, deputy parliamentary leader and spokesperson for the Capitale-Nationale region Maltais, as well as the member for Verchères and spokesperson for Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, strongly denounce the withdrawal of the Government of Quebec from the environmental assessment of the Port of Quebec expansion project.
“The Liberal government has chosen to abandon all decision-making power and to reduce itself to the simple level of intervenor; however, the Port project is particularly important for the citizens of the National Capital. The Minister of the Environment, David Heurtel, had nevertheless guaranteed Quebeckers that Quebec&#39;s environmental laws would apply in full, in addition to promising that he would give the BAPE a mandate to assess the file. The Minister went back on his word and went to bed before the Quebec Port Authority and the federal government, as his government unfortunately does more and more often, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
“We all remember that last June, during the election campaign in Jean-Talon and in Chauveau, the two Liberal candidates said they shared the concerns raised by the Parti Québécois regarding the expansion of the Port. Elected for barely two months, Sébastien Proulx and Véronyque Tremblay are already reneging on their promises made to the citizens of Quebec. This is unacceptable! », Added Agnès Maltais.
“When it comes to this project, we realize that Quebeckers are only tenants on their own territory. The Canadian government does not care about their opinion. However, I maintain that it is for us to decide, not for Ottawa. But, rather than stand up, the Liberals are complacent and do the four will of the federal government, ”continued Stéphane Bergeron.
Remember that the Parti Québécois tabled Bill 390, which affirms the primacy of Quebec&#39;s environmental jurisdiction. “In this case, as in many others, the consequences are borne directly by Quebecers. Clearly, on the environmental level, the government of Philippe Couillard does not have a column; either it creates front BAPEs, as in the case of the Energy East project, or it chooses to abandon all decision-making power in favor of Ottawa, ”concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
