Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, announces that the government supports the approach of the CHU de Quebec to proceed with the analysis of an alternative project to the expansion of the Hôtel-Dieu de Quebec. The potential of a new real estate solution on the site of the Child Jesus Hospital will be examined. At the same time, the Agence de la santé et des services sociaux de la Capitale-Nationale will lead a reflection, with the City of Quebec, on the use of the premises left vacant by the revision, if necessary, of the project of L&#39;Hôtel- Dieu de Québec to the site of the Hôpital de l&#39;Enfant-Jésus.
This is the commitment made by the Premier of Quebec today, when she was addressing the guests of the Quebec Chamber of Commerce and Industry. On this occasion, she was accompanied by the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, as well as the Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the region of the Capitale-Nationale and the Chaudière-Appalaches region, Agnès Maltais.
“It is obvious that the synergy created by the concentration of specialized and subspecialized medicine in a single site brings undeniable advantages for users and the population in general. The new management of the CHU de Québec has undertaken an important process of reflection on the organization of specialized and subspecialized medical services in the region, following the merger of the CHUQ and the CHA in 2012. The president of the CHU recently indicated its interest in moving forward and quickly initiating the analysis of a new real estate solution. We share this opinion and believe that a deeper reflection must begin in order to offer the citizens of the greater Quebec City region optimal health services. I salute the courage and wisdom of the CHU de Quebec which, beyond the short-term project, wants to present us with a long-term vision of health care for the greater Quebec City region, and even for all of Quebec ”, declared the prime minister.
For his part, the Minister of Health wants a broad consensus between the various partners on the solution to be adopted. Réjean Hébert recalled that any new project must present added value in terms of accessibility to care and services for the population, while respecting the government&#39;s funding capacity. Several issues will have to be considered, including access to health services, the vocation of L&#39;Hôtel-Dieu de Québec, the redeployment of human resources as well as ensuring the maintenance of local medical services for residents of Old Quebec. .
“We want to make sure that we make the best possible choice given the amounts invested. The chosen project must be one that will offer the population greater accessibility to specialized care, including radiotherapy, as well as to specialists, in a context of increasing demand, particularly in oncology. The analysis will begin quickly and the committee will have to submit its preliminary feasibility report no later than June 21. The objective is to offer users of the greater Quebec City and Eastern Quebec specialized care and services, at the cutting edge of knowledge and technology, as quickly as possible ”, indicated Minister Hébert.
Minister Agnès Maltais, for her part, insisted on the importance of ensuring local medical care for the citizens of the district. “It is essential to maintain access for neighborhood residents to primary care and services. In this sense, the work entrusted to the Health and Social Services Agency is essential. This hospital is an integral part of the built heritage of Quebec City and we must keep its name and vocation alive. Depending on the project selected, the Agency will also have to quickly propose solutions to occupy the premises that will become available. The presence of workers at L&#39;Hôtel-Dieu de Québec is an essential economic contribution to Old Québec, in addition to a guarantee of vitality. We could induce a new economic dynamic in this sector by installing thousands of Quebec public service workers. &quot;
The mission of L&#39;Hôtel-Dieu de Québec, a hospital of the CHU de Québec, is to offer the population of the immediate region and other regions general, specialized and subspecialized services, particularly in the fields of oncology, radiation oncology and nephrology. The hospital also ensures a university teaching and research mission.
