Quebec - Quebec Premier Pauline Marois traveled to New England to attend meetings in preparation for the 37th Conference of New England Governors and Eastern Canadian Premiers ( CGNA-PMEC), which will take place in Quebec on September 8 and 9.
The Prime Minister was thus able to exchange with the governors of New Hampshire, Maggie Hassan, of Massachusetts, Deval Patrick, of Rhode Island, Lincoln Chafee, and of Connecticut, Dannel Malloy. These meetings were an opportunity to underline the importance that Quebec attaches to strengthening its ties with its partners in New England. They also made it possible to tackle the general themes of the next CGNA-PMEC, which should relate in particular to energy issues, adaptation to climate change and energy-efficient vehicles.
“New England is a priority region for Quebec, and we have the firm intention of continuing to strengthen our economic, scientific, cultural and political ties with each of its states. I am confident that our discussions over the past few days, including on the issues of electrification of transportation, the fight against climate change and energy, will enable the next Conference of New England Governors and Premiers in Eastern Canada to be a resounding success for the benefit of all, ”said Pauline Marois.
The Premier also emphasized, to her American counterparts, Quebec&#39;s leadership in hydroelectricity in the context of a regional initiative announced last June. This initiative brings together Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Vermont, and it aims to explore ways to increase the import of hydroelectricity into New England.
Remember that the CGNA-PMEC was created in 1973. It is made up of the governors of the six New England states (Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Vermont) as well as the premiers of Quebec and the provinces. Atlantic (Prince Edward Island, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Newfoundland and Labrador). It is Quebec&#39;s main multilateral instrument for developing its relations with these American states.
