Quebec - The Minister of Families, Ms. Nicole Léger, announces the creation of the Chantier on the quality and sustainability of educational childcare services and on the optimization of their funding. The implementation of this project reaffirms the government&#39;s desire to ensure the sustainability of the network and to optimize its funding. It also follows on from the agreements that the Minister of Families made last spring with the Association québécoise des centers de la petitefance (AQCPE) and the Conseil québécois des services de garde educatifs à l&#39;école (CQSGEE) regarding the budgetary reorganization measures for the year 2013-2014.
“More than fifteen years after the establishment of our network of childcare centers, it is now essential for me to take stock with these partners on their functioning and their evolution, in order to ensure accessible childcare services and high quality, for parents and children in Quebec, ”said Minister Nicole Léger.
The general mandate of the workcamp will be to diagnose the current situation with regard to the governance and mode of financing of early childhood centers (CPE) and family childcare coordinating offices (BC), and to propose possible solutions to optimize the sums invested in this network, while ensuring the quality and sustainability of the service offer of the CPEs and BCs.
The site will be chaired by Mr. Maurice Boisvert, a former senior official with in-depth knowledge of the early childhood sector and public administration. It will be made up of representatives of the AQCPE and CQSGEE as well as representatives of the Ministry of the Family and the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupation. The final report of the work on the site will be submitted to the Minister of Families by December 31, 2013.
“This project responds to the request formulated by the partners of the CPE network. Several issues concern the entire network, it is important to restart these discussions. By maintaining a continuous and constructive dialogue with the partners, we are working to improve the network of childcare services in Quebec, ”said Minister Nicole Léger.
