Quebec - The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, sent the Director of Criminal and Penal Prosecutions (DPCP) new orientations in the area of criminal justice for adolescents.
On this day when the provisions of Bill C-10 relating to young offenders come into force, the Minister&#39;s instructions to prosecutors aim to confirm the maintenance of a juvenile justice system that is truly separate from that of adults and which, above all, promotes rehabilitation and social reintegration.
“The Quebec model of youth criminal justice has long proven its worth by emphasizing the rehabilitation and reintegration of young offenders. We must continue to favor this path, which contributes to ensuring the long-term protection of the public, ”declared Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud.
The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec is also asking prosecutors to only exceptionally use the new legislative provision allowing the identity of a young person to be disclosed.
Finally, the government of Quebec adopted a decree fixing at 16 years the minimum age of a teenager having committed a serious crime and for which a prosecutor is required to inform the court if he does not ask for an adult sentence. Federal law provides that the provinces may set an age varying between 14 and 16 in this regard.
“Despite the entry into force of federal law C-10, we intend to use all the means at our disposal to preserve our achievements in the rehabilitation of young offenders while effectively combating crime,” concluded the Minister of Justice. Justice.
The Youth Criminal Justice Act (YCJA) establishes as a principle that the youth criminal justice system must be distinct from that applicable to adults since, &quot;because of their age, adolescents are more vulnerable, less mature. and less able to exercise moral judgment ”(R. v. DB, [2008] 2 SCR 3, para. 41). The “creation of such a system is based on the recognition of the presumption of less moral culpability of adolescents and their greater vulnerability to the justice system” (R. v. SJL, [2009] 1 SCR 426).
In the adolescent criminal justice system, emphasis should be placed on the rehabilitation and social reintegration of adolescents as well as on the search for fair and proportional responsibility, compatible with their state of dependence and their degree of maturity. In addition, it is important that the measures taken with regard to adolescents aim to strengthen their respect for the values of our society and that they promote reparation for the damage caused to the victim and to the community.
The decisions of the prosecutor, who is a front-line worker in the youth justice system, must aim to ensure the long-term protection of the public. To achieve this goal, prosecutors must remember the consistent teachings of the Supreme Court of Canada that, in the long run, society is best protected by the re-education, rehabilitation and reintegration of an adolescent (R. v. M. (JJ), [1993] 2 SCR 421). This is the best way to prevent the young offender from reoffending (R. v. BWP; R. v. BVN, [2006] 1 SCR 941, at para. 39).
Taking these fundamental principles into account in the treatment of juvenile delinquency requires that the prosecutor be constantly aware of the fact that, depending on the circumstances of the case before him, recourse to extrajudicial measures is often the best way to deal with it. tackle juvenile delinquency in that it allows rapid and effective intervention to correct the criminal behavior of adolescents.
The Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health and Social Services have therefore provided for, in an extrajudicial sanctions program, the procedures for implementing proceedings against adolescents. So, once he has determined that the evidence is sufficient, the prosecutor can, in the case of serious crimes or during recidivism, authorize a prosecution without referring it to the “provincial director”. In other cases, he must send the file to the provincial director in order to assess the advisability of offering the young people extrajudicial sanctions.
The need to maintain a system for adolescents that is truly distinct from that of adults also involves the objectives and principles which must be put forward at the stage of representations on the sentence, by favoring those which affect rehabilitation and social reintegration. Moreover, when he asks the court to impose a specific sentence with the aim of either denouncing unlawful behavior or dissuading the adolescent from reoffending, he must do so while not attaching the same importance to these objectives. and what they mean in the adult regime. In particular, the prosecutor must not place undue emphasis on these aspects.
Finally, the presumption of less moral culpability is materialized by the taking of measures to ensure the protection of the rights of adolescents, in particular with regard to their private life. Thus, the lifting of the ban on publishing the identity of the adolescent should be exceptional, taking into account the finding of the Supreme Court according to which “the lifting of a ban on publication makes the adolescent vulnerable to psychological stress. and social greater ”, thus greatly increasing the severity of the sentence (R. v. DB, supra, at para. 87). The prosecutor must therefore exercise great caution and carefully analyze all the circumstances before taking a position in this regard.
