Shawinigan - Quebec Premier Pauline Marois today announced a $ 1M contribution to the Shawinigan Entrepreneurship Center (CES). On this occasion, she was accompanied by the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, and Minister responsible for the Center of Quebec and Mauricie regions, Yves François Blanchet, as well as the Member of Parliament for Saint- Maurice, Luc Trudel.
The CES wants to implement the Digital Station, the cost of which is estimated at $ 3.5 million, in addition to improving its industrial business incubation spaces, an investment of nearly $ 1 million.
“You know as much as I do that Shawinigan faces major economic challenges. To relaunch itself, it needs to rely on dynamic regional entrepreneurship and the government of Quebec has a duty to support it. This is the bet that the craftsmen of the CES have decided to make: that of promoting the emergence and development of businesses, by offering new entrepreneurs an incubator to bring their ideas to the world. We are proud to be associated with this initiative, ”said Premier Pauline Marois.
For his part, Yves-François Blanchet was delighted that the Digital Station will offer cutting-edge training, incubation spaces, specialized services as well as an environment conducive to networking, creativity, research and development as well as innovation. &quot;This center of excellence in mobile and social video games will become, for various companies in related sectors, a major incentive to come and set up at CES,&quot; added the Minister. These companies will then be able to develop customer-supplier relationships, in addition to sharing manpower, expertise and innovative processes. &quot;
As for Luc Trudel, he praised the vision and tenacity of Mayor Michel Angers, who is the initiator of this project. “This announcement constitutes the first government assistance for this unique and innovative project in Quebec. Mr. Angers, our entrepreneur mayor, seized an exceptional opportunity that my government is determined to adequately support, ”said the deputy.
Officially inaugurated on October 17, 2012, the Shawinigan Entrepreneurship Center is a solidarity cooperative whose mission is to actively participate in the development of entrepreneurship and the creation of businesses by helping project leaders and entrepreneurs. to build their future. The cooperative provides them with both professional and practical support, regardless of the stage of development of their business project.
The entrepreneurship situation in the Shawinigan region is worrying. Indeed, the main indicators of the rate of entrepreneurship there are systematically lower than the Quebec average, as revealed in 2010 by a portrait produced by the Quebec Foundation for Entrepreneurship.
