Québec– This morning, while Québec solidaire (QS) called on the Liberal government about social inequalities, the member for Rimouski and official opposition spokesperson for the fight against poverty, solidarity and the social economy , Harold LeBel, insisted that between the speech of QS, which is limited to the slogan &quot;make the rich pay&quot;, and the toxic austerity measures of the Liberal government, there is the responsible vision of the Parti Québécois, which gives priority to equal opportunities for Quebecers.
“When we were in government, we worked to counter injustices, in particular by eliminating the health tax for the less fortunate, by increasing the contribution of financial institutions to the Quebec economy by 200 million, as well as by increasing taxes. for people earning more than $ 100,000. At the time, Québec solidaire and the Liberal Party voted against the budget; so they hurt equal opportunity, ”said Harold LeBel.
Tax evasion
The MP also recalls that thanks to the work of the Parti Québécois, the Committee on Public Finance agreed, last February, to take up a mandate of initiative on the phenomenon of tax havens, which allow citizens and Quebec companies to resort to tax evasion.
“It is unfortunate that Québec solidaire did not get involved in the work of this commission. Quebeckers want this serious and unfair phenomenon to end, and the parliamentary committee will allow all the parties concerned to be heard and to think about lasting solutions to fight tax evasion. If the elected officials of QS are serious in their desire to fight against inequalities, what better way to do than work to fight against tax evasion? This party&#39;s actions do not follow its word, unfortunately, ”added the member for Rimouski.
Redistributive taxation
According to Harold LeBel, the choice of redistributive taxation must be reaffirmed and maintained. A more progressive tax system allows a better redistribution of wealth, and therefore contributes to improving social cohesion as well as to establishing a more egalitarian and fairer society. Let us add that the universality of services ensures greater solidarity between income categories.
More taxes and tariffs = more poverty
The austerity imposed by the government opens the door to setbacks, including the crumbling of our social safety net. Indeed, the liberal method, which consists in resorting more to taxes and tariffs to maintain the level of State revenue, mainly affects less fortunate taxpayers and undermines the accessibility of public services.
“Liberal austerity, by impoverishing a large part of our fellow citizens, is splitting Quebec in two. When the life expectancy of Montrealers in poor neighborhoods is 11 years less than that of Montrealers in wealthy neighborhoods, there is a big problem. Between liberal austerity and hollow QS slogans, we must act. I am more and more convinced that after ten years of application, we must, all together, sit down to take stock of the Law aimed at combating poverty and social exclusion, and ask ourselves the real questions: we really succeeded in fighting poverty? Do we have less prejudices? For now, I have serious questions, ”concluded the spokesperson for the official opposition.
