Laval– The Minister of Families and Minister responsible for the Laval region, Ms. Nicole Léger, accompanied by the Member for Sainte-Rose and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Suzanne Proulx, announced, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the payment of financial assistance of $ 523,730 for the creation of a Womenessor in Laval. LesFemmessor are non-profit economic development organizations dedicated exclusively to the growth of female entrepreneurship.
“Women bring a different vision and entrepreneurial values, they instill creativity and motivation in the business world,” commented Minister Nicole Léger. “This is why it is so important for the Government of Quebec to support initiatives such as this one, which encourage them to go into business and carry out their projects. This support will allow women to access financing in addition to being able to deploy skills in management, negotiation, business development and networking. I am convinced that this project will have positive spinoffs for the Laval region and for Quebec society. &quot;
“Femmessor Laval, the fourteenth in Quebec, is the result of extensive economic consultation and demand from the community,” said MNA Suzanne Proulx. “I would also like to underline the important contribution of economic players in Laval to the establishment of this project, which will play a decisive role in the development of regional female entrepreneurship. The organization benefits from significant regional support from the Regional Conference of Elected Officials of Laval, the Center local de développement de Laval and partners of the Specific Agreement on the Status of Women. I am proud of this initiative, which will meet the specific needs of women entrepreneurs in the Laval region. &quot;
&quot;For our government, it is a priority to stimulate Quebec entrepreneurship, which creates wealth and jobs,&quot; said Minister Delegate Élaine Zakaïb. “By intervening in all sectors of activity, the Femmessor organizations are working in this direction. In Quebec, the percentage of women entrepreneurs compared to all entrepreneurs rose from 28% in 1987 to 36% in 2011, exceeding the Canadian average, which stands at 35%. I am very happy to see that the efforts made are bearing fruit and I wish good luck to the Women, who are invaluable allies in building a strong and sustainable economy. &quot;
Currently, in addition to Laval, Quebec has thirteen Women&#39;s organizations in as many regions: Bas-Saint-Laurent, Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, Capitale-Nationale, Mauricie, Estrie, Montreal, Outaouais, Abitibi-Témiscamingue, Côte-Nord , Nord-du-Québec, Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine, Montérégie and Center-du-Québec.
“LesFemmessor was born out of an initiative by the Côte-Nord region in 1995, when it was established that women had difficulty accessing funding and that they needed sustained support, particularly in terms of management and networking, ”recalled Gloria Lemire, President of the RéseauFemmessor. “This is why we are now happy to create special links with businesswomen in our regions. Since their inception, the Femmessor organizations, thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, have lent women entrepreneurs nearly $ 8.4 million, thus generating investments of more than $ 51 million and allowing the creation and maintenance of more of 1,850 jobs. Over the past three years, we have responded to nearly 2,500 requests for information, in addition to providing advice to 2,150 clients. We are happy to be able today to extend our services to the Laval region. &quot;
