Saguenay– The Minister of Public Security, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, accompanied by the Member for Chicoutimi and Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, announces the maintenance of correctional services in Saguenay. A mandate has been given to the Société immobilière du Québec (SIQ) to assess the possibilities.
“What we are recommending is the construction of a cellular district adjacent to the Chicoutimi courthouse. We believe that this would be an ideal solution in order to maintain, if only for functional reasons, a correctional capacity in Chicoutimi. We are therefore entrusting the SIQ with the mandate to examine the technical possibility, the costs and the schedule for carrying out this new construction, ”declared Minister Bergeron. The evaluation of the costs and the technical feasibility of the project will require approximately 9 months of work on the part of the SIQ.
This project would allow the accommodation of 20 offenders. These new services will be aimed in particular at defendants scheduled to appear Monday through Friday and incarcerated persons who will serve intermittent detention on weekends.
In addition, arrangements will be available to facilitate meetings between lawyers and their clients for the purposes of preparing the various stages of their case before the courts. These arrangements are the result of representations made by criminal lawyers from Saguenay.
“Today&#39;s decision not only respects the commitments we have made to the population of the region by maintaining correctional services in Chicoutimi, but is in line with our desire to maintain quality services and Proximity. It corrects the action of the Liberals which went against the regional consensus to maintain two installations. I would like to thank the Minister of Public Security for his openness in this matter, but also all the people who participated in the development of this solution, ”said Minister Bédard.
Minister Bédard has also obtained the assurance that certain jobs will be maintained until the end of the work on this new construction.
