Trois-Rivières - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy , and the Member of Parliament for Champlain, Ms. Noëlla Champagne, today announced the allocation of financial assistance of $ 71,960 to the Center for Mauritius Organization of Services and Popular Education (COMSEP) for the renovation of the infrastructure of the House of Solidarity.
“The House of Solidarity will undergo a real rejuvenation cure. It must be said that it has been welcoming active people from the region for many years, who are happy to find facilities there that allow them to improve their physical condition. They will soon be able to do so in a healthier and safer environment, and I look forward to it for them, ”said Ms. Malavoy.
The planned work, the cost of which is estimated at more than $ 0.2 million, consists of redoing the masonry, floors, the main entrance, as well as a section of the roof. The building&#39;s furnace will also be replaced.
This project was analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs.
Across Quebec, approximately 80 projects for the construction, renovation, development and upgrading of sports and recreational facilities are expected to materialize thanks to investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from a $ 50 million envelope allocated under the second component of the Sports and Recreational Facilities Support Program - Phase II of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. To this envelope is added additional assistance of $ 80 million, thanks to the acceleration of investments, to support the implementation of new projects now.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will meet on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
“For the past year, we have been stepping up our actions to improve our public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing massively in our sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible actions, ”Minister Malavoy said.
