Trois-Rivières - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the MP for Champlain, Ms. Noëlla Champagne, and the MP for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, are pleased to announce that the government of Quebec is granting an additional $ 15 million to help homeowners damaged by pyrrhotite. This investment will bring the financial assistance granted by the Quebec government to pyrrhotite victims to $ 30 million.
“This envelope will help hundreds of households awaiting financial assistance. This additional gesture shows that we are perfectly aware that the needs are important and that we are sensitive to the tragedy afflicting the owners of houses whose foundations are damaged by pyrrhotite, ”declared Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
“This announcement was eagerly awaited by my fellow citizens who own the affected residences. Many of them expressed their concerns and dismay to me. I took this message to my colleagues and today&#39;s announcement confirms that the Quebec government&#39;s appeal for help has been heard by the government of Quebec, ”said MP Noëlla Champagne.
This investment will bring the financial assistance granted by the Quebec government to pyrrhotite victims to $ 30 million. (c) Yann Langlais-Plante
To date, the SHQ program has helped nearly 300 households. Remember that financial assistance covers 75% of the cost of eligible work. For residences that are not covered by the Guarantee Plan for New Residential Buildings, the maximum assistance that can be granted is $ 75,000. As for buildings covered by the Plan, but for which work to restore rooms located in the basement would not be covered, the maximum subsidy is $ 15,000.
“Our government is attentive to the needs of the population of the Mauricie region and that is why we are pleased to grant additional assistance of more than $ 29,000 to the Consumer Assistance Service for the hiring of a information agent who will provide invaluable support to owners of residences affected by pyrrhotite in the Shawinigan sector. It is therefore a second aid resource that is added in the region to inform victims, answer their questions and support them in their efforts to request help and proceed with reparations, ”said MP Luc. Trudel.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers meet until February 7 in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of these two regions of Quebec.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether it is by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000 people. households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
