Louiseville - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, announced today government investments of $ 6,458,209 which will allow the Chemin-du-Roy school board to carry out various repair work in 17 schools located on its territory. Minister Malavoy made the announcement at L&#39;Escale high school, whose air conditioning system will soon be replaced.
“Every day, in our school network, teachers deploy all their know-how to promote the development of their students and make their school career a success. For our part, it is up to us to provide them with a healthy and pleasant working environment, and that is precisely what these investments will be used for, ”declared Ms. Malavoy.
Government assistance is paid under the Réno-écoles program, one of the main measures stemming from the Economic policy: Priority employment, unveiled last fall. A total of $ 401.2 million will be invested to speed up improvement, renovation and repair work on establishments throughout the school network and to intervene quickly to resolve air quality problems in certain schools.
“For the past year, we have not stopped taking measures to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe living environments that are conducive to learning. We are committing ourselves even further on this path through the promising and strong actions that we are taking today, ”concluded Minister Malavoy.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers met on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
