Quebec - “Bill 2 seeks to hide the negligence of the Minister of Transport, to hide a comedy of errors for the extension of Highway 73 in Beauce. The Parti Québécois is in favor of extending Autoroute 73: it is an essential project for Beauce. However, with Bill 2, we cannot support the Liberal government of Jean Charest in its attempt to gag citizens and take away their rights ”.
This is what the member for Gouin and official opposition critic for transport, Nicolas Girard, said at a press conference, asking the Liberal government to withdraw Bill 2 and return to the route. initial for the portion between Beauceville and Saint-Georges-de-Beauce.
He recalled that this bill was vigorously denounced by the Barreau du Québec and the Protectrice du citoyen. With this bill, the Liberal government wants to make legal what is illegal, an illegality confirmed by the Administrative Tribunal of Quebec and the Superior Court, which in turn denounced the government&#39;s abuse of power.
“The steamroller policy that Minister Hamad wants to apply is odious and unacceptable. Citizens have been the victims of serious threats, even fearing for their safety; however, they are only defending their rights. It is unworthy of Minister Hamad to banter like this, ”continued Mr. Girard.
The initial route, known for years, was a consensus. However, the member for Gouin wonders about the motivations that suddenly led the Liberal government in 2004 to change the initial route with a single stroke of a pencil. “The reasons given by the Minister for this change of route are not convincing. There is something fishy. The minister is not telling us the whole truth, ”said the deputy.
“Instead of blaming the citizens, Minister Hamad must apologize for the repeated blunders of his ministry which cause immense damage to citizens who, legitimately, have rights that today the minister wants to take away from them. He has only him to blame for the delay that this is causing at present: if the Liberal government had not changed the route in 2004, the Beaucerons could drive on Highway 73 today, ”concluded Nicolas Girard.
