Inverness - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport, Mrs. Marie Malavoy, announced the construction of a recreation center in the Municipality of Inverness. Financial assistance of up to $ 451,414 will also be granted for this purpose.
The planned work, the total costs of which are estimated at over $ 900,000, are mainly aimed at the construction of a building consisting of an indoor skating rink which would be used mainly as an icy playing surface during the winter and a multifunctional section. which would serve throughout the year.
“The feeling of belonging and the well-being of a community depend in large part on the realization of projects like this one. This is particularly true in the regions. A healthy and stimulating environment greatly contributes to countering the exodus of young people. I am very proud to be part of a government that puts the quality of life in the region at the forefront, a quality of life that is greatly fueled by the diversity of the means available to us to remain active, ”declared Mr. Berube.
This project was analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs.
Across Quebec, approximately 80 projects for the construction, renovation, development and upgrading of sports and recreational facilities are expected to materialize thanks to investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from a $ 50 million envelope allocated under the second component of the Sports and Recreational Facilities Support Program - Phase II of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. To this envelope is added additional assistance of $ 80 million, thanks to the acceleration of investments, to support the implementation of new projects now.
“For the past year, we have been stepping up our actions to improve our public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing massively in our sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible actions, ”Minister Malavoy said.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will meet on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
