Sainte-Eulalie– On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister for the Regions, Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles region -de-la-Madeleine and Member of Parliament for the riding of Gaspé, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce that the Municipality of Sainte-Eulalie will benefit from a maximum government financial assistance of $ 590,500 for the replacement of drinking water and wastewater pipes in the municipality. This assistance is granted under the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
Briefly, the project aims to replace several drinking water and wastewater pipes in certain segments of Rang des Érables. At the end of this work, nearly 600 meters of water pipes will be renewed in the Municipality of Sainte-Eulalie.
Minister Gaétan Lelièvre announces the replacement of several water pipes in Sainte-Eulalie.
“I am very happy with the financial support granted today by our government to the Municipality of Sainte-Eulalie for the implementation of this water infrastructure work. All Quebecers must be able to benefit from access to quality public services. That is why our government is committed to providing municipalities with the support they need to renew and develop their infrastructure, ”said Minister Lelièvre.
&quot;By contributing to the maintenance and renewal of our public infrastructures, the government reiterates its desire to support the social and economic development of municipalities and regions, in the interest of all Quebecers,&quot; said Minister Gaudreault.
Completion of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 590,500 under component 1.5 of the PIQM. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this component of the PIQM program not only ensures the sustainability of infrastructure, but also improves the quality of life of the population and creates many jobs in all areas. regions of Quebec.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers met on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the MPs&#39; caucus and the Council of Ministers. They took advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
“Several issues concern the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. I am happy to see that they have been at the heart of government thinking and that they will also be at the heart of its interventions. A project like the one announced today is of great importance for our region, because it ensures the daily well-being of the people who live and work there, ”said Mr. Yves-François. Blanchet, Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the costs associated with them and thus to make informed choices.
