Saint-Ferdinand - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister for Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Québec region Laurent, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, today announced, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Mrs. Marie Malavoy, government investments of $ 90,000 to allow the Commission scolaire des Appalaches to proceed major renovations to Notre-Dame school, located in Saint-Ferdinand. The project aims in particular to repair the roof.
“In order for our young people to want to spend time in school and develop their full potential there, we must offer them a functional, stimulating and safe living environment. This is why we believe that investing in school property assets is a promising choice ”, declared Mr. Bérubé.
Government assistance is paid under the Réno-écoles program, one of the main measures stemming from the Economic policy: Priority employment, unveiled last fall. A total of $ 401.2 million will be invested to speed up improvement, renovation and repair work on schools throughout the school network and to intervene quickly to resolve air quality problems in certain schools. .
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will meet on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
“For the past year, we have not stopped taking measures to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe living environments that are conducive to learning. We are committing ourselves even further on this path through the promising and strong actions that we are taking today, ”concluded Minister Malavoy.
