Trois-Rivières - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region, the Minister of Health and Social Services, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and the MNA for Champlain, Ms. Noëlla Champagne, are pleased to announce a non-recurring investment of $ 6,581,000 for the implementation of a new hemodynamics service at the Center hospitalier affiliié universitaire régional du Center de santé et de services sociaux ( CSSS) of Trois-Rivières.
“I am very proud to announce the implementation of this new service. This is great news that was eagerly awaited in the region. The population pool served by the CSSS de Trois-Rivières justifies the establishment of a hemodynamic service in the region. The number of coronary procedures that could be performed locally is estimated at nearly 1,500. This volume is large enough to ensure the quality of the medical procedure and encourages us to maintain the service corridor with the Montreal Heart Institute only for more complex or high-risk cases that require ultra-specialized care ”, a declared Minister Hébert.
Concretely, this investment will make it possible to extend the basement of wing B of the Center hospitalier universitaire régional du Center de santé et de services sociaux (CSSS) de Trois-Rivières by 610 m2, and its ground floor by 323 m2. - floor. This construction work, estimated at $ 3.7 million, will be paid for in the amount of $ 1 million by the Regional Health Foundation of Trois-Rivières and $ 2.7 million by the Agence de la santé et des services sociaux. of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. The Department will invest $ 2,881,000 for the acquisition of equipment and furniture. In addition to these investments totaling $ 6,581,000, there is also an annual budget of $ 2,750,000 allocated to the CSSS by the Ministry for the operation of the new service.
“I am very pleased with this announcement, which will allow the population of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec to have access to hemodynamic procedures as quickly as possible and, above all, close to home. By supporting this project, our government is once again demonstrating its desire to improve access to health care in all regions of Quebec, in addition to reiterating its confidence in a hospital of great importance for the people of Quebec. here ”, for her part said Ms. Champagne.
Remember that hemodynamics, the science of blood circulation, makes it possible to make diagnoses and treat various problems mainly affecting the arteries supplying the heart. These problems, which can be attributed to cholesterol, smoking and many other risk factors, among others, can sometimes lead to a heart attack. One of the techniques most commonly used by hemodynamicists is percutaneous angioplasty, which consists in particular of using an inflatable balloon to dilate an artery exhibiting a narrowing in order to restore blood circulation.
Minister Hébert also took advantage of his visit to the CSSS de Trois-Rivières to announce that the establishment, in consortium with the InterVal Rehabilitation Center, has successfully passed the designation process, and will thus form the Regional Center in the management of chronic pain in Mauricie and Center-du-Québec.
This new consortium, which will work in close collaboration with the Agence de la santé et des services sociaux de la Mauricie et du Center-du-Québec, will provide real leadership in the planning and coordination of care and services for people suffering from chronic pain in the territory.
More specifically, its mandate will be to ensure the provision of second-line clinical services for people suffering from chronic pain, to ensure the dissemination of knowledge specific to this field of activity, and to offer support to first responders. region line. This teaching and knowledge transfer component will meet the needs of health professionals in a context of continuing education and be implemented with the collaboration of the Center of Expertise in Chronic Pain Management of the Integrated University Health Network. &#39;Montreal university.
“The designation of regional chronic pain management centers is part of our desire to ensure a continuum of hierarchical services in order to improve the accessibility and quality of care offered to people suffering from chronic pain throughout Quebec. », Concluded Minister Hébert.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers met on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the MPs caucus and the Council of Ministers. They took advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
