Montreal - On the eve of International Women&#39;s Day, the Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, announces that exceptional women are joining the Parti Québécois team, including Diane Lamarre, candidate in Taillon.
Diane Lamarre was president of the Ordre des pharmaciens du Québec. “Diane is a woman committed to her profession and to the well-being of the population. I am delighted to welcome a scientist, entrepreneur and healthcare professional of her caliber to my team, ”said Pauline Marois.
Pharmacist owner in Saint-Lambert, professor at the Faculty of Pharmacy at the University of Montreal, Diane Lamarre has worked in clinical settings as well as in research and teaching. Health columnist in various media, she made a point of informing the population on subjects related to health. She has also been involved in several humanitarian projects over the past ten years, participating in some thirty missions in a number of countries, for example in Mali, Uganda and Haiti. She is also vice-president for America of the International Conference of the Orders of Francophone Pharmacists.
“I am happy to join Pauline Marois&#39; team. It is an honor for me to succeed a woman of quality and commitment, Marie Malavoy. The people of Taillon can count on me to represent them and defend their interests with the same vigor as my predecessor in the National Assembly. Throughout my career, I have taken care of people. However, the Parti Québécois team is also making it its priority, ”said Diane Lamarre.
Pauline Marois said she was excited by the arrival of many candidates who come to strengthen the Parti Québécois team and believes that Quebecers will too. “Diane Lamarre joins a team of dynamic women who bring a breath of fresh air to our political life. The team that we are putting together is remarkable, not only for the quality of the people who make it up, but also for their unwavering attachment to Quebec. &quot;
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
