Québec - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region, the Minister of the Environment, Sustainable Development, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, is pleased to announce that an investment of $ 600,000 has been granted to Camping des Voltigeurs in order to continue upgrading infrastructure. This investment generates the creation of 17 jobs, including 4 direct jobs.
Camping des Voltigeurs will take advantage of this investment to renovate its reception station and two toilet blocks. The electrical network serving the campsite will also be brought up to standard and the playgrounds will benefit from a facelift.
“We are investing with the aim of continuing to bring public service infrastructure up to standard and ensure the sustainability of the built heritage. In doing so, our government is creating, in the very short term, jobs that will accelerate Québec&#39;s economic growth, in addition to contributing to the development of the region and its tourism industry, ”said the Minister.
This investment is part of the Government of Quebec&#39;s economic policy, entitled Priority employment, unveiled by the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, last fall.
It should be remembered that this economic policy targets, in its first component, four flagship measures to stimulate job creation now, including the acceleration of government investments for the renovation and modernization of public infrastructure, including those of Sépaq.
The second part of the Priority Jobs economic policy aims in particular to stimulate the vigor of successful businesses, such as the tourism industry in Quebec, in order to compete on the international scene. In this component, structural investments will allow Sépaq to participate in the tourism strategy within the framework of the enhancement of the St. Lawrence River and the development of winter tourism in various regions.
Overall, the investment resulting from the Priority employment policy at Camping des Voltigeurs creates 17 jobs, including 4 direct jobs. Across Quebec, the investments associated with the two components of this policy should create 702 jobs, including 384 direct jobs, and bring in $ 10 million in tax and parafiscal revenues in the State coffers by 2017. “These investments confirm Sépaq&#39;s role as a lever for economic development in the regions of Quebec, ”said Sépaq President and CEO, Raymond Desjardins.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will meet on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They will take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
