Trois-Rivières - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announces the award a grant of $ 173,200, for the restoration project of the seigneurial mill of Tonnancour, also known as the seigneurial mill of Pointe-du-Lac, in Trois-Rivières.
“The seigneurial mill of Tonnancour was built over two centuries ago. Located on Chemin du Roy, it is one of the heritage and tourist flagships of the Mauricie region. By contributing to its restoration and enhancement, we are ensuring that Quebeckers have access to this part of our history, ”says Maka Kotto.
Maka Kotto announces the allocation of a grant of $ 173,200 for the restoration project of the seigneurial mill of Tonnancour. (c) Cassy Lachance
This grant will allow the corporation of the seigneurial mill of Pointe-du-Lac to proceed with phase two of the work, the first of which was carried out in 2012. The work planned concerns, among other things, the restoration of dormers and walls, the replacement sanitary pumps and radiant heating installation. This work will ensure the preservation of the mill and the maintenance of museum activities by guaranteeing adequate reception conditions for visitors.
The sum of the work carried out amounts to $ 192,460 and breaks down as follows: $ 173,200 is allocated by the Ministry of Culture and Communications, under the Capital Assistance program, and $ 19,260 comes from the corporation du Moulin seigneurial of Pointe-du-Lac.
Additional information concerning the seigneurial mill of Tonnancour, as well as all the heritage elements registered in the Cultural Heritage Register are available on the website of the Quebec Cultural Heritage Directory (RPCQ), at www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc. it.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will meet on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They will take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
