Sainte-Thècle - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, visited the site of the Villa des Lacs, in Sainte-Thècle. This building of 15 affordable units intended for seniors with a slight loss of autonomy represents an investment of nearly $ 1.1 million on the part of the Government of Quebec.
While in the municipality of Sainte-Thècle, Minister Sylvain Gaudreault, accompanied by the mayor of Sainte-Thècle, Mr. Alain Vallée, was able to observe the progress of work on the Villa des Lacs, which should welcome its first tenants next spring.
“I am always touched to see the efforts deployed on the ground by dozens of people to set up projects of this magnitude. In the case at hand, I know that people from the community and municipal sectors, stakeholders from all walks of life have come together to create a promising project for the municipality of Sainte-Thècle, a living environment adapted to the needs of seniors who will live there, ”said Minister Gaudreault.
Minister Sylvain Gaudreault visits the site of an AccèsLogis Québec housing project intended for seniors in Sainte-Thècle. (c) Yann Langlais-Plante
Carried out thanks to the SHQ&#39;s AccèsLogis Québec program, this project will result in an investment totaling nearly $ 2.8 million. In addition to the financial participation of the Government of Quebec, many community partners got involved and raised more than $ 795,000 to allow the construction of this housing project. Of this amount, some $ 242,000 was invested by the Municipality of Sainte-Thècle. It should also be noted that this project received an additional grant of $ 74,000 under the Rénovation Québec program of the SHQ.
“All the initiating members of the Sainte-Thècle local development committee are proud of the completion of this major project, because these housing units will meet a pressing need for older citizens who wish to remain or return to their native village, an environment that is dear to them, located near their family and loved ones, ”said the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Sainte-Thècle Housing Solidarity Cooperative, Mr. Grégoire Rompré.
All buildings intended for seniors with a slight loss of autonomy, built under the AccèsLogis Québec program since 2004, are equipped with a sprinkler system or an equivalent measure when there is no network. aqueduct, all in accordance with the Quebec Construction Code. In addition, the installation of a fire alarm system is mandatory in all buildings, even if the Quebec Construction Code does not require it. This system takes into account the physical condition of the clientele.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers meet until February 7 in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of these two regions of Quebec.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether it is by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000 people. households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
