Quebec - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, and the Member for Saint-Maurice , Mr. Luc Trudel, along with the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Tourisme Mauricie, Mr. Benoit Gauthier, are pleased to announce a grant of $ 275,000 to the Cité de l&#39;énergie.
The financial assistance includes an amount of $ 225,000, from Tourisme Québec&#39;s Strategic Assistance Program for Tourism Projects, for the creation of the night show &quot;Amos Daragon, the second adventure&quot;. This production, presented in summer 2015 for a period of three years, will help maintain the equivalent of 270 jobs for a period of five years. To this amount is added support of $ 50,000, from the Mauricie Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement (EPRT), for the enhancement of the show &quot;Amos Daragon, the first adventure&quot;, in particular with a view to making it bilingual.
“I am very proud to announce this financial support which will help enhance the attractions of the Mauricie region in terms of cultural tourism, an important niche for all regions of Quebec. In addition, this project is excellent news for the region&#39;s economy. By its structuring character, it will help increase Shawinigan&#39;s reputation and strengthen the destination&#39;s tourist offer. This announcement will make this project a reality for the benefit of the population. This is news that I am sure will delight the entire community and benefit all of Quebec, ”said Minister Bérubé.
“Several issues concern the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec region. I am happy to see that they have been at the heart of government thinking and that they will also be at the heart of its interventions. A project like that of the Cité de l&#39;énergie is of particular importance and serves as a model for all entrepreneurs wishing to set up tourist infrastructures on which the diversification and development of the region&#39;s economy can be based. Local initiatives such as the one announced today significantly contribute to the development of our community, ”said MP Luc Trudel.
As for the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Tourisme Mauricie, Mr. Benoit Gauthier, he added that: “the Cité de l&#39;Énergie has long been a flagship product for the Mauricie region and it is essential to support it in the pursuit of of its mission. This has never ceased to amaze us, both by its development, by the renewal of its offer and by its many projects which are just waiting to see the light of day. Outside of the large urban centers of Montreal and Quebec, the regions need this financial support from higher governments. They are greatly appreciated ”.
Based on a bestselling novel, the first edition has so far welcomed more than 46,000 visitors, which suggests the success of this second edition, according to the general manager of the Cité de l&#39;énergie, Mr. Robert Trudel. “This financial support will allow the Cité de l&#39;énergie to pursue its growth and act as a driver of tourism development for the region, by offering an enriching and entertaining visit experience to the widest possible audience. The forecasts of 26,000 spectators annually leave us very confident for the success of this new creation ”.
It should be remembered that the EPRT aims to concentrate investments in the tourism industry according to regional priorities and to strengthen the role of partners in this process. Tourisme Québec, Tourisme Mauricie, the Regional Conference of Elected Officials of Mauricie, the Haut-Saint-Maurice Local Development Center, the Chenaux Local Development Center, the Maskinongé MRC Local Development Center, the Local Center of Mékinac development, the City of Shawinigan and Innovation and economic development Trois-Rivières are the financial partners of the agreement. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy also participates in the management committee.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers met on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the MPs caucus and the Council of Ministers. They took advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will have made more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements contribute to the development and growth of these regions.
