Trois-Rivières - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy , and the MNA for Champlain, Mrs. Noëlla Champagne today announced government investments of $ 560,000 to allow the Chemin-du-Roy school board to carry out major renovations in its establishments, namely the secondary school des Pionniers, the Saint-Dominique school, the Saint-Philippe school and the primary school of international education.
“Across Quebec, our government is investing massively and wisely in school heritage. For us, the school is more than a building where we transmit knowledge. It is a real living environment where the dreams of tomorrow take shape. Through these investments, we are demonstrating our desire to give young people the best possible environment to succeed and prepare for their future, ”said Ms. Malavoy.
Thanks to the investments announced, the School Board will be able to carry out various corrective work such as replacing the power supply system and windows.
Government assistance is paid under the Réno-écoles program, one of the main measures stemming from the Economic policy: Priority employment, unveiled last fall. A total of $ 401.2 million will be invested to speed up improvement, renovation and repair work on schools throughout the school network and to intervene quickly to resolve air quality problems in certain schools. .
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers meet on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
“For the past year, we have not stopped taking measures to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe living environments that are conducive to learning. We are committing ourselves even further on this path through the promising and strong actions that we are taking today, ”concluded the Minister.
