Shawinigan - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, announced today, along with the Member of Parliament for the riding of Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, government investments of $ 643,765 to allow the Central Québec School Board to carry out major renovations to two of its schools: Shawinigan High School (Shawinigan High School) and La Tuque High School (La Tuque High School).
The project to be carried out at Shawinigan high school consists in particular of replacing some of its sanitary facilities. The work carried out at La Tuque high school consists of re-joining several exterior walls of the building, so as to prevent possible water infiltration.
“The government continues to act responsibly and judiciously to provide all students in Quebec with the best possible conditions for learning and development. Today&#39;s announcement once again demonstrates our sincere commitment in this regard, ”said Ms. Malavoy.
Ms. Marie Malavoy announced today, along with the Member of Parliament for the riding of Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, government investments of $ 643,765 in the Central Québec School Board. (c) Luc Trudel
Government assistance is paid under the Réno-écoles program, one of the main measures stemming from the Economic policy: Priority employment, unveiled last fall. A total of $ 430.4 million will be invested to speed up improvement, renovation and repair work on schools throughout the school network and to intervene quickly to resolve air quality problems in certain schools. .
“Our government is investing massively and wisely in educational heritage. For us, the school is more than a building where we transmit knowledge. It is a real living environment where the dreams of tomorrow hatch. The more functional, attractive and secure our educational institutions are, the more our young people will be inclined to spend time there, to succeed there and to prepare for their future, ”declared MP Trudel.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers meet on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
“For the past year, we have not stopped taking measures to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe living environments that are conducive to learning. We are committing ourselves even further on this path through the promising and strong actions that we are taking today, ”concluded the Minister.
