Shawinigan - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, and the Member of Parliament for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, today announced government investments of $ 3,528,720 to allow the Commission scolaire de l&#39;Énergie to carry out major renovations in 17 of its educational establishments .
“This is excellent news for students and teachers, who will continue to benefit from quality infrastructure for many years to come. Our government is acting in an enlightened and responsible manner by investing in educational heritage and by offering the population attractive places that are conducive to success, ”declared Ms. Malavoy.
“As the Member of Parliament for Saint-Maurice, I am delighted with this investment, which will help to further improve the learning conditions of students in the area,” added MNA Trudel.
Thanks to the investments announced, the School Board will be able to carry out various corrective work, ranging from the replacement of plumbing, through the repair of roofs, doors and windows, to the refurbishment of the exterior envelope and the structure of the buildings. buildings.
Government assistance is paid under the Réno-écoles program, one of the main measures stemming from the Economic policy: Priority employment, unveiled last fall. A total of $ 401.2 million will be invested to speed up improvement, renovation and repair work on schools throughout the school network and to intervene quickly to resolve air quality problems in certain schools. .
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers meet in Shawinigan, on February 5 and 6, during the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
“For the past year, we have not stopped taking measures to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe living environments that are conducive to learning. We are committing ourselves even further on this path through the promising and strong actions that we are taking today, ”concluded the Minister.
