Louiseville– On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister for the Regions, Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de -la-Madeleine and Member of Parliament for the riding of Gaspé, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce the award financial assistance of $ 43,129 to the MRC de Maskinongé to carry out a feasibility study aimed at a deployment of high-speed wireless Internet throughout its territory. This sum comes from the conjunctural development fund.
The MRC de Maskinongé has been seeking for several years to offer high-speed wireless Internet service to all of its citizens, regardless of their geographic location. However, due to the size of the territory and the topography of the land, service providers mainly focus on urban perimeters. Thus, the majority of residents still do not have access to an adequate service. The detailed study that the MRC intends to conduct will therefore make it possible to define the best technological solution to adopt to meet the needs and expectations of its citizens as well as to establish the costs associated with the deployment of high-speed wireless Internet on the all of its territory.
Allocation of financial assistance of $ 43,129 to the MRC de Maskinongé to carry out a feasibility study aimed at a deployment of high-speed wireless Internet throughout its territory. (c) Catherine Parré
&quot;It is with pride that I announce this contribution from the Government of Quebec, which will stimulate the economic, social and cultural development of the MRC de Maskinongé while contributing to the development of its rural communities and the occupation of his territory. In fact, with this announcement, our government reiterates its desire to offer all citizens of Quebec a high-speed Internet connection so that they can count on this indispensable tool in today&#39;s world. where knowledge as well as information and communications technologies play an increasingly strategic role in the socio-economic development of rural areas, ”Minister Gaétan Lelièvre declared.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will meet on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They will take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of these regions.
“Several issues affect the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. I am happy to see that they have been at the heart of government thinking and that they will also be at the heart of its interventions. Local initiatives, such as the one announced today, significantly contribute to the development of our community. Ultimately, the realization of this project will allow local citizens to connect with the world, ”said Yves-François Blanchet, Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible. regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec.
