Sainte-Angèle-de-Prémont– On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister for the Regions, Mr. Géatan Lelièvre, took advantage of a visit to the Ferme Nouvelle-France to announce, on behalf of the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, $ 75,000 in aid earmarked for the development of the company&#39;s infrastructure, for the benefit of the tourist clientele. The project has created 15 new jobs.
“I am very proud to announce this financial support which contributes to enhancing the attractions of the Mauricie region in terms of cultural tourism. The development of new infrastructures, in connection with the agrotourism offer in Quebec, is part of the diversity of activities and products offered by Ferme Nouvelle-France and allows the region to offer a unique experience to visitors, which in turn made an original and innovative project. This announcement is made for the greatest benefit of the population. This is news that, I am sure, will delight the entire community and benefit all of Quebec, ”said Minister Lelièvre.
For his part, the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, is delighted with this announcement. “The tourism industry is an important economic engine for the Mauricie. Through the authenticity and uniqueness of its product, Ferme Nouvelle-France contributes to structuring the tourist offer of the destination by highlighting the rural and agricultural heritage of the region. I am therefore delighted with the financial support granted to this project ”.
Resulting from Tourisme Québec&#39;s Strategic Assistance Program for Tourism Projects, the assistance granted enabled Ferme Nouvelle-France to develop a set of infrastructures aimed at introducing visitors to new products and promoting heritage through exhibition of objects relating the past of the region, in addition to offering a regional showcase for agri-food products and agrotourism. The infrastructures put in place are defined, in particular, by the animation of thematic circuits promoting the agricultural territory and the rural heritage, the creation of a rural market and a bicycle stop as well as the construction of a room. events for 175 people.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will meet on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They will take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of these regions.
