Drummondville - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the Minister of Sustainable Development , Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions, Yves-François Blanchet, are pleased to announce that the government of Quebec is partnering with the City of Drummondville to maintain 40 jobs and give new impetus to its literary and cultural life through financial assistance of $ 6,526,000, so that it can build a new municipal library.
“This is a major investment for the Government of Quebec. What could be better than investing in knowledge, its dissemination and access? The City of Drummondville will offer its population an ultramodern library with grouped services. It is an eloquent example of what the Quebec library network is heading towards, rooted in its community and looking to the future, ”said Maka Kotto.
This new building will bring together the Drummondville municipal library and the archives center of the Drummond Historical Society, in a spirit of cooperation between two organizations that will testify to great success for easier access to documentary services for citizens and the citizens. The new building, planned with a view to sustainable development, will bring the archives center up to standard in order to guarantee proper preservation conditions for documents.
“Upgrading equipment like the Drummondville library has been a long-standing demand, and indeed urgent. This investment had become more than necessary given the remarkable demographic growth experienced by the city, and its central role in the MRC and in Center-du-Québec. Local initiatives such as the one announced today are making a significant contribution to the development of an environment that is seen as a model for Quebec, ”concluded Yves-François Blanchet.
In addition, this investment in culture will make it possible in particular to offer citizens a larger library, with an enhanced collection of books and cutting-edge technological tools such as loan stations. Citizens will also benefit from better access to reading, because not only will the building be located in a strategic location, easy to access, in the heart of the city, but the services of the library will be offered to them. free.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers met on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the MPs&#39; caucus and the Council of Ministers. They took advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
