Warwick - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister for Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, today announced, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Mrs. Marie Malavoy, government investments of $ 649,510 to allow the Commission scolaire des Bois-Francs to proceed major renovations in two schools: La Fermentière alternative school, located in Warwick, and Saint-Gabriel-Lalemant school, in Victoriaville. The project concerning the La Fermentière school aims in particular to repair the roof and the exterior cladding of the building. The other project involves waterproofing the foundations and replacing the perimeter drain of Saint-Gabriel-Lalemant school.
“These two schools are real living environments, where every effort is made to offer personalized support to students. For our part, it is up to us to do everything possible to make them healthy and safe places, which will be possible through the investments that I am announcing today, ”declared Mr. Bérubé.
Pascal Bérubé announces government investments of $ 649,510 to allow the Bois-Francs School Board to carry out major renovations in two schools. // (c) Valérie Noël-Létourneau
Government assistance is paid under the Réno-écoles program, one of the main measures stemming from the Economic policy: Priority employment, unveiled last fall. A total of $ 401.2 million will be invested to speed up improvement, renovation and repair work on establishments throughout the school network and to intervene quickly to resolve air quality problems in certain schools.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will meet on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
“For the past year, we have not stopped taking measures to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe living environments that are conducive to learning. We are committing ourselves even further on this path through the promising and strong actions that we are taking today, ”concluded Minister Malavoy.
