Wickham– On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister for the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de -la-Madeleine and Member of Parliament for Gaspé, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, accompanied by the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Minister responsible for the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions and Member of Parliament for Johnson , Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, confirmed the granting of nearly $ 6 million to rural MRCs in the Center-du-Québec region for the implementation of the National Rurality Policy. Following a commitment by the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, to improve rural pacts, the National Policy on Rurality was renewed for a period of ten years with an envelope of $ 470 million. Created in 2001 by the Parti Québécois, the National Policy on Rurality provides unprecedented support to rural areas and regions of Quebec.
“The assistance announced today will allow those who have the development of their community at heart to give new impetus to the most inspiring and promising projects in their community. Long matured, this policy is based on the capacity of rural areas to mobilize and work on an intersectoral basis: an innovative and decisive approach for land use and rural life in Quebec. This new national policy on rurality will allow the implementation of major projects in the regions of Quebec, ”said Minister Lelièvre.
A sum of nearly $ 2 million will be allocated from 2014-2015 to the MRCs of Center-du-Québec to finance rural pacts and rural development officer positions in the region. The Minister also confirmed an additional commitment of $ 3.75 million, for a maximum of $ 750,000 per MRC over ten years, to the achievement of &quot;pacts plus&quot; in the rural territory of the region. Major novelties of the new policy, the “pacts plus” aim to support the realization of major intersectoral projects with promising future at the level of the MRC. The intersectoral approach should henceforth characterize the management of the rural pact as well as that of the &quot;pact plus&quot; since it is by rallying around a common vision and ensuring the complementarity of their actions that the actors of rural development will be able to optimize. the repercussions on their environment.
Pivots of the national policy on rurality, rural pacts are contracts entered into between the government and the RCMs to finance projects in rural areas. As for rural development agents, they are real agents of change for rural communities.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will meet on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They will take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
“I am delighted with the large sums announced today to support the realization of projects that will undoubtedly help build stronger and more dynamic communities in Center-du-Québec. Our government is thus sending a clear signal of its desire to support rural Quebec. The Parti Québécois is showing that it is the true party of regions, ”concluded Minister Blanchet.
