Quebec, March 18, 2019 - In anticipation of the Caquist budget, presented this Thursday, the member for René-Lévesque and spokesperson for the second opposition group in matters of finance and the economy, Martin Ouellet, summed up the expectations as follows. from the Parti Québécois: this budget must mark the end of austerity and a reinvestment in our health and education services.
IN SHORT
“In health, the austerity and neglect of the Liberals created enormous needs. In CHSLDs, seniors too often have to endure unacceptable situations. In hospitals, patients see how overworked nurses are every day. And nothing has improved since October 1; There is no more time to lose! In its budget update last fall, the CAQ government could have urgently reinvested in these sectors, but it chose not to do so. So, today, the population expects a massive reinvestment in health ”, first indicated the spokesperson.
Quebecers have other great expectations, especially when it comes to young people. “Prime Minister Legault has set the bar very high by committing to make education and children his main priorities. He promised to restore the universal tariff for educational childcare services; it must therefore do so without delay. In addition, a worrying number of our schools are in need of major renovations - the maintenance deficit was $ 3 billion last year. As of this year, significant sums must be added so that within 10 years, this deficit will be eliminated, ”the deputy also demanded.
Other areas can no longer wait either. “In the campaign, the CAQ is committed to making high speed Internet available everywhere in Quebec by the end of its mandate. She cannot renege on this other promise! Major investments in this direction are therefore necessary from this first CAQ budget. We are also asking for concrete measures to accelerate Quebec&#39;s transition to a green economy. For example, the time has come to include environmental impact in government tenders, or to offer tax credits to SMEs that commercialize clean technologies. Finally, let&#39;s be clear: it is this week, with the back-to-back presentation of the budgets in Ottawa and Quebec, that the government of François Legault must obtain the full share of federal funding for our public transit projects, among others for the structuring public transport network in Quebec, ”also insisted Martin Ouellet.
