Quebec - The member for Taillon and spokesperson for the official opposition in matters of health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, strongly denounces the decision of the Minister of Health and Social Services, Gaétan Barrette, to &quot;normalize&quot; billing of incidental costs to patients in Quebec. Thus, it formalizes improvised and unreported breaches in the public health system. This shows, once again, that the minister is not making the right choices.
&quot;Not only is the minister trying to trivialize the turn towards privatization in which he is leading our public health system, but, in addition, he openly minimizes the obstacle to access to care that he is about to impose by&quot; normalizing &quot;overbilling, yet recognized by all as being against our laws. If doctors feel that the sums they receive from the government are insufficient to finance the devices and equipment they need to offer quality and cutting-edge services in private clinics, it is up to them to renegotiate them with the government; patients don&#39;t have to pay for it. Authorizing the billing of incidental costs is another gift from the Minister to medical specialists, to the detriment of all patients in Quebec and increased access to health care, ”said Diane Lamarre.
“What about the Prime Minister&#39;s promise, made last December, not to increase the tax burden on Quebecers and not to raise taxes and tariffs beyond inflation? The Patients&#39; Health Alliance estimates the amount of incidental costs at $ 50 million per year. In addition, the number of complaints filed with the College of Physicians and reimbursement requests addressed to the Régie de l&#39;assurance maladie du Québec are constantly increasing. Yes, we were asking the minister for action in the matter, but certainly not so that he passes the bill on to patients, ”added the deputy.
“The tripartite committee which will fix the amount&quot; reasonable &quot;for the invoicing of the accessory costs will be made up of representatives of the ministry and of the medical federations, and of a single independent expert. Here again, there is proof that the method of remuneration of physicians poses a problem; It is high time that the formula be reviewed to promote better access to health care in the public system, ”continued the spokesperson.
Finally, Diane Lamarre called on the minister to table his comprehensive health plan and to stop improvising. &quot;It would be desirable for him to stop making his decisions for the benefit of his physician colleagues and place the patient at the heart of the health system once and for all,&quot; she concluded.
