Quebec - On the eve of the tabling of the 2016-2017 budget of the Government of Quebec, the leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the Parti Québécois spokesperson for finances and revenue, Nicolas Marceau, as well as the spokesperson for education and school perseverance, Alexandre Cloutier, insisted to the government: it must imperatively table an economic budget, focused on supporting the creation of businesses and jobs in all regions of Quebec , in addition to planning a major reinvestment in education.
“Quebec is in a worrying economic situation. No jobs have been created for 10 months. The Liberal government&#39;s carelessness has led to the abandonment of many projects: IFFCO, Stolt LNGaz, Mine Arnaud, FerroAtlántica, the investment that RTA planned to make in Saguenay and that envisaged by Century Aluminum in Lac-Saint-Jean. We have lost head offices, and the migratory flow from the resource regions is negative. With such a portrait, we expect a resolutely economic budget to boost growth. Two years without a policy in this area have hurt Quebec&#39;s economic development. For example, because of the current exchange rate, our exports should be much stronger. However, we note that our main players in this area are rather in difficulty. The government must, once and for all, focus its actions on economic development and support for job creation. We expect, tomorrow, the announcement of a real research and innovation policy and a digital strategy, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“According to the National Bank, economic growth in 2015 will be 0.9%, unheard of since the 2009 recession. In addition, there is still no economic policy or strategic plan for Investissement Québec , not to mention that 42,000 self-employed workers and 33,000 small businesses are expected to pay tax increases as of next year. This increase in their tax burden would be counterproductive and must absolutely be forgotten. In addition, our companies are missing the technological shift; they are less present online than their American and Canadian competitors, ”added Nicolas Marceau.
Education: a serious turnaround needed
Alexandre Cloutier recalls for his part that the education system and services to students, especially those in difficulty, have suffered from liberal austerity. “During the period 2004-2014, the budget dedicated to education increased by 3.6%, on average, per year. If the Liberals had maintained - just maintained - this pace of investment, there would be, in tomorrow&#39;s budget, $ 1.4 billion more for the network. But the Liberal government did not choose this path. He has cut both legs of the education system and he is trying to be forgiven by buying him a pair of shoes, ”he said.
The liberal effect is $ 1,500 per family
Let us remember: the Liberal government has made several commitments to abolish the health tax that it itself created in 2010. However, this will have little effect on the budgets of families in Quebec, each one having to pay, since the Liberals came to power, an additional annual bill of $ 1,500, several taxes and tariffs of all kinds having been increased. Moreover, since the health tax is paid into the Fund to finance health and social services establishments, any reduction must be accompanied by an equivalent increase in health credits, otherwise the sick pay the price.
&quot;In addition to these $ 1,500 in tax and rate increases, especially those for childcare centers, Quebecers must assume a new bill of 50 million in ancillary costs, decreed by Gaétan Barrette, and another of 65 million to cover the recent increase. electricity tariffs. To sum up, let&#39;s just say that for the past two years, the liberal effect has been really costing Quebec families, ”continued Nicolas Marceau.
On the subject of childcare services, the leader of the official opposition pleaded the cause of families with insistence. “With its reform of childcare centers, the government is imposing a real tax shock on parents in Quebec, to such an extent that certain financial institutions now offer them payment facilities! The Liberals must therefore urgently abolish line 434 from Quebecers&#39; income tax returns and return to the only rate acceptable to all families: the universal rate. Of course, as Quebec has always done, additional support must also be provided to the most disadvantaged families, ”he concluded.
