Québec, September 26, 2016 - The member for Rimouski and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois pour les Seniors, Harold LeBel, as well as the member for Taillon and spokesperson for health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, ask the government to reinvest now to improve access to mental health services, so as to reduce the overprescription of antidepressants, especially among the elderly.
“Older people experience a lot of loneliness and distress, and it takes time and human resources to break this isolation. For them, the disappearance of several family caregivers and beneficiary attendants positions has a real and direct impact. We must increase home support, not cut the hours available for seniors who are still able to stay at home and who wish to stay there as long as possible. Excessive centralization, combined with cuts of nearly a billion dollars, impairs access to psychological services for patients, especially the elderly, ”lamented Harold LeBel.
“Major depression is as serious an emergency as a hemorrhage. Hospital emergencies are overflowing and psychosocial services are too often absent. It is common for patients to come out on their own. In Jonquière, suicides documented by the complaints commissioner bear witness to this. The pressure exerted on doctors to see a greater volume of patients, compared to the availability of each, favors the rapid use of drugs rather than non-pharmacological measures, which nevertheless give convincing results for the patients. . Overdiagnosis and overprescribing are documented, and there are billions of dollars to be recovered to improve access to services for patients. Minister Barrette must reinvest in mental health now and put patients and access to care at the heart of his decisions once and for all, ”argued Diane Lamarre.
“Mental health wait times are indecent! They often exceed several months. Depressed patients do not have the energy to denounce the lack of essential services for them. To properly treat a patient with symptoms of depression, psychologists should be on the front line. But there is a lack in the public system and the minister refuses to implement a simple measure that would provide 250 from next year: the remuneration of interns in psychology. We take this opportunity to remind him of his commitment to invest $ 70 million in mental health, where the waiting lists are growing. Unfortunately, it is once again the patients - and, in this case, vulnerable patients - who are unfairly paying the price for liberal reforms. It must stop, ”concluded the deputies.
