Quebec - Following meetings with various associations of traders responsible for administering the increase in the specific tax on alcoholic beverages announced in the 2013-2014 budget, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, announced today that the time allowed for the payment to Revenu Québec of the amount established following the taking of inventory of alcoholic beverages in stock is extended. Merchants will now have until November 21, 2013 to pay this amount.
The Minister recalled that the increase in the specific tax on alcoholic beverages operates on the principle of pre-collection. “This is an increase in a tax imposed on consumers and not on traders, in the same way as specific taxes on tobacco products and on fuels. To simplify the application of these taxes, an amount equal to the specific tax is collected in advance from merchants. They then recover this amount from consumers by collecting the specific tax at the time of sale to them, ”he explained.
The Minister specified that in a specific pre-collected tax regime, taking inventory of products in stock at the time of a tax hike is a basic principle that it would be perilous to call into question. &quot;Failure to take inventory on products in stock could result in consumers paying taxes that would never be paid to the government,&quot; said the minister.
In addition, in order to respond to the concerns raised by certain representatives of traders, he stressed that following the increase in the specific tax on alcoholic beverages, traders are not required to immediately modify their price lists or their prices. menus to reflect the amount of this increase. They must mention to their customers that the amount of the increase will be added to the prices indicated, for example by means of posters at the entrance of their establishment or on the cash register or even inserts in the menus, until that their lists or menus are subject to change.
Merchants who have questions about the application of the increase in the specific tax on alcoholic beverages or the inventory of products in stock can contact Revenu Québec business customer services at 1 800 567 -4692.
