Quebec - The Federal Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Gerry Ritz, and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, are pleased to announce the award of &#39;&#39; $ 68,500 in financial support for the Nordic Agriculture niche of excellence focused on beef production. Granted under the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, which is associated with Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada&#39;s Agri-flexibility fund, the assistance granted will ensure the completion of a project in Notre-Dame-du-Nord, in Abitibi. -Témiscamingue.
The purpose of this project is to develop grazing techniques so as to allow all the cattle herds to benefit from an average grazing season of more than 200 days. Such an increase in the length of the season will have a positive impact on the quantity and quality of forage, increase the productivity of existing pastures and ultimately reduce feed costs for cows and calves.
&quot;We are committed to the prosperity of the agricultural sector which is an important engine for job creation and economic growth in the region,&quot; said Minister Ritz. Our government is proud to offer support for the realization of this project since the various agro-climatic zones in Canada pose major challenges for agricultural producers. &quot;
“Beef production is important for Abitibi-Témiscamingue, but the weather conditions are not always there. The implementation of this project will therefore help businesses in the region to improve their competitiveness, which fits perfectly with the objectives of the Food Sovereignty Policy ”, explained Mr. Gendron.
On March 25, 2011, the governments of Canada and Quebec announced the signing of the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies. This program, which benefits from an investment of $ 16.7 million over a four-year period, aims to support the development and adaptation of agrifood activity sectors in a competitive and constantly changing business context.
For a complete description of the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, go to the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food: www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/strategiessectorielles. For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
