Quebec - The Minister of Families, Ms. Nicole Léger, today launched a call for proposals for the establishment of a one-stop shop for access to educational childcare services. This one-stop-shop will become the only gateway for parents to register their children with childcare providers offering places at $ 7 in the various regions of Quebec.
“Today&#39;s announcement is part of the government&#39;s vision for families today and tomorrow. We want to better meet the needs of families, but also make their lives easier. This is why I am starting now to set up a one-stop shop that will allow parents to register, with a single step and with a single click, with all the childcare services in our network that offer places. at $ 7, ”said Minister Nicole Léger.
Through this call for proposals, the management of this new tool will be entrusted to a neutral organization. The implementation of the one-stop-shop will initially target early childhood centers and subsidized daycare centers. The body chosen will have to integrate the data from the regional counters and the waiting lists of service providers not registered with one or other of the regional counters and launch the operations of the single window (registration of service providers). subsidized child care and parent registration). Once these steps are completed, the one-stop shop will officially come into effect.
“Today we are laying the groundwork for a large-scale project for our childcare network. Currently, parents have to knock on several doors in order to have a place for their child. Ultimately, they will only have one step to register their child with all the childcare services that offer places at $ 7 in Quebec. I want to reassure parents, this registration will be free, ”said Minister Nicole Léger.
In the coming days, the Ministère de la Famille will send an invitation to organizations that can submit a proposal. They will have until November 15, 2013 to follow up on this invitation. Details surrounding the implementation of the single window are available on the Ministère&#39;s website (www.mfa.gouv.qc.ca). The announcement of the chosen organization will be made in December 2013.
