Montreal - While more than 450 Montreal families have learned on the eve of the holiday season that they will lose their livelihood by the end of next year, the leader of the official opposition, Jean? François Lisée, the Parti Québécois economy spokesperson and member for Sanguinet, Alain Therrien, as well as the chief whip of the official opposition and member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, denounce the fact that the government Liberal has completely given up on protecting our manufacturing jobs.
“We wish to express our solidarity with the 454 families who learned this difficult news at such an unfavorable time of the year. What a lack of respect from Mondelez, for their employees and for Quebec! However, beyond the specific case, we have to admit that the defeatism of the Liberal government places Quebec in a position of passive victim vis-à-vis bad corporate citizens. More than ever, Quebec needs a government that acts vigorously to protect the jobs of families, ”declared Jean-François Lisée.
“At the Parti Québécois, we have a plan to protect our economy and our jobs. Unlike the Liberals, we are also determined to protect our head offices with concrete legislation. Likewise, we intend to strongly encourage companies to set up and keep their production in Quebec, ”said Alain Therrien.
The Parti Québécois is in fact proposing three flagship measures to achieve this. First, to support business takeovers by employees, among other things by offering financial support to cooperatives and providing tax advantages - for example, by allowing tax deferral to facilitate transfers. Then, make state subsidies conditional on a commitment, on the part of the companies that will benefit from them, to maintain economic activities in Quebec, including a reimbursement clause in the event of default. Then, use our extraordinary purchasing power, as a government, to express our preference for buying from Quebec.
“Obviously, we will act responsibly and push our actions to the limit of what trade agreements allow. But, when we see the energy with which Americans are defending their businesses and their jobs, especially on the softwood lumber file, we must take note of the reality: Liberal naivety and passivity is out of date. », Concluded the leader of the official opposition.
