Acton Vale– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec region and Member of Parliament for Johnson, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, on behalf of the Minister for Education, Leisure and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, today announced a sports and recreational infrastructure project that will be carried out in Acton Vale. Financial assistance of up to $ 841,717.31 will be granted for this purpose.
&quot;I am pleased to announce this investment, which aims to improve the quality of life of the citizens of Acton Vale,&quot; said Minister Blanchet. It is profitable to invest in this type of infrastructure in more than one way, because sport is a complete activity, which is not only beneficial for health and personal development, but also a strong element of integration and development. social cohesion. It is essential to make it accessible to as many people as possible and under the best possible conditions. &quot;
These projects were analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs.
Across Quebec, 84 construction, renovation, development and upgrading of sports and recreational facilities will materialize thanks to investments totaling $ 130 million. These sums come from a $ 50 million envelope allocated under the second component of the Sports and Recreational Infrastructure Support Program - Phase II of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. To this envelope is added additional assistance of $ 80 million, thanks to the acceleration of investments, to support the implementation of new projects now.
It should be noted that these investments are planned within the framework of the Québec government&#39;s economic policy, Priority employment, recently presented by the Premier and by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau. This policy aims in particular to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, in the short and medium term.
Of the approximately $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments intended to modernize sports and recreational infrastructures, some $ 401 million are devoted to making educational infrastructures in Quebec healthier environments for learning. The completion of these projects should create around 3,500 jobs.
“For the past year, we have been stepping up actions to improve public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing massively in sports and recreational infrastructure, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the health, well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible actions, ”Minister Malavoy said.
