Alma– The Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Member of Parliament for Lac-Saint-Jean, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, announces the allocation of financial assistance of more than $ 1.4 million for the construction of a sports, recreational and cultural center in Saint-Gédéon as part of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - phase II of the Sport and Physical Activity Development Fund.
“I am extremely happy to officially announce the participation of the Marois government in the construction of a sports, recreational and cultural center in Saint-Gédéon. Having visited it on several occasions, I can confirm that the gymnasium currently used by school and municipal clients is completely obsolete. This project, which is particularly close to my heart, will allow the entire population of Saint-Gédéon as well as the children attending Saint-Antoine primary school to have access to modern and quality infrastructure while expanding the offer. sporting, recreational and cultural activities, ”said Minister Cloutier.
The Saint-Gédéon sports, recreation and cultural center project, valued at $ 4.7 million, will allow the population to have access to a wide range of activities in a safe and welcoming environment in addition to the activities and activities. the school calendar. First, we will demolish the prefabricated spaces adjacent to the Saint-Antoine elementary school housing a gymnasium, a music class, and outdated and unsafe dressing and heating spaces. Subsequently, the construction of a new gymnasium, a municipal and school library, to which a computer lab will be connected, two collective changing rooms with associated shower areas, a teachers&#39; room, teaching facilities, will begin. storage, an entrance hall and a mechanical room. There will also be a multipurpose recreation room, a music room and a psychomotor room.
Across Quebec, 84 construction, renovation, development and upgrading of sports and recreational facilities will materialize thanks to investments totaling $ 130 million. Do these amounts come from a $ 50 million envelope allocated under the second component of the Sports and Recreational Infrastructure Support Program? phase II of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. To this envelope is added additional assistance of $ 80 million, thanks to the acceleration of investments, to support the implementation of new projects now.
These projects were analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs.
It should be noted that these investments are planned within the framework of the Québec government&#39;s economic policy, Priority employment, recently presented by the Premier and by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau. This policy aims in particular to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, in the short and medium term.
Of the approximately $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to the $ 130 million intended for the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructures, some $ 401 million is devoted to making educational infrastructures in Quebec healthier environments for learning. The completion of these projects should create around 3,500 jobs.
“For the past year, we have been stepping up actions to improve public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing massively in sports and recreational infrastructure, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the health, well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible actions, ”Minister Malavoy said.
