Laval - As part of the Economic Policy: Priority Employment, the Minister of Families and Minister responsible for the Laval region, Ms. Nicole Léger, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, announced that a major sports infrastructure project would be carried out in the region with government funding of up to $ 1,718,100. This is the expansion of the Rowing Initiation and Training Center. Ms. Léger was accompanied for the occasion by the Member for Laval-des-Rapides, Mr. Léo Bureau-Blouin, and the Member for Sainte-Rose, Ms. Suzanne Proulx.
“Government investments will allow the addition of an indoor rowing tank, an ergometer practice area, a weight room as well as new locker rooms and sanitary facilities. Users will now be able to train year round in better adapted spaces and the number of introductory activities offered to the general public will be increased, ”said Ms. Léger.
This project was analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs.
Across Quebec, 84 construction, renovation, development and upgrading of sports and recreational facilities will materialize thanks to investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from a $ 50 million envelope allocated under the second component of the Sports and Recreational Facilities Support Program - Phase II of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. To this envelope is added additional assistance of $ 80 million to support the implementation of new projects now.
It should be noted that these investments are planned within the framework of the Economic policy: Priority employment, recently presented by the Prime Minister and by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. This policy aims in particular to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, in the short and medium term.
Of the approximately $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments intended to modernize sports and recreational infrastructures, some $ 401 million are devoted to making educational infrastructures in Quebec healthier environments for learning. The completion of these projects should create around 3,500 jobs.
“For the past year, we have been stepping up actions to improve public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing massively in sports and recreational infrastructure, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the health, well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible actions, ”Minister Malavoy said.
