Montreal - The Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs. Marie Malavoy , made public the sports and recreational infrastructure projects that will be carried out in the Montreal region. Financial assistance of up to $ 5,024,076.06 will also be granted for this purpose.
The Department&#39;s contribution to these projects is detailed as follows:
“We have before us organizations which, by presenting sports and recreational infrastructure projects, have shown that they are committed to improving the quality of life in their territory. I am convinced that Montrealers, young people in particular, will be happy to be able to benefit from these modern and quality facilities. This is a concrete result of the government&#39;s desire to make Quebec one of the fittest nations in the world, ”said Minister Lisée.
These projects were analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs.
Across Quebec, approximately 80 projects for the construction, renovation, development and upgrading of sports and recreational facilities are expected to materialize thanks to investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from a $ 50 million envelope allocated under the second component of the Sports and Recreational Facilities Support Program - Phase II of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. To this envelope is added additional assistance of $ 80 million, to support the implementation of new projects now.
It should be noted that these investments are planned within the framework of the Economic policy: Priority employment, recently presented by the Prime Minister and by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. This policy aims in particular to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, in the short and medium term.
Of the approximately $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments intended for the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructures, some $ 430.4 million is devoted to making educational infrastructures in Quebec healthier environments for learning. The completion of these projects should create around 3,500 jobs.
“For the past year, we have been stepping up actions to improve public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing massively in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible actions, ”Minister Malavoy said.
