Pohénégamook– In the context of Economic Policy: Priority employment, the Minister for Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Marie Malavoy, today announced that five sports and recreational infrastructure projects will be carried out in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region. Financial assistance of up to $ 1,829,792. Will also be granted for this purpose.
“The completion of these projects will give the regional economy a real boost. This means not only many jobs created or maintained, but above all the presence of quality sports and recreational infrastructures that will allow the population to practice their favorite activities in a safe environment adapted to their needs, ”declared Mr. Bérubé. .
These projects were analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs.
Across Quebec, 84 construction, renovation, development and upgrading of sports and recreational facilities will materialize thanks to investments totaling $ 130 million. Do these amounts come from a $ 50 million envelope allocated under the second component of the Sports and Recreational Facilities Support Program? phase II of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. To this envelope is added additional assistance of $ 80 million, thanks to the acceleration of investments, to support the implementation of new projects now.
It should be noted that these investments are planned within the framework of the Québec government&#39;s economic policy, Priority employment, recently presented by the Premier and by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau. This policy aims in particular to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, in the short and medium term.
Of the approximately $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments intended to modernize sports and recreational infrastructures, some $ 401 million are devoted to making educational infrastructures in Quebec healthier environments for learning. The completion of these projects should create around 3,500 jobs.
“For the past year, we have been stepping up actions to improve public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing massively in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible actions, ”Minister Malavoy said.
