Quebec - The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, today announced a government investment of more than $ 130 million in sports and recreational infrastructure to encourage the population to adopt a lifestyle physically active. A total of 84 projects will be able to be carried out across Quebec thanks to this financial assistance.
“As soon as she took office, the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, challenged the population: that Quebec be, within ten years, one of the fittest nations in the world. To meet this daring and exciting challenge, we must offer accessible, modern and safe sports and recreational facilities in all regions of Quebec. This is what we are committed to doing by accelerating the investments planned for this purpose, ”said Minister Malavoy.
This total investment of $ 130 million will make it possible to carry out several types of projects: 17 sports and recreational centers or complexes; 12 sports fields or surfaces for the practice of soccer, football, tennis and others; 12 multisport parks; 11 ice rinks; 10 gymnasiums, 7 arenas, 7 swimming pools and 8 other various infrastructure projects.
“To this government envelope is added the investment of project promoters and other private partners, which multiplies the impact of the projects that will be launched to modernize our sports and recreational infrastructures. We estimate that the spinoffs will amount to approximately $ 375 million, ”said the Minister.
To achieve this vision of a healthy nation, the government has allocated $ 50 million under the second component of the Sports and Recreational Infrastructure Support Program - phase II of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et Sport. To this is added an additional $ 80 million in assistance for new construction, modernization and renovation projects for sports and recreational facilities.
It is also important to point out that these investments are planned within the framework of the Québec government&#39;s economic policy, Priority employment, recently presented by the Premier and by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. This policy aims in particular to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, in the short and medium term.
Of the approximately $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments intended for the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructures, it should be noted that some $ 401 million will be devoted to making educational infrastructures in Quebec healthier environments for learning. The completion of these projects should create around 3,500 jobs.
“For a year, we have not stopped taking action to improve our public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. We stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible actions, ”concluded the Minister.
