Alma– The Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Member of Parliament for Lac-Saint-Jean, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, announces the allocation of financial assistance of more than $ 5.5 million for phase II of the Mario Tremblay Center in Alma as part of the Sports and Recreational Facilities Support Program - phase II of the Fund for the development of sport and physical activity.
“I made a commitment to do everything possible to ensure that the Government of Quebec is there to support phase II of the renovation of the Mario-Tremblay Center, it is now done. I am extremely happy to give the green light to phase II of the work which will make it possible to complete the renovation project of our supra municipal sports center. Widely frequented by a large part of the population, this center allows people of all ages to practice different activities. With the completion of the work, the Mario-Tremblay Center will offer the population modern, high-quality sports and recreational infrastructures, ”said Minister Cloutier.
The phase II renovation project of the Mario Tremblay Center is valued at more than $ 11 million. The financial contribution of the Marois government of more than $ 5.5 million completes the financial package of the City of Alma and the Commission scolaire du Lac-Saint-Jean. Phase II will mainly allow the renovation of the swimming pool, ice rinks and gymnasiums. More specifically, we will carry out the complete repair of the swimming pool, the changing rooms and the bleachers upstairs as well as an extension allowing the addition of a new water basin. Also, the repair of gymnasiums, changing rooms and showers is planned. The ice cream sector will be reviewed with the redevelopment of the team rooms, new rink strips and bay windows and the addition of spaces for spectators. Finally, the project will complete the repair of the facades and exterior design of the Mario-Tremblay Center.
Across Quebec, 84 construction, renovation, development and upgrading of sports and recreational facilities will materialize thanks to investments totaling $ 130 million. These sums come from a $ 50 million envelope allocated under the second component of the Sports and Recreational Infrastructure Support Program - Phase II of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. To this envelope is added additional assistance of $ 80 million, thanks to the acceleration of investments, to support the implementation of new projects now.
These projects were analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs.
It should be noted that these investments are planned within the framework of the Government of Quebec&#39;s economic policy, Priority employment, recently presented by the Premier and by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. This policy aims in particular to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, in the short and medium term.
Of the approximately $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to the $ 130 million intended for the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructures, some $ 401 million is devoted to making educational infrastructures in Quebec healthier environments for learning. The completion of these projects should create around 3,500 jobs.
“For the past year, we have been stepping up our actions to improve our public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing massively in our sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the health, well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible actions, ”Minister Malavoy said.
