Saint-Célestin– As part of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, today announced the renovation of the outdoor skating rink in the Village of Saint-Célestin. Financial assistance of up to $ 640,593.38 will also be granted for this purpose.
“The skating rink is an important center of sporting and recreational activity located in the very heart of the Village of Saint-Célestin. I am convinced that the residents of the village, the young people in particular, will fully benefit from this new facility, ”said Ms. Malavoy.
The planned work, the cost of which is estimated at more than $ 1.3 million, consists of enlarging and completely repairing the existing outdoor rink, in particular the foundation and the boards. The project also includes the addition of a roof to optimize its use.
This project was analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs.
Across Quebec, more than 80 projects for the construction, renovation, development and upgrading of sports and recreational facilities should materialize thanks to investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from a $ 50 million envelope allocated under the second component of the Sports and Recreational Facilities Support Program - Phase II of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. To this envelope is added additional assistance of $ 80 million to support the implementation of new projects now.
“For the past year, we have been stepping up actions to improve public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing massively in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible actions, ”Minister Malavoy said.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers met on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the MPs caucus and the Council of Ministers. They took advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
