Sainte-Julie– The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports and Minister responsible for the Montérégie region, Ms. Marie Malavoy, accompanied by the Member for Verchères, Minister of Public Security and Minister responsible for the region of the He Outaouais, Stéphane Bergeron, today made public the amounts devoted to sports and recreational infrastructure projects in the region. 12 sports and recreational facilities projects will be carried out thanks to government financial assistance of up to $ 26,024,883.
“Our government has decided to invest massively to improve and build modern and safe sports and recreational infrastructures to give everyone the pleasure and desire to move. As part of the development of a new national policy for sport, recreation and physical activity, these investments are timely. In Montérégie, government assistance will allow total investments of nearly $ 70 million, ”announced Ms. Malavoy.
Minister Malavoy also took the opportunity to unveil some of the projects that will be carried out, including the construction of a third ice and the renovation of the Sainte-Julie arena building, the construction of an ice rink. multifunctional in Verchères, the repair of several sports facilities in Acton Vale and the construction of a simple gymnasium at the Sorel-Tracy CEGEP.
&quot;I am very proud to be able to take part in this government decision, because it testifies to an integrated vision of development that contributes to the growth of Quebec society as a whole through initiatives that have concrete impacts on the daily lives of people, in particular an increase in their quality of life, ”said Stéphane Bergeron.
These projects were analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs.
Across Quebec, 84 construction, renovation, development and upgrading of sports and recreational facilities will materialize thanks to investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from a $ 50 million envelope allocated under the second component of the Sports and Recreational Facilities Support Program - Phase II of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. To this envelope is added additional assistance of $ 80 million, thanks to the acceleration of investments, to support the implementation of new projects now.
It should be noted that these investments are planned within the framework of the Québec government&#39;s economic policy, Priority employment, recently presented by the Premier and by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau. This policy aims in particular to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, in the short and medium term.
Of the approximately $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments intended to modernize sports and recreational infrastructures, some $ 401 million are devoted to making educational infrastructures in Quebec healthier environments for learning. The completion of these projects should create around 3,500 jobs.
“For the past year, we have been stepping up actions to improve public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing massively in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible actions, ”Minister Malavoy said.
