Gatineau - As part of the Economic policy: Priority employment, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, made public the four sports and recreational infrastructure projects that will receive financial assistance of up to 574,399 , $ 12 in the Outaouais region.
“In a context where we want Quebec to become one of the fittest nations in the world, we must provide athletes of all ages with adequate and accessible infrastructure. This financial support of nearly $ 575,000 will allow four projects to be carried out in the region&#39;s parks, enough to make everyone want to get moving, ”declared Ms. Malavoy.
These projects were analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs. Across Quebec, more than 80 projects for the construction, renovation, development and upgrading of sports and recreational facilities should materialize thanks to investments totaling $ 130 million.
It should be noted that these investments are planned within the framework of the Economic Policy: Priority employment, recently presented by the Prime Minister and by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. This policy aims in particular to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, in the short and medium term.
Of the approximately $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments intended to modernize sports and recreational infrastructures, some $ 401 million are devoted to making educational infrastructures in Quebec healthier environments for learning. The completion of these projects should create around 3,500 jobs.
“For the past year, we have been stepping up actions to improve public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing massively in sports and recreational infrastructure, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the health, well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible actions, ”concluded Minister Malavoy.
