Val-d&#39;Or - Within the framework of the Economic policy: Priority employment, the Minister for Native Affairs and Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Est, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, unveiled the sports and recreational infrastructure project that will be carried out in Abitibi-Est, namely the construction of a multisport center in Malartic. Financial assistance of up to $ 6,420,197 will also be granted for this purpose.
“Our government has set clear goals for physical activity. Quebecers will, within ten years, form one of the fittest nations in the world. I am extremely proud to announce today, in Malartic, our government&#39;s participation in the construction of a state-of-the-art multisport center. Carrying out this project, in addition to improving the supply of sports facilities in the region and meeting real needs, will be beneficial to the entire community and citizens of the region! », Declared Ms. Larouche.
This project was analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs.
Across Quebec, 84 construction, renovation, development and upgrading of sports and recreational facilities will materialize thanks to investments totaling $ 130 million. These sums come from a $ 50 million envelope allocated under the second component of the Sports and Recreational Infrastructure Support Program - Phase II of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. To this envelope is added additional assistance of $ 80 million to support the implementation of new projects now.
It should be noted that these investments are planned within the framework of the Economic policy: Priority employment, recently presented by the Prime Minister and by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. This policy aims in particular to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, in the short and medium term.
Of the approximately $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments intended for the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructures, some $ 401 million is devoted to making educational infrastructures in Quebec healthier environments for learning. The completion of these projects should create around 3,500 jobs.
“For the past year, we have been stepping up actions to improve public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing massively in sports and recreational infrastructure, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the health, well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible actions, ”Minister Malavoy said.
