Drummondville– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Member of Parliament for Johnson, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs. Marie Malavoy , today released two sports and recreational infrastructure projects to be carried out in Drummondville. Financial assistance of up to $ 3,817,477 will also be granted for this purpose.
&quot;In a city as dynamic as Drummondville, the public authorities must invest in quality public infrastructure from which the entire population can benefit,&quot; said Minister Blanchet. As such, the construction of a new gymnasium at Cégep and the expansion of the one at École Marie-Rivier is excellent news. These investments have a direct impact on the quality of life of young people. &quot;
These projects were analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs.
Across Quebec, 84 construction, renovation, development and upgrading of sports and recreational facilities will materialize thanks to investments totaling $ 130 million. These sums come from a $ 50 million envelope allocated under the second component of the Sports and Recreational Infrastructure Support Program - Phase II of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. To this envelope is added additional assistance of $ 80 million, thanks to the acceleration of investments, to support the implementation of new projects now.
It should be noted that these investments are planned within the framework of the Québec government&#39;s economic policy, Priority employment, recently presented by the Premier and by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau. This policy aims in particular to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, in the short and medium term.
Of the approximately $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments intended for the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructures, some $ 401 million is devoted to making educational infrastructures in Quebec healthier environments for learning. The completion of these projects should create around 3,500 jobs.
“For the past year, we have been stepping up our actions to improve our public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing massively in our sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the health, well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible actions, ”Minister Malavoy said.
