Boucherville - As part of the Economic policy: Priority employment, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports and Minister responsible for Montérégie, Ms. Marie Malavoy, announced that a major sports infrastructure project would be carried out in the region with government financial assistance of up to $ 7.5 million. This involves the construction of a new aquatic complex in Boucherville.
“I know that the people of Boucherville were asking for these new infrastructures and for good reason. Municipal swimming pools, built in the 1960s, show significant aging and their layout is no longer adapted to contemporary sports practices. In addition, the demand for swimming lessons and free swimming greatly exceeds what the City can offer in its current infrastructure. Thanks to this assistance, the City of Boucherville will be able to better meet the needs of its population, ”said Minister Malavoy.
The total cost of the project is estimated at over $ 34 million. This aims in particular to transform the various buildings of the Pierre-Laporte Sports Center to include in particular a 25-meter pool with 10 lanes, a 25-meter pool with 8 lanes and a recreational pool. The infrastructure will also include changing rooms, a sauna, a judo room, a weight room and offices.
This project was analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs.
Across Quebec, 84 construction, renovation, development and upgrading of sports and recreational facilities will materialize thanks to investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from a $ 50 million envelope allocated under the second component of the Sports and Recreational Facilities Support Program - Phase II of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. To this envelope is added additional assistance of $ 80 million to support the implementation of new projects now.
It should be noted that these investments are planned within the framework of the Economic policy: Priority employment, recently presented by the Prime Minister and by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. This policy aims in particular to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, in the short and medium term.
Of the approximately $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments intended to modernize sports and recreational infrastructures, some $ 401 million are devoted to making educational infrastructures in Quebec healthier environments for learning. The completion of these projects should create around 3,500 jobs.
“For the past year, we have been stepping up actions to improve public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebecers. By investing massively in sports and recreational infrastructure, we are stimulating economic development while contributing to health, to the well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible actions, ”concluded Minister Malavoy.
