Saint-Roch-de-l&#39;Achigan– The Minister of Finance and the Economy and Member of Parliament for Rousseau, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs. Marie Malavoy, announces that a major sports and recreational infrastructure project will be carried out in Saint-Roch-de-l&#39;Achigan. Financial assistance of up to $ 4,700,000 will also be granted by the government for the implementation of the project.
“This is a major project, valued at over $ 15 million, which was eagerly awaited in our community. It will offer a quality sports and recreational infrastructure, in a complex including two mirrors with bleachers, a sports performance research institute, the head office of the school preparatory league, a physiotherapy clinic, a sports shop, a restaurant, meeting rooms and offices. Promoters have been refining their business plan for more than three years now. Demand for this type of project is strong in our region and I am happy that our government is responding to the demands of the people of the Rousseau riding, ”said Minister Marceau.
This project was analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs.
Across Quebec, 84 construction, renovation, development and upgrading of sports and recreational facilities will materialize thanks to investments totaling $ 130 million. These sums come from a $ 50 million envelope allocated under the second component of the Sports and Recreational Infrastructure Support Program - Phase II of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. To this envelope is added additional assistance of $ 80 million, thanks to the acceleration of investments, to support the implementation of new projects now.
It should be noted that these investments are planned within the framework of the Québec government&#39;s economic policy, Priority employment, recently presented by the Premier and by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau. This policy aims in particular to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, in the short and medium term.
Of the approximately $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments intended to modernize sports and recreational infrastructures, some $ 401 million are devoted to making educational infrastructures in Quebec healthier environments for learning. The completion of these projects should create around 3,500 jobs.
“For the past year, we have been stepping up actions to improve public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing massively in sports and recreational infrastructure, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the health, well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible actions, ”Minister Malavoy said.
