Mont-Tremblant– On behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, her parliamentary assistant for the recreation and sport component, MP for Labelle and responsible for the Laurentides region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, announced today that a construction project for an aquatic complex will be carried out in Mont-Tremblant. Financial assistance of up to $ 5 million will also be granted for this purpose.
The project targets more specifically the construction of a 50-meter Olympic swimming pool with 8 lanes, a recreational pool with beach and water games, as well as changing rooms and administrative offices.
“I am very happy to announce the completion of this major project for the City of Mont-Tremblant, but more particularly for the citizens of the immediate region, who will finally be able to enjoy a high-quality installation. This infrastructure will also have a structuring effect on the regional economy, as it will allow the holding of competitions of national and international caliber, such as the Ironman championship, ”declared Mr. Pagé with pride.
This project was analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs.
Across Quebec, 84 construction, renovation, development and upgrading of sports and recreational facilities will materialize thanks to investments totaling $ 130 million. These sums come from a $ 50 million envelope allocated under the second component of the Sports and Recreational Infrastructure Support Program - Phase II of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. To this envelope is added additional assistance of $ 80 million, thanks to the acceleration of investments, to support the implementation of new projects now.
It should be noted that these investments are planned within the framework of the Québec government&#39;s economic policy, Priority employment, recently presented by the Premier and by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau. This policy aims in particular to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, in the short and medium term.
Of the approximately $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments intended to modernize sports and recreational infrastructures, some $ 401 million are devoted to making educational infrastructures in Quebec healthier environments for learning. The completion of these projects should create around 3,500 jobs.
“For the past year, we have been stepping up actions to improve public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing massively in sports and recreational infrastructure, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the health, well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible actions, ”Minister Malavoy said.
