Joliette– The MNA for Joliette, Minister responsible for the Lanaudière region and Minister responsible for Social Services and Youth Protection, Ms. Véronique Hivon, announced today, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Marie Malavoy, that financial assistance of up to $ 7.5 million would be granted to the Commission scolaire des Samares to support the construction project of a multisport center in Joliette.
“There were, with good reason, a lot of expectations in the community towards this mobilizing project for young people and the education community as well as for that of the social and economic development of Grand Joliette and Lanaudière-Nord. After having supported this project for almost five years, I am delighted to have the honor, today, to announce its realization. The multisport center will allow people from here, primarily young people of course, to benefit from this high-level collective infrastructure. With this major investment, our government is working hard to ensure that Lanaudière residents, too, are among the fittest in the world and that our young people have all the tools in hand to persevere and achieve success in school! ”Said Ms. Hivon.
“I would like to underline in a particular way the unwavering commitment of the three main communities of Grand Joliette, without which this project would never have seen the light of day. They were unanimous throughout the process. This is proof of their deep and sincere desire to serve young people and their population in general. And it is important to remember: over the past five years, no party has thought of giving up even in times of doubt, ”said the president of the Samares School Board, François Charbonneau.
Minister Hivon also wished to thank the Commission scolaire des Samares for the leadership it exercised in order to provide the region with a high-quality sports infrastructure, as well as the elected officials of Grand Joliette, who have always supported the project. &quot;The consensus and synergy that have developed around the project have undoubtedly been a significant condition for success,&quot; added Ms. Hivon.
All the projects were analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs.
Across Quebec, 84 construction, renovation, development and upgrading of sports and recreational facilities will materialize thanks to investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from a $ 50 million envelope allocated under the second component of the Sports and Recreational Facilities Support Program - Phase II of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. To this envelope is added additional assistance of $ 80 million, thanks to the acceleration of investments, to support the implementation of new projects now.
“For the past year, we have been stepping up actions to improve public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing massively in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible actions, ”Minister Malavoy said.
