Quebec - The Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women, and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions, Ms. Agnès Maltais, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, made public the sports and recreational infrastructure projects that will be carried out in the Capitale-Nationale region. Financial assistance of up to $ 19,162,072.68 will also be granted for this purpose, including $ 7,500,000 announced on December 8 as part of the construction of a sports complex at De Rochebelle high school and 2,987. $ 824.48 announced on February 6 by the Premier for the construction of a regional sports and recreation center in Beaupré.
The Department&#39;s contribution to these projects is detailed as follows:
“If we want to give Quebeckers the desire to move more, we must provide them with places where everyone, whatever their age, can practice their physical activity in a safe environment adapted to their needs. This is what our government is doing through the massive investments it is making in sports and recreational infrastructure, ”said Ms. Maltais.
These projects were analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs.
Across Quebec, nearly 80 projects for the construction, renovation, development and upgrading of sports and recreational facilities should come to fruition thanks to investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from a $ 50 million envelope allocated under the second component of the Sports and Recreational Facilities Support Program - Phase II of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. To this envelope is added additional assistance of $ 80 million, to support the implementation of new projects now.
It should be noted that these investments are planned within the framework of the Economic policy: Priority employment, recently presented by the Prime Minister and by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. This policy aims in particular to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, in the short and medium term.
Of the approximately $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments intended for the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructures, some $ 430.4 million is devoted to making educational infrastructures in Quebec healthier environments for learning. The completion of these projects should create around 3,500 jobs.
“For the past year, we have been stepping up actions to improve public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing massively in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible actions, ”Minister Malavoy said.
