Sept-Îles - As part of the Economic policy: Priority employment, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, accompanied by the MP for Duplessis, Ms. Lorraine Richard, announced that a major project of he sports infrastructure would be built in the region with government financial assistance of up to $ 3 million. This involves the construction of a new aquatic complex in Sept-Îles.
This project, the total cost of which is estimated at over $ 17 million, aims in particular to enlarge the current socio-recreational center to allow the development of a new twenty-five meter aquatic basin with six lanes and recreational vocation. It was analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the costs. eligible.
“For the past year, we have been stepping up actions to improve public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing massively in sports and recreational infrastructure, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the health, well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible actions, ”said Minister Malavoy.
“I am very happy that our government is involved in the realization of this project which, for several years, has raised high expectations in the region. Thanks to this invaluable support, the population of Sept-Îles and the surrounding area will soon be able to benefit from a quality, modern and safe sports facility that will meet their needs, ”declared Ms. Richard with pride.
Across Quebec, 84 construction, renovation, development and upgrading of sports and recreational facilities will materialize thanks to investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from a $ 50 million envelope allocated under the second component of the Sports and Recreational Facilities Support Program - Phase II of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. To this envelope is added additional assistance of $ 80 million to support the implementation of new projects now.
It should be noted that these investments are planned within the framework of the Québec government&#39;s economic policy, Priority employment, recently presented by the Premier and by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau. This policy aims in particular to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, in the short and medium term.
Of the approximately $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments intended to modernize sports and recreational infrastructures, some $ 401 million are devoted to making educational infrastructures in Quebec healthier environments for learning. The completion of these projects should create around 3,500 jobs.
