Alma– The Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Member of Parliament for Lac-Saint-Jean, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, announces the allocation of financial assistance of more than $ 400,000 for the second phase of the renovation of the Métabetchouan-Lac-à-la-Croix arena as part of the Sports Facilities Support Program and recreational activities - phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity.
Built in 1975, the arena requires significant investments to meet the needs of the population and surrounding communities. In 2002, investments of around $ 1.2 million made it possible to complete the first phase of the renovation work. The second phase of the project, valued at more than $ 800,000, proposes a renovation in seven points, namely the repair of the roof, the replacement of the rink boards, the relocation of the resurfacer, the upgrade of the sound system, the replacement. the floor covering of the players &#39;rooms, the replacement of the lighting of the main enclosure as well as the improvement of the referees&#39; room. Concretely, this project will make it possible to upgrade a sports infrastructure used at full capacity and make it available over a period of seven months annually.
&quot;It is with great pleasure that I announce a financial contribution from the Marois government of more than $ 400,000 to complete the renovation work on the Métabetchouan-Lac-à-la-Croix arena as part of the II of the project. The accessibility of this sports infrastructure, in great demand by the population, is limited. The work that will be carried out will make it possible to extend the period of use of the arena and to adequately meet the needs of users, ”said Alexandre Cloutier.
Across Quebec, 84 construction, renovation, development and upgrading of sports and recreational facilities will materialize thanks to investments totaling $ 130 million. These sums come from a $ 50 million envelope allocated under the second component of the Sports and Recreational Infrastructure Support Program - Phase II of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. To this envelope is added additional assistance of $ 80 million, thanks to the acceleration of investments, to support the implementation of new projects now.
These projects were analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs.
It should be noted that these investments are planned within the framework of the Québec government&#39;s economic policy, Priority employment, recently presented by the Premier and by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau. This policy aims in particular to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, in the short and medium term.
Of the approximately $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to the $ 130 million intended for the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructures, some $ 401 million is devoted to making educational infrastructures in Quebec healthier environments for learning. The completion of these projects should create around 3,500 jobs.
“For the past year, we have been stepping up actions to improve public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing massively in sports and recreational infrastructure, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the health, well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible actions, ”Minister Malavoy said.
