Sainte-Angèle-de-Prémont– The MNA for Champlain, Ms. Noëlla Champagne, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, and the vice - Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, the allocation of financial assistance of nearly $ 130,000 for the opening to the public of the Ferme Nouvelle-France located in Sainte-Angèle-de-Prémont.
For this project, the Ministry of Finance and the Economy made a financial contribution of $ 85,000 from the Support Program for the recovery and retention of strategic enterprises and regions in difficulty. This aid made it possible to support the establishment of a processing center for gluten-free products. As for the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, it grants nearly $ 45,000 under the Pilot Program to Support Multifunctionality of Agriculture and the Agricultural and Agri-Food Development Program in the Regions.
“It is always a source of pride to see the dynamism and daring of our entrepreneurs. Today we are the result of hard work by people who had a vision and followed through on their dreams. This is an innovative and structuring project that puts our agricultural and rural heritage in Quebec at the forefront. It is a duty for our government to support this type of initiative which creates jobs and which contributes to the influence of our local products ”, indicated Ms. Élaine Zakaïb.
“I am always happy to support large-scale projects that capitalize on the diversity of the biofood sector while supporting its development and growth. Agrotourism is a complementary activity to agriculture and it helps to discover the Quebec terroir and to stimulate the dynamism of the regions. What is more, the Ferme Nouvelle-France project fits perfectly with the Food Sovereignty Policy of the Government of Quebec, ”said François Gendron.
Thanks to this financial assistance, Ferme Nouvelle-France has set up an agro-tourism interpretation center that will highlight the region&#39;s rural and agricultural heritage and which will also give visitors and tourists the opportunity to meet local producers and to get seasonal fruits and vegetables.
The Support Program for the Recovery and Retention of Strategic Companies and Distressed Territories, Support for the Development and Economic Diversification of a Territory, aims to maintain, consolidate and revive business activities. as well as supporting economic diversification initiatives in areas affected by business closures. This component is the follow-up to the Assistance Fund for Single-Industry Municipalities (FAMM) and is intended exclusively for areas that have already initiated a process of development and economic diversification.
It should also be remembered that the Pilot Program to Support the Multifunctionality of Agriculture aims to encourage projects that recognize and exploit the social, environmental and economic functions of agriculture. As for the Agricultural and Agri-Food Development Support Program in the Regions, it supports the implementation of innovative projects in the sector.
To find out more about the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can consult the blog (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or the website (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA) of the Ministry of Agriculture. , Fisheries and Food. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
