Montreal - The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, addressed this morning to the members of the board of directors of the Canadian Federation of Agriculture gathered in the Hilton Montreal Bonaventure hotel. He presented them with the main thrusts of the Food Sovereignty Policy and told them about the issues that challenge the agricultural and agrifood sector, in particular those of defending supply management and reciprocity of standards.
Mr. Gendron was careful to point out that the Food Sovereignty Policy is adapted to the reality of Quebec and reflects the aspirations and expectations of artisans in the bio-food sector, recalling that this policy is based on three main objectives, namely to ensure the all Quebecers have a supply of quality food at a fair price that is good for their health; increase the proportion of food satisfied thanks to local foods and develop a prosperous, profitable biofood sector that generates jobs, respects the environment and contributes to the dynamic occupation of Quebec.
In the area of international trade, the Minister reiterated the importance of maintaining the efforts devoted to the defense of supply management in the context of trade agreement negotiations. “International markets offer potential for increasing Canadian and Quebec exports and I have always been in favor of it. I reiterated emphatically to Minister Ritz at the federal-provincial meeting held in Halifax two weeks ago, the importance of maintaining supply management, ”said Mr. Gendron. The Minister also added that it is necessary that the federal government tighten and clarify the rules applicable to imported products competing with products under supply management and that it maintain the necessary border controls.
The differences in regulations between countries and border controls are a major concern of the Table de concertation des Partenaires du Bioalimentaire québécois. It is from the angle of &quot;reciprocity of standards&quot; that the latter addresses these questions, in particular those related to differences in terms of sanitary, phytosanitary or product labeling rules. “It is important that agricultural and agrifood companies can compete on an equal footing with their foreign competitors. Minister Ritz assured me that he would look into the matter, ”Gendron said.
To find out more about the Food Sovereignty Policy, consult the blog (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or the website (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA) of the Ministère de l&#39;Agriculture, des Fisheries and Food. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
