Davos - During her participation in the World Economic Forum in Davos last year, Pauline Marois met Pedro Larrea, president of FerroAtlántica, to discuss the possibility of establishing a silicon factory in Quebec. The Prime Minister is therefore happy to announce the imminent establishment, here, of a new plant for the Spanish company FerroAtlántica, the world&#39;s leading producer of silicon metal. With investments to total $ 375 million, the FerroAtlántica project is structuring for the Quebec economy and will ultimately create more than 300 jobs.
“The obsession of my government since its election has been to create jobs in all regions of Quebec. The Priority Employment economic policy I launched last fall proposed to use the large surpluses of electricity available to us to stimulate investment and jobs. The arrival in Quebec of the FerroAtlántica project is a concrete repercussion of this policy. Our significant surpluses and the possibility of offering advantageous pricing were decisive factors, ”said the Premier.
It should be noted that the construction of this plant will also lead to the creation of indirect jobs. Many subcontractors and suppliers will benefit from contracts during the operational phase. The company is currently analyzing various sites in Quebec for construction, which will begin in the coming months. The plant will start operations at the end of 2016.
This project also has strong potential for creating a vertically integrated production chain. Thus, the quartz supply could come in part from mines in Quebec. In addition, Quebec woody material residues can be used in the production and transformation process of raw materials into silicon metal.
“After several meetings and prospecting visits, we came to the conclusion that Quebec had the various characteristics that we had identified for the creation of a competitive plant in our field. I would like to thank the representatives of the government and Investissement Québec, who closely supported us in our efforts, and who enabled us to quickly obtain the information we needed. We greatly appreciated their ability to let us know about many very attractive possibilities with regard to several aspects essential to our activities and to the realization of the two phases of our project. We have visited and analyzed several interesting sites and we should confirm our choice in the coming months ”, concluded Mr. Pedro Larrea, President and CEO of the FerroAtlántica Group.
Grupo FerroAtlántica is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Spanish group Villar Mir. FerroAtlántica is the world leader in the production of silicon metal and one of the largest producers of manganese and ferrosilicon alloys. The use of these alloys is primarily intended for the automotive industry, the manufacture of silicones, the development of high performance concrete and the solar panel industry. In 2012, FerroAtlántica achieved sales of 1.1 billion euros and employed around 3,100 people in its 15 factories in Europe, South America, Africa and Asia.
Present all over the world, Grupo Villar Mir is one of the main privately owned Spanish industrial groups. The group carries out its multiple activities in 40 countries, spread over five continents. In 25 years, Grupo Villar Mir has extended its fields of expertise to include construction, transport infrastructure, real estate, electrometallurgy, energy, fertilizers and services. Through its OHL subsidiary, the group is already carrying out several projects in Canada in the construction sector, in particular the Center hospitalier de l&#39;Université de Montréal, one of the largest hospitals under construction in the world, including the budget is over $ 2 billion. OHL holds a 25% concession as well as a 50% interest in this construction project. The group also owns a 50% stake in the Toronto subway project, valued at $ 400 million, which includes a 3.5 km double tunnel, the construction of Highway 407 and 600 surface parking spaces.
Investissement Québec&#39;s mission is to promote the growth of investment in Québec, thereby contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The company provides businesses with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity investment, to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, she is responsible for administering tax measures and prospecting for investments abroad.
