Quebec - The Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, entrusted Mr. Guy Morneau with carrying out a post-mortem on the management of the 2013 forest fires in consultation with communities and businesses.
“In order to analyze the events related to the forest fires that took place during the summer of 2013, I commissioned Mr. Guy Morneau, who has extensive experience in State administration. The government&#39;s concern is to adapt fire protection services to the realities experienced by the population. This is why Mr. Morneau&#39;s mandate is, in particular, to analyze the means taken by the various actors linked to the fight against forest fires, to receive the concerns of the populations concerned and to formulate recommendations to the Government of Quebec. This initiative is being done with the aim of improving forest fire management, particularly north of the 51st parallel and in the Lower North Shore, ”declared Minister Martine Ouellet.
The mandate given to Mr. Morneau also includes consultations with groups affected by the events of this summer. Meetings are planned in particular with elected officials from the Minganie region, native communities, mining and forestry companies, SOPFEU, the Fédération des outfitters du Québec, representatives of chalet owners from Minganie, government agencies and relevant ministries.
“Mr. Morneau will then table a report that I will make public. I want to make sure that the sharing of roles and responsibilities in the protection of people, infrastructure and forest resources is optimal in the event of major forest fires. By proposing this approach, our government wants to improve the management of forest fires and ensure that it responds to the realities of the communities, ”added Minister Martine Ouellet.
Mr. Guy Morneau has held various senior management positions in various departments and agencies of the Government of Quebec. From 1984 to 1989, he was Vice-President for Administration and Development of the Administrative Commission for Pension and Insurance Schemes. From 1989 to 1994, he served as Associate Deputy Minister at the Department of Natural Resources. From 1995 to 1998, he held the position of Associate Secretary General responsible for the Priorities Committee at the Minister of the Executive Council. He then assumed the position of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Régie des rentes du Québec from 1998 to 2004. Since 2004, he has notably acted as a trainer and consultant at the National School of Public Administration and he is currently Chairman of the Board of Directors of Les Violons du Roy and associate member of the Strategic Consulting Expertise Network associated with the National School of Public Administration (ÉNAP).
