Quebec - On the sidelines of the traditional parade which will close, today, the week of activities surrounding the Montreal Pride festival, the member for Saint-Jérôme and leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the member for Lac-Saint- Jean and justice spokesperson, Alexandre Cloutier, and the Member of Parliament for Taschereau, Agnès Maltais, wished to recall that the Parti Québécois has always been committed to ensuring that everyone has the same rights.
“Quebecers are one of the most progressive, open and inclusive peoples in the world. We are recognized as pioneers in the recognition of the rights of LGBT people, in particular. We can be very proud of this reality, but we also have a duty to remain vigilant to avoid setbacks; we must be aware that part of the fight to overcome homophobia, in all its forms, remains to be waged ”, declared Pierre Karl Péladeau.
It was under a Parti Québécois government in 1977 that the prohibition against discriminating against a person on the basis of their sexual orientation was included in the Charter of Rights and Freedoms. “We paved the way by becoming the first jurisdiction in North America to take this giant leap. Almost forty years later, we must continue this march towards equality, underlined Alexandre Cloutier. In 2013, our government spearheaded the passage of a bill that removed several administrative barriers faced by transgender and transgender people. Then, last May, we made numerous proposals to the Minister of Justice that would promote their inclusion and emancipation, including that of facilitating the change of the designation of sex in civil status. This advance would make Quebec a leader in terms of recognizing the rights of trans people; we sincerely hope that the minister will act on these recommendations. &quot;
“Quebec is a land of fairness and tolerance, and it is important to demonstrate this. The pride parade is one of the opportunities! I am very happy that the Parti Québécois is represented there, among others by my colleagues Carole Poirier and Bernard Drainville, as well as many activists of all ages and cultures. Equality and the recognition of rights are everyone&#39;s business, and we must take care of it! I would also like to thank the organizing committee of Fierté Montréal which, like every year, invested a lot of effort to make this great popular gathering a success, ”concluded Agnès Maltais.
