Quebec - On the occasion of an event held in Montreal to highlight the achievement of the 2012 target for reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, the Parti Québécois said it was more than concerned about the lack of leadership of the Liberal government on this issue and invites the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment and the Fight against Climate Change, David Heurtel, to take action.
&quot;The achievement of Quebec objectives in terms of reducing GHG emissions from 1990 to 2012 is proof that the mobilization of citizens and that of environmental groups made it possible to make elected officials aware of the reality of climate change&quot;, affirmed Sylvain Gaudreault, official opposition critic for sustainable development and the environment.
The Parti Québécois can only note that many positions of the Liberal government of Jean Charest would have directly threatened the achievement of the targets of the Kyoto Protocol, if it had not been for this mobilization which slowed down the Liberal government. Just think of the projects aborted under pressure from environmental groups: the Suroît project for the construction of a natural gas thermal power station, the Rabaska project for the construction of an LNG terminal, as well as gas exploration and exploitation. of shale.
In this sense, the Parti Québécois today hopes that Minister Heurtel will continue the work started by his predecessor Yves-François Blanchet to achieve increased and marked recognition of the work of environmental groups. They must also obtain better funding to carry out the work of environmental awareness and action regarding the fight against climate change and the adaptation that it requires.
In addition, Mr. Gaudreault says he is concerned about the Couillard government&#39;s decision to revise the GHG emission reduction targets, dropping them from -25% to -20% compared to 1990. He asks Minister Heurtel to no longer wait and unveil the plan to fight climate change which will define the actions to be taken by 2020. “Minister Heurtel must honor the Liberal Party&#39;s commitment to convene the advisory committee on the fight against change within 100 days. climatic, ”recalled Sylvain Gaudreault.
