Québec, September 8, 2016 - The member for Saint-Jean and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in the areas of employment, the fight against poverty, social solidarity, vocational training, adult education, literacy and for youth, Dave Turcotte, is pleased to mark the 50th anniversary of International Literacy Day by touring various stakeholders in the field.
This year, the theme of the Day is “Read the past, write the future”. “It&#39;s particularly significant,” says Dave Turcotte. Because the higher the literacy rate in Quebec, the less likely we are to repeat the mistakes of the past, the more Quebecers will be free and fulfilled, and the brighter our collective future will be. &quot;
The spokesperson therefore calls on the Liberal government to make the fight against illiteracy one of its priorities. “The most recent statistical data shows that more than half of Quebeckers are grappling with serious deficiencies in reading and writing. More vulnerable, and having difficulty functioning normally in society, especially in the digital age, their contribution to collective progress and well-being is therefore limited. Ultimately, all of Quebec is affected by this sad record, because our prosperity is reduced. If the government really wants to tackle the problem, instead of cutting back on assistance and support services, it can count on the collaboration of elected members of the Parti Québécois, ”he continued.
In the field all day This morning, in Saint-Jérôme, Dave Turcotte met with the Alpha Corner of the Documentation Center on Adult Education and the Status of Women. In the afternoon, he went to Montreal to discuss with representatives of the Network to fight illiteracy. Finally, later in the day, Dave Turcotte will attend the 6th “I do not let go, I win! From the Literacy Foundation at Espace Desjardins in Montreal.
“The Parti Québécois has been on the ground for a long time to support the actors who fight to eradicate illiteracy; it is essential for the economic, social and cultural development of Quebec, ”summed up the deputy.
