Quebec - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, accompanied by the Member of Parliament for Taschereau and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale region, Agnès Maltais, today announced that the The site of the Child Jesus Hospital was chosen to establish a new hospital complex bringing together under one roof a very wide range of specialized services. This is an investment of up to $ 1.7 billion. Mr. Hébert also confirms the maintenance of a hospital mission for L&#39;Hôtel-Dieu in Old Quebec.
The Minister made this announcement after carefully analyzing the study submitted by the Société immobilière du Québec (SIQ) and after a series of meetings with several stakeholders in the field, both those in favor of maintaining the Hôtel-Dieu on its current location than those advocating a move to the site of the Child Jesus Hospital.
“We have carefully weighed the pros and cons of each option. The decision we are rendering today is first and foremost a decision taken to ensure optimal health services for the population of the Capitale-Nationale and Est-du-Québec. The selected project has the advantage of bringing together a large critical mass of medical specialists and other specialized professionals who will be able to work in synergy and complementarity. It will also allow the addition of private rooms, the construction of an entirely new radiation oncology center and a new hospital hotel, as well as the construction of the neuroscience pavilion planned for several years. These are all important benefits for both patients and healthcare professionals. In addition, this choice reflects a real long-term vision, because the site offers possibilities for expansion to meet future needs, ”declared the Minister of Health and Social Services.
The government respects the three guidelines it had set itself, the first of which was to ensure major benefits for the population. “The investment, in view of these benefits, is at an acceptable level, in particular because of the optimization efforts that will be deployed. Finally, in light of the many meetings and consultations held in recent months, the project rallies a majority of the players concerned, ”added Minister Hébert.
When the work is completed, the new hospital complex on the site of the Enfant-Jésus Hospital will have around 760 beds, around 30 operating theaters and an emergency room with an increased number of stretchers. The new premises will be available in stages between 2019 and 2025. In particular, the radiation oncology center may be inaugurated in 2019, i.e. on the same date as that which was envisaged in Old Quebec.
The Minister asked the Agence de la santé et des services sociaux and the CHU de Québec to optimize the project, so as to respect a ceiling of $ 1.7 billion for the capital and equipment budget, and to make it more functional by examining, for example, the possibility of building in height. It should be noted that the new facilities planned are larger in scope than those proposed in the Hôtel-Dieu expansion scenario, because they include the construction of the neuroscience pavilion, the construction of a radiation oncology center. which will have at least 14 treatment devices, 7 more than currently, and the creation of a brand new state-of-the-art research center.
Teams and patients will be able to count on new and even more functional infrastructures. They will be easily accessible by their proximity to major highways and by the addition of 1,266 parking spaces for a total of 2,600.
As desired by the Steering Committee for the project to reuse the current premises of the Hôtel-Dieu de Québec, the Hôtel-Dieu de Québec will maintain its emergency room, open 24 hours a day and seven days a week, with a technical platform including a radiology department and laboratory. Front-line services will be accessible, in particular thanks to the presence of a family medicine unit. The hospital would also have 60 convalescent and postoperative beds, 10 palliative care beds, 30 beds in a transitional functional rehabilitation unit and 50 beds for adults with a physical disability resulting in a severe loss of autonomy.
In addition to this hospital vocation, there would be the repatriation of numerous teams active in public health or population health, as well as that of administrative staff from the health network. Preliminary, it is estimated that 1,500 people will work in the buildings maintained and used for the health mission.
Minister Agnès Maltais declared: &quot;I welcome the decision rendered today because it responds to the concerns I had recently expressed, namely the importance of supporting the vitality of Old Quebec and of maintaining the mission. health of the establishment. The project presented also has the advantage of limiting the disturbances linked to major construction work, avoiding, on the one hand, disturbing the tranquility of the patients of the establishment and, on the other hand, helping to preserve the quality of the hospital. life of the residents of this internationally renowned tourist spot. &quot;
Minister Maka Kotto said: “For nearly four centuries, the hospital mission has been inseparable from the very identity of Old Quebec, which is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. We wanted any development project for the current hospital facilities in the capital to be carried out in continuity and with respect for this remarkable social and cultural heritage, for which we are indebted to the community of the Augustinian Sisters. &quot;
The project concerning the future use of the current Hôtel-Dieu will be the subject of a consultation with the authorities concerned so as to maximize the benefits in terms of economic, residential and urban development, as well as the enhancement of the site. patrimony.
The SIQ estimates the net cost of renovating the facilities at $ 232.6 million, taking into account the fact that certain surplus buildings could be put up for sale, in particular to allow their transformation into homes, and that other premises could be rented out. .
“As of now, we are launching the necessary steps to set up this large hospital complex on the site of the Child Jesus Hospital. The conditions are in place for the Capitale-Nationale region and the CHU de Québec to stand out even more in the fields of health care, teaching and research, ”concluded Minister Hébert.
The SIQ analysis report on the two scenarios considered and the report from the Agence de la santé et des services sociaux de la Capitale-Nationale on the project to reuse the current premises of the Hôtel-Dieu de Québec are available. on the website of the Ministry of Health and Social Services: www.msss.gouv.qc.ca/presse
