Quebec - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, today took advantage of the launch of the national information campaign on the Quebec Health Record (DSQ) to take stock of the progress in the four pilot regions currently being deployed, namely the Capitale-Nationale (2010), Estrie (2011), Lanaudière (2011) and Montreal (2012) regions.
Currently, three major areas or categories of clinical information are being deployed:
“By the end of 2013, our objective is for each region of Quebec to have initiated the deployment of at least one of the three major areas of the Quebec Health Record. We therefore aim to allow the exchange of health information on patients as quickly as possible, mainly between front-line workers, ”Minister Hébert underlined.
Indeed, the recommended deployment approach favors front-line services and pursues several other objectives, such as:
To date, health information on more than one million citizens residing in the Capitale-Nationale, Estrie, Lanaudière and Montreal regions is available for consultation. Nearly 400 of the 800 pharmacies in these regions are connected, as are 23 public laboratories, which represents 57% of the volume of analyzes produced in these four regions. Public institutions in Quebec are already digitizing all of their medical imaging results. In addition, 94.6% of these imaging test results have already been archived in the DSQ&#39;s information banks. Also connected are 45 family medicine groups (GMF) and other medical clinics, 6 emergency rooms as well as 9 local community service centers (CLSC).
“The Dossier Santé Québec is a major technological advance for our network and for health professionals, who have been waiting for the deployment of this project for a long time. It will simplify the work of thousands of workers in the network while allowing better patient follow-up, ”Minister Hébert also indicated. Among the many benefits of DSQ are faster emergency response, fewer repeat tests and exams, reduced risk of adverse drug reactions, and better overall management. patients.
The individual information contained in the Quebec Health Record is treated confidentially. Strict security measures and an access mechanism protect this information and make it accessible only to authorized persons and exclusively for clinical purposes.
In addition, to ensure better security, each access to a patient&#39;s medical information leaves an electronic trace that allows us to know who consulted them and at what time.
For more information about the DSQ, or to find out how to express their refusal, citizens are invited to visit www..dossierdesante.gouv.qc.ca or call Services Québec at:
514 644-4545 for the Montreal region; 418 644-4545 for the Quebec City region; 1 877 644-4545 (toll free) for other regions; 1 800 361-9596 (TTY, toll free) for the hearing impaired or dumb.
