Québec, March 5, 2018 - The chief whip and official opposition spokesperson for the environment and the fight against climate change, Sylvain Gaudreault, the spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Sylvain Rochon, and the head of the Gaspésie – Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Sylvain Roy, demand that the Minister of the Environment, Isabelle Melançon, give the BAPE a generic mandate to study the issues related to exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Gaspé.
IN SHORT
&quot;Several issues are at the heart of the concerns of Gaspésiens: the economic benefits for the Gaspé, the effects on other sectors of activity, such as tourism, the impacts of hydraulic fracturing or another similar chemical process on water. drinking water and air, the contribution of projects to GHG emissions, etc. To gain people&#39;s trust, it is essential to provide them with complete and objective information, and to give them the opportunity to express themselves, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
&quot;After a law on hydrocarbons adopted under gag order, in the middle of the night, and regulations having escaped any public debate, will the government want to deprive the population of the Gaspé of the objective data that the BAPE could provide it on? exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the territory? Opinion polls show that the people of Gaspé are very concerned about the hydraulic fracturing technique, which neither the Liberals nor the CAQ have agreed to ban, according to the Parti Québécois proposal. However, citizens have the right to know whether the use of this technique and similar processes is common in them, ”added Sylvain Rochon.
For his part, Sylvain Roy underlines that the touching victory of Ristigouche-Partie-Sud-Est against the oil company Gastem is important, because it reminds that municipalities have the power to adopt regulations to protect the environment (particularly their water sources) on their territory against any activity likely to alter the quality of their drinking water. “The Liberal government, which behaved cowardly throughout this affair, must learn political lessons from it and listen to the municipalities, who are asking it in particular to modify the regulations on the protection of drinking water. As far as I am concerned, as a pro-independence deputy and deputy for the region, I will defend the territorial sovereignty of my population, ”he insisted.
For the Parti Québécois, any project currently underway in connection with the exploration or exploitation of hydrocarbons must imperatively ensure social acceptability, contribute to reducing our ecological footprint, and not involve hydraulic fracturing. or a similar chemical process.
Let us recall in closing that last December, the elected officials of the MRC La Côte-de-Gaspé gave the government of Quebec until March 1, 2018 to set up a complete information mechanism on gaspé hydrocarbon developments, and this, in order to assess, among other things, their economic benefits and their environmental consequences.
