Montmagny - Present at the launch of the 64th Agricultural Exhibition of Montmagny, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is proud to announce the allocation of financial assistance totaling more than $ 285,000 for this edition which will run until August 25th.
For the first time this year, Montmagny will be the host city of the Quebec animal judging final. Remember that this provincial final is, for all breeders in agricultural Quebec, a springboard to international competitions. The activity also represents an opportunity to forge business links and to create a meeting place and fruitful exchanges for the next generation, who holds its Classic of Rural Youth there.
“Events like the Expo de Montmagny, which are part of the summer outings of many Quebecers, showcase the work and skills of our farmers. This is therefore an excellent pretext for promoting our agrifood know-how, ”the Minister stressed.
For the Minister, there is no doubt that agricultural exhibitions are extraordinary showcases for promoting Quebec food. “When a consumer falls in love with a product that they have discovered during their visit, there is a good chance that they will make a habit of putting it in their grocery basket or ask them to his merchant, if he does not find him on the shelves. This fits perfectly with the objectives of the Food Sovereignty Policy that we unveiled last May, ”added Mr. Gendron.
The financial assistance is granted under the Financial support program for agricultural exhibitions, which aims to support in a structured way the network of agricultural exhibitions in Quebec as well as to support the development and development of agriculture and of the Quebec agrifood industry. It should be noted that, each year, agricultural exhibitions welcome nearly a million visitors.
To learn more about the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can consult the blog (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or the Internetwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA) website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and of Food. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
