Quebec - The member for Marie-Victorin, Bernard Drainville, is pleased that the National Assembly will formally vote tomorrow on a proposal that he piloted with his colleagues from Gouin and Rousseau, Nicolas Girard and Nicolas Marceau, during the national congress of the Parti Québécois in April 2011 in order to limit the annual contribution to a political party to 100 dollars.
“It took two years to convince the Liberal ministers to lower the maximum contribution to a political party from $ 3,000 to $ 1,000. The PLQ yielded under the pressure by the multiplication of scandals and revelations. This is not a reason to stop along the way, we have to put in place genuine popular funding, ”said Bernard Drainville.
The Parti Québécois is delighted that the CAQ and François Legault, after having played both ways for months, are clearly in favor of the position adopted by the Parti Québécois more than a year ago. However, Bernard Drainville still wonders about the position of Quebec solidaire, which prefers a maximum contribution of $ 500.
The deputies of the National Assembly will therefore have to vote, on Wednesday, May 9, on the following motion:
“In accordance with the Parti Québécois program adopted at the national convention of April 17, 2011, that the National Assembly demand that the funding rules for political parties be modified so that the maximum annual contribution per voter is $ 100. &quot;
“For years we have not counted the revelations involving questionable strategies on financing. The most recent, notably the organization by engineering firms of funding cocktails for the PLQ or the presence of a suspected member of the Mafia during a breakfast with Minister Line Beauchamp, contribute to cynicism and undermine the citizens&#39; trust in our political institutions and elected officials. To restore confidence, we must move politics away from the undue influence of fundraisers and lobbies. We invite the Liberal members to put aside their partisan interests and those of their friends in order to act for the common good and for Quebec, ”concluded Bernard Drainville.
