Quebec - The member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, denounced, during a press briefing, this morning, the disastrous effects of liberal austerity on vulnerable people who benefit from the support of community organizations. On this occasion, the MP was accompanied by representatives of the Regional Table of Community Organizations (TROC) Center-du-Québec / Mauricie and the TROC-Montérégie.
“Concrete testimonies about the impact of liberal austerity on the services rendered to the most disadvantaged citizens are flocking. In a food bank that serves the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, 2,700 additional requests for assistance were received this year, bringing the total to 18,700. However, the organization was forced to abandon the services of a full-time employee for lack of funds. Today, I join my voice to that of community organizations in the region who are asking the government to take stock of the consequences of its decisions and to provide those on the ground with the means to support people in need ”, said Mr Lisée.
“In the region, there is an increase in demands for home support and food security services, and in all cases, community organizations are not providing, given the demand. Another example: in Bécancour, one of the two street worker positions had to be abolished and an organization had to stop offering homework help to some 100 young people in need, ”added the spokesperson. word.
“The situation is not rosier in Montérégie, where organizations, in order to make ends meet, find themselves obliged to charge for activities or even the food assistance service, which were previously free. Other examples: the closing of youth centers on weekends and the reduction in community support for supervised apartments dedicated to young people aged 16 to 23. The government must realize that it is those who are helping the most vulnerable who are sounding the alarm bells today because they can no longer support all those who need it. As they work with different departments, organizations see cuts coming from all sides. In addition, Minister Charlebois still refuses to increase their PSOC funding, despite her and her government having voted in favor of a motion calling for it. This is enough, we are asking the government to act now to support those who are helping the direct victims of the liberal austerity regime, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
