Québec, July 20, 2016 - Diane Lamarre, the member for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, and the member for Taschereau, Agnès Maltais, are relieved that the some 1,600 patients who attend the cooperative without a doctor SABSA will continue to be monitored and treated there.
In fact, through a support agreement with the CIUSSS de la Capitale-Nationale, the Minister of Health and Social Services finally recognized the exceptional contribution of the work of specialized nurse practitioners (IPS) and the staff of the SABSA clinic.
“From the outset, the Parti Québécois supported the SABSA clinic and recognized its contribution and expertise. We have always believed that NPs and other medical and psychosocial staff have an important role to play in our public system. After many questions in the House, a petition to the National Assembly, several meetings, press conferences and visits to the clinic, where we were able to see its necessity, we see that common sense finally finds its place for them. citizens. However, we will continue to question the Minister of Health on his resistance to the public IPS clinics, which are a real solution to the lack of access while his reforms are not yielding concrete results for Quebecers ”, declared the deputy. from Taillon.
“The founders of SABSA, as well as the organizations and people who have supported them from the start, know that this model serves an exceptional clientele that too often escapes more conventional services. These disadvantaged people also have the right to adapted and accessible services. I am delighted to see that SABSA will be able to continue its mission, because the government has finally heard reason. This about-face could have happened long before, in order to avoid leaving patients and professionals in uncertainty, ”said Agnès Maltais.
The two MPs, committed to this clinic for two years, want the minister to continue to be open and maintain health services that meet the needs of people, where they are, and that adapt to their reality. “The Minister has taken a step in the right direction, but let us remember that in many places in Quebec, elderly people, children and the chronically ill still do not have access to adapted public services. The presence of IPS clinics could meet various needs effectively, ”concluded Diane Lamarre.
