Rivière-du-Loup– The Minister for Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology , Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is proud to be associated with the Eastern Quebec regional final of the Hydro-Quebec Science Fair and invites the population to come and encourage the young exhibitors.
“The Science Fairs offer students a unique chance to carry out a science project of their choice. For visitors, it is an opportunity to see all the ingenuity and passion that drive our young people. The promotion of scientific culture requires, among other things, the awakening of interest in science and technology, and the Expo-sciences fulfill this mandate admirably, ”declared Minister Bérubé.
The Science Fair is a scientific competition aimed at elementary, secondary and college youth. It is organized by the CDLS-CLS Network, made up of the Scientific Leisure Development Council and the nine regional scientific leisure councils.
The regional final for Eastern Quebec (Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine) will take place from February 21 to 23 at Cégep de Rivière-du-Loup. Subsequently, the winners from high school and college will be invited to the Quebec finals, which will take place from April 10 to 13 at the Cégep régional de Lanaudière in Terrebonne.
Through its NovaScience program, the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology grants the Council for the Development of Scientific Leisure and each of the CLSs annual financial assistance to help them achieve their mission. This consists of promoting scientific leisure and culture as well as careers in science and technology among the regional population, and more particularly among young people.
The National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI) 2014-2019 recognizes the role played by this network in promoting science and technology. For 2013-2014, a sum of $ 1,582,219 is paid to these organizations and used in particular for the organization of Science Fairs.
“The Hydro-Québec Science Fairs are a unique way to perfect one&#39;s scientific knowledge, because they allow participants to experiment, to stand out and to surpass themselves. It is a concrete training activity and I encourage young people to register for it or to come and visit the various regional exhibitions and the Super Expo-sciences ”, launched the director general of the Council for the development of scientific leisure, Mr. Roland. Big house.
“It is essential to arouse the interest of young people in science and technology and to nurture their curiosity and thirst for learning. This is exactly what the Expo-sciences do, in addition to providing a most enriching experience for participants. My dearest wish is that these young people, following their visit to the event, cultivate a real passion for scientific disciplines and that they join a brilliant and innovative next generation of scientists, ”Minister Duchesne said. .
The PNRI is part of the four strategic initiatives of the Government of Quebec&#39;s Priorité emploi economic policy. It is the result of numerous consultations held with stakeholders from all sectors concerned by research and innovation: businesses, educational establishments, the State and society. With an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion over five years, it will help advance Québec in the knowledge and innovation society.
For more information on the Department&#39;s programs and services, including the PNRI, visit www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca.
