Quebec - The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of education, research and school perseverance, Alexandre Cloutier, calls on the Liberal government to assume its responsibilities in the funding of our public schools and to clarify the rules surrounding donations made by private companies, so that philanthropy is never tied to conditions incompatible with the school&#39;s mission.
“Faced with the Liberal government&#39;s disengagement, schools have no other choice but to turn to external sources of funding. It is a worrying situation, which opens the door to major abuses as regards the independence of our schools ”, raised Alexandre Cloutier.
The member for Lac-Saint-Jean thus reacted to the allocation, by a private foundation, of a donation of $ 20,000 to Charles-Gravel high school in Chicoutimi for the modernization of its library. In return, the school pledged to promote the sale of tickets for a private raffle organized by the foundation, up to $ 10,000.
“Philanthropy is a good thing. So much the better if companies donate money to our public schools. However, this should not be conditional on any elevator feedback whatsoever. In this case, we are partially passing a bill for $ 10,000 to the parents. It raises serious questions, ”said Alexandre Cloutier.
The spokesperson recalls that the Education Act explicitly provides that a school cannot &quot;solicit or receive donations to which are attached conditions which are incompatible with the mission of the school, in particular conditions relating to any form. solicitation of a commercial nature ”.
“The Minister of Education must play his role. First, it must ensure adequate funding for our schools, to avoid as much as possible that they have recourse to external sources of funding. And, secondly, it must impose clear guidelines on the relationship between schools and private companies. If there is one area that must be independent of any commercial imperative in Quebec, it is education, elementary and secondary schools, ”the MP concluded.
