Quebec - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves- François Blanchet, are pleased to confirm the funding for 2013-2017 of component 1 of the Véloce II financial assistance program, which will benefit from a sum of $ 23 million. Support for active transportation is a long-term government commitment: the National Sustainable Mobility Strategy announced on February 10 provides for an investment of $ 35 million by 2020 in support of active transportation.
The Véloce II program aims to support regional county municipalities (RCMs) and municipalities in their desire to set up bicycle or pedestrian transport infrastructures that promote active travel.
“Cycling and walking are healthy, economical and ecological practices for getting around. By allowing RCMs and municipalities to plan for the longer term the development of active transport in urban areas, we will be able to continue, to my great satisfaction, to offer the population even more alternative solutions to the automobile ”, he added. declared Minister Gaudreault.
“Today, faced with the threat of major climate change, the need to act to curb the phenomenon is more urgent than ever. And, with us, it is in the transport sector that there is the most to do, since it is responsible for nearly 43% of all greenhouse gas emissions in Quebec. The investments announced will give new impetus to active modes of transport by developing infrastructure in urban areas with a view to mobility and sustainable land use planning, ”Minister Blanchet said.
Recall that Véloce II, since its creation and its public announcement on October 24, 2013, replaces all the programs administered until recently by the Ministry of Transport in the area of cycling infrastructure: the Financial Assistance Program for the Development of the Road green; the Government Assistance Program for Alternative Modes of Transportation to the Automobile; the Véloce Program (2012 edition) and the Route verte financial assistance program.
The assistance program has 4 components:
Part 1- Development of active transport in urban areas Part 2- Development of the Route verte and its branches Part 3- Conservation of active transport infrastructure Part 4- Maintenance of the Route verte
The financing of component 1 of the Véloce II program comes from the Green Fund as part of the 2013-2020 action plan on climate change. This support aims to promote the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions associated with the movement of people.
