Quebec - The rector of Laval University, Mr. Denis Brière, announced today, in the presence of the Minister of Veterans Affairs and Minister for La Francophonie, the Honorable Steven Blaney, the Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the mayor of Quebec City, Mr. Régis Labeaume, the end of the expansion work on the Pavillon de l physical education and sports (PEPS).
The conclusion of this important step now allows Université Laval to set up new facilities so that they are ready to welcome students, the university community and the regional community as of next September.
The new facilities include a sports amphitheater with nearly 3,100 seats, an aquatic center with an Olympic-sized pool that can accommodate nearly 1,000 spectators and an indoor training center accessible to students, athletes of all levels and to the entire population of the region. These expansions and improvements make the PEPS of Université Laval the most important sports complex in Quebec.
The architectural concept which relies heavily on wood, the aesthetic qualities of the building as well as the many green measures that have been taken make this pavilion an exemplary building that responds to the desire of Laval University to erect a compliant infrastructure. the principles of sustainable development.
“Our government&#39;s top priorities are jobs, growth and long-term prosperity. Our government recognizes the importance of supporting recreational infrastructure projects that provide many opportunities for residents, visitors and students to stay active, healthy and participate in sporting events, said the Honorable Steven Blaney. We are proud to invest in recreational infrastructure projects such as the PEPS as we focus on creating jobs, promoting growth and building strong and prosperous communities in Quebec. &quot;
“The Government of Quebec is proud to be associated with this mobilizing project, which testifies to the strength of our regional cooperation. I am convinced that thanks to these new modern and high-quality facilities, the Capitale-Nationale region will be able to reaffirm its position in the organization of high-level sporting events and thus shine on the international scene. The multisport center will serve the development of elite athletes, while remaining accessible to the population, ”added Minister Maltais.
“Today, the expansion of PEPS is completed and another dream has come true. These modern facilities bear witness to the City&#39;s desire to promote an active lifestyle and foster the development of high-level sport in the region. I encourage the people of Quebec to use these magnificent facilities and the sports federations to offer them for the holding of national and international competitions, ”declared the mayor of Quebec, Mr. Régis Labeaume.
&quot;We are pleased to be able to offer our students, members of our staff and the entire regional community a very high-caliber sports infrastructure which will contribute, in its own way, to the well-being of the population, all in compliance with the financial parameters established at the start of this ambitious project, ”declared the rector of Université Laval, Mr. Denis Brière.
This project, the total cost of which is $ 81.46 million, was made possible thanks to investments from the Building Canada Fund - Major Projects component of the Government of Canada and the Sport and Sports Development Fund. physical activity from the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. The two levels of government contributed $ 35.73 million each. Quebec City, for its part, contributed $ 10 million.
In addition, the Government of Canada has made a contribution of $ 481,000 under the Quebec Economic Development Program of Canada Economic Development.
