Québec, December 10, 2016 - Out of a sense of duty and out of respect for the citizens and groups who demanded that their voices be heard in the National Assembly, the members of the Parti Québécois, including the leader of the official opposition, the leader Parliamentarian as well as the deputy leader and spokesperson of the Parti Québécois in matters of energy and natural resources, Jean? François Lisée, Pascal Bérubé and Sylvain Rochon, carried out the exercise to the end, although they were familiar with it. the outcome.
By forcing the adoption of a bill that flouts social acceptability, the government chose to end the session by satisfying the oil companies rather than the citizens of Quebec. As for the CAQ, it has shown its true face, speaking out for hydraulic fracturing and oil drilling in the Gaspé bays. For his part, the leader of the Parti Québécois pledged to annul this law, which allows expropriation and which enshrines fracking, when he came to power in 2018.
“This government thinks it can do anything. Without remorse, without qualms, he tramples on the common good and democracy. When the Parti Québécois is elected, we will abolish this odious law on hydrocarbons, chapter 4 of the law on energy transition. I&#39;m making a commitment today, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
“We knew, of course, that at the end of the debates, and despite the strong opposition, Bill 106 would be adopted. However, if the government has achieved its goals, it should be ashamed of having muzzled the voices of the citizens of Quebec. Meanwhile, patients, students in difficulty, the elders are waiting for services. Instead of using the last hours of this parliamentary session to correct his many mistakes, he chose to devote his time to the oil companies! “, For his part reacted Pascal Bérubé.
It should be remembered that three chapters of Bill 106 had a broad consensus. The fourth, on hydrocarbons, raised serious concerns; the opposition parties, as well as representatives of the agricultural, business, legal, environmental, trade union, scientific and municipal circles, in particular, strongly denounced it. This is why the Parti Québécois had asked, on several occasions, that this delicate question be treated separately. In vain.
“We could have ended the session by adopting, perhaps unanimously, the portion on energy transition. But to do this would have required a little collaboration and good faith. However, this government is completely foreign to these notions, it seems, ”continued Sylvain Rochon. “Several voices have been raised, and often, to call for the split of Bill 106. Unfortunately, the Liberals, on this issue, were equal to themselves: they did not listen. They ignored the legitimate concerns of Quebeckers in favor of the oil companies, which were getting impatient. I insist: under this law, oil and gas companies will have the power to expropriate people! &quot;, he added.
“Throughout the process, the Liberal government has shown that it has no respect for the collective choices Quebeckers have made which favor renewable energies. The worst part is that we are not surprised. We knew that we were going to find ourselves facing a wall of intransigence because, from the start, it was completely absurd to link, in the same bill, the issue of energy transition with that of hydrocarbons. All the more so since we did not even have access to the regulations addressing the controversial issue of fracking, which is the basis of the shale gas crisis, ”concluded the leader of the official opposition.
