Quebec - The day after the end of consultations on Bill 20, the member for Taillon and official opposition spokesperson for health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, draws up a sad picture for patients of Quebec.
“Of the 46 groups we heard from, 36 told us that the minister is on the wrong track. Indeed, by imposing, in an improvised manner, patient quotas and by tightening the criteria for assisted reproduction treatments for women, Bill 20 risks further reducing access to care, ”said Diane Lamarre. .
Moreover, the minister, by treating patients like numbers, dehumanizes the practice of medicine. “By coming up with measures that tell doctors how to do their job, instead of looking at the needs of patients first, he is making a big mistake. To achieve his objectives, the Minister would do well to concentrate his energies on the computerization of the network and interdisciplinarity. He should also be concerned with offering patients the most appropriate services, closest to them and at the best cost, so as to reduce unnecessary and costly recourse to hospital emergencies, ”the spokesperson continued.
Obscure directions
For many groups, Bill 20 is an empty shell, since everything will be done by regulation. However, by the admission of the professionals directly affected, the minister&#39;s regulatory guidelines are not clear and cause confusion. One file illustrates this situation perfectly: that of the quotas imposed on doctors as to the number of abortions they are authorized to perform.
Assisted reproduction: a deplorable setback caused by a minister&#39;s obsession with controlling everything
During the consultations, we also noted that Minister Barrette had not corrected his habit of wanting to manage everything, even when he strayed from his area of jurisdiction. Take the example of assisted procreation: he wants to make illegal the use of in vitro fertilization (IVF) for women over 42 years old, impose a minimum period of sexual relations before authorizing treatment, and control the access to IVF by introducing an exclusive tax credit for childless couples. However, these aspects should not be found in a legal text, support the groups and the experts heard; It is the College of Physicians who are responsible for developing guidelines on this subject, and for the healthcare team to determine, depending on the case, which treatments are optimal.
Gaétan Barrette, this great misunderstood
“To all our questions and those asked by the groups that came to the parliamentary committee, the minister refused to answer. He says he is misunderstood! No one except him would be able to properly understand or interpret his bill. I remind him that he will need all the workers in the health care system to achieve his ends; it would therefore be to their advantage to listen to them, to mobilize them, instead of confronting them with coercive measures. Several speakers asked the Minister to table a comprehensive plan for his reform, in order to obtain, finally, the portrait that only he is currently familiar with; we support this idea and ask the minister to present his entire strategy in a transparent manner, ”concluded Diane Lamarre.
