Quebec - The government of Quebec is informing the population that the 388 fire in the Baie-Johan-Beetz sector is not progressing despite the strong winds that are currently hitting the region and that everything is being done to fight this fire that is raging on the North Shore. The fire is not very active due to the precipitation received since Friday. Its area should not change significantly.
Yesterday, six tankers worked in rotation, mainly in the areas to the east. In addition to support staff, more than 100 fighters were assigned to this fire. Ten helicopters were used to support the interventions.
Four additional sections of 21 people have been called in and will soon be on the job. It is therefore nearly 200 combatants and 50 support people who will work to control the fire.
In addition, some 40 Ontario firefighters are expected this evening.
SOPFEU mapped all the fires in the Côte-Nord sector. They were all not very active and no smoke was visible on those located further north where precipitation was observed. Proactively, five tankers intervened in targeted sectors on Saturday afternoon. Hydro-Québec does not report any major problem on the network. Electricity has been restored to the villages of the Côte-Nord. A tanker truck joined a convoy to supply some villages with fuel. He made it to Natashquan without a problem.
Route 138 is still controlled traffic. The Sûreté du Québec did not report any problems and collaborated on convoys with the Ministry of Transport. The blocking points are maintained but convoys are organized between Baie-Johan-Beetz and Aguanish. There are an average of 20 vehicles per convoy. These will be extended until 5 p.m.
The Director General of the Ministry of Natural Resources, Ms. Linda Tremblay, holds regular meetings with local authorities and makes sure to keep the population constantly informed. The intervention commander, Mr. Gaétan Lemaire, will come to lend him a hand today in order to support the environment.
The fire perimeter maps are kept up to date, as well as those of the sectors targeted by the ban on open fires in or near the forest. The same goes for the map of the sector targeted by a forest closure located on the territory of Baie-Johan-Beetz. This map is posted at the municipal centers of Baie-Johan-Beetz, Aguanish and Havre-Saint-Pierre. The population is invited to consult it. A public service announcement will be broadcast on the radio inviting citizens to collaborate so that the order prohibiting driving in the forest is respected.
In the Intensive Protection Zone, south of the 51st parallel, one fire is now contained and eight others are under control, for a total of nine. In the restricted protection zone, north of the 51st parallel, 46 fires are under observation, two are contained and one is under control, for a total of 49 fires.
In short, everything is done to ensure the safety of the population and the maintenance of strategic infrastructures. Citizens can consult the following government website to find out about the situation and the instructions in force: www.urgencequebec.gouv.qc.ca.
