Montreal - Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, MNA for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Daniel Breton, and MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, announced today the creation of a birth center on the territory of the Jeanne-Mance Health and Social Services Center (CSSS). With this facility, the facility will soon offer a new option for women in the area who are expecting a child.
“This birth center project is excellent news for expectant mothers and their families, particularly those living in a vulnerable context, many in the east end of Montreal. At the same time, it shows the importance our government attaches to the work done by midwives in Quebec. In accordance with our 2008-2018 Perinatal Policy, we wish to further promote this organizational model, which responds to the desire of an increasing number of women, ”declared Minister Hébert.
More than 400 families will be able to benefit from the services of the birth center each year. In addition to the first-line perinatal services, which include deliveries and pregnancy follow-ups, the birth center will offer many community activities. It should be noted that in order to promote interprofessional collaboration and the sharing of knowledge, deliveries will continue to be performed by midwives at Saint-Luc Hospital.
“This project was eagerly awaited by women and by perinatal organizations. Ultimately, its completion will generate more places for childbirth in eastern Montreal and allow women who so wish to benefit from a more intimate environment and an environment designed for natural childbirth, ”said Daniel Breton.
For her part, Carole Poirier added: “As MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, I was able to follow this project closely and I am delighted to see it come to fruition. This birth center is part of a community vision where everything takes place on a human scale. Indeed, midwives are a good example of commitment in their community. The new house will be the foundation that will allow them to organize their services more efficiently, to the greater benefit of the community. &quot;
The Department of Health and Social Services will pay the birth center $ 300,000 for the purchase of furniture and equipment, and will allocate an additional recurring budget of $ 154,672 to cover its operating costs. In addition, a call for tenders will be launched shortly to find a space to establish the birth center in Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques. The rental amount will be specified at the end of this process and will be in addition to the amounts announced today. The birth center should therefore open its doors within 12 to 18 months.
