Quebec - Quebec Premier Pauline Marois provides an update on the forest fire situation. “My government has taken the decision to enlarge the zone of prohibition of open fires in or near the forest as well as the zone of restriction of work in the forest in order to fully integrate the MRC de la Haute-Côte- North as well as the regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie. In the case of the zone where open fires are prohibited, we must now add the MRC of the Saguenay Fjord north of the Saguenay ”, declared the Premier.
“Even if precipitation is expected in some regions over the next few days, we ask citizens to be extremely vigilant during this period when many people are on summer vacation. Too little precipitation has been observed over the entire territory over the past few days and the flammability indices are very high in all regions. The measures put in place and the planned absence of lightning for the next two days should help improve the situation, ”continued the Prime Minister.
Most of the firefighting efforts are currently focused on the most worrying fires, particularly those near the community of Wemindji, in Baie-James, and near the Toulnustouc road in the Rivière-aux-Outardes sector in the Côte-Nord region.
The James Bay road between Matagami and Radisson remains closed. The Toulnustouc road has also been closed since this morning. However, the Route du Nord, which had been closed between kilometer 200 and the Albanel post, was reopened today at 1 p.m. In addition, several convoys are organized under the supervision of the Sûreté du Québec. All of the supervised trips are going well.
Preventive interventions were carried out in particular in the region of Wemindji and in the Churchill-Manic corridor. The Hydro-Quebec network has remained stable over the past few days. The Crown corporation continues to closely monitor its facilities and, with the expected arrival of winds in the territory, the wind farm located in southern Quebec could support the hydroelectric network, if required.
“More than 650 forest firefighters supported by a fleet of tankers and helicopters are deployed on the territory, including teams from outside Quebec who have come as reinforcements. We are confident that the constant efforts of these resources and the concerted action of all the partners will make it possible to keep the situation under control, ”concluded the Premier. Remember that the preventive measures currently in force target a large portion of the territory, including Nord-du-Québec, Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, Côte-Nord, Gaspésie and Bas-Saint-Laurent. Citizens can consult the following government website to find out about the situation and the instructions in force: www.urgencequebec.gouv.qc.ca.
