Quebec - In order to keep the population informed, the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, takes stock of the forest fire situation that is raging in several places in northern Quebec.
Since Sunday morning, no precipitation has fallen on the territories affected by the forest fires. The authorities are concerned about the fires, which are therefore more active, particularly near the community of Wemindji and northeast of Sept-Îles in the Côte-Nord region. It is therefore necessary to strengthen our surveillance.
“We have taken the necessary measures to increase our resources and our interventions in the most sensitive sectors. For example, two tankers from Saskatchewan were deployed in the Wemindji area to fight fires that could approach the community and power lines. In addition, 250 resources are currently fighting forest fires on the North Shore. We are monitoring the situation closely and all the partners are hard at work to ensure the protection of people and infrastructure, ”said the Prime Minister.
As for the transmission of electricity, the Hydro-Québec network remains solid and reliable. The Crown corporation continues to closely monitor its facilities, both in the James Bay sector and on the North Shore. Aerial interventions were carried out today on fires near power lines in the Churchill-Manic corridor. A heavy helicopter will arrive today to lend a hand to the resources already deployed on the ground.
In addition, it was necessary to evacuate some residents in the Moisie River sector, in Sept-Îles, yesterday at the end of the day. A fire that was raging about fifteen kilometers was quickly contained by the forest firefighters of the Society for the protection of forests against fire (SOPFEU). Route 138 is still under surveillance.
Two roads are currently closed to traffic. Thus, the James Bay road between Matagami and Radisson remains closed. The Route du Nord is closed between kilometer 200 and the Albanel post. Convoys, under the supervision of the Sûreté du Québec, were organized to facilitate the movement of people and ensure supplies to communities isolated by closed roads. Route 389 providing access to Fermont, Wabush and Labrador City has been reopened.
“Although the situation has improved in the Eastmain sector, we must nonetheless remain very vigilant, because the situation is worrying for other regions of Quebec. This is why our government has decided to enlarge the zone where open fires are prohibited in or near the forest, as well as the zone for restricting work in the forest in the Gaspé region. This preventive measure will be in effect as long as the fire danger indices remain high, ”concluded the Premier.
The preventive measures target a large portion of the territory, including Nord-du-Québec, Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, Côte-Nord and Gaspésie. Citizens can consult the following government website to find out about the situation and the instructions in force: www.urgencequebec.gouv.qc.ca.
