Quebec- “An important step has just been taken to contribute to the health and survival of very premature babies. Yesterday, the National Assembly adopted the draft law amending the Act respecting Héma-Québec and the Hemovigilance Committee, which thus gives the green light to Héma-Québec for the creation of a public breast milk bank intended for adults. premature, ”Réjean Hébert, Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, pointed out.
A breast milk bank is a service that aims to ensure the collection, screening, treatment and distribution of human milk, for very premature babies who do not receive or receive too little milk from their own mother. “This project was eagerly awaited and benefits from the support of numerous associations in the perinatal field as well as several groups of health professionals, including neonatologists. Above all, the future breast milk bank is a real relief for parents of very premature babies, who will now be able to count on a solution recognized for its incomparable benefits on the health of small patients, ”added the Minister.
The anticipated reduction of certain conditions in premature babies as well as the savings made on the purchase of commercial milk for these children mean that the establishment of a breast milk bank should also result in savings for the network.
“Héma-Québec is delighted with the adoption of the law amending the Act respecting Héma-Québec and the Hemovigilance Committee. This amendment will enable it, from the spring of 2014, to provide hospitals with pasteurized, safe breast milk of recognized nutritional value. It will also modernize certain articles and give the necessary latitude to integrate new responsibilities into the mandate of Héma-Québec, particularly with regard to stem cells ”, for his part said Dr. Jean De Serres, president and head of the management of Héma-Québec.
“The manufacture of stem cell products is a booming field in the medical world. This bill provides more flexibility in order to allow Héma-Québec to continue to innovate and to remain at the forefront as a regulated producer of human products, thereby consolidating its position of choice to help researchers and universities in this field of activity, ”concluded Minister Hébert.
