Quebec - In order to keep the population informed, the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, takes stock of the forest fire situation that is raging in several places in northern Quebec.
“Although the situation remains critical in certain sectors, it remains contained for all of Quebec, thanks in particular to the concerted efforts of all the partners who have already been working for several days. Today, some regions, including Eastmain, received good amounts of rain, which helped improve the situation. We were able to supply the villages of Radisson, LG2, LG3 and LG4 and Chisasibi with food and fuel, thanks to a road convoy, ”said the Premier.
Regarding the Hydro-Quebec network, despite the preventive evacuation of 100 people from the Eastmain workcamp near James Bay this morning, our electricity transmission network is in better shape than yesterday. in this sector. Hydro-Québec continues to closely monitor its facilities, particularly in the Côte-Nord region.
In addition, the return of members of the Aboriginal community of Eastmain began in the afternoon.
Currently, there are about forty forest fires in Quebec, all north of parallel, including a dozen new detected today. Three of these fires have not yet been brought under control.
“A major mobilization to fight these fires has been set in motion by all the partners, and in particular through the Society for the Protection of Forests Against Fire. Across Quebec, 322 forest firefighters supported by 13 tankers and 33 helicopters are currently working in the field. In addition, there are 247 other forest firefighters and 25 helicopters mobilized and ready to respond at all times, ”added the Premier.
Requests for additional resource support have also been sent to neighboring provinces and states, to which Quebec has received positive responses. As of today, 2 sections of 21 forest firefighters each from New Brunswick and New Hampshire are helping the teams in place.
“Even though the situation has improved with regard to James Bay, it remains worrying. I assure you that we are doing everything possible to ensure the safety of people and Quebec infrastructures and I will keep the population regularly informed of the development of these forest fires, ”concluded the Premier.
Remember that it is important for all citizens to respect the ban on open fires over a large portion of the territory, including Nord-du-Québec, Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean and Côte-Nord. . Citizens can consult the following government website to find out about the situation and the instructions in force: www.urgencequebec.gouv.qc.ca.
