Tokyo - The first day of the multisectoral mission led by Minister Jean-François Lisée to Japan in the company of 35 representatives of Quebec businesses, organizations and educational institutions has already announced the signing of three new partnership between Quebec and Japanese companies.
These announcements took place during a business lunch where the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, who began a one-week mission to Japan on Monday, presented Quebec&#39;s priorities in this area. of economic development in front of more than a hundred representatives of Japanese economic circles.
“Our government is sparing no effort to support Quebec companies and research centers in their conquest of new export markets. By choosing to combine Quebec expertise, our Japanese partners are showing that Quebec companies are innovative, creative and have recognized know-how in several areas, ”the Minister stressed.
Quebec company Acquisio, a world leader in media solutions platforms for interactive media agencies, and Japanese company IREP have announced that they are joining forces in a strategic partnership allowing the creation of a joint venture that will support Acquisio&#39;s growth initiative in Japan. With the creation of this partnership, Acquisio and IREP share expertise and technology in order to offer a suitable solution for the Japanese market. This long-term contract represents joint investments of five million dollars and will ultimately create around 40 jobs.
A world leader in animation and digital content technology, the Quebec firm Toon Boom Animation and the Japanese company HeARTBIT Digital Creation have reached an agreement concerning the distribution of Toon Boom Storyboard Pro and Harmony software on the Japanese market and their translation into Japanese for serving local customers. Considering the importance of the Japanese animation market, this agreement will allow new partners to position themselves advantageously with a market share of up to 10% of software, from the first year.
On the energy front, the Hydro-Québec Research Institute (IREQ) and the Japanese group SEI Corporation are joining forces to market a new technology in the field of Li-Ion batteries, including patents specific to each of the two institutions. The anticipated medium-term royalty revenues will be used to finance the research and development activities of the signatory partners.
The third largest economy in the world and the seventh largest customer of Quebec in the world in terms of exports, Japan presents both business opportunities to seize and challenges to overcome in terms of language, culture and business practices. In this regard, the Minister recalled the essential work of the General Delegation of Quebec in Tokyo, which, for 40 years, has supported Quebecers in their objectives of expansion on Japanese soil. The anniversary of Quebec&#39;s presence in Japan was also underlined at the end of the day at a reception offered for the occasion, attended by numerous dignitaries and influential figures from Japan.
“Quebec is resolutely turned towards the future: 22.6% of its exported manufactured goods are linked to the high-tech field, against 11.5% for Canada. Our companies rely on innovation to increase their productivity and competitiveness. The Government of Quebec supports the process of developing innovative products within the framework of the National Research and Innovation Policy and ensures that its marketing is facilitated in terms of foreign trade ”, specified Minister Lisée.
The mission in Japan continues until Friday. Several political and economic meetings are planned.
