Quebec - In the company of his colleagues Stéphane Bergeron (Verchères), Sylvain Rochon (Richelieu), Guy Leclair (Beauharnois) and André Villeneuve (Berthier), the Parti Québécois spokesperson for forests, wildlife and parks, Sylvain Roy , denounced the Liberal government&#39;s &quot;wall to wall&quot; regulation on the baitfish issue. Alongside several players in the sector, the deputies held a press briefing in Contrecœur, in Montérégie.
“Once again, the government is attacking users of wildlife. Without any transition period for enthusiasts and industrialists, the Minister decrees the end of fishing with baitfish in summer, and the end of fishing with live baitfish in winter, as of April 1. This is unacceptable! Rather than penalizing all fishermen, the minister must assume his responsibilities and tighten control over this type of fishing. Industrialists and followers are open to working with the ministry to find solutions; the outright abolition of this activity, which generates significant economic benefits, is not a solution for them, ”argued Sylvain Roy.
The members of the Parti Québécois also denounced the fact that the new regulations are not harmonized with those of the border states, which will have, they say, negative consequences on the practice of fishing in Quebec. “It&#39;s two weights, two measures! For example, on the Ottawa River, Lake Saint-François or Lake Memphremagog, which are both in Quebec and Ontario or the United States, a Quebec fisherman will not be able to practice his sport with baitfish, unlike to the citizen of Ontario or the United States. The government changes a regulation without even ensuring that neighboring jurisdictions do the same. What improvisation! &quot;
It should be noted that for several years, fishing enthusiasts have also feared the breakdown of customers, which should occur around 2019. “The change in regulations is another tile that falls on fishermen, who already fear that the next generation is not at the rendezvous. The minister must sit down with the fishermen to find a solution not only to prevent the presence of invasive species, but also to keep the practice of fishing with baitfish alive, ”concluded the deputies.
To sign the petition sponsored by Stéphane Bergeron in favor of maintaining the regulations in force relating to fishing for live bait fish, go to the following address: https://www.assnat.qc.ca/fr/express-votre- opinion / petition / Petition-6499 / index.html before March 24, 2017.
