Quebec City, August 24, 2016 - While the Liberal Party of Canada caucus will be held in Jonquière, tomorrow and Friday, the member for Jonquière and leader of the official opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, makes five requests to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau concerning important files for the Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean region and for Quebec.
Settle the diafiltered milk issue Foreign distributors circumvent Quebec laws and regulations to bring a product derived from milk into Quebec. “Diafiltered milk from the United States causes losses for Quebec farms estimated at around one hundred million dollars annually. For a dairy farm, that can represent a shortfall of more than $ 20,000 per year. The federal minister is aware of the problem and knows the solutions; what is he waiting for to implement them? », Asked Sylvain Gaudreault.
Defending the Quebec forestry regime to the Americans The federal government does not recognize the changes that Quebec has made to its forestry regime which means that local producers should no longer pay any surtax. In addition, Justin Trudeau did nothing to lift the tax on supercalendered paper, which caused the Kénogami plant to shut down for 11 days this spring. “Our forest industry is going through serious difficulties. While Ontario&#39;s auto industry has been supported with billions of dollars from Ottawa, the forest and our regions have received nothing but crumbs. What is Trudeau waiting for to support our forest workers and defend them against American protectionism? Added the member for Jonquière.
Stop the unfair competition suffered by Quebec businesses Internet sales are exploding, but several e-commerce giants do not pay taxes or duties on sales made in Quebec. The federal government is not taking action; it does not even check what is in the majority of parcels that cross the border! Quebec businesses are thus suffering from unfair competition from foreign companies, a shortfall estimated at $ 300 million for Quebec in 2012. “While electronic commerce continues to develop at high speed, what is the government of Justin Trudeau doing so that do these competitors pay their fair share? What is he doing to give hope to the traders who are creating jobs here? », Also asked Sylvain Gaudreault.
Restore funding for international cooperation organizations The Parti Québécois is also calling for better funding for international cooperation organizations (OICs). “The OICs are doing a remarkable job on the ground. However, despite the fact that their means were already limited, the Conservatives still decided to cut their budgets. What we are asking of the federal Liberals is simple: restore OCI funding to what it was before the Conservatives&#39; cuts, at a minimum, ”pleaded the leader of the official opposition.
Maintain the progression of health transfers Finally, Sylvain Gaudreault insists on the issue of federal health transfers. “Quebeckers send $ 50 billion to Ottawa every year. However, from next year, the increase in health transfers will halve, which could represent $ 250 million less to treat our world. We too owe this absurd decision to the former Conservative government. Justin Trudeau had promised to reverse it and restore annual transfer hikes; he must keep his promise, ”he concluded.
