Quebec - “With its reimbursement program proportional to income, the government is giving us something to eat. In 2005, Pierre Reid, then Minister of Education and now MP for Orford, proposed exactly the same thing. This program had never seen the light of day, because it was abolished two months later by his successor, Jean-Marc Fournier, current government leader. If the Prime Minister does not remember this 2005 decision, it may be because he has been in power for too long! Declared the member for Taillon and official opposition critic for higher education and loans and bursaries, Marie Malavoy, in reaction to the measures aimed at facilitating access to higher education proposed by the Minister of Education and the Minister of Finance.
“The government is imposing its conditions on students instead of sitting with them to listen to their proposals. This is not how he will resolve the impasse in which we find ourselves. As usual, it smacks of improvisation on the government side! », Added Marie Malavoy.
“The government has no intention of showing good faith on this file. The liberal 143% tuition hike over 10 years is an aberration that mainly penalizes the middle class. The government, taking an improvised solution out of its hat, does not realize that the problems of accessibility and debt will remain the same for students, ”explained the member for Terrebonne and spokesperson for the official opposition for youth and student affairs, Mathieu Traversy.
The member for Taillon once again asked the government to meet with the students by presenting the following motion:
“That the National Assembly of Quebec demand that the Liberal government negotiate in good faith with elected representatives of the student movement in order to resolve the current impasse regarding the increase in tuition fees. &quot;
“The Liberals did not even bother to allow me to rise to read this motion in the National Assembly. They gag the students and use the same tactics with the official opposition in the middle of the House. It is shameful! », Concluded the member for Taillon.
