Saint-Pierre-de-l&#39;Île-d&#39;Orléans– The Premier of Quebec and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix-Côte-de-Beaupré, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions, Agnès Maltais, made two important announcements as part of the celebrations of the 100th anniversary of the birth of Félix Leclerc.
First, Félix Leclerc will be designated a historical figure under the Cultural Heritage Act. In addition, financial assistance of $ 235,500 will be granted to the Félix-Leclerc Foundation.
“By these gestures, we assume our duty to remember this great man and the work he bequeathed to us. Félix Leclerc was proud to be a Quebecker, and he embodied this pride in an eloquent way, putting it into songs and passing it on to his fellow citizens, ”said Pauline Marois.
This designation testifies to the influence that the artist has exerted in the history of Quebec. Considered one of our greatest cultural personalities, he has participated, with all of his work, in shaping the collective identity of Quebeckers. In addition to his participation in radio programs and series and his literary work, it is his career as a songwriter that has profoundly marked Quebec. Indeed, Félix Leclerc composed nearly 150 songs, and his career will have taken him to Europe.
“For years, Félix Leclerc was for the Francophonie the incarnation of Quebec, and what an incarnation! Strong and gentle, proud and humble, he was all his life in love with this Quebec that he has, in many ways, been able to define. Today we salute the contribution of this immortal and pay him a more than deserved tribute. Thanks, Felix! », Added Maka Kotto.
Financial support from the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications to the Félix-Leclerc Foundation, totaling $ 209,000, will allow two projects to be carried out at the Espace Félix-Leclerc. First, $ 159,000 will be allocated for the implementation of the exhibition Life, Love, Death, and $ 50,000 for the realization of Robert Lepage&#39;s project Les Sentiers Sonores. These two projects are supported by the Project Assistance program of the Quebec Cultural Heritage Fund.
“As Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale region, and as a Quebecer, I have a particular affection for this place of interpretation which, at the entrance to the island and fifteen minutes from downtown our capital, presents the life and work of Félix Leclerc. These magnificent landscapes, this rich heritage land, these historic villages, the poet introduced them to the whole world through his songs, ”said Agnès Maltais.
In addition, the Secrétariat à la Capitale-Nationale will contribute, within the framework of the 100th anniversary of the poet&#39;s birth, to the installation of an earthen sculpture in his honor in the gardens of the Espace Félix-Leclerc. The Secretariat&#39;s financial contribution will amount to $ 50,000, out of a total production cost of $ 85,000.
The Ministry of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade will allocate $ 26,500 to the Félix-Leclerc Foundation to allow the exhibition Life, Love, Death to tour Europe in 2014. .
“Félix Leclerc has long been an ambassador of Quebec culture, particularly in French-speaking Europe. The tour of this exhibition will allow Europeans, Francophones and Francophiles, to discover or deepen their knowledge of the masterful work of Félix Leclerc, but also of the richness of Quebec&#39;s cultural heritage ”, emphasized Jean- François Lisée, who unfortunately could not be present during the announcement.
Additional information about Félix Leclerc as well as all the heritage elements registered in the Quebec Cultural Heritage Register (RPCQ) are available at www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca. New tools for disseminating cultural heritage are also being added to the RPCQ, making it possible to discover all its richness and diversity, by making it accessible to all. In fact, part of the content of the RPCQ can now be found on the open data portal of the Government of Quebec, at www.data.gouv.qc.ca, as well as on the social network Pinterest, in the form of virtual exhibitions, at www .pinterest.com / rpcq.
Online training is also available at www.formation-patrimoine.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. Composed of video capsules and learning activities, it presents the basic concepts of the Cultural Heritage Act and explains the roles and responsibilities of each to promote the knowledge, protection, enhancement and transmission of Cultural Heritage.
