Quebec, September 12, 2017 - The official opposition spokesperson for public security, Pascal Bérubé, denounces the slowness of the government process and the mess in the management of the follow-up to be given to the floods of last spring. Indeed, four months after the events, hundreds of victims are still awaiting a permit, a check or an authorization from the government to destroy, repair or rebuild their homes.
IN SHORT
“On July 11, the Minister of Public Security could not have been clearer: he promised to resolve all cases in five weeks maximum, ie by August 15 at the latest. However, not only did the Minister not keep his promise, but he also failed in his initial duty, which was to ensure that the process put in place by his government was as simple as possible for citizens. . What was announced to us today, that is to say personalized meetings and a partnership between the various government bodies, could have - and should have - been done a very long time ago, ”said Pascal Bérubé.
“It took a hundred citizens gathered in front of the minister&#39;s constituency office to get him to react. This government only reacts when it finds itself up against the wall and no longer has a choice. However, yesterday the Minister did not learn anything new! For several months, in fact, we have known that there is a lack of communication between the municipalities and the departments of Public Safety and Municipal Affairs. Citizens tell us all the time! They tell us, too, that the process suffers from severe bureaucratic flaws. Public Security, for example, has escaped several particularly complicated cases; instead of trying to find a solution, she chose to shelve them, as if they would miraculously resolve themselves! Finally, we realize that the most complex situations will have to be assessed individually ... what a shameful mess, ”continued the spokesperson.
“It&#39;s total improvisation. It is also a serious lack of respect for the victims, many of whom have been waiting for more than four months. As winter approaches, people remain in limbo; will the government wait for the next disaster to assume its responsibilities? », Concluded Pascal Bérubé.
