Quebec City, May 17, 2017– The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the Parti Québécois Environmental Critic, Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Municipal Affairs Critic, Martin Ouellet , proposed short, medium and long-term solutions to better manage flood risks and improve prevention in this area.
IN SHORT
Towards a scientific and technical commission “We must reflect on the lessons to be learned from the 2017 floods, and the best practices to adopt in the future. This is why we are asking the government to create an independent scientific and technical commission responsible for analyzing the actions taken before, during and after the spring 2017 floods and, more generally, to think about ways to better manage the risks of flooding. and improve prevention, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
The commission would serve above all to make recommendations on the means to be taken to make Quebec a leader in these matters. It should be able to set up a broad consultation process throughout Quebec to hear citizens, elected officials, experts and specialists from different disciplines.
Information on flood zonesNot less than 94% of homeowners whose residence is in a flood zone… are unaware of it. At least, that&#39;s the conclusion of a study released last month by the University of Waterloo in Ontario. The same study indicates that inaction results primarily from a lack of information about the risk of flooding.
“We believe that people have the right to know if they live in an area where the risk of flooding is high; this is how, in an informed way, they will be able to decide whether to settle there. Information must be disseminated: centralized and easy-to-access government website, mandatory declarations during real estate transactions, role of notaries, banks and CMHC, etc. Knowledge of the limits of flood-prone areas must be completed and integrated into it. climate and water modeling. Of course, that requires the re-establishment of a mapping program, ”explained Sylvain Gaudreault.
Consultation with watershed organizations “We believe that the best way to proceed is to apply integrated management at the watershed scale. Why? Because the natural limits of water flow do not know the borders of the RCMs and municipalities. Consultation at the watershed level is equally valid for integrated water management as well as for the management of wetlands or floods, ”said Martin Ouellet.
The key is prevention
Ultimately, it is on the principle of prevention that Quebec must insist if it wishes to learn lessons from recent extreme weather events. Among other things, we must:
