Quebec - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, is proud to support the twenty Quebec artists and organizations in the digital arts and the Montreal ELEKTRA festival who are going to Brussels, from September 26 to 28, to participate in the Focus Québec of the Bozar Electronic Arts Festival (BEAF), an event dedicated to electronic cultures.
“The place offered to Quebec in the programming of this festival shows that we are at the cutting edge of digital arts, an innovative and booming artistic sector. This is an exceptional showcase for the dissemination and promotion of Quebec know-how throughout the world. This type of event is valuable for the development of international markets for our artists and our cultural organizations, ”said Minister Kotto.
This Focus Québec has two components: an audience and a professional. On the one hand, audiovisual and sound performances and audiovisual and participatory installations will be broadcast to the general public in order to increase accessibility to Quebec digital art and its visibility. As for the professional component, workshops and a special edition of the International Digital Art Market (MIAN) will take place in order to foster international partnerships in this sector. For example, artists and organizations from the two partner territories will present, during the MIAN, their most recent achievements in front of artists, curators, presenters and journalists specializing in digital arts, coming in particular from the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, but also from France, Italy, Germany, Spain.
Invited to BEAF 2013, the ELEKTRA festival co-produced this showcase with the Palais des Beaux-Arts in Brussels, thanks to the significant financial support of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation (30,000 euros). This collaboration is part of a spirit of reciprocity. Indeed, during the next edition of the ELEKTRA festival and the International Biennial of Digital Art, artists from the Wallonia-Brussels Federation will have a special place in the program. Thus, this event strengthens the links between Quebec and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation which have been established for more than forty years.
The Government of Quebec has invested $ 64,000 in this international showcase. This sum was paid within the framework of the Permanent Mixed Commission Quebec / Wallonia-Brussels and is divided between the Ministry of Culture and Communications ($ 30,000), the Conseil des arts et des lettres du Québec ($ 30,000) and the Ministry of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade ($ 4,000). The partners of Focus Quebec were able to count on the support of the General Delegation of Quebec in Brussels for the implementation and promotion of the project in the Benelux and in Europe.
All of the Focus Quebec programming at BOZAR can be viewed on the ELEKTRA festival website, at http:///2013.elektramontreal.ca/focusqc.
