Bécancour– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, confirmed, on behalf of the Minister Delegate for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the payment of financial assistance totaling more than $ 2.7 million to four businesses in the Center-du-Québec region: the Corporation de promotion and development of Bécancour, Fromagerie L&#39;Ancêtre, Oriens Technologies and Thermoforme d&#39;Amérique. More than sixty new jobs will be created in the region, while nearly 140 others will be consolidated.
From the Center-du-Québec et de la Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund, endowed with a budget of $ 200 million, the government participation will contribute to the realization of four investment projects valued at more than $ 14.4 million. dollars.
&quot;The creation of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund had a mobilizing effect on economic stakeholders in both regions,&quot; said Yves-François Blanchet. “These four projects, with which our government is proudly associated, are very stimulating. They confirm to us, like others to be announced later, the relevance and necessity of this approach as well as the effectiveness of the fund and of the economic diversification plan. &quot;
&quot;The choices made by our government are part of a sustainable development perspective,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “We made difficult decisions in the short term, but guided by a goal of long-term prosperity for the affected regions. This is why our decisions are always accompanied by measures adapted to local realities in order to support the regions in this period of transition. The good news is that these decisions are awakening unsuspected strengths and leading to great achievements, as these four companies and their promising projects are proving to us today. &quot;
The Bécancour Promotion and Development Corporation wishes to set up a clean technology business incubator in an abandoned factory located on an unoccupied industrial site, formerly intended for the nuclear industry. In order to assess the feasibility of this project and develop a business plan, a non-refundable financial contribution of nearly $ 120,000 is allocated to the organization. The completion of these two preliminary stages in setting up the incubator is estimated at nearly $ 256,000.
The Center-du-Québec and Mauricie Economic Diversification Plan, set up as part of the fund, recommends that special efforts be made to support the development of green technologies. The establishment of such a business incubator would thus contribute to the growth of a promising sector in the region, in addition to stimulating entrepreneurship, which is the basis of regional development and job creation. . Consultation between local stakeholders within such an infrastructure as well as the supervision of entrepreneurs would promote the sustainability of emerging companies in this sector. In addition, the industrial site coveted for the project would find a new vocation oriented towards sustainable development.
Founded in 1992, Fromagerie L&#39;Ancêtre specializes in the production of cheeses, such as cheddar, parmesan and mozzarella, and organic butters. It markets its products across Canada. In order to improve its productivity, the company will carry out an expansion and equipment acquisition project valued at nearly $ 2.6 million. In addition to consolidating 48 jobs within the cheese factory, this project, which receives support from the Government of Quebec in the form of a loan of $ 643,500, will create 5 new jobs.
Founded in 2010, Oriens Technologies is a start-up company that wishes to set up an industrial waste processing plant with a view to creating a new cement additive, ADCIMMC. The addition of this additive provides improved durability and performance properties in the fabrication of concrete and masonry products, such as pavers, retaining blocks and culverts. It thus offers its customers an innovative and safe environmental solution for processing their waste. This project is estimated at $ 6 million, of which nearly $ 1.3 million is allocated in the form of a loan by the Government of Quebec. It will initially create 35 jobs in the region and generate favorable economic and environmental benefits for Quebec.
Since 1994, Thermoforme d&#39;Amérique has been manufacturing cabinet doors using a polyvinyl chloride (PVC) finish application process that it has developed. The company will carry out an expansion project, valued at nearly $ 5.6 million, which will create 21 jobs, in addition to consolidating 89 others. The Government of Quebec is allocating repayable financial support of $ 650,000 to support the realization of this two-phase project. The first phase involves the expansion of the company&#39;s rolling plant as well as the acquisition of a neighboring building and land. As for the second phase, it consists of a redevelopment of the current sections of the main plant as well as the purchase of another land, which will allow the installation of a new series production machine.
&quot;Companies from both regions have presented us with more than 90 files to date and this is just the beginning,&quot; added Yves-François Blanchet. “They herald excellent spinoffs and, even more importantly, they will help to further diversify the regional economy. At a time when we must bet on sectors of the future, these projects give me hope for the region and its people. Without a doubt, the entrepreneurial spirit that reigns here will be the basis of several other equally inspiring initiatives. &quot;
For more information on the fund, the plan and the Economic Diversification Table of Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
Consult the press releases issued by the Parti Québécois government concerning Gentilly-2
The Parti Québécois demands an apology from the Liberal Party of Quebec for lying about Gentilly-2: Watch the press conference by Luc Trudel and Noëlla Champagne.
