Trois-Rivières - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, and the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment and Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, Yves François Blanchet, has confirmed the allocation of a $ 5 million loan to the Marmen company, for an expansion project that will create 100 jobs. This is the first project funded under the Economic Diversification Fund of the Center du Québec et de la Mauricie.
The project, valued at $ 25 million, involves the expansion of two buildings as well as the purchase of machine tools for this Trois-Rivières company specializing in high-precision machining. It will enable it to increase its production capacity and maintain its leadership position.
&quot;When Gentilly-2 closed, our government made a commitment to give the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions the means to diversify their economy,&quot; said Pauline Marois. A $ 200 million fund has thus been set up to support the implementation of structuring projects for the two regions. Today I am very enthusiastic about the positive consequences of this decision. The Marmen project will contribute to the economic growth of the city of Trois-Rivières, in particular by creating 100 quality jobs. &quot;
&quot;Today&#39;s announcement is the result of a remarkable concerted effort carried out by the stakeholders of the Table de diversification économique du Center-du-Québec et de la Mauricie, with a view to revitalizing the economy of these two regions, stressed Yves-François Blanchet. Together, they developed an economic diversification plan that is rooted in regional strengths and that will stimulate the entrepreneurial spirit of Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie region. In this regard, I would like to remind you that 75% of the Fund&#39;s investments will go to the Trois-Rivières and Bécancour RCMs. &quot;
&quot;The Economic Diversification Fund is a strategic lever to support companies&#39; projects in order to increase their competitiveness on world markets as well as the development of new industries geared towards the green economy,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. The Table de diversification économique du Center-du-Québec et de la Mauricie has worked intensely and I will shortly be announcing new investments that will create jobs in the region. &quot;
Founded in 1972, the Marmen company operates a large manufacturing complex of high precision machining, fabrication and mechanical assembly in Trois-Rivières. Recognized internationally, it offers its services to companies operating in highly diversified sectors, such as energy, oil and gas, mining, aviation and the wind industry.
&quot;The support of the Quebec government will help us maintain our status as a leader and meet the growing demand for medium and large parts,&quot; said the president of Marmen, Patrick Pellerin. Our expansion project will allow us to increase our production capacity and remain one of the largest North American manufacturers of oil and gas turbine parts. &quot;
For more information on the terms and conditions of the Center du-Québec et de la Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund, visit www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie.
