Québec, October 4, 2016 - Mathieu Traversy, the member for Terrebonne and Parti Québécois spokesperson for the environment and the fight against climate change, denounces the inconsistency of Prime Minister Philippe Couillard, who proclaimed himself champion of the environment at the Paris Conference in December 2015, but who never took action accordingly. “The Prime Minister let the management of the Green Fund turn into a fiasco; even today, it remains unable to assess the impact of programs financed by the Green Fund to achieve its climate objectives, ”he declared.
“The Prime Minister uses a lot of words, but we have understood that he uses few means. The Green Fund finances programs of the 2013-2020 Action Plan on Climate Change, the PACC, but these do not yield any results. According to the program managers themselves, the GHG reductions are impossible to calculate, and, in some cases, there is even a total absence of targets or indicators to verify whether the $ 3.3 billion of the Green Fund are not spent unnecessarily, ”then explained Mathieu Traversy.
“The Parti Québécois sent the government 15 access to information requests relating to the evaluation of 22 programs related to the PACC and the Green Fund, the objective of which is to reduce GHGs. The result is extremely disappointing, but clear: the Prime Minister has never followed up on his commitments. Out of the 22 programs, only 3 have GHG reduction targets, only 3 have quantifiable budgets, 9 have no indicator, 9 have no GHG calculation, 6 do not even identify a project, 3 have allowed situations abusive and 2 were not even tracked. And all of this was denounced by the Sustainable Development Commissioner, ”the member for Terrebonne also recalled.
“Quebec is heading straight for a wall; it will not achieve the GHG reduction targets it has set for itself by 2020. There are only three and a half years left. Philippe Couillard must quickly and completely review his way of managing the Green Fund, at the risk of losing all credibility in Quebec on the international scene in terms of the environment, ”concluded the spokesperson.
