Asbestos - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced the allocation, within the framework of the Economic Diversification Fund of the Regional County Municipality (MRC) of Sources, of financial assistance totaling $ 567,585 to five companies for their investment projects, which amount to nearly $ 1.5 million, in the manufacturing and tertiary sectors of the Estrie region. These projects, mainly focused on marketing, will ensure the maintenance or creation of around 40 jobs.
&quot;SMEs in the manufacturing and tertiary sectors must go through several stages of growth which are as many challenges&quot;, declared Élaine Zakaïb. “Marketing is a particularly crucial issue, especially in order to adapt to a constantly changing market. It is therefore with pride that we support the projects of five companies, which will allow them to stay in the race and continue to contribute to the dynamism and economic vitality of the MRC des Sources. &quot;
These projects are part of the territory&#39;s economic diversification strategy, which promotes the growth and development of entrepreneurship in the region. Financial assistance includes the payment of subsidies to Aménagements Natur&#39;Eau-Lac inc. ($ 14,075 for a project of $ 61,070), Les Produits Groll inc. ($ 14,510 for a project of $ 30,883), Solutech Packaging Systems Inc. ($ 54,000 for a $ 142,000 project) and VR2 Distribution ($ 85,000 for a $ 345,000 project), as well as the allocation of an interest-free loan of $ 400,000 to Écovie Canada Ltd. for a project valued at $ 880,000.
&quot;We are making constant efforts to accompany and support our entrepreneurs in their projects with significant economic benefits for the region,&quot; added the president of the Economic Diversification Table of the MRC des Sources and the company ABS Remorques, Mr. Francois Gouin. “Today, we are very happy with the support granted for the realization of these projects, which strengthen the industrial offer of our territory. &quot;
&quot;It is thanks to the realization of structuring projects like these that the MRC des Sources will be able to consolidate its position in a flourishing manufacturing sector which is diversifying&quot;, supported the prefect of the MRC des Sources, president of the local development center. (CLD) des Sources and mayor of the City of Asbestos, Mr. Hugues Grimard. “Once again, we have great proof of the deployment of the expertise and potential of businesses in our region. &quot;
Minister Élaine Zakaïb also took advantage of her visit to the Estrie region to take stock of the Assistance Fund for Single-Industrial Municipalities (FAMM) of the MRC des Sources. Over the past three years, this fund has made it possible to grant financial assistance totaling $ 725,000 to some 20 diversification projects.
For more information on the MRC des Sources economic diversification strategy, table and fund as well as on supported projects, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/strategiemrcsources.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
Consult the press releases issued by the Parti Québécois government concerning Gentilly-2
The Parti Québécois demands an apology from the Liberal Party of Quebec for lying about Gentilly-2: Watch the press conference by Luc Trudel and Noëlla Champagne.
