Lac-Mégantic– The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, participated this afternoon in the first meeting of the Table of Economic Assistance in the Lac region -Mégantic, which she will chair.
The Table, whose mandate is to contribute to the management of the Special Fund for Economic Assistance of $ 10 million intended for the town of Lac Mégantic and its surroundings, will bring together the mayor of Lac-Mégantic, Ms. Colette Roy- Laroche, and representatives of the local economic community: Ginette Isabel, general manager of the SADC of the Mégantic region, Marie-Josée Loiselle, industrial commissioner, Francis Bouffard, co-owner of the company Enseignes Bouffard SENC, Vincent Poisson, engineer forestier, ProForêt, Luc Quirion, director of risk management and special mandates at the regional solidarity fund FTQ and Jacques Vidal, interim director general of the CLD of the MRC du Granit.
“The Economic Assistance Table is one of the measures put in place by our government to promote the resumption of economic activity in Lac-Mégantic,” declared Élaine Zakaïb. “We are counting on the consultation and mobilization of all our partners to ensure its success and, above all, to allow the emergence of unifying and structuring projects. This is our priority! Thanks to the Special Fund for Economic Assistance, we will be able to attract new forward-looking businesses and encourage private investment, which will add to the efforts made since July for the economic recovery of Lac-Mégantic. . &quot;
The Special Economic Assistance Fund, announced by the Premier, Ms. Pauline Marois, aims to support economic and tourist development in order to promote the restructuring of the city of Lac-Mégantic. Its main objectives are to revitalize entrepreneurial activity and promote job creation in all sectors of activity.
&quot;The Economic Assistance Table will help restore the dynamism of our region by allowing its stakeholders to promote the realization of business projects that create wealth and jobs,&quot; added the mayor of Lac-Mégantic, Mrs. Colette Roy-Laroche. “The work of the Table will therefore have significant economic benefits for our city, and will help restore hope to the entire population of Lac-Mégantic and improve their quality of life. &quot;
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
