Drummondville– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announced, on behalf of the Minister Delegate for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation of a $ 550,000 grant to the Société de développement économique de Drummondville (SDED) - CLD Drummond for the construction of a third industrial incubator, an investment valued at $ 2.2 million. This assistance comes from the Center-du-Québec et de la Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund, with a budget of $ 200 million.
&quot;I was the bearer of the idea of special attention reserved for incubators in the processing of files relating to the diversification fund,&quot; recalled Yves-François Blanchet. “While most of the programs were reluctant to support industrial incubators, I could clearly see the importance they play in the entrepreneurial fabric here in Drummondville. They are not so much job creators as they are job creators. They are upstream entrepreneurs, at the very top of a business culture that precisely allows a model based on locally owned and innovative SMEs to emerge. I have known politics and business, and I tell you that we still have a lot to do before we have sufficiently recognized and supported our entrepreneurs. &quot;
The new SDED industrial incubator will cover approximately 14,000 square feet and will have the mission of helping to start up businesses by providing organizational, operational and administrative support. The incubator will accommodate seven new businesses in premises ranging in space from 1,650 to 2,500 square feet.
&quot;The establishment of the Center-du-Québec et de la Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund is a success,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “This promising initiative has made it possible to consolidate nearly 1,900 jobs and create more than 270 others, particularly in the manufacturing sector. At a time when our government is working to increase the competitiveness of this key sector of our economy, with the help of the Québec industrial policy, here is some news that has something to celebrate! &quot;
Created in 1984, the SDED&#39;s mission is to promote trade, industry and tourism through actions designed to create favorable conditions for the economic development of the MRC de Drummond. In addition to offering consulting services to business promoters, SDED organizes training activities, business start-up assistance, does international prospecting and participates in several regional activities.
&quot;The construction of a third incubator will help increase and diversify industrial activity in the Drummond RCM,&quot; said Alexandre Cusson, mayor of the city of Drummondville and president of the SDED. “For thirty years now, the Société de développement économique de Drummondville has been a true leader in economic development. Once again, she is putting her expertise to work in order to carry out a strategic project for the regional economy. &quot;
For more information on the fund, the table and the plan relating to the economic diversification of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie, as well as the projects supported, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie.
To learn more about Quebec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, visit www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
