Montreal - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, accompanied by the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs. Marie Malavoy, is launching today the first call for proposals which will allow the creation of eight new research chairs on Quebec identity in the French language and in history.
A call for proposals for six chairs is launched today by the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology (MESRST). Another call for proposals will be launched this year with the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport (MELS), which will allow the creation of two additional chairs. This new initiative is part of the National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI), one of three priority areas of which is Quebec identity. The implementation of the research chairs will be the responsibility of the Fonds de recherche du Québec- Société et culture (FRQSC).
“Not only will these research chairs serve as a springboard for young professors and promising young researchers who wish to develop recognized expertise in Quebec, but they will also contribute to the training and networking of student researchers in history and in French. These chairs will also support research in French as well as the popularization and transmission of knowledge about Quebec, ”said Minister Duchesne.
This first call for proposals consists of three chairs in French and three others in history. Each chair will receive an amount of $ 100,000 per year, for five years, which represents a total investment of $ 3M. Chair projects will be evaluated by peer committees specializing in Quebec studies according to the scientific evaluation procedures of the FRQSC. Decisions will be issued in December 2014, for implementation in January 2015.
“The Fonds de recherche du Québec- Société et culture is pleased to submit to the scientific community this call for research chair proposals under its Concerted Actions program. The ultimate goal of this is to deepen our knowledge of our language, our history, and what has shaped our Quebec identity, ”underlined Mr. Normand Labrie, Scientific Director of the Research Fund - Society and Culture. .
Two additional chairs will be created thanks to the financial commitment of MELS. In total, therefore, eight new research chairs on Quebec identity will be established by 2014-2015.
In 2014-2015, the MELS will fund a research chair on the French language and a research chair on history. The specific objective of these identity research chairs is to enable the development of expertise that is beneficial to the Department. This is why the MELS will produce, in collaboration with the FRQSC, a call for proposals adapted to its needs which will be unveiled during 2014. Each of these additional chairs will benefit from an annual grant of $ 100,000 out of five. years, for an investment totaling $ 1 million.
&quot;By creating a chair on the teaching of French and another on history, we are working on the very foundations of teacher training by developing new pedagogical approaches while deepening the knowledge necessary to understand the singularity of our collective journey, ”added Minister Malavoy.
Those wishing to apply for the first MESRST call for proposals can consult the competition conditions available on the FRQSC website at the following address: www.fqrsc.gouv.qc.ca.
For more information on the PNRI, visit www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca/PNRI/.
