Quebec - The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries, Energy and Natural Resources (CAPERN) today tabled the report on Gentilly-2. This report follows on from the special consultations held at the National Assembly on January 29 and 30, 2013 concerning the impacts related to the decommissioning of the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant as well as the economic diversification plan for the sectors of Center-du-Québec. Quebec and Mauricie.
The parliamentarians from three political parties represented in the National Assembly resumed work on March 21 and 26, with a view to completing the drafting of the report, as stipulated in the mandate conferred unanimously by the chamber on the 12th. March 2013. After two working sessions, eight recommendations were adopted for the benefit of the populations of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. These relate in particular to the impacts of decommissioning, job creation and the economic diversification fund for the two regions.
“The government has proposed being able to reinvest in the economic diversification fund the loans or loan guarantees that would have been repaid, which would have constituted a significant gain. Unfortunately, the oppositions have chosen partisanship rather than support for economic development by refusing our recommendation, ”said Martine Ouellet, Minister of Natural Resources.
“Despite some disagreements between the three parties, the deputies were able to adopt a constructive tone in a spirit of collaboration to proceed with the adoption of promising recommendations for the region. The citizens of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec have asked us to finish the work already started and we have met their expectations by proposing to meet again ”declared the MNA for Champlain, Noëlla Champagne.
Luc Trudel, Member of Parliament for Saint-Maurice, insists for his part on the importance of the economic spinoffs in the region: “The government has the capacity to act for economic development and support for workers. That is the priority. We are now looking to the future: an economic diversification fund of $ 200 million to support and develop our economy, ”concluded the deputy.
Under the mandate ordered by the National Assembly of Quebec, the final report of the parliamentary committee had to be tabled no later than March 28, 2013.
For more information on the fund, the plan and the Economic Diversification Table of Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
Consult the press releases issued by the Parti Québécois government concerning Gentilly-2
The Parti Québécois demands an apology from the Liberal Party of Quebec for lying about Gentilly-2: Watch the press conference by Luc Trudel and Noëlla Champagne.
