L&#39;Isle-aux-Coudres– The Premier of Quebec and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix – Côte-de-Beaupré, Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Marie Malavoy, announced today that he financial assistance of up to $ 97,679 is granted to the Municipality of L&#39;Isle-aux-Coudres for the renovation and upgrading of its outdoor skating rink.
“In the opening speech I gave a few months ago, I proposed that the government modernize its national policy on sport, recreation and physical activity and launched a challenge to the people of Quebec. at the very least stimulating: that of becoming, within ten years, the fittest nation in the world. To make everyone want to get active and take up this challenge, it is also necessary, among other actions, to offer them modern, accessible and safe sports infrastructures. This is what the Government of Quebec has chosen to do and today&#39;s announcement is a perfect illustration of it, ”said the Premier.
The project consists mainly of redeveloping the outdoor rink by adding new permanent boards and a new cement slab. Land leveling work is also planned to make the rink safer and better suited to the needs of residents, who will be able to practice inline skating during the summer season. The ice rink will also be made available to students of Saint-Pierre school.
This project, in which the Municipality participates financially, was selected within the framework of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance. equivalent to half of the eligible costs.
“Each of the projects that we financially support under this program is rigorously analyzed according to the eligibility criteria established in the rules and standards of this program. The projects meet the needs of the population concerned and will allow greater accessibility to various clienteles, thus promoting the adoption of a physically active lifestyle by as many people as possible, ”said Minister Malavoy.
By creating the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, the Government of Quebec wanted to ensure that all regions benefit from modern and safe sports and recreational facilities. For more details on this fund, see www.mels.gouv.qc.ca.
