The leader and vice-leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée and Véronique Hivon, as well as the candidates Nicolas Marceau (Rousseau) and Jean-Martin Aussant (Pointe-aux-Trembles), presented the commitments of the Parti Québécois to fight against tax havens and disciplining top executives who earn sky-high salaries. With the Parti Québécois, these people will have to do their fair share, like all Quebeckers.
IN SHORT
To restore tax fairness, the Parti Québécois government undertakes to:
“One of the great challenges of our time is the growing inequity between the taxation of middle-class families and that of the bosses of large companies. The CAQ and the PLQ have neither the will nor the courage to name things as they are: the 1% benefits from privileges and stratagems to which Mr. and Mrs. Everyone do not have access ”, said Jean-François Lisée from the outset.
Fight against tax evasion and tax havens
The Parti Québécois plan will resolutely attack tax havens, which cost the public treasury hundreds of millions of dollars. Nicolas Marceau recalled that the Liberal Party, far from joining its voice to the Parti Québécois, was complicit with the federal government by legalizing, in Quebec, jurisdictions of convenience, such as Grenada and the Cook Islands. “Tax havens are a cancer for all governments. It is unfair that millionaires and multinationals do not pay tax, while SMEs are closely followed by Revenu Québec and taxpayers pay their fair share, even if they have very little leeway ”, he raised.
The Parti Québécois finance spokesperson also recalls that Philippe Couillard took advantage of a jurisdiction of convenience on Jersey Island. “Philippe Couillard even defends Eugénie Bouchard&#39;s freedom to declare her income in the Bahamas! Quebeckers cannot therefore expect him to take this problem seriously. In this matter, Quebec is equipped to act, as long as its government has a bit of a backbone, ”continued Mr. Marceau.
Tax misappropriated profits and discipline the &quot;greedy&quot;
We will introduce a tax on embezzled profits, as the UK has done. “The Ministry of Finance estimates the tax losses attributable to misappropriated profits at $ 159 million annually for the government of Quebec. We will apply a 25% tax on these misappropriated profits and we will withdraw Quebec from the tax treaties signed with tax havens. Thus, companies will have an advantage in declaring their income in Quebec, which will allow us to recover this $ 159 million, ”said Nicolas Marceau.
“Since 1982, the average salary of 99% of Quebecers has increased by nearly 160%. For the ultra-rich, the 0.1%, it increased by 489%; it&#39;s more than triple! It just doesn&#39;t make sense. We have no problem with success or with wealth, but there are limits to stratospheric compensation. A few perfect illustrations of this indecency are undoubtedly the latest 40% increases granted to 6 Bombardier executives, the 26% increase paid to the CEO of Hydro-Quebec, or the 75% increase in compensation at the CDPQ. over the past three years. These examples shocked many Quebecers ”, for his part recalled Jean-Martin Aussant.
To bring back more tax fairness, a Parti Québécois government also intends to limit the salaries of heads of state-owned companies to that of the Prime Minister. An exception will be made for the CEO of the CDPQ, who will nevertheless also have to show more restraint.
The Parti Québécois is part of a global trend and will also introduce a “gluttonous tax” on the very high salaries of directors of public companies. The principle is simple: the average salary, within a public company, will be compared to the average of the 5 highest incomes. If the result of the top salaries is more than 30 times higher, the company will have to pay the “gluttonous tax”, ie a percentage applied to the portion of the salaries of the 5 most senior executives exceeding the 30 times standard.
To give businesses time to change their practices, the measure will only apply to the third year of our mandate, at a rate of 10%. From the fourth year, the rate will be 25%. &quot;In a way, it is a&quot; solidarity tax &quot;, because it will be used to support social missions, such as helping children in difficulty or supporting family caregivers, seniors&quot;, illustrated Véronique Hivon.
The vice-leader also announced that the Parti Québécois is committed to canceling a gift that the Liberals offered to very rich Quebecers. “In its plan to maintain head offices dating from February 2017, the government increased the rate of tax deduction on stock options from 25% to 50%. In other words, instead of paying tax on 75% of their earnings, the very rich now pay only half. This totally unjustified practice cost Quebecers $ 14 million, a sum that we will recover, ”she promised.
Exit the Caisse de dépôt et placement from tax havens
Finally, the Parti Québécois will demand that the Caisse de dépôt et placement provide a plan to divest from tax havens. It currently holds close to $ 27 billion in assets there, an amount that has continued to increase over the past year. Added to these commitments is the application of the QST to all foreign goods purchased through electronic commerce, so that our merchants are on an equal footing with the giants of the Web.
“With our plan, injustices will be over. We will reinvest the money recovered in the services. Quebeckers expect more justice, more equity. This is what we are offering them, and we are the only ones who have the courage to do it, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
For our explanatory sheet, click here.
