Quebec - “Since 2001, the Parti Québécois has always shown itself to be in agreement with northern development. However, the success of the development of the North rests on essential conditions which are not present in the Plan Nord. This is why we want a real Plan Nord that brings benefits to Quebecers, ”said the leader of the official opposition and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix, Pauline Marois.
“The government has a duty of transparency and rigor, even if this is demanding. In order to ensure that Quebecers get their money&#39;s worth, the government must be able to obtain precise information on deposits and operating conditions in order to guarantee the community a fair share of the wealth created. by exploiting our mining resources, ”said Pauline Marois.
Consequently, the Parti Québécois is therefore proposing the creation of a mining commissioner accountable to Quebecers. This commissioner will have the following mandate:
“We need a guardian of the resource and of the economic and financial interests of Quebecers. Someone has to monitor our resources and report. It must be independent from mining companies and free from influences, ”added Pauline Marois.
“Before authorizing exploration and exploitation, as well as obtaining the resulting permits, the rules of the game must be clear and stable in order to promote spinoffs in terms of jobs, but also in terms of creation. wealth for future generations. This is what the industry wants. Moreover, it is imperative to thoroughly revise the Mining Act in order to better supervise mining companies both in terms of social acceptability and in terms of environmental impact. No more improvisation! », Continued the leader of the official opposition.
The government is taking risks, among other things in the development of infrastructure that will be located beyond traditional activity zones. It must guarantee Quebec taxpayers that the risks will also be assumed by the companies exploiting our resources and not only by the government itself.
“The exploitation of our non-renewable natural resources should benefit future generations. These resources should allow us to do something more productive with the collective income that we will draw from them to develop a genuine knowledge-based economy. In other words, our resources must be a springboard to finance the real sectors of the future that are renewable energies or electrified transport and, of course, must support the education and health systems. They must also allow debt reduction, ”demanded the leader of the Parti Québécois.
Thus, we need a global tax system for the mining sector that ensures Quebecers a fair share of the wealth created by the exploitation of the resource. In particular, this must include a clearer royalty policy that will guarantee that Quebecers benefit greatly from the intrinsic value of the resource. For example, Australia has just completely revised its taxation applicable to mining companies in order to recover for its citizens 30% of the excess profits that are attributable to the intrinsic value of the resource in addition to normally taxing mining companies on their profits. regular, as is the case with all other businesses.
In addition, other formulas could allow us to achieve the same objective. For example, we could ensure that an unavoidable minimum amount of royalties is paid by companies by including in the calculation a minimum benchmark which is a function of gross profits or the market value of the resource.
“It is essential that local and indigenous communities are consulted, that they endorse the government&#39;s plan and that they participate in it. We believe that more ambitious goals must be set in terms of housing, education, jobs, health, the quality of water and its supply, access to the Internet and the reduction of domestic violence and suicides, ”said Pauline Marois.
“In short, we firmly believe in northern development and this must be done from a real perspective of sustainable development. We will ensure that Quebec adopts the best practices in mining development and relies on the best experts to define a regulatory framework. We must also ensure that the royalty program is as generous as possible for Quebeckers. It is a question of principle and leadership, ”concluded the leader of the official opposition.
