The leader and vice-leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée and Véronique Hivon, as well as the candidates Nicolas Marceau (Rousseau) and Alain Therrien (Sanguinet), presented the Parti Québécois plan entitled “Quebec inc. The following. Seriously. &quot;. This aims, among other things, to increase the control of Quebecers over their economy, to encourage local purchasing and to make life easier for SMEs.
IN SHORT
With a Parti Québécois government:
“As of October 1, the Parti Québécois government will take an important turn to revive Quebec Inc., to regain our pride and our mastery of the economy. To do this, we have a strong team; made up of entrepreneurs, economists and managers, it will put the Quebec economy back into the hands of Quebecers, and ensure that the state is at the service of SMEs, ”announced Jean-François Lisée.
Encourage the purchase of Quebec products
We will adopt several concrete measures to increase the purchase of Quebec products. “The government of Quebec and its subsidiaries must do more. We want them to be inclined to buy products from here when it comes to calls for tenders or more general purchases, while respecting, of course, the international agreements that we have signed. Thus, we will launch the era of &quot;smart&quot; tenders; From now on, environmental performance criteria will be taken into account, such as those related to compliance with our language laws, workers&#39; rights and probity. We will also reserve part of the public contracts for the development of technologies developed by our SMEs, and will create a &quot;Made in Quebec&quot; certification, like the Aliments du Québec formula, &quot;said Nicolas Marceau.
Priority to SMEs
We will give priority to our entrepreneurs. “For too long, the state has asked entrepreneurs to be at its service. However, we must do exactly the opposite! At the end of its national tour, the Priorité PME team identified several ways to better support our SMEs. Our government will go to entrepreneurs, reduce red tape and regulations, offer them personalized solutions and the right to make mistakes. We will also promote the buyout of companies by employees or the new generation. Our way of supporting entrepreneurs will be resolutely updated. With us, those who wish to broaden their horizons will finally be able to develop their full potential, spread their wings, ”continued the chef.
“In recent years, we have witnessed the quiet dispossession of Quebec. Under the government of the Liberal Party, head offices have left Quebec, local businesses are struggling to get their fair share of government investments, and the state - notably Revenu Québec - is in &quot;punishment&quot; mode rather than in mode. &quot;solutions&quot;, according to the entrepreneurs. Our economic plan proposes nothing less than the return of an economy of owners, of an economy partnering with its SMEs, ”added Véronique Hivon.
Give the Caisse de dépôt back to Quebecers
Among the other strong gestures proposed by the Parti Québécois to repair the liberal mess and breathe new life into Quebec Inc., let us mention the return to the fundamental mission of the Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec, as imagined by Jean Lesage and Jacques Parizeau. “We will put two objectives on an equal footing: to develop the economy of Quebec, particularly that of the regions, and to grow the savings of Quebecers. In other words, we will give the Caisse back to Quebecers. We will even allow them to invest their personal savings in investment funds specifically designed for this purpose. The citizens want to participate in the economic development of Quebec, and we will give them the means to do so, ”insisted Alain Therrien.
“We want more than anything that the dreams of entrepreneurs become projects, and that these projects turn into successes. We believe very strongly in the immense potential of our entrepreneurs, in their capacity for innovation. We know that we can compete with the best and become a benchmark. I am particularly proud of the plan that we are presenting today ”, also mentioned Véronique Hivon.
&quot;If the PLQ and the CAQ are fighting for the worn label of the&quot; party of the economy &quot;, it is clear that the Parti Québécois, it is the party of economic nationalism! We offer a renewed, current and robust vision of economic nationalism, a vision that will allow our entrepreneurs, our talents and our regions to achieve their ambitions. It&#39;s Quebec inc. The following. Seriously. », Concluded Jean-François Lisée. For more information, click here.
