The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, as well as Mireille Jean (Chicoutimi) and Michelle Blanc (Mercier), presented the commitments of the Parti Québécois regarding technology and digital. We can summarize them as follows: a Lisée government will take the first steps in Quebec&#39;s digital revolution.
IN SHORT
“Today, we are announcing the biggest antipaper attack in Quebec history. By now offering all citizens the possibility of interacting with the State in a completely digital way, without documents, we offer a new way of seeing the daily role of the Public Administration. We will meet this challenge with the support of managers and digital experts, ”said Jean-François Lisée first.
It will first be necessary to complete the Quebec fiber optic network. “Right now the Liberal government is subsidizing telecommunications companies to hook up homes with copper, a technology that is on the verge of being outdated. We see ourselves further: we will deploy optical fiber throughout the territory, through a subsidiary of Investissement Québec, ideally by 2022. That is what it means to be ambitious, ”continued the chief. .
In fact, under the direction of a minister responsible for Digital, a subsidiary of Investissement Québec (NumériQuébec) will have the mandate to create a consortium of investors to complete the connection. Hydro ‑ Québec, the Caisse de dépôt, telecommunications companies… all will be invited to join. Then, NumériQuébec will give priority to taking charge of the operation by the RCMs, cities or regions. Everyone will share both the investment and the return.
“The local political will to connect citizens is strong. Efficiency is at the rendezvous. And the ownership of the fiber network will generate a new source of stable income for the RCMs, which is not negligible. In addition, a study shows that the national GDP of an industrial company, like Quebec, grows by 0.25% per year each time 10% of its territory has fiber optic coverage ”, he also mentioned.
Of course, the Parti Québécois does not intend to stop there. Why not make Quebec a benchmark in the field? “To ensure Quebec&#39;s digital excellence, we will set up the National Digital Council, which will be made up of recognized representatives from all digital activity sectors and civil society. Elected officials and ministries should consult it for any question concerning digital development in Quebec. The objective is simple: to use the best options offered by digital technology to make the shift towards efficiency, ”Mireille Jean added.
For her part, Michelle Blanc mentioned that the Quebec government will give priority to free software and open standards in general in all its digital projects. “We will acquire internal expertise. We will adopt a true free software development policy, as well as principles, a standard and a manual for the conception and design of digital public services. The Parti Québécois is also committed to appointing a Minister responsible for Digital, who will be responsible in particular for implementing a major project to digitize smart products developed and manufactured by Quebec companies, and to support many other technological sectors. cutting-edge: remote medical consultations, robotic agriculture, online commerce and culture, etc. “, She listed.
Finally, since we are in favor of independence in all its forms, we will apply it to digital. &quot;We will build our own&quot; farms &quot;of government servers to ensure our full sovereignty over government public data. It will now be possible to guarantee Quebecers that their data is hosted on Quebec servers, which is absolutely not the case at present, ”argued Mireille Jean.
“A world of possibilities is opening up before us. It&#39;s up to us to seize this unique opportunity and finally give Quebec a face of the 21st century from a technological point of view. Our ultimate goal, with our digital revolution, is to make the state more flexible. To put it in the gym, literally. This is a way of providing concrete help to the citizens and businesses of Quebec, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
Go to surpq.org/revolution-numerique
