Quebec - The MP for Roberval and official opposition spokesperson for forests, Denis Trottier, is worried about the future of silvicultural workers in the regions of Quebec who could be forced out of work due to unfulfilled commitments from the government of Jean Charest. “Despite the government&#39;s promise to keep the sums allocated for silvicultural work in full during the year, disturbing contradictory information is circulating and fears the worst. As a result, many workers risk being laid off in the next few weeks due to budget cuts. &quot;
The Minister of Natural Resources and Wildlife, Clément Gignac, had nevertheless committed, during the study of appropriations last May, that the $ 189 million announced will be used solely and in full for silvicultural activities, which is no longer the case. “The Minister was also committed to setting up a program to support owners of forestry machinery. We see that there is still nothing on the table. Obviously, the minister did not keep his word. These are still broken promises, ”he added.
The member for Roberval reminds that the most important moment of the season for silvicultural work is currently taking place. “It is July and, for just a few weeks now, the government has been making announcements on silvicultural work and on the forest environment development program - Part II, but in the field, that&#39;s something else. Thus, we are announcing major cuts at a time when these companies must be supported. Hundreds of workers will still pay the price for bad government decisions. &quot;
Denis Trottier is worried about the situation experienced by certain forestry contractors, particularly in Lac-Saint-Jean, and the consequences to come. He would like the two parties to be able to discuss in order to reach an agreement and quickly restart the work.
A Parti Québécois government will take concrete action for the forest. “We firmly believe in the forestry industry and the Quebec forest. The positions we have been defending for so long demonstrate this well. We will take the necessary action. We must develop the pride of Quebeckers in this resource, which is noble, ecological and renewable. We are going to give hope to the regions of Quebec and restore the forests to their nobility, ”concluded Denis Trottier.
