La Tuque – Following statements from the Liberal Party, the Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, believes that the leader of the Liberal Party, Mr. Philippe Couillard, is scared because forestry workers and contractors have found an ally of size with the government of the Parti Québécois to develop the forest environment.
“The statements by the leader of the Liberal Party, Mr. Philippe Couillard, and the MP for Laviolette, Ms. Julie Boulet, once again testify to the Liberal Party&#39;s total incomprehension of the forestry sector. I believe that Philippe Couillard is scared because we do not speak from both sides of the mouth: we defend the interests of workers and regions, and in full knowledge of the facts, ”said Martine Ouellet.
During the National Forest Meeting in Saint-Félicien, the Parti Québécois government announced an increase of more than $ 20 million for silvicultural work budgets in public forests and in private forests compared to the last Liberal financial framework. The announcement of $ 147 million for silviculture for non-commercial work fulfills this commitment.
“This is the first time that silvicultural budgets have been announced so early in the year. The entrepreneurs are very happy with this announcement. They also know, like us, that the situation is changing in the forestry world and that budgets must be adjusted. The Parti Québécois, unlike the Liberals who sent our forestry workers to the mines and allowed 30,000 forestry jobs to be lost because of their inertia, has a plan for the forest. The Rendez-vous national de la forêt is proof of this and the sums announced in forestry are a first demonstration of this, but certainly not the last, ”added Denis Trottier, MP for Roberval and parliamentary assistant for forests.
By confirming the investments for carrying out silvicultural work for 2014-2015 as early as January, the Parti Québécois government worked on predictability, both in terms of budgets and in terms of the nature of the work, compared to the Liberal Party, which did not has never understood and even considered it important to do. With this fiscal predictability, forestry entrepreneurs will be able to better plan their businesses and their workforce, and thousands of workers will benefit from greater stability. More than 3,000 jobs will be maintained thanks to these investments.
“The Liberals never had faith in the forestry industry. They had decided to turn their backs on the resource regions of Quebec. The leader of the Liberal Party had even dared strongly to suggest that workers in the forestry industry turn to mining jobs, a sector he considered to be more promising. For too long, forestry workers and contractors have suffered the repercussions of their disarming liberal improvisation. It was time for us to give Quebec a structured and planned approach to wood production. This is the whole difference of the Parti Québécois, listening to stakeholders in the field and at work to find solutions adapted to the new reality of the forest land, ”added Martine Ouellet.
