Quebec– Sylvain Roy, MP for Bonaventure and official opposition spokesperson for forests, MP for Matane-Matapédia, Pascal Bérubé, MP for Rimouski, Harold LeBel, as well as MP for Gaspé and spokesperson Gaétan Lelièvre, spokesperson for regional development, denounced this morning the Liberal government&#39;s abandonment of the forest job creation program and the silvicultural investment program. During a press briefing, accompanied by representatives of the forestry community of Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie, they asked the Minister of Forests, Wildlife and Parks, Laurent Lessard, to restore the budgets dedicated to private forest.
“For the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie regions, we&#39;re talking about $ 6 million less for private forests. I would like to remind the minister, as we repeated to him during his regional tour, that in our region, dozens of villages live exclusively from logging; when 250 workers are forced out of work, the whole community and hundreds of families find themselves in difficulty. The Minister must absolutely reverse his decision and renew the silvicultural investment program and the forest job creation program, ”said Sylvain Roy.
&quot;By asking foresters to do more with less, by telling workers that they have enough money to start the season and that for the rest,&quot; we&#39;ll see &quot;, the minister is plunging families into uncertainty. Would he find it normal, him, to live from day to day, without knowing if he will have an income until the end of the year? “, Asked, for his part, Pascal Bérubé.
Harold LeBel remembers the Liberals&#39; election promises. “Barely two weeks ago, the regional minister promised an imminent announcement for the people of the private forest. We are still waiting. However, time is running out for producers and forestry groups; they only ask to be supported to be able to make their people work, ”he added.
Finally, Gaétan Lelièvre also said he was very worried about the future of private foresters in Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie. “In terms of forestry, each dollar invested brings in $ 6 in economic activity. The government cannot afford to let down this sector, which is essential to the vitality of our regions and the dynamic occupation of our territory, ”he concluded.
