Québec, April 24, 2020 - The deputy for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and the Parti Québécois health spokesperson, Joël Arseneau, and the member for Rimouski and spokesperson for seniors, Harold LeBel, believe that to avoid further spreading the virus in retirement homes (RPA), people must be isolated as quickly as possible. To do this, they propose to deploy, in all regions, buffer zones in hotels and other places that have volunteered, and to transfer residents who test positive for COVID-19.
IN SHORT
We have seen it in recent days: what the residents and staff of the RPAs are going through is more than dramatic. “The system is saturated, and we must at all costs prevent the situation from deteriorating further. However, the COVID-19 virus is spreading at breakneck speed, healthcare staff are exhausted or missing, and customers are particularly vulnerable. The combination of all these factors can quickly lead to disaster, but we can act, ”said Joël Arseneau.
One possible solution to consider is the development of buffer zones in hotels and other identified places, currently little used despite their availability. “By removing residents who test positive from living environments, we would significantly reduce the risk of developing new foci of infection. This would protect both the residents and the staff of the establishments, ”said Harold LeBel.
&quot;It is not too late to change our way of doing things,&quot; continued the member for Rimouski. The key is to take the pressure off that residents, their families and caregivers absolutely do not need these days. We ask the government to give a clear directive to the CISSS and the CIUSSS so that these buffer zones are quickly developed, and so that the transfer of residents is coordinated in an efficient and safe manner for all. &quot;
Moreover, the Parti Québécois considers that too much centralization is detrimental to the proper functioning of the health system, particularly when it comes to sending reinforcements into the field. “Service offers should be dealt with at the regional level, in partnership with the establishments. Thus, each region, each accommodation center could meet its needs according to its own reality. Flexibility is the key to efficiency, ”insisted the Member for Îles-de-la-Madeleine.
