Quebec - The chair of the government caucus and responsible for the Laurentides region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, on behalf of the Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, and the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the He occupation of the territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announces the allocation of nearly $ 1 million for the repair of the Ceizur bridge located in the northern part of the Zec Petawaga, in the Laurentians region.
“The Ceizur bridge is a key transport structure for the region since it gives access to a vast territory both for tourism and forestry. This is why our government considers it essential to proceed with its repair to make it functional and safe, both for the transport of people and goods, ”said MP Pagé.
The rehabilitation of the Ceizur bridge will be financed by the Ministry of Natural Resources and Forex, which will invest $ 70,000 in the project. Given its expertise, the Ministère des Transports will work with the Ministère des Ressources naturelles to assess the condition of the current structure and supervise the repair work. Once the work is completed, the bearing capacity of this bridge will be increased by 45 tonnes, from 15 to 60 tonnes, which will once again allow traffic and forest transport.
“The community hoped for this work on the Ceizur bridge. This is why I am very happy with its refurbishment and also with the increase in the bearing capacity of this transport structure, ”said Mr. Pagé.
105 meters long and equipped with a traffic lane, the Ceizur Bridge spans the Gatineau River north of the Baskatong reservoir in the Laurentians. It is a bailey-type bridge with a central pillar, one span of which is suspended. Remember that it has been closed since November 1, 2012 for security reasons.
“This work will allow the population to benefit from the multiple uses offered by the public forest. It is businesses, workers, vacationers and all users of this vast territory who will benefit, ”concluded Minister Martine Ouellet.
The call for tenders for this work will be launched as soon as possible.
