Quebec - In order to keep the population informed, the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, takes stock of the forest fire situation that is raging in several places in northern Quebec. “Currently, there are about fifty forest fires in Quebec, all north of the 49th parallel. Precipitation fell in Abitibi, Baie-James and northern Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean. As a result, the most worrying fires in northwestern Quebec, particularly near the community of Eastmain, will therefore not progress today. This improvement in the situation allows us to organize supply convoys and reopen certain routes. However, certain sectors remain critical and remain under close surveillance, particularly northeast of Sept-Îles and in the Wemindji region, ”declared the Premier.
With regard to electricity transmission infrastructure, the complete network in the James Bay sector is functional, including the transmission line serving the village of Eastmain, which has been reactivated. As for the Côte-Nord region, Hydro-Québec continues to closely monitor its facilities and fire interventions may be necessary to protect them. The return by road of some of the members of the Aboriginal community of Eastmain went smoothly yesterday. About a hundred evacuees returned to their village by air today from Val-d&#39;Or.
A major mobilization to fight these fires is still underway: 590 forest firefighters, supported by 14 tankers and 65 helicopters, are currently on the ground or ready to intervene at any time. Quebec also receives the support of certain Canadian provinces and New Hampshire in this fight.
One hundred and five wildland firefighters from British Columbia will arrive today evening. This assistance reinforces the workforce and gives a little respite to certain teams of forest firefighters who have been working hard for 25 consecutive days. In addition, two tankers and an air pointer from Saskatchewan will arrive in the late afternoon and will be based at LG2 to cover the northern territory.
“The weather has been favorable to us and the situation has improved in the Baie-James region. However, we must remain vigilant, as several sectors remain of concern. I assure you that we are doing everything possible to ensure the safety of people and Quebec&#39;s infrastructures and I will continue to keep the population regularly informed of the evolution of these forest fires, ”concluded the Premier.
Despite the precipitation observed in several sectors of northern Quebec, the decision was taken to maintain the ban on open fires in or near the forest, as well as the restriction on forestry operations. These two preventive measures target a large portion of the territory, including Nord-du-Québec, Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean and Côte-Nord. Citizens can consult the following government website to find out about the situation and the instructions in force: www.urgencequebec.gouv.qc.ca.
