Quebec - “The effervescence, the remarkable quality of the speakers, the audacity of the exchanges and the uncompromising frankness of the observations, the clear and committed speech of the Secretary General of La Francophonie, the streets animated by Francophone cultures amalgamated with happiness, in short , the results of the first World Forum of the French language seem to us to be a success. &quot;This is what the member for Drummond, official opposition spokesperson for language and Parti Québécois delegate to the World Forum of the French Language, Yves-François Blanchet, said, before adding:&quot; On the other hand, the strong student presence wearing the red square and the denunciations during the workshops of the disastrous record of the Liberal government in terms of language, to which were added new revelations, all this constitutes on the contrary a sad record for Jean&#39;s Liberal Party. Charest. &quot;
Indeed, between the protocol which often turns out to be the occasion of very constructive meetings and the artistic performances which have made it possible to seal friendships between young people and future leaders of the world Francophonie, serious presentations, sometimes even severe, have was offered to delegates from five continents. “The will of the Secretary General, Mr. Abdou Diouf, to allow exchanges outside the binding framework of the summits in order to encourage the emergence of new ideas has proved to be a more than winning bet. In addition, the Secretary-General expressed his pride at the success of a language soon spoken by half a billion speakers, but also a certain impatience with the dangers looming over the future of French, one of the three main languages. international organizations, ”added the member for Drummond.
On the other hand, and even if this should only be seen as a sign of openness and healthy curiosity in relation to tumultuous news, Mr. Diouf&#39;s spontaneous visit to the protesters of the French Quebec Movement will have thrown a cold shower on the scene. triumphant attitude of the Prime Minister. “We will remember that the government used the student spring to distract Quebecers from its embarrassing record and it tried to do the same with the Forum to hide a pitiful linguistic record in the face of the world. As if that were not enough, here is Minister St-Pierre at the heart of a new scandal. Indeed, the manipulation of data on the attendance of CEGEP in French by allophones, a crucial question, reveals too clearly that this government has been made too low to be worthy of leading Quebec, ”said Yves-François Blanchet.
Finally, the member for Drummond believed it essential that the meeting given to more than 1,200 young people from the French-speaking world in Quebec also serve to inform them about the student protest movement in Quebec without the filter that the government is trying to apply. “I therefore brought together representatives of the FEUQ and around forty delegates representing civil society from each of the five continents and from Quebec to the National Assembly. Discussions were lively and, the National Assembly being the home of the people, it was normal that it be made available to young students of which Quebec should be proud in front of the entire Francophonie ”, concluded the delegate of the Parti Québécois at the World French Language Forum.
