Montreal - “Mental health is a priority for our government and we are committed to developing a mental health action plan that will truly improve our practices and access to care and services in this sector. The fruitful discussions we had at the National Forum on the Mental Health Action Plan led to several possible solutions that we are going to examine with the utmost seriousness. Our goal is to provide Quebec with a mental health action plan that can adequately meet the needs of the population and contribute effectively to improving the care and services offered to people suffering from mental health disorders as well as &#39;to their loved ones,&#39; said Réjean Hébert, Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, following the Forum held on January 28 in Montreal. The Minister gives a positive assessment of this Forum, which brought together more than 100 participants and observers, and which made it possible to hear from key stakeholders in mental health about the best measures to be implemented in the future Health Action Plan. mental.
The participants immediately stressed the importance of putting the patient at the heart of our mental health actions: for example, it was suggested that he should be able to take an active part in his intervention plan or be able to benefit from recovery measures promoting social participation or a return to employment. Relatives and family members are also an important link in our mental health interventions.
Mental health work calls for actions that are as numerous as they are varied. Among the various points raised by participants, we note the important place that prevention in mental health must occupy. “Working on mental health means, among other things, making the right diagnosis, but also improving detection and prevention. This can be done in a wide variety of settings, from schools to youth centers, to workplaces or even within family medicine groups. This observation leads us to underline the important place that must be reserved for mental health in our future National Prevention Policy and we will work in this direction, ”said Minister Hébert.
In terms of prevention, the Minister also retains the importance of targeting the social determinants of health in order to reduce exposure to risk factors and thus strengthen the protective factors involved in the development of mental illnesses.
Stakeholders from several backgrounds also highlighted the challenges of transitioning to adult services when a patient turns 18. “In mental health, as in other health sectors, it is important to be able to ensure the best possible continuity of services. There are convincing examples of service securing plans in other sectors. It would be interesting to see if such examples can inspire our mental health practices, in order to reduce the age boundary as much as possible and avoid service disruptions ”, indicated the Minister.
Finally, the Minister takes note of the need to continue strengthening the first line and improving access to a family doctor. At the same time, it appears essential to ensure optimal collaboration between the various health professionals involved in mental health, whether by promoting multidisciplinary teams, the participation of pharmacists, improving the initial training of professionals, or even by deploying responding psychiatrists in FMGs, for example. Community organizations also have significant expertise in mental health and the strengthening of collaboration between these stakeholders and the health network must be increased. Some of these organizations play a key role in supporting people with mental health problems and their families.
“It is important to change perceptions in mental health, both in the population and in our network. The reflection to which the Forum gave rise allowed us to deepen several key themes in mental health and to explore various avenues in order to improve our practices in this field. Our job now consists of integrating the comments and proposals made to us by the participants so as to eventually have an action plan that will mobilize all stakeholders around common objectives aimed at improving our mental health interventions, and this. , everywhere in Quebec, ”concluded Dr. Hébert.
