Sept-Îles - At the end of the Tourism Industry Forum “Destination Côte-Nord”, the MNA for Duplessis, Ms. Lorraine Richard, on behalf of the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, President of Tourisme Côte-Nord | Duplessis, Ms. Nicole Caron, and the President of Tourisme Côte-Nord | Manicouagan, Ms. Paryse Deschênes, announced two important news for the Côte-Nord tourism industry. This concerns the renewal of the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement for the Duplessis region and the enhancement of the envelope for the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement for the Manicouagan tourism region. In total, more than $ 1.4 million will be invested by 2015 to develop the offer for the tourist regions of Manicouagan and Duplessis.
In front of more than a hundred regional tourism industry players gathered for the Tourism Industry Forum “Destination Côte-Nord”, MP Richard confirmed the renewal of the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement for the region. de Duplessis, with an envelope of $ 727,500. Under the terms of the Agreement, Tourisme Québec and Tourisme Côte-Nord | Duplessis will each invest a sum of $ 315,000 until 2015. The other financial partners are the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications ($ 30,000), the Regional Conference of Elected Officials (CRÉ) of the Côte-Nord ($ 37,500), the CLD of the MRC of Sept-Rivières ($ 15,000) and Caniapiscau ($ 15,000). Also signatories of the Agreement, the MRCs of Sept-Rivières, the Golfe-du-Saint-Laurent and Minganie, the CLDs of the Lower North Shore and Minganie.
“I am delighted by the renewal of this Agreement, since the amount of investments has increased from $ 600,000 to $ 727,500, thanks in particular to the participation of the CRÉ. This immense region is distinguished by natural attractions that are both spectacular and unique. The Partnership Agreement offers us the opportunity to invest in the development of this exceptional wealth, ”Minister Bérubé said.
“Through this commitment we are once again demonstrating the priority given to the tourism industry for the benefit of workers and communities. The renewal of the Agreement is excellent news because it is proving to be a significant financial lever for the region. Each dollar invested generated $ 3.1 of investments within the industry, ”said the Member for Duplessis.
“The renewal of the Agreement confirms the vision and desire shared by our partners to facilitate the development, renewal and sustainability of our tourism offer in Côte-Nord | Duplessis. This renewal is proof of the development and innovation efforts demonstrated by our tourism entrepreneurs, ”declared the president of Tourisme Côte-Nord | Duplessis, Ms. Nicole Caron.
“During the past year, significant work has been done to structure the North Shore tourism industry. The CRÉ and several partners have invested to foster the emergence of a regional vision where the tourism industry relies on its strengths to develop to the extent of its potential, ”added the president of the CRÉ de la Côte-Nord, Mr. Julien Boudreau, for whom today&#39;s announcement will make this vision a reality in the Côte-Nord-Duplessis territory.
“We hope that this renewal of the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement will allow the development of the tourism offer which is important for the economic diversification of our region. We also hope that entrepreneurs will take advantage of this economic lever to bring out new projects and thus contribute to the development of the entrepreneurial culture in the region, ”said the president of the CLD of the MRC de Sept-Rivières, Mr. Gaby Gauthier. .
&quot;The renewal of this funding will give the opportunity to further pursue the orientations adopted to achieve the economic diversification of our community,&quot; said the president of the CLD de Caniapiscau, Ms. Lise Pelletier.
Last October, Tourisme Québec and Tourisme Côte-Nord / Manicouagan announced the renewal of the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement for the Manicouagan tourism region, with an envelope of $ 600,000, i.e. an investment of $ 300,000 per partner, by 2015. The Ministry of Culture and Communications (MCC), the CRÉ de la Côte-Nord, the CLDs of Manicouagan and the Haute-Côte-Nord are now attached to the second edition of this Agreement to thus quantify the latter at $ 697,500.
This contribution is broken down as follows: $ 30,000 comes from the MCC, 37,500 from the CRÉ de la Côte-Nord, $ 15,000 from the CLD de Manicouagan and $ 15,000 from the CLD Haute-Côte-Nord. The president of Tourisme Côte-Nord / Manicouagan welcomes this increase in the envelope. &quot;This is excellent news since this Agreement is a continuation of the efforts made over the past few years to develop our tourism offer,&quot; added Ms. Paryse Deschênes.
&quot;I would like to underline the excellent work carried out by the two regional tourism associations as well as the various regional partners who have chosen to join forces to align their development and promotion strategy for the development of the north-coastal region&quot;, concluded MP Richard.
For the Duplessis region, a first call for projects is currently underway and interested tourism stakeholders have until August 16, 2013 to submit their request. Information documents for submitting a request to the tourism development program are available at the Tourisme Duplessis office.
For the Manicouagan region, developers have until June 14 to submit their application. Information documents for submitting a request to the tourism development program are available at the Manicouagan Tourism office.
