Quebec - On the occasion of the closing of the Consultation Forum on the draft national policy on homelessness, the Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Ms. Véronique Hivon, emphasized the active participation of all the players concerned by the problem of homelessness in Quebec.
“This Forum was an opportunity to hear and discuss with a multitude of stakeholders and organizations, particularly in the community, working with people experiencing homelessness or at risk of becoming homeless in order to improve our policy project and to anchor it well in their realities. It is a new dynamic and a real synergy which emerges from our work. I was impressed by the mobilization of all the players concerned. We all agree that we must go beyond the simple accumulation of sectoral actions to counter homelessness. The discussions that took place during these two days will undoubtedly make it possible to ensure better integration of all the concerns expressed and, above all, to put forward a shared vision for the future ”, declared the Minister. Minister Véronique Hivon.
In addition to proposing a definition and a vision of homelessness as it is observed in urban and rural areas in Quebec, the draft policy describes the guiding principles as well as the lines of intervention on which the project will be based. government action, for example:
These areas of intervention fueled many discussions during the Forum and helped to bring out a strong consensus. Let us underline, for example, the fundamental importance which must be given to prevention as well as to support, taking into account each person&#39;s specific situation. Several participants also wished to reaffirm the rights of people experiencing homelessness, particularly with regard to access to housing. Several issues related to income were also discussed, including the barrier that administrative procedures can constitute for people experiencing homelessness. In addition, all agreed on the need to encourage better consultation and greater coordination between actors from different backgrounds. The importance of ensuring a response adapted to the realities of homeless people, taking into account the specific needs of women, natives and young people, as well as the issue of the presence of concomitant disorders, very common among homeless people, have also been raised. been discussed. In addition, the participants wanted the different realities that characterize remote regions as well as the differences between urban and rural areas to be reflected in policy. Finally, intersectoral collaboration as well as the importance of promoting social diversity and the prevention of criminalization are also important issues that must be considered in the policy.
“The consultation exercise that has just ended will be invaluable for the next stage of policy development. I would like to thank all the groups and partners who took part in it with great seriousness, openness and commitment. I really felt a great desire on their part to always do better, for the greater good of the most vulnerable people in society. This will also guides our government&#39;s actions and is reflected in our determination to develop this National Policy on Homelessness by December 2013 and the resulting action plan in spring 2014, ”concluded the Minister.
The Forum on the roaming policy project was held on June 17 and 18, 2013 under the chairmanship of Minister Véronique Hivon. Nearly 140 people attended the event. Among them, we note the presence of representatives of several national associations and groups, community partners, inter-sectoral coordination steering committees in homelessness, roundtables in homelessness, the Interministerial Table in Itinérance, the committee of experts having contributed to the development of the draft policy, health and social services agencies in all regions of Quebec, as well as many partners from the ministry and the health and social services network.
