London - Quebec Premier Pauline Marois gives a positive review of her participation in the 43rd annual meeting of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. The Premier held numerous meetings there to promote Quebec and discuss issues affecting its development.
“Québec recently adopted measures aimed at ensuring its economic growth that make it particularly attractive for investment. Our presence in Davos made it possible to promote these attractions to economic decision-makers as well as to current partners who contribute to the prosperity of Quebec, ”said Pauline Marois.
Accompanied by the President of Investissement Québec, Jacques Daoust, the Premier participated in a dozen meetings with executives of companies and subsidiaries operating in Quebec. In total, the companies we met have in Quebec some fifty establishments in the aeronautics, life sciences and energy sectors. The discussions made it possible to present the new government orientations in terms of economic development and to consolidate business relations.
In the wake of these meetings, the Premier indicated that the Government of Quebec has signed an agreement in principle with the company RSW RER ltée and the company Boeing for the development in Quebec of a pilot project for the production of tidal turbines intended to international markets. Details of the project, which will help position Quebec as a leader in the development of clean energy technologies, will be revealed in an announcement in Quebec.
The Prime Minister met with the Secretary of Finance of the United States of Mexico, Luis Videgaray Caso. On this occasion, she underlined the importance of the Mexican market for Quebec exports, this country being Quebec&#39;s 7th customer in the world. Ms. Marois also met the Managing Director of the ProMéxico investment agency, Ernesto de Lucas Hopkins. More than 600 Quebec companies have business relations with Mexico.
An interview with the Minister of the Economy and Finance of France, Pierre Moscovici, provided an opportunity to discuss the economic aspect of the 17th Alternate Meeting of Quebec and French Prime Ministers to be held in Quebec later this winter. Discussions also focused on the economic situation in Quebec and France.
The Prime Minister met with the President of the African Development Bank (AfDB), Donald Kaberuka. She mentioned that Quebec wanted to increase partnerships between Quebec and African businesses and institutions, particularly in the context of the Kinshasa Declaration of the XIVth Francophonie Summit, which calls for the creation of an economic Francophonie. The ADB, a financing institution dedicated to the development of Africa, appears to be a privileged lever for increasing Quebec&#39;s links with the African continent.
The fight against climate change was at the heart of an interview with the executive secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, Christiana Figueres. Ms. Figueres welcomed the commitment of the Government of Quebec to raise the greenhouse gas reduction target to 25% below the 1990 level. The Premier and the Executive Secretary have agreed to establish direct collaboration. between Quebec and the Secretariat. The Premier also met with the President of the Climate Group, Mark Kenber, an ally of Quebec in the fight against climate change.
Mrs Marois met with the Commissioner for the Internal Market and the Services of the European Commission, Michel Barnier. Discussions focused on issues related to the recognition of professional qualifications as well as on changes to legislation affecting financial institutions and rating agencies in the European Union. The economic situation in Europe was also discussed.
The Prime Minister also met the Minister-President of Flanders, Kris Peeters, in particular in the context of the visit to Quebec in March of a large Flemish trade and academic delegation. Finally, she spoke with Hannelore Kraft, Minister-President of North Rhine-Westphalia, one of the most important German Länder from an economic point of view.
The Premier was invited to initiate an exchange between leaders on responsible mining development practices. She spoke of Quebec&#39;s avant-garde approach to environmental protection as well as the new impetus that the Quebec government wishes to give to the development of northern Quebec.
Along with other female leaders, she also participated in a reflection on the means intended to reduce the economic imbalance that persists between the genders.
