Quebec - It is with enthusiasm that the Minister of Social Services and Youth Protection, Ms. Véronique Hivon, opened the Consultation Forum on the draft national policy on homelessness. Addressing the more than 140 participants and observers gathered for the occasion, the Minister Delegate explained the importance of this consultation phase.
“People from all walks of life are gathered at this Forum, and they are gathered for a common goal: to provide Quebec with a National Policy on Homelessness. In order to equip ourselves with a comprehensive, coherent and sustainable strategy to counter and prevent homelessness, the active participation of local stakeholders is essential. The comments and concerns heard during these two days of the Forum will make it possible to improve the draft policy based on field expertise and the realities experienced, both in rural and urban areas ”, declared the Minister Delegate. Véronique Hivon.
As demonstrated by the Parliamentary Commission on Homelessness, held in 2008-2009, this desire to develop a concerted strategy is shared by a large number of stakeholders and organizations that work with people in difficult circumstances. homelessness or at risk of becoming homeless. The report tabled at the end of this Commission in November 2009 clearly recommended the development of a roaming policy. The community anti-homelessness community has also long been calling for it.
“This initiative demonstrates our government&#39;s sincere desire to respond to this recommendation and thus improve the living conditions of people experiencing the reality of homelessness. As the Prime Minister said so well in her inaugural speech on October 31, it is the government&#39;s duty to come to their aid. Government orientations are nothing without the support of people in the community. It is by working together that we will succeed in improving the living conditions of people experiencing homelessness, as well as preventing and more effectively countering the phenomenon of homelessness in Quebec. In this sense, the participation of the various stakeholders in the field in this consultation on the draft policy is proving to be very valuable for the future, ”added the Minister.
The Forum on the proposed homelessness policy will be held on June 17 and 18, 2013, at the Palais des congrès de Montréal, under the chairmanship of Minister Véronique Hivon. Nearly 140 people are present at the event, either as participants or observers. Among them, we note the presence of representatives of several national associations and groups, community partners, inter-sectoral coordination steering committees in homelessness, roundtables in homelessness, the Interministerial Table in Itinérance, the committee of experts having contributed to the development of the draft policy, health and social services agencies in all regions of Quebec, as well as many partners from the ministry and the health and social services network.
