Montreal - While the leader of the Coalition Avenir Québec (CAQ), François Legault, denounces the dismal state of public finances for years, he makes unrealistic promises during this campaign without saying where he will get the money. “François Legault has become a populist. He really wants to buy votes with Monopoly money. Yesterday he presented the wrong numbers on paying down the debt, which would actually take 400 years to materialize, and today he is spending $ 2.5 billion without saying where he will get the money, asking for more. it is up to the population to trust him blindly, ”declared the Parti Québécois candidate in the Rousseau riding, Nicolas Marceau.
“It is totally irresponsible to spend $ 2.5 billion just pretending to be able to free it up by cleaning up the state. François Legault knows this very well. He repeated it daily when he was a member of the Parti Québécois and finance critic. The head of the CAQ used to be much more rigorous than he is today, ”he added, mentioning that the commitment to give 1000 dollars per family is a matter of thought. Magic.
“In 2007, when the Liberal government proposed to lower taxes by $ 950 million, François Legault was the first to say that it was an irresponsible gesture by Jean Charest because Quebec did not have the means. Five years later, the situation of public finances has deteriorated: there is a deficit to be absorbed and a debt which has increased by 63 billion dollars since the arrival of the Liberals in power, ”explained Nicolas Marceau, adding that François Legault has become worse than Jean Charest.
“To free up the leeway necessary to pay for this $ 2.5 billion measure, 54,000 of the 63,000 government employees of the Quebec government would have to be cut. Abolishing school boards, health agencies and 7,000 positions at Hydro-Quebec will not be enough to defray the cost of this promise. François Legault must tell Quebecers where he will take the money to pay this unrealistic promise since he had already allocated the hypothetical money from these cuts to pay the salary increase for doctors and teachers. He therefore promises to use the same money to pay two different promises, ”continued Nicolas Marceau.
The Parti Québécois pledged to abolish the health tax on February 12, 2012 and to do so at zero cost by asking for an additional contribution from taxpayers whose annual income is greater than $ 130,000 and by reducing the tax privileges granted on performance. of certain financial assets.
In February, the CAQ voted against a motion proposing the abolition of the health tax presented by the Parti Québécois to the National Assembly
