Montreal - The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane De Courcy, is proud to announce that an advanced stage online French course as well as new modules specialists are now accessible to people selected by Quebec. This is how the Minister marked the fifth year of existence of online French courses (FEL), an original and innovative formula for teaching French. “I strongly believe in the contribution of new technologies to the francization and integration of immigrants. Also, I am particularly happy with the success of the online French courses. These courses are part of a set of means put in place to contribute to the successful integration, in French, of immigrants and their francization abroad, ”said Ms. De Courcy.
In order to diversify its offer of online courses, the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities offers, in addition to the intermediate French course, an advanced French course and learning modules geared towards specific professional fields. These specialized modules meet the French language development needs of immigrants who want to practice their profession in Quebec.
“By deciding to come and work in Quebec, immigrants have chosen to adopt its common language, French. Bill 14, which is currently being discussed in the National Assembly, aims in particular to keep the promise made to immigrants, namely that they have the right to live and work in French in Quebec. The bill is also accompanied by measures intended to increase the offer of online French courses for immigrants, so that they can improve their fluency in French, which is particularly close to my heart, ”added the Minister. Diane De Courcy.
Remember that online French courses have been available abroad since 2008 and in Quebec since 2009. Since their launch, thousands of people have been able not only to improve their knowledge of French, but also to appropriate the values and codes. cultural aspects of Quebec society. In the first year, 2,012 people registered for the online courses. In the fifth year, 5,537 students (including 1,549 immigrants to Quebec) took online courses.
The Minister would like to thank the educational institutions which have designed for the Department a set of innovative products for teaching French online. Thus, Cégep @ distance has developed the advanced stage French course, the specialized module in health and nursing care and the computerized adaptive classification test with the collaboration of the Collegial Center for the development of teaching materials. The Center for Distance Learning Innovation at Cégep de Matane has developed specialized modules in engineering and applied sciences, as well as administration, law and business.
Online francization has won numerous awards since its launch. She received the Online Government Award from the Institute of Public Administration of Quebec in 2009. The Canadian Network for Educational Innovation also awarded her two awards: the Award of Excellence and Innovation in Educational Design. in 2009 and that of Partnership and Collaboration in 2010. The Ministry&#39;s initiative has also been the subject of other awards and mentions over the years.
Online education specialists, researchers, representatives of various institutions and organizations around the world contacted the Department to learn more about its online francization offer. It is recognized as a model for online language teaching. Several articles have been published on the subject in specialized journals, a sign of its high quality, reputation and success.
To find out about francization online, register or consult the admission conditions: www.francisationenligne.gouv.qc.ca.
