La Sarre, February 24, 2018 - In the presence of family and friends, political staff from its offices, members of the Parti Québécois executive from the constituency of Abitibi-Ouest, the leader of the Parti Québécois and leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, of the chief whip of the official opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, of mayors, members and separatist sympathizers that, during the general assembly of the party, the deputy of &#39;Abitibi-Ouest and Vice-President of the National Assembly, François Gendron, has officially announced that he will not seek a new term in the Quebec election on October 1.
After 42 years of intense political life, first as Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Ouest, after 11 won elections, after having headed 8 ministries, including 4 with large budgets and numerous and diverse clienteles (Mr. Gendron was notably minister of Education, Minister of Natural Resources on two occasions, Minister of State for Planning and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food), after having occupied all parliamentary positions, including that of Head of acting party, the dean of the National Assembly believes he has done his part in active and concrete policy, and that it is time to pass the torch.
“I am and will remain faithful to my independence convictions. I will continue to talk about the excellent democratic program that our party adopted at the national convention last June and to promote it. At the same time, members of the Parti Québécois unequivocally placed their trust in our leader. Jean-François deserves our full support; I assure him of mine, and I know that he can count above all on the proud team of the Parti Québécois, ”declared François Gendron. Given the pace of life imposed by a political career, and given the longevity of that of Deputy Gendron , this one considers that it is normal that a certain fatigue has set in and that it is manifested more today. “I would like to point out that my decision is in no way motivated by the files to be dealt with, the support of my world or the parliamentary and political responsibilities that fall to me. It is rather and much more my numerous plane flights, my countless losses of time in airports, the fact of being often in my suitcases, not to mention the countless number of kilometers traveled that are involved, ”he explained. .
The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, of course praised the immense career and the qualities of his esteemed colleague. “François has perfectly represented, for more than 40 years, the example of a deputy close to his world, close to his region, in whom we can trust. We owe it great progress for the development of our regions, the protection of our natural resources and our food sovereignty, among others. A tireless activist for the independence of our nation and the place that our regions must occupy, his contribution to Quebec is invaluable. On behalf of all the Parti Québécois activists, thank you, François! &quot;, did he declare.
MP François Gendron would like to thank the people of Abitibi-Ouest from the bottom of their hearts for their unwavering and continuous support since 1976, as well as all the generous volunteers who have accompanied him in his remarkable political career.
