Montreal - The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane De Courcy, wishes to let it be known that she welcomes the concerns expressed by the Autonomous Federation of Education and the organizations that spoke at today&#39;s press conference regarding the francization of immigrants and non-francophones and their integration into Quebec society. “This concern ties in with my mandate in immigration as well as that relating to language. The vitality and quality of French, which includes the francization of newcomers, is clearly a priority for me, ”said the Minister.
Government francization services are offered by three partner ministries: the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities, the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport and Emploi-Québec. French courses for adult immigrants are offered in various educational institutions and organizations in Quebec and abroad. Last year, nearly 45,000 people were able to take advantage of the government&#39;s service offer. As for the children of immigrants, they attend French schools, in accordance with the provisions of the Charter of the French language.
“Despite the work accomplished, we know that the needs are great and that efforts still need to be made. My colleagues and I are indeed determined to significantly improve coordination between our departments and achieve better results, ”added the Minister.
The collaboration of the ministries is essential to reach as many people as possible so that they acquire a working knowledge of the French language, abroad or in Quebec, and so that they can deepen this knowledge so that they can integrate quickly. the labor market and participate fully in the life of society.
The Minister perceives the mobilization of the community as an advantage for the success of the mandate which has just been entrusted to her by the Prime Minister. “One of my priorities will be to ensure that French regains its full place as an official language and language of use throughout Quebec. And immigration can help achieve this goal. This is why she wishes to meet the representatives of the Autonomous Federation of Education and all the stakeholders to discuss with them what can be done to improve things.
