Quebec - “To francize each immigrant who chooses to become Quebecer, the government must give itself the means. What we understand from Minister Weil is that she has given up altogether. The Minister ignores the observation that everyone makes: our integration and francization measures are a failure. If that doesn&#39;t bother Kathleen Weil, Quebeckers want Montreal and Quebec to remain French, ”declared the member for Drummond and official opposition spokesperson for language, Yves-François Blanchet.
“Yesterday, the Minister confirmed the plan already announced before the immigration consultations for 2012-2015. The number of new immigrants will remain more or less the same for the next four years, ie 50,000 people welcomed per year. The Minister claims that there is no need to increase the budgets devoted to the francization of immigrants. This statement is irresponsible, whereas the latest figures published by the OQLF, known for five years, confirm that French is declining in Quebec, particularly in Montreal, ”added the member for Drummond.
“Knowledge of French to live in Quebec is not debatable. Our duty as a host society is to ensure that each immigrant has the first tool for their integration, a common language, the only official language, French. It is also to ensure that French is the language of work, education and living together. The state must ensure that those who choose Quebec and do not already know our language will learn it before their arrival or upon their arrival. Currently, approximately 20% of newcomers who do not know French or speak it little when they arrive in Quebec never register for a francization course. However, the Minister refuses to give them the chance to fully integrate and adequately increase the means necessary for their francization and their integration into employment. It is deplorable, ”added the member for Drummond.
“The Parti Québécois will ensure that every immigrant masters French and Quebec will stop seeing its collective life become more anglicized every day. This is a clear commitment! », Concluded Mr. Blanchet.
