Québec, January 17, 2017 - The Parti Québécois spokesperson for the environment and the fight against climate change, Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the spokesperson for consumer protection, Catherine Fournier, are calling for a sanctions regime tougher to tackle vehicle engine emissions fraud.
In the wake of the Volkswagen scandal, Canada&#39;s Competition Bureau signed a $ 2.1 billion deal with the company last December. When it comes to consumers, Volkswagen&#39;s offer in Canada is similar to that made in the United States. However, in terms of environmental sanctions, the gap is huge: due to the laws in force in the United States, the American agreement provided for an obligation for the manufacturer to invest the equivalent of $ 6.2 billion. Canadians in pollution control and transportation electrification programs. Here, nothing obliges Volkswagen to do the same; the penalties provided for in federal laws do not have enough teeth. Quebec must therefore accept the regulation without saying anything, when it could have imposed much more severe penalties. This right was recognized by the Supreme Court, provided that it is provided for in Quebec law.
“It is time for Quebec to adopt a much stricter sanctions regime than the federal regime in order to protect both the interests of citizens and those of the environment; indeed, if the settlement obtained had been comparable to what the American regime provides, we could have raised some $ 540 million more to supply the Green Fund, of which $ 75 million would have been specifically reserved for investments in the electrification of transport. , in particular for recharging infrastructures for zero-emission vehicles ”, declared Sylvain Gaudreault at the outset.
For her part, Catherine Fournier believes that it will be necessary to remain on the lookout, in the interest of consumers. “If other manufacturers are caught in default, there will likely be new remedies. The Parti Québécois will therefore remain vigilant. We will continue to call on the government to adopt penalties similar to those imposed by the United States. Then, once these measures are in place, we will make sure that he enforces them, ”she insisted.
“Since the Paris Climate Agreement, the Liberal government has prided itself on being an environmental leader. Well, let him prove it to us! Quebec has every advantage in imposing more severe penalties and in tightening up the application of laws on vehicle engine emissions as quickly as possible, ”concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
