Quebec - Quebec Premier Pauline Marois presented the insignia of Chevalier de l&#39;Ordre national du Quebec to storyteller Fred Pellerin at a ceremony held today at the National Assembly.
Colorful, authentic, atypical, Fred Pellerin is an exceptional multidisciplinary artist who has carved out an enviable place for himself in the artistic community of Quebec and, more and more, in Europe. He is an outstanding ambassador for his part of the country. Thanks to his work, his native village has seen its sociocommunity life enriched and its economy whipped up by tourism. In recent years, a bakery, an auditorium, a restaurant and even a guesthouse located in the old presbytery have sprung up there.
“Every day, Quebeckers change the world. It is done little by little. One step at a time. Sciences, arts, culture, research, medicine… In all spheres of activity, these unique people push back the barriers of knowledge. Their exceptional work, passion and dedication opens new horizons, exerts a positive influence beyond our borders. Their achievements often shine nationally and internationally. They are decision-makers, visionaries. They inspire us, make us proud and we want to pay tribute to them. This is why the National Order exists ”, declared the Prime Minister during the ceremony.
Note that some personalities from the artistic world, including the conductor Jacques Lacombe CQ 2012, the interpreter Isabelle Boulay CQ 2012, the singer-songwriter Leonard Cohen GO 2008 and the man of the theater Wajdi Mouawad CQ 2010, have received into the National Order but were unable to receive their insignia, not being available at the annual award ceremony, usually held in June. They were also invited to be decorated with the National Order by the Prime Minister on December 19, but they were all outside Quebec.
Founded in 1984, the Ordre national du Québec is the most prestigious recognition awarded by the Quebec government. The members of the Order are eminent personalities who have contributed to the building of a creative, innovative and united Quebec society. The Order has 841 members, including 790 personalities from Quebec and 51 from abroad, appointed to the ranks of grand officer, officer or knight.
The biographical notes of Fred Pellerin, CQ, are attached hereto and can also be consulted at www.ordre-national.gouv.qc.ca.
