Quebec - &quot;How the Minister of Education, François Blais, could he reject a motion, tabled today in the National Assembly by the Parti Québécois, which simply asked him to go and visit a single school in the Montreal School Board? », Said Alexandre Cloutier, spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of education and school perseverance.
“The Minister of Education has been in office for 236 days and he still has not bothered to visit one of the 191 schools of the largest school board in Quebec, while he has continued to criticize his management. It&#39;s ridiculous, ”continued the member for Lac-Saint-Jean.
Since his appointment, in fact, Minister Blais has especially distinguished himself by his refusal to go into the field to see what is really going on in schools. “François Blais manages education from the top of his office at complex G, looking at the columns of numbers. Obviously, what happens on the ground - what the young people, teachers, education professionals and principals are going through - does not matter to him. He should defend education, rather than carrying the suitcases of the President of the Treasury Board, Martin Coiteux, and asserting that it would be &quot;awkward&quot; to reinvest in education, &quot;added the member of the Parti Québécois.
“If the minister took the trouble to go to the schools of Montreal, he would see the dilapidated state of the classes and gymnasiums which are frequented by young Montrealers every day. He would also see the temporary trailers that were set up because of student overcrowding. Does he know that the CSDM has a maintenance deficit of its buildings of one billion dollars? We do not understand why the Minister continues to turn a deaf ear, ”concluded Alexandre Cloutier.
The motion rejected by the Liberal government reads as follows:
“That the National Assembly emphasize that the Minister of Education, Higher Education and Research has not yet visited a school of the Commission scolaire de Montréal;
That she asks him to go out into the field and visit elementary and secondary schools of the Commission scolaire de Montréal. &quot;
