Quebec - Parti Québécois spokesperson for health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, invites Quebeckers to sign the petition demanding the abolition of incidental fees, which is available on the website of the National Assembly.
“I invite you to sign in large numbers this petition initiated by Médecins québécois for the public plan. I will be tabling it in the National Assembly over the next few weeks. Let us once again express to Minister Barrette our deepest and total disagreement with his desire to make patients pay for insured health services for which they already pay, through their taxes, ”said Diane. Lamarre.
It should also be remembered that last Wednesday the Member tabled Bill 491, An Act to put an end to incidental costs by amending various legislative provisions. This bill received the support of many groups and actors in the health sector, in particular MQRP, ROME, AREQ, CSN, CSQ, Coalition Solidarité Santé and Réseau FADOQ.
“It is up to the government to call this bill so that it can be studied and discussed. The population wants a debate around medical overcharges, and Minister Barrette unilaterally decides to tear up the health insurance contract agreed with Quebeckers. As with his bills 10 and 20, he works alone and refuses to consult the actors concerned. Yet the minister is making a serious mistake by creating this major breach in our public health care system. We are asking him today to call our bill and to have the courage and transparency to engage in a real public discussion. Access to health care must be equitable and just for all. Incidental costs deprive the poorest of essential access. This involves health risks and will therefore cause additional costs, ”added Diane Lamarre.
“Finally, I would like to underline Quebec solidaire&#39;s support for Bill 491; the party also asks that the government call it so that the ancillary costs are abolished once and for all. What about the CAQ and its health spokesperson, François Paradis? Will he recognize the inequity created by Minister Barrette and his amendments? Who is silent consents. Will he also be supporting the bill? », Concluded the member.
