Québec - Jean-François Lisée, the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of social services and youth protection, as his colleague, MP for Taillon and spokesperson for health and access to care , Diane Lamarre, notes that a real consensus is emerging on the prohibition of ancillary costs.
“We ask the Minister of Health to listen to the 14 political, social and health players who are calling for an end to this unacceptable practice. Last week, the Québec Ombudsman asked the Minister of Health to give up his desire to charge patients for insured services. Ms. Raymonde Saint-Germain, the protector, affirms in her report that &quot;this way of doing things risks contributing to the emergence of a two-speed system: a fast track in the clinic for those who have the means to pay and a slow leading to the hospital for others &quot;, and that&quot; any change aimed at legalizing direct billing to users, for incidental costs […] constitutes an unfair avenue &quot;. The Minister must give up once and for all to make pay yet another increase in the remuneration of doctors by patients, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
The Parti Québécois is delighted that the Coalition Avenir Québec (CAQ) has finally decided to oppose the legalization of ancillary costs. “When we proposed an amendment to prohibit ancillary costs, in a parliamentary committee last week, to our great astonishment, the CAQ refused to speak out and abstained from voting, claiming to want a consultation rather than the abolition of overloads imposed on patients. We are delighted to see today that the CAQ is rallying to our request, and that it concedes that it is indecent that the same man who admitted, in 2013, that ancillary costs were taking patients hostage, Gaétan Barrette, today asks these same patients to take out their credit cards to pay them, ”continued the spokesperson.
“The Minister has only one ally left in his objective of making medical overcharging legal, and therefore allowing physicians to make a profit thanks to these surcharges: the Federation of Specialist Physicians of Quebec. Gaétan Barrette must stop being the representative of medical specialists and act as the Minister of Health for Quebec patients. Currently, he is rather showing us that he is not able to step out of his role as FMSQ negotiator. Perhaps, as we proposed at the time, he should have let his colleague from the Conseil du trésor negotiate with the doctors, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
