Quebec - The member for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, and the member for Richelieu and spokesperson for seniors, Sylvain Rochon, today highlighted the mobilization unprecedented eight groups representing more than half a million seniors to denounce the billing of incidental fees to patients.
“While the Auditor General told us a few weeks ago that doctors pocketed $ 800 million in excess, it is absolutely indecent that the Liberal government does not reverse its decision and that it authorizes doctors to come. take an additional $ 50 million out of patients&#39; pockets. Moreover, Bill 20 was adopted on November 10, 2015, but the list of incidental costs that may be billed has still not been made public. What is the minister negotiating on the sly with the medical federations? Quebeckers have the right to know the truth; the consensus reached by the eight groups representing the elderly clearly shows that incidental costs are really harmful to citizens, ”said Diane Lamarre.
For several months, the Parti Québécois has been denouncing the sly maneuver carried out by Minister Barrette, consisting in amending his Bill 20 to allow his physician colleagues to legally bill patients, especially the elderly. Let us recall that the eight groups which denounce the accessory costs today are in addition to the fourteen others which have repeatedly asked the Minister of Health to step back and take the 50 million in question from the remuneration envelope for doctors.
“Many seniors find themselves in a vulnerable situation or have few means. For them, overcharging for care or services will constitute a major obstacle to access and force them to make choices, sometimes even to the detriment of their health. In some cases, the imposition of incidental costs can make the difference between receiving care or not receiving it. Today, the Minister of Health must hear their cry from the heart and give up making them pay to enrich the doctors, who have already had more than their share of the pie, ”concluded Sylvain Rochon.
