Quebec - The member for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, today tabled the petition demanding an end to ancillary costs.
In the presence of Mr. Pierre-Paul Côté, President of the Association of Retirees of Education and Other Public Services of Quebec - AREQ (CSQ), of Ms. Claire Montour, President of the Quebec Health Federation (FSQ-CSQ), Ms. Line Larocque, vice-president of the Interprofessional Health Federation (FIQ), as well as Mr. Stéphane Defoy, Mr. Louis Blouin and Ms. Geneviève Dorval, members of the wrestling committee in health clinic at the Pointe-Saint-Charles Community Clinic, the member once again denounced the Liberal government&#39;s choice to pass patients a bill of $ 50 million for health services already insured.
“More than 10,500 people signed the petition that I tabled today and which was initiated by Médecins québécois for the public plan. The message is clear: allowing patient surcharges to be billed goes against our laws and against the public health system that we have collectively given ourselves. A register compiled by the Pointe-Saint-Charles Community Clinic also shows that the surcharge billed to patients for the same service increases from time to time. The Minister must listen to reason, step back and stop governing for his physician colleagues, to the detriment of patients, ”said Diane Lamarre.
Let us recall that yesterday, the Alliance des patients pour la santé and many partners, including the Council for the protection of patients, the Coalition Priorité Cancer au Québec, the Regroupement des omnipraticiens pour une médecine committed and Me Jean-Pierre Ménard, strongly denounced Minister Barrette&#39;s bills as well as the legalization of ancillary costs, and they demanded a moratorium on all cuts to health services.
“Today, together, we ask the Minister to listen to the actors who speak with one voice: he must protect universal and free access to health services for all Quebecers. I once again urge the government to call Bill 491, An Act to put an end to incidental costs, which I tabled on October 21, ”concluded the member.
