Quebec - The Minister for Native Affairs, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, took advantage of her visit to the Innu community of Matimekosh-Lac-John to announce the award of a $ 500,000 grant for the repair of the arena. The works include the integration of a swimming pool in the building in order to transform it into a sports complex.
“The arena will become a gathering place for various sporting activities. By providing the community with such a building, we are helping to counterbalance problems related to isolation and difficult social realities, such as dropping out of school, consumption, idleness and health problems linked to a sedentary lifestyle ” , said Minister Larouche.
In addition to increasing the offer and diversity of activities, the work aims to provide residents of all ages with facilities and equipment that meet current standards of use, hygiene and safety. As a result, the arena&#39;s clientele should increase. Estimated at more than $ 4 million, the work will be carried out by Mamu Construction, a company born out of a partnership between native and non-native entrepreneurs. When the arena has its new vocation, four jobs will be created.
“I am proud to be able to collaborate in the realization of this project which has social, economic, educational and recreational aims at the same time. It unites the community and will certainly encourage them to adopt or maintain healthy lifestyles, and thus live in better health, ”indicated the Minister.
In addition to visiting the Innu community of Matimekosh-Lac-John, the Minister for Native Affairs went to greet the Naskapi community of Kawawachikamach yesterday. These visits were part of Mamu Minuinniutau “together be well”, a cultural and spiritual gathering organized by the two indigenous communities of the region.
The financial assistance granted for the repair of the work of the Matimekosh-Lac-John arena comes from the Native Initiatives Fund II of the Native Affairs Secretariat. The objective of this fund is to support projects that could have significant spinoffs on the economic, social or community development of the Aboriginal nations of Quebec.
