Quebec - The Minister for Native Affairs, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, announces the award of a grant of $ 157,500 to the Council of the Innu First Nation Essipit. This grant will allow the Council to acquire the Ste-Anne-de-Portneuf hunting and fishing club and integrate it into the network of Essipit outfitters. The acquisition of this outfitter will create seven jobs in the community.
“I am convinced that this initiative will have significant spinoffs, not only for the community, but also for the Côte-Nord region. This is a fine example of the participation of Aboriginals in the economic and tourism development of Quebec, as well as in the development of the resources of its territory, ”declared Minister Larouche.
The current outfitter Club de Chasse et Pêche Ste-Anne-de-Portneuf has a lease with exclusive hunting, fishing and trapping rights, for a territory of 48 square kilometers on which there are 24 bodies of water and infrastructure. reception that can accommodate nearly 80 clients in eight chalets. This territory is contiguous to two outfitters already belonging to the Council of the First Nation of Innu Essipit, namely the Domaine du Lac des Cœurs and the Domaine sportif du Lac Loup.
“I am very happy with the outcome of this file. It is essential to maintain regional interests in this outfitter. The acquisition by the Council of the First Nation of Innu Essipit fills this interest. Outfitters occupy an important part of the regional economy. For this reason, it is essential that people from the Côte-Nord retain the economic spinoffs and generate economic activity. The Innu Essipit First Nation is exemplary in this regard, ”said the member for René-Lévesque and responsible for the Côte-Nord region, Mr. Marjolain Dufour.
The financial assistance granted to the Council of the Innu First Nation Essipit is equivalent to 50% of the costs of the acquisition. This financial assistance comes from the Native Initiatives Fund II of the Secrétariat aux affaires autochtones (SAA). The objective of this fund is to support projects that could have significant spinoffs on the economic, social or community development of the Aboriginal nations of Quebec.
