Quebec - The Minister for Native Affairs, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, announces the award of a three-year grant of $ 157,410 to the First Nations of Quebec and Labrador Health and Social Services Commission (FNQLHSSC) to allow the hiring of a social economy business development officer.
The mandate of this officer will be to mobilize actors in the social economy sector, to develop partnerships and to organize information and training sessions within the aboriginal communities of Quebec.
“This initiative, I am convinced, will have significant spinoffs. It will help aboriginal communities to develop their own know-how and their own experience in setting up social economy initiatives, ”declared Minister Larouche.
The objective of setting up this position is twofold: to provide the training necessary for the creation and management of social economy enterprises, as well as to increase knowledge and networking between partners and stakeholders in this field. sector.
“The social economy is a relevant mode of development for indigenous communities. Indeed, they face major challenges in terms of social and economic development. Ultimately, the initiatives developed by this project will help create jobs and fight poverty effectively and proactively in Aboriginal communities, ”the Minister concluded.
The financial assistance granted to the FNQLHSSC is $ 52,525 in 2013-2014, $ 52,910 in 2014-2015 and $ 51,975 in 2015-2016. The total of these amounts is equivalent to 50% of the costs incurred by the new post. This financial assistance comes from the Native Initiatives Fund II of the Secrétariat aux affaires autochtones (SAA). The objective of this fund is to support projects that could have significant spinoffs on the economic, social or community development of the Aboriginal nations of Quebec.
The creation of the new development officer position is also made possible thanks to the collaboration of Native Affairs and Northern Development Canada (AANDC), and the First Nations of Quebec and Labrador Health and Social Services Commission. (FNQLHSSC).
