Quebec - Believing that the funding of community organizations must be increased, the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of social services and youth protection, Dave Turcotte, and the spokesperson for the elderly as well as in matters of struggle against poverty and the fight against bullying, social and solidarity economy, Harold LeBel, support the campaign &quot;Get involved for the community&quot;, within the framework of which 4000 community action organizations across Quebec will mobilize , this week, to sensitize the population to their mission.
“The funding for these organizations must be adequate. More than ever, we are seeing the disastrous effects of liberal austerity on the vulnerable people who benefit from the support of community organizations. In fact, there are more and more young people, families and seniors who need help, and organizations have fewer and fewer resources to support them, ”explained Dave Turcotte.
“If it refuses to increase their funding, the government is forcing these organizations to ration their services, which will deprive thousands of vulnerable people of support that is essential to them. At the Parti Québécois, we believe that a society&#39;s wealth is also measured by the way it takes care of the most disadvantaged, and this particularly involves support for community organizations. With the Liberal Party in power, one cut does not wait for the other, and the situation is constantly deteriorating ”, for his part lamented Harold LeBel.
Members recall that in the fall of 2013, the Parti Québécois government announced a significant increase in the budgets allocated to community organizations, following the unanimous adoption of a motion calling for such an increase. However, that did not prevent the Liberals, upon taking office in 2014, from reversing this increase. &quot;We have never seen a government show such inconsistency,&quot; they denounced.
“The government must recognize that community organizations have their autonomy and their capacity to act according to their values. He must also stop requiring them to provide services for which he himself has opted out. Our leaders have a duty to sit down with organizations and recognize once and for all the precious work they do on a daily basis and the social safety net they represent. The Parti Québécois will bring the voice of the community to the National Assembly; the well-being of our society is at stake, ”the spokespersons concluded.
