Quebec, January 26, 2017– Sylvain Gaudreault, Member of Parliament for Jonquière and Parti Québécois spokesperson for regional development and decentralization, is dissatisfied with the Support Fund for the Outreach of Regions (FARR) announced by the Liberal government; in addition to being managed in Quebec City, this fund will not be sufficient to make up for the shortfall caused by the numerous cuts suffered by the regions.
“The Liberals did not just shut down several regional offices of government departments, which already had a significant economic impact; they pushed the insult to the point of abolishing the regional conferences of elected officials and the Regional Development Fund. Today the government realizes its mistake; he therefore sets up another regional fund, but this one is managed from Quebec! It also turns out to be less advantageous: the sums announced are less than those enjoyed by the regions previously, ”the spokesperson declared from the outset.
Sylvain Gaudreault insists: we must not forget how much liberal austerity has hurt, particularly outside the large urban centers. &quot;What the government is proposing to the regions is to wait 6 years for the budgets dedicated to their economic development to once again reach the levels of a few years ago, namely $ 180 million, and even longer to cover the funding gap caused by the cuts imposed on municipalities when the fiscal pact was signed, amounting to $ 300 million. This is insane, ”he continued.
“The government is proposing that the FARR be administered by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Land Occupancy, while the MRCs have been claiming its management for months. This way of doing things is totally incompatible with the principle of decentralization of regional and local circles. The Liberals are stubbornly stubborn, despite the fact that the regions have long demonstrated their expertise in the management of regional funds. They certainly don&#39;t need to go back to a model where the state controls their every move! », Added the deputy.
“The mayors will also be surprised to see the contradictions in the minister&#39;s speech. On the one hand, he says that local authorities must make decisions; on the other, it abolishes regional resources and tools. That is the Liberal government. It&#39;s inconsistency. And, at the end of the day, it is the regions of Quebec that find themselves the losers, ”lamented the spokesperson.
“Unlike the current government, the Parti Québécois, we trust the regions. From 2018, with us, they will find the means to achieve their ambitions, ”concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
