Montreal - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, accompanied by the Minister responsible for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier , met this morning with the Office of Partners - Champlain Bridge to share the Quebec government&#39;s strategic vision for the future Champlain Bridge
Earlier this spring, the Department of Transport commissioned Hatch Mott MacDonald (HMM), a firm of experts in railway technologies and bridge engineering, to propose an optimal configuration that will promote the best integration of the Light Rail System (SLR ), the mode of public transport chosen by Quebec.
According to the firm, a bridge with two superimposed decks would be the configuration most compatible with the implementation of the SLR. This type of structure, estimated by the firm at $ 1.4 billion, would offer expanded possibilities and meet current and future needs for the transport of people and goods.
“We believe that it is our responsibility to translate the vision of Quebec transport into a concrete, realistic and rigorous proposal. What we are proposing today, with the support of the community, is an integrated vision of transportation that meets the interests and expectations of Quebecers for today and the next 100 years. This infrastructure would facilitate the operation of the LRT and provide greater flexibility in terms of public transit in addition to offering interesting architectural possibilities, ”declared Minister Gaudreault.
By making this choice, the lower level would be devoted exclusively to the rail network and other modes of public transport, including buses. The upper level would be dedicated to motorway traffic, with a total of six lanes and two shoulders, in addition to a space reserved for active transport.
Present at this meeting, the renowned engineer Roger Nicolet, submitted his assessment of the HMM study. “This is serious and extremely well documented work that takes into account the problems of operation, maintenance, quality and longevity of the structure.
The structure of a two-level bridge is advantageous, both in terms of engineering and public safety. In fact, this is an almost ideal project, ”said Mr. Nicolet.
With the support of the partners, obtained during the meeting, Minister Gaudreault forwarded the HMM report to the federal Minister of Infrastructure, Communities and Intergovernmental Affairs, Mr. Denis Lebel.
The partners wished to recall, during this meeting, their concerns regarding the financing of the new infrastructure. “The introduction of a toll by the federal government on the new bridge raises fears about the impacts that this could have on the other bridges linking Montreal and the South Shore while raising serious questions in terms of regional equity. The citizens of the South Shore are already bearing the brunt of the congestion every morning to go to work, and they do not have to pay alone the costs of replacing the bridge, ”said Caroline St-Hilaire, mayor of Longueuil and vice-president. president of the Montreal metropolitan community.
&quot;A bridge ensuring the efficiency and fluidity of travel and the safety of users will significantly support trade in the metropolitan region&quot;, added Marc Cadieux, President and CEO of the Association du Quebec trucking. Mr. Cadieux also mentioned the importance of reducing infrastructure construction times as much as possible.
A broader discussion on the financing of transport infrastructure is therefore now necessary with the federal government. “The financing of an infrastructure like the new Champlain Bridge deserves special attention and cooperation between the various levels of government. I am concerned about the position the federal government has been defending since the project was announced, but I remain convinced that we will be able to work together to develop a satisfactory solution for all users of the bridge, ”said Minister Cloutier.
The choice of the SLR achieved consensus among all the members of the Partners Bureau. There is also consensus on the proposed two-tier structure. “We believe that it is our responsibility to present an overall vision that meets the expectations of Quebecers. I therefore invite the federal government to openly receive the proposal I submitted to it today so that we can have frank and open discussions on this issue, ”concluded Mr. Gaudreault.
