Quebec - &quot;It&#39;s the cacophony within the CAQ: while the party&#39;s program proposes the abolition of school boards, the member for La Peltrie proposed the adoption, by motion to the National Assembly, of a revision. of their mandate and responsibilities. With so much confusion, how can we mobilize the world of education for the success of our students? &quot;
This is what the member for Jonquière and official opposition critic for primary and secondary education, Sylvain Gaudreault, is wondering in reaction to the motion presented by the CAQ and debated this afternoon.
It should be noted in passing that half of the Caquist caucus was absent during this vote while the CAQ is putting this issue at the top of its education priorities. &quot;François Legault must explain to us why this lack of discipline&quot;, added the member for Jonquière.
He recalled that it was under a Parti Québécois government that half of the school boards disappeared at the end of the 1990s. There were 153 of them at the time. “This is a major gesture that was taken by Pauline Marois. It seems that for the Caquists, because it does not come from François Legault, that does not count, ”continued Sylvain Gaudreault.
He maintains that the presence of school boards in Quebec is a response to the desire for decentralization and the need for an equitable distribution of resources in the territory. “Focusing on maintenance does not mean the status quo in the management of these organizations. There are efficiency gains to be made. Changes are necessary so that school boards gain legitimacy and that schools enjoy more autonomy, ”explained Sylvain Gaudreault.
“Our primary objective must be academic success and perseverance at the forefront of all actions affecting the Quebec public school system. Seeing education only from a bureaucratic point of view plunges us into a debate as sterile as it is useless which will in no way help the success of our students, ”concluded the member for Jonquière.
