Quebec - The Ministère du Développement durable, de l&#39;Environnement, de la Faune et des Parcs announces that an interim agreement has been reached with the Canadian National Railway Company (CN), which will be able to continue its shredding activities. used railway sleepers on the Garneau marshalling yard site in Shawinigan, under certain conditions ensuring environmental protection.
Recall that the Minister issued, on January 31, 2014, an ordinance (No. 618) to the Canadian National Railway Company (CN), under sections 25 and 114 of the Environment Quality Act. (LQE), which aims to end the crushing and storage activities for used railway sleepers carried out at the Garneau marshalling yard, until an action plan aimed at making it acceptable to the environmental plan these activities be submitted to the ministry.
However, on February 10, 2014, CN challenged the order and requested its suspension. Thus, on February 19, 2014, at the end of discussions between the prosecutors, the parties reached an interim agreement out of court, which makes it possible to comply with the essential elements of the ministry&#39;s order.
“The discussions enabled us to find a solution which does not offer any understanding of the protection of the environment and which, moreover, takes into account the economic considerations of the situation. The interim measures will allow a company like Kruger Inc., whose shredded lumber from CN&#39;s activities represents a significant portion of its supply, to continue operating. CN will have to minimize its impact on the environment since the agreement includes compliance with one of the essential conditions referred to in the order, namely the supervision of shredding activities, ”said the Minister.
In accordance with this agreement, all grinding operations carried out by CN at the Garneau marshalling yard will have to comply with certain conditions in order to minimize the dispersion of contaminants into the environment, in particular: the shavings must be poured directly into sea containers or containers. Semi-trailer tippers to avoid any contact with water and soil, a canvas should be installed above the drop point of the conveyor and crushing during strong winds should be avoided.
All other conditions of Order 618 continue to apply. As stipulated in the order, CN must submit to the ministry, by June 2, 2014, an action plan aimed at making the storage and shredding of used railway sleepers environmentally acceptable.
