Montreal - Only two shale gas wells have obtained a certificate of authorization for hydraulic fracturing, that of Gentilly and that of Bécancour. However, in total, there are 18 fractured wells in Quebec. An unacceptable situation according to the Parti Québécois.
“The Minister of the Environment is not applying the Environment Quality Act to the shale gas industry. He must tell us why. For what reasons were hydraulic fracturing carried out without a certificate of authorization from the ministry? How can the Liberal government continue to refuse to implement a moratorium by claiming that it is safe when the law is not even applied? Declared the member for Vachon and official opposition critic for mines and shale gas, Martine Ouellet.
For the Parti Québécois, citizens deserve to have a clear picture of the state of shale gas wells on their territory, particularly those of La Presentation. “The mobilization is increasing and the population is ready to defend the health and quality of their environment. This should also be the concern of the Liberal government, but it does not appear to be. Why does the government want to go for it, head down, without responding to citizens&#39; fears? Asks the member for Verchères, Stéphane Bergeron.
“Many people are mobilizing in Quebec now, worried and concerned about their health and the quality of its environment. This situation is even more acute in Montérégie where thousands of posters have stormed the balconies of residences to express their complete disagreement with the orientations of the Liberal government. To this, we must add another petition signed by 27,000 people and tabled last Tuesday morning in Saint-Hyacinthe, ”said the member for Saint-Hyacinthe, Émilien Pelletier.
It should be noted that the deputies were accompanied by Gérard Montpetit from the citizen group Non au schiste La Presentation and Jacques Tétreault from the citizens&#39; committee for the protection of the environment Maskoutain.
For the Parti Québécois, the case of the La Presentation well is a perfect illustration of non-compliance with the law. This well was fractured without a certificate of authorization. The Parti Québécois therefore asks that Minister Arcand explain the reasons for this omission and issue a notice of violation. “Article 22 of the Environment Quality Act has not been respected. Sanctions must be taken, ”said Martine Ouellet, noting that the gas company that violates the law is liable to a fine of up to $ 20,000 per day of violation.
What is more, the La Presentation well is leaking methane. According to the inspection reports received following an access to information request, these leaks have been observed since October 2010. “The MDDEP inspectors attended about ten times over a period of just a few months. Their assessments are sometimes disturbing, even after the issuance of an infringement notice in January 2011. We can draw a dark story that confirms that the gas companies are not in control and proceeds by trial and error on the territory of the St. Lawrence Valley, ”added the Member for Vachon.
It should also be noted that the emission of methane leaks contravenes section 20 of the Environment Quality Act. “Methane leaks can contaminate groundwater and further contaminate the air and significantly increase GHGs. In this case, the gas company faces a fine that could reach $ 250,000 per day of violation. Minister Arcand has a duty to apply his law and act, ”continued Martine Ouellet.
The Parti Québécois finds it abnormal that the information held by the MDDEP is transmitted in a trickle and that it must be obtained through multiple access to information requests. For the Parti Québécois, transparency and information are the basis of knowledge. &quot;What we will get as information, unlike the Liberal government, we will make it public,&quot; she said. Thus, the inspection reports of shale gas wells available to the Parti Québécois will be available on the website: www.martineouellet.org.
Also, starting next week, MP Martine Ouellet will accompany citizens who will travel to Pennsylvania to see the effects of hydraulic fracturing on people&#39;s health and the impact on the quality of the environment.
“The Parti Québécois will keep the pressure on the Liberal government, in the pay of the gas lobby. This is the commitment we make to citizens who are, and rightly so, worried. We must stop playing sorcerer&#39;s apprentice. The technology is clearly not under control. So, as the saying goes, when in doubt, you should abstain. While waiting for a moratorium to be declared, Minister Arcand must act to ensure that his law is respected, ”concluded Martine Ouellet.
