Quebec - The National Assembly of Quebec will be called to vote tomorrow on a motion by the Parti Québécois which could finally institute a complete moratorium on exploration, hydraulic fracturing and exploitation of shale gas.
“Quebec and Quebecers are currently guinea pigs. The arguments of the gas companies and the Liberal government are crumbling day by day. Risks to the health of citizens and to the environment exist and are significant, ”Martine Ouellet declared the MP for Vachon and official opposition spokesperson for mines and shale gas.
The MP points out that thousands of citizens are currently mobilizing in Estrie, Montérégie, Center-du-Québec and Chaudière-Appalaches, worried about the impacts of shale gas. “Our duty as an elected official is to make informed decisions, not under the influence of powerful lobbies,” she added.
A two-hour debate will take place tomorrow in the National Assembly on the following motion:
“That the National Assembly of Quebec demand that a moratorium on the exploration, exploitation and hydraulic fracturing of shale gas be decreed immediately until the adoption of a framework law on hydrocarbons. &quot;
At the end of this debate, a vote will take place. “We must now hope that the CAQ&#39;s support for a moratorium on shale gas was not just empty words and that the nine CAQ members will listen to the population before the gas lobbies. If this is the case, the Liberals will be isolated and the moratorium could be within reach, ”continued the MP for Vachon.
For his part, the member for L&#39;Assomption and official opposition spokesperson for sustainable development, the environment and parks, Scott McKay, wishes to point out that the idea of a moratorium has nothing with a whim and is based on a broad reflection. The deputy also tabled a bill to this effect, Bill 396, on October 27, 2010. “The population is not in the game, social acceptability is not there, the concerns of citizens are legitimate and it is time to address them. The strategic environmental study does not even have a precise implementation plan, the composition of its committee and its mandate are challenged by many representatives of civil society. During this time, the gas companies are still playing sorcerer&#39;s apprentices and can carry out hydraulic fracturing of wells in the St. Lawrence Valley. It has to stop, ”concluded Scott McKay.
