Quebec - In the presence of representatives of Médecins québécois pour le plan public and of the Regroupement des médecins omnipraticiens pour une Médecin Committed, the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, called on the Minister of Health, this morning, on the unilateral imposition of ancillary costs and its desire to undermine the concept of universality and free health care in Quebec.
Diane Lamarre reminds us that the Liberal Party has not received the mandate to privatize our health system. &quot;After officially authorizing physicians to bill patients $ 50 million for services already insured - an amount that could have been taken from the physicians&#39; remuneration envelope - now the minister wants to review the very foundations of our system public health. Where was it written in the Liberal Party platform that it was going to attack universality and privatize the health network? Probably on a page we miss, right next to the one that mentioned the billing of ancillary costs and the deinsurance of in vitro fertilization. What is the next service set to be privatized by the Liberal government? “Asked the MP.
Agreement with the FMSQ
Surprisingly, ten days after the minister allowed doctors to bill ancillary costs, the agreement with the FMSQ promised months ago came about. Even more astonishing, the Minister proves to us, with this agreement, that the reorganization of the mass of remuneration of medical specialists, which we have been asking for months, is indeed possible. “Quebeckers should know what the minister negotiated on their behalf. In addition to the additional $ 30 million allocated to radiologists, what other gift did he give to his former colleagues? And why, exactly, do we need an agreement for specialists to see patients, in short, to do their job? What are the targets that have been set? Radio silence on the minister&#39;s side. It should also be remembered that it was by consulting the agreement concluded with the FMOQ last May that we discovered the return of the Bolduc premium, at a cost of $ 25 million, for the simple registration of new patients. This agreement with specialists must therefore absolutely and imperatively be made public, ”Ms. Lamarre demanded.
Assisted reproduction: devastated couples
The end of public coverage of in vitro fertilization (IVF), formalized this Tuesday by the sanction of Bill 20, has upset the plans of thousands of infertile couples. “One in six couples in Quebec is infertile; these are as many Quebeckers who saw their project to found a family compromised by the disinsurance of IVF. &quot;Annihilated&quot; is a word far too weak to describe how they feel about a minister who refused to listen to them and who did not take into account the benefits of these births for families and the economy of Quebec. He simply considered the abolition of the Quebec assisted procreation program as a column of figures that would allow him to balance his budget, ”lamented the member.
