Quebec - The Minister for the Regions, Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Gaétan Lelièvre and the deputy for the riding of Bonaventure, Sylvain Roy confirm the support of the Parti Québécois government for the Quebec&#39;s forest industry by allocating a budget of $ 15 million to forestry companies in the Gaspé and Bas-Saint-Laurent regions.
&quot;Despite a deficit of $ 1.6 billion inherited from the Liberal government, the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, made every effort to continue investing in silvicultural work and preserve jobs in the Gaspé,&quot; said the Minister of Natural Resources. Member of Parliament for Bonaventure, Mr. Sylvain Roy. The forest job creation program (PCEF) is specifically set at $ 15 million for the Gaspé and Bas-Saint-Laurent regions. “This program is an important support for both public forests and private forests in the regions. This sum will meet the expectations of the silvicultural and forestry sector and undoubtedly represents the desire of the Government of Quebec to support the Gaspésie - Îles-de-la-Madeleine region in its development, ”comments Minister Lelièvre.
“We are proud to be able to announce silvicultural work budgets several months in advance this year, in April rather than June compared to previous years. This will allow forestry companies to better plan their work and their teams, ”adds the Minister for the Regions, Gaétan Lelièvre. The Department of Natural Resources is also working in collaboration with the Conseil du trésor to ensure better budget predictability and to maintain an announcement early in the spring for the next few years. This will reassure forest workers about maintaining their jobs in the forest. For the planning component of the types of work to be carried out, the ministry and industry wish to establish an information mechanism over two to three years in order to allow the latter to better plan its work and the necessary adaptations. Indeed, the forest has greatly evolved in recent years. Over time, there is less need for brush clearing and more need for commercial silvicultural work. Remember that, during the 1970s, Quebec experienced an intensive period of planting. In the 90s, several brush clearing works were carried out to ensure the progress of these plantations.
During the period of the crisis, the pace of brush clearing was maintained and even increased, despite a reduction in the harvest. A considerable advance has been taken so that the surfaces which can be the object of brush cutting have greatly diminished. Now the industry is at the stage where more commercial work needs to be done.
“The forest industry is a pillar of the economic development of Quebec and its regions. In fact, it represents more than 60,000 jobs in 140 municipalities in Quebec. We wish to continue the dialogue initiated with the three associations in order to improve our mutual practices and thus ensure a solid future for the forest industry in Quebec, ”concludes Martine Ouellet.
