Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces that he will mandate the Bureau d&#39;Audiences Publiques sur l&#39;Environnement (BAPE) to carry out a broad consultation that will build on studies commissioned as part of the strategic environmental assessment (SEA) currently underway on shale gas.
“It is in Center-du-Québec and Montérégie, in the vast agricultural region that covers the Utica shale, that the question of social acceptability has revealed all its importance. Since then, it has been at the heart of all debates related to sustainable development. Only science, transparency, respect for the interests of communities and the existence or not of a viable business model will, or not, make the shale gas issue socially acceptable, ”said the Minister.
The mandate of the Strategic Environmental Assessment Committee on shale gas will therefore be modified: “Since the studies are carried out by independent third parties, in many cases academics, we can expect an objective diagnosis and scientific findings. rigorous. However, the Committee will receive the directive to transfer the studies it has ordered to the BAPE, ”continued Minister Blanchet.
For the sake of consistency, the Minister is also announcing his intention to table a bill in the coming weeks to establish a moratorium on the exploration and exploitation of shale gas. This suspension of the authorization certificates issued and the postponement of any new issuance would be in effect until the adoption by the National Assembly of a legislative framework on the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. “This will of the government is the subject of a broad consensus among the people of Quebec. I will therefore seek the support of the opposition parties, so that the vote on this suspension of authorizations is quick and clear among the elected members of the National Assembly, ”indicated Minister Blanchet.
For the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, the decision to transfer the studies of the SEA Committee to the BAPE and to table a bill to establish a moratorium was necessary. &quot;It is very clear that with the current prices of natural gas, profitability is not at the rendezvous for companies,&quot; she said.
“Quebec has clearly chosen to trust the rigor of the BAPE. Our government too. Pending a comprehensive report and legislative intervention that would seal the discussion, the establishment of a complete pause in the development of the shale gas industry in Quebec appears essential to us. This is the meeting that Quebec and our government made, and one more commitment that the government of the Parti Québécois is making, ”concluded the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Wildlife. Parks.
