The Presentation - “At The Presentation, citizens are very worried. The Canbriam shale gas well is still leaking. With methane leaks, there is a danger for the contamination of the groundwater table and for the contamination of the air. The government is standing idly by and doing nothing to remedy the situation. Worse, it seems that Minister Pierre Arcand is relying on gas monitoring for water quality and air quality. There would be no follow-up, no independent levy. It is unacceptable and incomprehensible! &quot;
This is what the MP for Vachon and official opposition spokesperson for mines and shale gas, Martine Ouellet, said alongside the MPs for Verchères and Saint-Hyacinthe, Stéphane Bergeron and Émilien. Pelletier, all present at a press point near the La Presentation shale gas well. The members of the Non Schist La Presentation committee were also present.
At the end of September, the committee made known its concerns in a letter that it sent to the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment and Parks (MDDEP), the Ministry of Natural Resources and Wildlife (MRNF) and to gas companies. The answers obtained are totally unsatisfactory.
“To ensure the health, safety and well-being of citizens, municipal authorities need to know all the facts about wells. The citizens of La Presentation have the right to know what is going on with their wells. They are worried about leaks and would like to know at a minimum in which direction the horizontal well was dug. They want to be kept abreast of all developments in the exploration and exploitation of shale gas in the region, ”said committee members.
The retired professor of geology from the University of Quebec in Montreal, Marc Durand, was also on site. He shares the fears of the Parti Québécois and the Non Schist La Presentation committee. “The vagaries of the two wells of La Presentation perfectly illustrate the gaps in the transparency virtuously announced by the industry and the government in the shale gas issue. Independent researchers and citizens cannot obtain the minimum information required to properly analyze and assess the risks in this specific case. Despite the very different context created by the quasi-moratorium and the mandate given to a strategic environmental assessment, the MRNF maintains the current policy of non-dissemination for three years of essential data relating to these wells. For example: what is the orientation and what is the extent of the fractured zone over a distance of 1000 meters horizontally? What are the depths from which the leaks emanate? What are the flow rates of these leaks before and after corrective work? What measures are the MRNF and MDDEP applying to monitor the migration of methane into the water table? ”Asked the geological engineer, who holds a doctorate.
