Quebec - The Parti Québécois notes the improvisation and confusion that reign in the Liberal government on the interpretation to be given to the scope of Bill 14. Questioned by the member for Johnson, Etienne-Alexis Boucher, and in order to calm the concern of citizens on the issue of shale gas in the Estrie region, Minister Monique Gagnon-Tremblay has suggested that Bill 14 would regulate shale gas exploration and exploitation activities and that municipalities will be able to withdraw from the territories to any mining operation, including shale gas.
“The citizens of the Estrie region are worried and the Minister, with her casual attitude, is not helping to calm their apprehensions. What is more, we see that she was poorly explained of Bill 14 by her colleague in charge of Mines, Serge Simard, because what she would like to see in this bill does not appear ”, said Etienne-Alexis Boucher.
Yesterday, in the daily La Tribune, Minister Gagnon-Tremblay maintained that Bill 14 &quot;will be the way to perfectly define mining activities, including the exploration and exploitation of shale gas&quot;. She also added that &quot;the amendments tabled by my colleague Serge Simard in Bill 14 provide the necessary protection to the territories that the municipalities wish to withdraw from all mining, including shale gas&quot;.
“By her statements, Minister Gagnon-Tremblay therefore indicates that she agrees with the official opposition and wishes this question to be included in Bill 14, which is not the case at present. She must therefore convince her colleague Serge Simard who has insisted on saying no since the start of the study of the bill, ”said the member for Vachon and official opposition spokesperson for mines. and shale gas, Martine Ouellet.
Liberal government refuses to improve its bill for obscure reasons
She points out that Minister Simard and the Liberal deputies who are members of the parliamentary committee have rejected an amendment to allow municipalities to determine exclusion zones for all exploration and exploitation of shale gas. Since the start of the study of Bill 14, the Liberal government has systematically blocked the amendments of the official opposition so that Bill 14 secures citizens, particularly with regard to the regulation of exploration activities. and exploitation of shale gas.
“The fears of citizens are legitimate. It is time for the Liberal government to calm this concern and agree to take action to address it. Bill 14 provides this opportunity and that is what the Parti Québécois wants, ”concluded Martine Ouellet.
