Quebec - The Parti Québécois is concerned about the recent publication of two studies which confirm the dangers of shale gas exploration and exploitation.
&quot;Each time a credible study is published, it is one more take against the arguments of the liberal government and the gas companies which minimize the risks for the environment and for the health of citizens&quot;, declared the member for Vachon and official opposition critic for mines and shale gas, Martine Ouellet.
“Regarding gas leaks, the gas companies do not recognize the real impacts. The methane that escapes from wells has a warming power that is 20 times greater than carbon dioxide over a period of 100 years. With Quebec in operating mode within the next few years, it will be more than difficult to achieve the greenhouse gas reduction targets for 2020 and to respect the Kyoto protocol ”, stressed, for his part, the MP for L&#39;Assomption and official opposition critic for the environment, sustainable development and parks, Scott McKay.
“This new information demands more than ever that the Liberal government immediately impose a moratorium on the exploration and exploitation of shale gas and that it put an end to hydraulic fracturing in the territory. Everywhere in Quebec, the population is mobilizing, learning about this sector, showing imagination and innovation to stop the pollution of gases that play sorcerer&#39;s apprentice. It is high time that the liberal gas lobby listened to the people! », Continued Martine Ouellet.
Where does the CAQ live?
Faced with this new evidence against the gas industry, the CAQ remains silent. &quot;In this silence, should we see an approval of liberal improvisation in this dossier?&quot; Are we to understand that the CAQ is lining up behind the words of its parliamentary leader, Gérard Deltell, who said in August 2010 that Quebec had to exploit shale gas and not let itself be led by environmental lobbies? François Legault must tell us where he is staying, ”said Martine Ouellet.
“Gérard Deltell&#39;s declaration against the creation of protected areas leaves us wondering about the CAQ&#39;s interest in environmental issues. Does the CAQ agree with Canada&#39;s withdrawal from Kyoto? Like the Harper government, is it defending the interests of oil and gas? If the CAQ leader François Legault is for the achievement of the Kyoto objectives by Quebec, he must break the silence. We can no longer be satisfied with an ON WILL », concluded Scott McKay.
