Quebec - &quot;Disorganization, insufficient and inadequate services, regional inequities in access to services, incomplete waiting lists, absence of national standards: this is the devastating observation of the Auditor General of Quebec regarding the management of home services for seniors in loss of autonomy under the former Liberal government. This observation confirms that the current model must be rethought now and this is what we want to do with autonomy insurance. It is in these words that the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, reacted to the conclusions of the Auditor General of Quebec&#39;s report.
For Minister Hébert, this report illustrates the need to change our ways of doing home care and services: “The Liberal Party seems to be more in favor of the status quo, the untenable nature of which has just been clearly demonstrated by the Auditor General. We have been observing these problems for several years and our government took, as soon as it came to power, concrete measures to remedy them, such as the autonomy insurance project ”
The goal of autonomy insurance is to ensure that people get the right services where they want to live. It provides, among other things, for a uniform allowance, regardless of the place of residence of the users. It also relies on a variety of service providers such as CSSSs, community organizations and social economy enterprises. Standards of practice will be put in place with regard to service providers, the allocation granted to beneficiaries and the quality of care and services.
“Our government has already made the choice to make home care a priority by investing $ 110 million this year to consolidate the network and improve the service offer. The sums injected provide additional investment to community organizations and social economy enterprises in addition to helping correct interregional inequities in the funding of home care, ”said the Minister.
“Beyond investments, an in-depth transformation is necessary. Maintaining the status quo is no longer possible and that is why we have tabled the White Paper on the creation of autonomy insurance. We must stop putting our heads in the sand and being in denial. Quebeckers want to have the choice of living and aging at home with adequate services, and that is what we are offering them with this project, ”concluded Minister Hébert.
For more information: www.autonomie.gouv.qc.ca
Follow the news related to autonomy insurance on Twitter with the hashtag # autonomiepourtous.
