Quebec - &quot;The more time passes, the more signals we have that lead us to believe that the Liberal Party is not playing fair with Quebecers in the Gentilly-2 power plant file,&quot; said the member for Marie-Victorin and official opposition spokesperson for energy, Bernard Drainville, a few minutes before the start of the interpellation on this subject in the National Assembly this morning. &quot;We hope to finally have clear answers about the future of the plant,&quot; he continued.
“Everything leads us to believe that the government is seeking to postpone the announcement of the dismantling of the Gentilly-2 power plant after the elections. The minister responsible for Mauricie, Julie Boulet, suggests that the plant will be restored while her colleague, the Minister of the Environment, Pierre Arcand, tells us instead that Quebec is done with nuclear power. What we understand is that the Liberals refuse to tell the truth about their real intention before an election campaign, ”added Bernard Drainville.
&quot;The ministers play on words, blow the heat and the cold when they should work on an economic diversification plan for the Mauricie&quot;, continued the deputy.
The Parti Québécois does not want Quebec to pursue nuclear power for another 25 years. Sooner or later the plant will have to be decommissioned. The billions that will have to be swallowed up in the refurbishment of Gentilly-2 would be better invested in renewable energies, for example.
“The environmental risks associated with nuclear are very great. It is obvious to us that devoting ourselves to the production of energy by other means is the only way to go. Especially since no solution is in place to dispose of nuclear waste safely and permanently. It is a poisoned gift for future generations. The costs of disposing of nuclear waste must be taken into account in the cost of the electricity produced at Gentilly-2, ”added the member for L&#39;Assomption and official opposition critic for environment, Scott McKay.
“The Parti Québécois has a clear position: close and downgrade Gentilly-2 and set up an economic diversification fund for the Center-du-Québec-Mauricie region. Quebeckers have the right to know the truth about the Liberals&#39; position, but also that of the Caquists on this issue. They must tell Quebecers what their real intentions are regarding the future of Gentilly-2, ”concluded Bernard Drainville.
