Laval - The Member of Parliament for Sainte-Rose, Ms. Suzanne Proulx, announced, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation, through Investissement Québec, for a loan of $ 400,000 to Geo-Plus, a company specializing in the design of computer systems for surveying and civil engineering, to help it expand its offer on markets outside Quebec.
“Geo-Plus is active in a niche sector and cannot rely solely on the local market to remain competitive,” said MP Suzanne Proulx. “This loan will therefore allow the company to pursue its strategy of expanding markets in the United States, Europe, Africa and Asia. I am very proud that our government can contribute to the success of Geo-Plus, an SME in the region capable of competing with large global groups. &quot;
The loan granted will be used more specifically to finance the implementation of a geomatics software integration project and activities related to market diversification. In particular, the company will participate in various promotional and networking activities as well as meetings in order to conclude agreements with specialized foreign distributors.
&quot;The greater Laval region has a large pool of technological companies that shine abroad,&quot; Minister Élaine Zakaïb said. “The best way to gain an advantage in international markets is to invest in the development of niche products. This is why we support companies which, like Geo-Plus, invest in research and development as well as in the opening of new markets. &quot;
Since 1987, Geo-Plus has specialized in the development of computerized tools for surveying and civil engineering work. To keep its software at the cutting edge of technology and remain competitive, the company must constantly invest significant sums in research and development. In addition, in order to finance its investments and avoid cyclical variations in the construction sector and major road projects, it must diversify its presence in markets outside Quebec.
&quot;Today&#39;s announcement is part of the steps taken for the Laval region,&quot; said Minister of Families and Minister responsible for the Laval region, Ms. Nicole Léger. “The government is taking action to support businesses and create jobs, while continuing its diligent work on other issues in the region. &quot;
“We offer an integrated software suite that can easily be adapted to meet the different needs of our customers, regardless of their geographic location,” explained Geo-Plus President and CEO Wilfrid Beaupré. . “Diversifying our markets is essential to our continued growth, and this loan will allow us to increase our presence abroad. &quot;
Investissement Québec&#39;s mission is to promote the growth of investment in Québec, thereby contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The Company provides businesses with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity investments, to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, she is responsible for administering tax measures and prospecting for investments abroad.
