Quebec - André Villeneuve, the member for Berthier and official opposition critic for agriculture, food, SMEs, entrepreneurship and innovation, reiterates the Parti Québécois&#39; support for Quebec farmers and denounces the federal government&#39;s thinly veiled desire to put an end to supply management.
“History has shown it to us on several occasions: the federal government is always ready to endanger Quebec farmers to favor the rest of Canada. This time, to conclude a trade agreement with Europe, the federal government agreed to allow an additional 17,700 tonnes of European cheese to enter the Canadian market, so that western Canadian beef can be exported to Europe. . However, Ottawa has not guaranteed any compensation for producers, mainly Quebecers, who will suffer from this increased competition, when they cannot hope to derive any benefit from it, ”summed up André Villeneuve.
“Maintaining full supply management is essential for the future of the Quebec dairy industry, one of the flagships of our economy. Half of Quebec&#39;s 6,000 dairy farms would be in jeopardy if it were abandoned. The Harper government, like its potential successors, must absolutely ensure that this system, which has enabled the development of dairy farms and guaranteed market stability, is preserved, ”added the spokesperson.
While the leaders&#39; debate in French will take place today, Quebec milk producers have expressed their concern to the various party leaders, inviting them to express their views on the federal government&#39;s intention to abandon the management of the offer in a new round of Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations. André Villeneuve walked alongside the 1,500 milk, egg and poultry producers from all regions of Quebec mobilized for the occasion.
The member had invited the Quebec Minister of Agriculture, Pierre Paradis, to join the demonstration, just as he asked him to commit to refusing to ratify the Trans-Pacific Partnership if supply management is sacrificed. “Quebec elected officials from all parties must unite in front of Ottawa&#39;s intention to put an end to supply management. For the moment, when we ask Pierre Paradis on this subject, we never get an answer. Never mind; We invite Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard to join the Parti Québécois and defend, loud and clear, Quebec producers, ”he concluded.
