The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, accompanied by the candidate in Labelle, Sylvain Pagé, unveiled the means that the Parti Québécois government intends to take so that our democratic system is more representative of the wishes of Quebeckers. Moreover, because they too play a key role in a healthy democracy, the Parti Québécois is committed to better supporting the traditional media, in particular through government advertising placements.
IN SHORT
The Parti Québécois government is committed to:
Reform our democracy to make it more representative
“Earlier this year, all parties but one, the Liberal Party, pledged to ensure that the October 1 election was the last to be held under the current voting system: we will adopt, for the next consultation general, a regional mixed proportional representation system more representative of the wishes of the citizens of all of Quebec. Today, we reiterate this commitment. And we will carry out this reform while respecting local particularities ”, declared Jean-François Lisée from the outset.
“In addition, this will contribute to a better representation of women, youth and ethnocultural communities in the National Assembly,” added Sylvain Pagé, who has long wanted to dust off the ways of doing politics in Quebec. “We will also offer regular consultation mechanisms, to develop a real link between voters and elected officials. And why not let elected officials vote freely, or reserve question periods for citizens&#39; questions? He also suggested.
Integrity and transparency
With a government of the Parti Québécois, a decision or a sanction of the Ethics and Professional Conduct Commissioner will necessarily be applied, unless a contrary vote is taken by two-thirds of the elected members of the National Assembly. “Another important culture change will be to adopt a generalized policy of governance and open data. We will also set up an apolitical commission to reform the law to increase access to information at all levels of government. Information, all information, must be easily accessible and, above all, understandable, ”Mr. Pagé insisted.
“In addition, we will increase the Auditor General&#39;s oversight capacity with respect to chartered universities, so that he can open their books and detect any problem with the management of public funds, as he does for the network of universities. universities of Quebec. Finally, we will ensure that Hydro-Québec is subject to the Citizen&#39;s Protector Act, which receives approximately 1,500 complaints concerning the Crown corporation each year, but without being able to process them, ”added the Chief.
Support the media
In Quebec, as elsewhere in the world, the traditional media are in crisis. We can no longer count those who have had to close their doors or whose situation is precarious, in particular because of competition from the American Internet giants in the field of advertising placements. “Advertising revenue has become a gold mine for the Google and Facebook of this world, which now alone aspire 70% of what constitutes the livelihood of our media. This is why the Parti Québécois is proposing to establish a minimum percentage for government advertising placements devoted to traditional Quebec media. Their sustainability is at stake, we must restore equity, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
