Québec, August 17, 2017 –Assisting the 5th International Conference on the Prevention of Overdiagnosis, Diane Lamarre, official opposition spokesperson for health, access to care and home support, calls on the Liberal government to act, finally, to counter overdiagnosis and overtreatment, as well as their harmful impacts on the health of Quebecers.
IN SHORT
“Overdiagnosis is the fact of diagnosing, in a person, an illness that will never cause symptoms or death, or of doing something that does not add value to a treatment. Overtreatment, on the other hand, can result in surgery, an examination or, more often still, in the consumption of unnecessary drugs. While 20% of hospitalizations are caused by poor drug consumption, it is imperative to act, ”Diane Lamarre first explained.
The Liberal government recognizes that overdiagnosis is a problem, but refuses to commit to tackling it, on the pretext that the issue falls to the College of Physicians. &quot; We do not agree. Part of the problem is the way doctors are currently paid - which encourages them to work in volume and bill procedures. However, the duty of a government is to properly manage the money that taxpayers entrust to it, ”continued the member.
In addition, patients must be better informed and professionals consulted, she believes. “Are the multiple tests offered all necessary? We must ask ourselves the question. We live in a culture of over-medicalization that must be changed. The doctors themselves have proposed several possible solutions; I salute and thank the Quebec Medical Association for its lasting commitment in this regard. Unfortunately, on this issue, which nevertheless requires us to come to an understanding with the professionals, the Minister, faithful to himself, has maintained his attitude of confrontation for three years. It therefore does not act, thus depriving the population of better care and savings. &quot;
“Minister Gaétan Barrette had promised savings with his structural reform, but they never came. The abolition of more than 2,000 managerial positions since the implementation of the reform, which could cost taxpayers up to $ 200 million, is proof of this. By tackling overdiagnosis and overprescribing, not only could we reinvest several hundred millions to improve access to care but, in addition, the health of Quebecers would be improved. It is high time to act, ”insisted Diane Lamarre.
