Quebec - In the presence of parents of handicapped children, Jean-François Lisée, the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of social services, as well as the member for Labelle and spokesperson in family matters, Sylvain Pagé , met the press this morning, shortly after tabling in the House a petition signed by 12,000 people demanding better support for these families.
“Parenting a severely disabled child takes a lot of resources and energy; there is care to be provided, medical follow-up to be carried out, medication to be administered, stimulation to be given, not to mention the sometimes frequent hospitalizations and additional expenses related to disabilities. Unfortunately, often one of the two parents is forced to quit their job in order to overcome these immense challenges and take care of their child full time. The government must listen; by signing this petition, it is a cry from the heart that these thousands of women and men are launching at him, ”declared Jean-François Lisée.
“When you are the parent of a disabled child, you receive $ 2,240 per year from the state, while a foster family can count on the equivalent of $ 40,000 annually in money and services. This is a blatant injustice, and that must change! The Minister for Rehabilitation, Youth Protection and Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, who says she understands the problem, must quickly find solutions and provide these families with all the services they need, especially for what is respite and adapted transportation, ”added the member for Rosemont.
“We salute all these parents who, in addition to devoting themselves to their disabled children, remain mobilized to make their voices heard and obtain support. They can be assured of the support of members of the Parti Québécois in their quest for accessible and quality services, such as those offered to foster families, ”continued Sylvain Pagé.
He said he was particularly worried about the effects that the recent cuts will have on disabled children and their families. “In education, for example, the positions of counselors and guides for disabled children have been cut. We have also seen an autistic child being expelled from a childcare center. These situations are unacceptable; the government must come out of its torpor and work on solutions for the benefit of all, ”he concluded.
For the Parti Québécois, this issue must be dealt with outside all partisanship; in this regard, the deputies were happy to be accompanied, during their press briefing, by the representative of Québec solidaire, Françoise David.
