Quebec - The Parti Québécois strongly denounces the federal government, which has just signed an agreement in principle to provide a loan guarantee for the Lower Churchill hydroelectric project in Labrador, a $ 6.2 billion project. This agreement will be supported by the taxes that Quebeckers send to Ottawa.
“By granting this guarantee to Newfoundland, the Government of Canada will give our neighbors a golden opportunity to compete unfairly with Hydro-Québec on the export market. Quebeckers do not have to pay for that, even though we have always financed our hydroelectric infrastructures ourselves! It is nothing more or less the reissue of the night of the long knives, but in broad daylight! ”Declared Sylvain Gaudreault, Member of Parliament for Jonquière and official opposition spokesperson for energy.
“While the National Assembly unanimously adopted last April a motion expressing its deep opposition to this subject, how can the Prime Minister tolerate Quebeckers being fooled in this way? », Continued Sylvain Gaudreault.
“The fine words of Nathalie Normandeau and her boss, Jean Charest, during the last federal election had no resonance. Since they gave their support to a Canadian energy framework a month ago, they have given the green light to this project, which is harming Quebec&#39;s interests. They have thus lost all balance of power. In addition to being a direct intrusion into a field of provincial jurisdiction, it is a demonstration of a lack of will in the defense of our strategic resources, ”added Bernard Drainville, Member of Parliament for Marie-Victorin and spokesperson. of the official opposition on Canadian intergovernmental affairs.
&quot;What credibility does Jean Charest have left, he who claims the title of great Quebec builder, while he leaves without batting an eyelid the federal government to debunk what Quebecers have taken decades to build?&quot; How can he let Stephen Harper trample on the legacy of Jean Lesage and René Lévesque by not defending Quebec interests? “Asked Bernard Drainville. “Besides the Bloc, it&#39;s a safe bet that all the other parties will not say a word against this agreement which is harming Quebec. This is unacceptable! &quot;
“This loan guarantee will have the effect of changing the current rules for transporting and exporting electricity to markets. For these reasons, we are asking the Premier of Quebec to pull himself together and take this decision to court without delay. The interests of Quebec and of Quebecers must be protected! », Replied Sylvain Gaudreault.
“Yesterday, Quebeckers saw Jean Charest asking Stephen Harper for help in rebuilding a new Champlain Bridge. This morning, the Prime Minister has his answer, Quebec&#39;s demands are being ignored once again, ”concluded the member for Marie-Victorin.
