Québec, July 9, 2014 - The member for Saint-Jean and official opposition critic for employment, vocational training, literacy and youth, Dave Turcotte, asks the government to support the few 600 workers at the Cascades factories in East Angus and Energizer in Montreal, who learned this morning that they would lose their jobs soon.
“The government must ensure that these workers find jobs at the same level as the one they held. It is the loss of paying jobs that was announced this morning, said Dave Turcotte. Support measures must be put in place by Emploi Québec. The member for Saint-Jean recalls that the government of Philippe Couillard cut $ 17 million in employment assistance measures while thousands of jobs are being lost in Quebec.
No employment plan Pierre Karl Péladeau, the member for Saint-Jérôme and official opposition critic for the economy, entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports, deplores the fact that the Liberal Party government, which promised 250,000 jobs in five years, has no plan for employment in Quebec. “This government&#39;s only measure in the area of employment was to reduce infrastructure investments to $ 15 billion. Not only has Philippe Couillard reneged on his promise, but in addition, he has not developed an alternative plan to create jobs in Quebec, ”continued Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“While the candidate Philippe Couillard claimed during the electoral campaign that business confidence would return with the formation of a liberal government, it is clear that no vision of a real economic policy appears in the Leitão budget. The people of Quebec are witnessing the resignation of the Liberal government, which is doing nothing to create wealth, ”added the member for Saint? Jérôme. It should be remembered that the Parti Québécois government had developed a vision for the Quebec economy with the Priorité emploi economic policy, which contained structuring measures.
Loss of 50,000 full-time jobs &quot;With the loss of 50,000 full-time jobs over the past two months and the discarding of the Priority Employment Economic Policy for partisan reasons, what will Premier Couillard do to create new jobs in Quebec? The mere arrival in government of the Liberal Party had a negative effect on employment; concrete actions are now needed, ”concluded the deputies.
