Quebec - The Minister for the Regions, Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region and Member for Gaspé, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, the Minister for Native Affairs and Member for Abitibi-Est, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, and the Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Nordic Affairs section) and Member of Parliament for Ungava, Mr. Luc Ferland, in the presence of the Grand Chief of the Grand Council of the Crees, Mr. Matthew Coon Come, are happy to announce that the National Assembly has adopted today Bill 42 - An Act to establish the Regional Government of Eeyou Istchee Baie-James and to make certain legislative changes concerning the Cree Nation Government.
Under this law, the Regional Government of Eeyou Istchee Baie-James will replace the Municipalité de Baie-James on Category III lands and will be composed in equal numbers of Cree and Jamesian representatives.
&quot;This law represents a historic initiative to harmonize relations between the Government of Quebec, the Jamesians and the Crees in matters of governance of the territory of the current Municipalité de Baie-James, a municipality incorporated in 1971 in the wake of the great hydroelectric projects. I am convinced that the coming into force of this law will enable the Crees and Jamesians to concretize their desire to work together for the success of this promising company ”, declared Mr. Lelièvre.
The Eeyou Istchee Baie-James Regional Government may exercise the competencies, functions and powers conferred on a local municipality, a regional county municipality, a regional conference of elected officials and a regional commission for natural resources and territory. . The act also introduces changes to the powers of the Cree Regional Authority, which will become the Cree Nation Government. This body will exercise certain municipal powers provided for by the laws of Quebec on Category II lands as well as responsibilities for planning and use of the territory and resources.
The changes made by Bill 42, which were the subject of a broad consensus among the Jamesians, are also intended to ensure a significant participation of the Crees in the municipal governance of the territory and to intensify constructive relations and partnerships with all the communities in the region.
&quot;The bill we have just adopted will allow the establishment, not only of the Eeyou Istchee Baie-James Regional Government, but also of a Baie-James regional administration which will bring together Cree and Jamesian representatives around the same table for the first time in the history of our region and which will make possible the establishment of a Jamesian structure adapted to the current issues and challenges of the territory. This really testifies to our government&#39;s desire to support our communities with regard to northern development, ”Mr. Ferland recalled.
In addition, the Regional Conference of Elected Officials of Baie-James (CRÉBJ) will be replaced by the Baie-James Regional Administration, whose board of directors will be made up of the mayors of the towns of Chapais, Chibougamau and Lebel-sur. -Quévillon and Matagami, as well as the presidents of the councils of the localities of Radisson, Valcanton and Villebois.
“This regional government will be the very first municipal management structure of a public nature that explicitly provides for Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal representation. It is an important step in the new “nation-to-nation” relationship, a relationship that aims to be open, respectful and promoting greater participation of the Cree Nation in its own development, ”argued Ms. Larouche.
