Quebec - The day after the Grand Rendez-vous des Régions, an initiative of the Fédération québécoise des municipalities (FQM), the member for Gaspé and official opposition spokesperson for municipal affairs and development of regions, Gaétan Lelièvre, demanded that the Liberal government quickly respond to the requests expressed by the FQM and that the Prime Minister appoint a minister truly and exclusively dedicated to the regions, so that someone, within the Council of Ministers and this government, defend the major issues affecting the regions, particularly the resource regions and rural regions.
“Yesterday, some 400 municipal delegates spoke out overwhelmingly against the demolition of the regions led by the current Liberal government. It is clear that we are witnessing a regular muzzling of the regions; in addition to being confronted with the merger of regional government departments, they must face the abolition of the boards of directors of health centers, as well as that of local development centers, regional conferences of elected officials, regional youth forums and the organization Rural Solidarité du Québec, ”recalled the member for Gaspé.
“The municipal world is back against the wall. Alone, it loses its traditional territorial partners. From now on, who will be able to assist elected municipal officials in defending the interests of the citizens of the regions and of Quebec? Let us remember that alone we go faster, but together we go further, ”he continued.
At the end of this important meeting, the FQM addressed four requests to the government:
The Parti Québécois supports these demands of the municipal delegates and the FQM. In this regard, the very short-term conclusion of a multi-year fiscal pact is essential. Gaétan Lelièvre is also urging the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Pierre Moreau, to activate work and negotiations with a view to renewing the fiscal pact with the municipalities. “Only one meeting took place this year. Is this file really a priority for the minister? Does the Liberal government have an interest in postponing the deadlines and the conclusion of a real multi-year pact, in order to keep the municipalities in waiting and in dependence on the government? A third consecutive annual fiscal pact would be an affront to the municipal world and would confirm the government&#39;s lack of consideration for elected municipal officials, ”argued Gaétan Lelièvre.
Unlike the current government, which improvises its many devastating reforms in all regions, elected municipal officials are demanding, in particular, more predictability as to their sources of government revenue, as well as more autonomy and measures adapted to their needs. reality. Thus, they will be able to better plan and carry out the development of their community. Elected officials and municipal managers want to be considered as real partners in local governance.
Finally, Gaétan Lelièvre made a point of highlighting the unveiling this week of a study carried out by the Touche pas à mes regions! Coalition! identifying 51 breaches of the Law to ensure the occupation and vitality of territories (adopted by the Liberal government of Jean Charest, in 2011) and of the 2011-2016 Strategy that results from it. “This study confirms that the government cares very little about the consequences of its arbitrary decisions on the reality of the regions of Quebec. He doesn&#39;t even use the tools he himself has set up! Indeed, of the 71 concretely measurable commitments contained in the law, 51 were neglected. We are very far from the discourse on decentralization that the current liberal government is serving us, ”concluded Gaétan Lelièvre, who also invited municipal stakeholders and their local and regional development partners to continue the long-term work aimed at providing women citizens. and to citizens of all regions of Quebec, both urban and rural, a quality living environment with a future.
