Quebec - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, accompanied by the Minister for Regions, Gaétan Lelièvre, reiterated her support for the niches of excellence ACCORD (Concerted action for regional cooperation of development) as an engine of regional development, on the occasion of the fourth Grand Rendezvous for Niche Excellence, which began yesterday and ends today, in Quebec City. Some 300 economic stakeholders from all regions of Quebec, including more than 200 people from the business community, participate in this annual meeting.
&quot;Our government deeply believes that the prosperity of Quebec depends on that of each of its regions,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. &quot;This is the reason why the Parti Québécois government implemented the ACCORD process in 2002 and continues today to rely on these dynamic and promising networks that are the niches of excellence.&quot;
The success of the ACCORD process is attributable to the great mobilization of the business community in each of the regions. Indeed, this approach now brings together nearly 6,000 companies in the various niches and the center of excellence, and more than 500 business leaders actively participate in its governance.
&quot;ACCORD niches help maximize the specific strengths and potential of each region by allowing companies to seize business opportunities that lead to job creation and the recognition of Quebec expertise in foreign markets,&quot; »Declared Minister Lelièvre. &quot;For more than ten years, they have played a major role in regional development.&quot;
The Grand Rendezvous for Niche Excellence promotes networking between regions and niches so that the latter can maintain and forge business ties. This is an opportunity for participants to share their knowledge and experiences, to discuss their successes and challenges and to strengthen or establish partnerships. It is also an opportunity to highlight exceptional achievements with prizes awarded in four categories: the niche of the year; the ACCORD personality, niche manager; the ACCORD personality, entrepreneur; and, finally, the achievement of the year.
“Entrepreneurs are the real creators of wealth and jobs: they are in the best position to understand the issues linked to the economic development of their region and, above all, to provide sustainable solutions. We must provide them with effective support adapted to their needs, ”added Ms. Zakaïb.
The 2013-2017 Québec industrial policy, made public on October 10, provides for an increase in the funding granted to the ACCORD process. Thus, by 2017, the government will inject an additional $ 22 million to support projects arising from niches of excellence.
Ms. Zakaïb also took advantage of the Grand Rendezvous for Niches of Excellence to say a few words about this industrial policy, which will act on the main determinants of productivity to increase the competitiveness of Quebec manufacturing companies on world markets. A policy that will focus on the modernization and greening of activities, on innovation, from idea to marketing, and on the emergence of flagships in all regions.
Ms. Zakaïb finally officially announced a new measure, implemented as part of this policy, to support niches of excellence in the realization of collaborative innovation projects. This measure will be piloted by the Center de recherche industrielle du Québec (CRIQ), which has already undertaken a pilot project with the Technical textiles niche of Center-du-Québec. The objective is to make it accessible to all niches from spring 2014.
For more information on the ACCORD process, see http://www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/accord.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
