Quebec - The members of the Parti Québécois took part today in the great Montreal rally and in the regional gatherings for the safeguard of the childcare centers, everywhere in Quebec. The Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the Parti Québécois Family Critic, Sylvain Pagé, have called on the Liberal Prime Minister to renounce the cuts to the childcare network in order to preserve the mission of CPEs.
“We ask the Prime Minister to stop the dismantling of childcare centers. This network is a great Quebec success of which we must be proud. Childcare centers give our children a better start and equal opportunities, and they have enabled tens of thousands of women to enter the labor market. It is a network made up of competent and dedicated workers who provide quality educational services to our children, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“The Liberal government must stop harming families, it must stop harming the network of childcare centers. We will continue to be with its artisans in order to defend this Quebec pride. The Minister of Families, Sébastien Proulx, must give the childcare centers the means to pursue their educational, screening and prevention mission. He must also meet with the AQCPE quickly. We want to know where the minister is staying: will he defend the public child care network and listen to the demands of families in Quebec? Between the program of the CAQ, which advocates more private, and that of the Liberals, which no longer believes in childcare centers, where is the minister located? », Asked Sylvain Pagé.
Line 434
The Leader of the Official Opposition points out that the government has imposed an increase in childcare fees, and that parents will see the devastating effects this year, when they file their income tax return. “Line 434 of the tax return symbolizes the breaking of a Liberal promise, when the Prime Minister had pledged to limit the rate hike to inflation. However, not only are they increasing, in some cases up to 174%, but, in addition, the cuts directly affect services. Pay more for less service. Mr. Prime Minister, families are asking you to step back and cancel the cuts of 120 million imposed on childcare centers because early childhood centers are a source of wealth for Quebec, ”concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau.
