Montreal - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, took advantage of the first large gathering of the Parti Québécois in the riding of Gouin to officially launch the Parti Québécois election campaign and its platform. “We have chosen to campaign on the ideas we champion. We have an exciting platform with daring proposals for Quebecers. We have a very clear vision for the future for Quebec. We have a solid team, ready to govern, ”declared Pauline Marois, surrounded by around a hundred candidates.
The deputy and candidate of Gouin&#39;s Parti Québécois, Nicolas Girard, host of this first large gathering, praised the leadership qualities of his leader. “We are offering the people of Quebec a premier who has assembled the best team. Competent, honest and determined, Pauline Marois is the only person in Quebec to have such extensive experience of the State. She listens and has the ability to make the decisions that are necessary in the interest of all. This is the leadership of Pauline Marois, this is the leadership we need, ”declared Nicolas Girard, MP organizing the Parti Québécois.
The political program presented by the Parti Québécois has three components: asserting oneself, enriching oneself and helping one another. The first part, asserting oneself, proposes to stand up in front of Ottawa, to promote and protect French, to affirm our identity and our values. The second part, get richer, proposes to regain control of our natural resources so that Quebecers get richer collectively. Finally, the third component, helping each other, presents proposals to help middle-class families, in particular the abolition of the health tax.
Above all, the Parti Québécois undertakes to act honestly and to form an honest and transparent government in order to restore trust between the State and the citizens. Measures are proposed to consolidate the financing of political parties, establish fixed-date elections, limit the length of terms of office and give more powers to the Auditor General.
“The program we are proposing is realistic, innovative and clearly shows that the Parti Québécois is the best suited to govern and advance Quebec. We can choose honesty. We can choose to assert ourselves, enrich ourselves and help each other. It&#39;s up to us to choose! », Concluded Pauline Marois.
