Quebec - Five members of the Parti Québécois will team up to take part in the Grand défi Pierre Lavoie next June. The athletes who will get on their bikes during the cycling marathon are François Gendron, MP for Abitibi-Ouest, who will be the team captain, Sylvain Pagé, MP for Labelle, Sylvain Gaudreault, MP for Jonquière, Nicolas Marceau, MP for Rousseau, and Etienne-Alexis Boucher, MP for Johnson.
&quot;I have been training since last December to take up this challenge in a brilliant way and I hope that the example given by our team will find an echo within the population,&quot; said François Gendron first. &quot;The importance that the Parti Québécois gives to physical activity and sport is only one of the factors that made us want to get involved in Pierre Lavoie&#39;s challenge,&quot; he said. for follow-up.
Well beyond the sporting feat of running 1000 km in a relay behind Pierre Lavoie, the Grand Défi is mainly a platform to raise awareness throughout Quebec of the importance of physical activity for a healthy future. health. This event is all the more important given that all the surveys carried out in recent years show that Quebeckers do not do enough physical activity. It is generally recommended that you get about 60 minutes of physical activity per day.
In order for the message conveyed by the Grand défi Pierre Lavoie to reach young people and their families, each team of cyclists is paired with an elementary school. Students will therefore be invited during the month of May to participate in the Get Up and Move contest, which promotes physical activity during and after school. “We are particularly proud to sponsor the Sainte-Bernadette school, located in the Arvida sector, in Jonquière. We are confident that participating in this contest will instill good habits in young people, ”said Jonquière MNA Sylvain Gaudreault.
“I am very happy to be able to count on the members of the Parti Québécois to support the values of the Grand Défi. The Great Challenge is for everyone, not just athletes, and it is important to have ambassadors for healthy lifestyles in all spheres of society, ”said Pierre Lavoie.
The announcement of MPs&#39; participation in the challenge comes on National Physical Activity and Sport Day. For a third year, this day reminds the population that a physically active lifestyle is the central element of good health. &quot;The issue of healthy lifestyles is essential for me,&quot; said official opposition spokesperson for recreation and sports, Etienne-Alexis Boucher.
