Quebec - The Parti Québécois spokesperson for the environment and the fight against climate change and member for Terrebonne, Mathieu Traversy, deplores the dangerous precedent created by the approval of the project to transfer water from the Great Lakes to the Municipality of Waukesha, located in the State of Wisconsin, United States. In fact, according to the information available to the public, there is every reason to believe that this project will be approved, in violation of the Agreement on Sustainable Water Resources for the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence River Basin. , signed by Quebec in 2005.
“The message sent by the Minister of Sustainable Development, David Heurtel, is simple: the environmental rules that we collectively give ourselves can be circumvented, even if this goes against the precautionary principle. In addition, the authorities only evaluated the options proposed by the Town of Waukesha. This is an obvious lack of rigor since a 2015 study, entitled Non-Diversion Alternative Using Existing Water Supply With Treatment, has already shown that there would be other possibilities, including that of treating water, to answer to the needs of Waukesha, ”denounced Mathieu Traversy.
In addition, unlike Ontario, Quebec has never submitted a technical opinion describing its analysis of the project. No document, information or explanation of the reasoning of the Ministry of the Environment has been posted to justify Quebec&#39;s support for the Waukesha project. Rather, it is in silence that a few lines were added to a page of the ministry&#39;s website. “After the flushgate, Minister Heurtel once again acted in the greatest opacity. Quebecers have the right to know why he gave his agreement and allowed the Waukesha project to become a dangerous precedent, ”continued the member for Terrebonne.
Finally, remember that 122 municipalities and local governments in Canada and the United States, as well as a coalition of 40 environmental groups, have expressed their opposition to the Waukesha project. “In Quebec, Montreal, Valleyfield, Sorel-Tracy and several other municipalities have taken a stand against the project. However, despite their importance, the Minister did not take into account any of these points of view, ”lamented Mathieu Traversy.
