The Parti Québécois team is ready to bring the voice of the population to the National Assembly and to propose solutions to the government to meet the many challenges facing Quebec. To do this, the parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois, Pascal Bérubé, unveiled the parliamentary responsibilities of each member of the caucus.
“We are a team that is both renewed and seasoned. Quebeckers can count on us to remind the new Prime Minister and his government that the public&#39;s expectations of them are very high. Accessibility to health care and social services must be rapidly increased, and the elderly must be assured of living in dignified conditions. In addition, a major project to renovate schools and add resources to promote student success is necessary and urgent, and we must respond without delay to the glaring issue of the labor shortage, which is slowing down. our economic development ”, first declared Pascal Bérubé.
The leader also insisted on the importance of the issue of the climate crisis. “Ignored by the Prime Minister during the recent election campaign, the environment must become a priority at all times for Quebec. We have a duty to combine the fight against the climate crisis with the pillars of our regional development which are agriculture, fisheries and the responsible exploitation of our natural resources ”, he indicated.
As for the people called to become caucus officers, Pascal Bérubé spoke of two exceptional colleagues: “Martin Ouellet has already demonstrated, in a short time, his ease in parliamentary work, his hard work and his team spirit. We are therefore counting on him to take the position of parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois. Harold LeBel, for his part, has always stood out for his wisdom, his ability to rally and mobilize troops, as well as for his extensive knowledge of the workings of the National Assembly. He therefore returned to a function he knew, that of whip of our parliamentary group. He will also chair our caucus meetings, ”concluded the parliamentary leader.
Here are, in detail, the issues that the members of the Parti Québécois will defend, in addition to their parliamentary responsibilities:
Pascal Bérubé (Matane-Matapédia)
Sylvain Roy (Bonaventure)
Lorraine Richard (Duplessis)
Méganne Perry-Mélançon (Gaspé)
Joël Arseneau (Magdalen Islands)
Véronique Hivon (Joliette)
Sylvain Gaudreault (Jonquière)
Catherine Fournier (Marie-Victorin)
Martin Ouellet (René-Lévesque)
Harold LeBel (Rimouski)
