Montreal - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced the conclusion of an investment of $ 8 million in the capital stock of Investissement Québec in the company Montrealer Beyond the Rack, recognized as a leader in electronic commerce in Canada.
The $ 25 million round of financing, in which other partners, including Iris Capital and the Tandem Expansion Fund, were involved, aimed to support the company in its longer-term growth strategy. Current investors, Highland Capital Partners, Panorama Capital, BDC Venture Capital IT Fund as well as iNovia Capital, also contributed to the investment project.
&quot;The electronic commerce market is experiencing remarkable growth both in Quebec and elsewhere in the world, and Beyond the Rack is a renowned economic player who contributes to the vitality of this industry,&quot; said Ms. Zakaïb. “We are proud to support a promising, growing company that creates jobs and prosperity for Quebec. &quot;
Founded in 2009 by MM. Yona Shtern and Robert Gold, Beyond the Rack is a Montreal-based company that specializes in online sales, through short-term private events, and which offers its 10 million customers a coveted assortment of designer clothing as well. as home and kitchen accessories at prices up to 80% lower than retail prices. The company, which employed 4 people in its infancy, now has more than 440 permanent employees, 332 of whom work at the head office in Montreal, located in the borough of Saint-Laurent.
“This new round of financing will allow us to have the means to achieve our ambitions in order to develop our private brand and invest in improving our performance, particularly in terms of logistics and the diversification of our customers, ”said Yona Shtern, president and co-founder of Beyond the Rack.
Investissement Québec&#39;s mission is to promote the growth of investment in Québec, thereby contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The Company provides businesses with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity investments, to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, she is responsible for administering tax measures and prospecting for investments abroad.
