Quebec City - Marie Malavoy, a member of the Taillon MP and spokeswoman for the official opposition on loans and scholarships and higher education, wants to force the Liberal government to sit down with students.
“Last Thursday, they were 200,000 people in the street to demonstrate peacefully with a clear message: the drastic increase in tuition fees is unacceptable. The mobilization is impressive and goes well beyond the student networks. However, the Liberal government has turned a deaf ear for too long. Now is the time for dialogue, ”said Marie Malavoy.
The Parti Québécois accuses the Minister of Education, Line Beauchamp, of adding fuel to the fire by systematically refusing to meet with student representatives. “Minister Beauchamp&#39;s stubbornness makes her responsible for the excesses today. It is time for that to stop, ”added the member for Terrebonne and official opposition spokesperson for youth and student affairs, Mathieu Traversy.
Marie Malavoy also wonders about the intentions of the Liberal government with regard to any improvements to be made to the loans and bursaries regime. “Minister Beauchamp has double-closed the door while the Minister of Finance, Raymond Bachand, and the Prime Minister have opened it. It is time to get the facts straight, ”said the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois.
In order to resolve the crisis, the Parti Québécois intends to have a motion adopted by the National Assembly this week. All Members will have to vote on the following motion:
“That the National Assembly of Quebec demand from the Liberal government that, as soon as possible, it negotiate openly with elected representatives of the student movement in order to resolve the current impasse regarding the increase in tuition fees. Let this motion become an order of the House. &quot;
The member recalls that the Liberal tuition hike directly affects middle-class families. They will have to pay up to $ 3,800 per year per child in university in addition to related fees and living expenses. For a family with two, three or four children, access to higher education may be compromised. &quot;After three weeks of crisis, a responsible government and prime minister must seize this common sense offer,&quot; concluded Marie Malavoy.
Remember that the Parti Québécois is opposed to the liberal decision to increase tuition fees by 75% and is committed to holding a summit on higher education and the adoption of a framework law that will govern tuition fees. and other related costs, which will preserve economic accessibility and regional accessibility, which will respect students&#39; ability to pay and which will aim to reduce student indebtedness.
