Quebec - The Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, is pleased to announce the entry into force of a major overhaul of the Regulation respecting the warranty for new residential buildings to better protect buyers.
“For years, citizens and the media have reported on important problems, difficult cases experienced by families. It is with the satisfaction of the work accomplished that I announce the adoption of the new Regulation which will come into force on January 1 to put an end to these situations. This new guarantee plan is the result of discussions with stakeholders in the sector and the hard work of the people of the Régie du bâtiment du Québec (RBQ). Today I can say that the goal has been achieved; the many improvements that have been made respond to consumer concerns, ”said Minister Maltais.
&quot;The situation in the Trois-Rivières region has particularly highlighted the need to review certain parameters of the mandatory guarantee plan and this is why I have chosen to make it public here,&quot; added the Minister. Indeed, more than 1,000 beneficiaries struggling with pyrrhotite in the foundation of their residence have resorted to their guarantee, thus staggering the work until 2016.
The family relationship that existed between the guarantee administrators and the associations of entrepreneurs, so much denounced by the representatives of the beneficiaries, will be a thing of the past. Only a non-profit organization (NPO) will be entrusted with the administration of the guarantee plan. “The board of directors (CA) of the non-profit organization will be made up of 13 people, of whom only 3 will be identified with the associations of entrepreneurs. Its objective will be twofold: to respond adequately to consumers while ensuring the sustainability of the plan, ”recalls the Minister.
“The new Regulations bring better supervision and better supervision of guarantee administrators. It will allow the RBQ to impose on the administrator policies such as inspection and information on beneficiaries and will grant him the power to penalize the administrator at fault, ”says Stéphane Labrie, President and CEO of the RBQ. In addition to the increase in the security required of the administrator by the RBQ, the new Regulation provides for the introduction of new provisions relating to the probity of the officers of a guarantee administrator.
The Provisional Administration of the New Home Warranty (GMN) will need $ 34 million to respond to claims until 2016 and thus close the pyrrhotite chapter, as will most of the current GMN claims. “As trustee of the Guarantee Fund, the RBQ will advance the necessary sums so that this Fund can cover all the claims in progress with the GMN. Beneficiaries struggling with pyrrhotite problems thus have real assurance that their homes will be repaired, ”says Agnès Maltais.
The Regulation respecting the Guarantee Plan for New Residential Buildings was adopted under the Building Act in 1998 and came into force on January 1, 1999. It has already been amended in 2001 and 2006.
The RBQ recently evaluated the Guarantee Plan for New Residential Buildings, in particular through consultations, but also by analyzing the problematic situations observed in current practice and concluded that this overhaul was necessary. &quot;As soon as I took office, we set to work, here is the new plan adopted and I call on everyone to be responsible for working towards its success,&quot; concluded Minister Maltais.
