Quebec -The Parti Québécois notes that it took 20 years for the federal government to grant Quebec similar treatment to other provinces for the harmonization of sales taxes.
&quot;Finally, but there is nothing to celebrate since it is not a preferential treatment, declared at the outset the member for Marie-Victorin and spokesperson for the official opposition in matters of Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Bernard Drainville. These months of negotiations to obtain equivalent treatment are as many months wasted in obtaining specific agreements so that Quebec obtains more powers, ”he added.
Having said that, the Parti Québécois believes that this check which arrives from Ottawa allows Quebec taxpayers to hope that Quebec will return to a balanced budget more quickly. “The $ 2.2 billion compensation remains a non-recurring amount. The government must therefore ensure that its impact is maximized, ”said the member for Rousseau and official opposition finance critic, Nicolas Marceau.
The member for Rousseau believes that the Minister of Finance, Raymond Bachand, must also give assurance that the tax changes resulting from this agreement will not penalize taxpayers. For example, the federal government agrees to reimburse large businesses for the GST paid on certain goods while the government of Quebec does not grant these rebates. If Minister Bachand now agrees to model these federal provisions, the Government of Quebec will suffer recurring losses of $ 500 million each year.
“Today we are announced the payment of an amount of $ 2.2 billion for Quebec. However, if on the other hand the changes demanded by the federal government cause us to lose $ 500 million per year, in four and a half years, we will have lost everything and we will then have to pay for this harmonization, ”said Nicolas. Marceau.
In addition, the Minister of Finance of Quebec must, as of today, specify whether the QST will increase more than envisaged in the 2010-2011 budget, since the phenomenon of the tax on the tax will no longer apply. “On January 1, will taxpayers pay a 9.5% or 10% QST ?, asks the member for Rousseau, recalling that a half of a percentage point for the QST brings to the Quebec government additional revenue of $ 750 million. If this is the case, Minister Bachand will pass a little quick to taxpayers, because he will look more in their pockets than with the tax on the tax, ”indicated Nicolas Marceau.
While the agreement announced today will reduce the overall bill that Ottawa has to pay to Quebec, there is still $ 4 billion to be received for various disputes for which Quebec is treated unfairly by the federal government. “We still don&#39;t have the same treatment as Ontario for equalization; we still have not been compensated for the ice storm; we are still waiting for the reinstatement of transfers for post-secondary education; we still have not obtained the federal contribution for the CHUM. In short, there are still many unresolved issues for which the federal government is penalizing Quebec, ”insists MP Bernard Drainville.
He also points out that the recent decision of the federal government to increase prison sentences for minor offenses risks increasing costs for detention centers in Quebec. &quot;How many prisons will we have to build because we will imprison, in a prison under Quebec jurisdiction, all the citizens who refuse to float the Canadian maple leaf?&quot; Quips the member for Marie-Victorin. Despite everything, the simple abolition of the reprieve for most crimes represents between 400 and 500 million dollars for Quebec. This is far from trivial and we will need answers quickly, ”concluded Bernard Drainville.
