Quebec, March 4, 2021 - Joël Arseneau, MP for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and Parti Québécois health spokesperson, reacted to yesterday&#39;s announcement by the Prime Minister who, once again, leaves the vast majority of Quebecers with legitimate questions about the health measures that apply in their region; he wonders why the government has not returned to the system of regional alerts by levels, the famous “color code”, yet simple and effective to understand and apply, in addition to being more representative.
IN SHORT
“The Prime Minister announced yesterday that all regions of Quebec, with the exception of greater Montreal, will go to the orange alert level after the school break. However, given that the epidemiological situation varies greatly from one region to another, one would have expected the government to revert to a system of regional alerts by levels, in other words to the color code ”, argued the Minister. deputy.
Indeed, as the Parti Québécois has been repeating for several weeks now, to better reflect the epidemiological situation of each region, a color code including clear and precise indicators as well as an approach giving more influence to the regional health directorates. public should be privileged.
“Take the example of Chaudière-Appalaches or Capitale-Nationale; because the situation there is now stable, these two regions are turning orange - it is certainly a great relief for the population! However, this is the same level of alert as the regions of Côte-Nord, Nord-du-Québec, Abitibi-Témiscamingue, Bas-Saint-Laurent, Gaspésie – Îles-de- la-Madeleine and Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean which, however, have been considered &quot;under control&quot; since February 2, ie for over a month. Logically, these latter regions should have been demoted to a level of alert corresponding better to their current epidemiological situation, ”illustrated Joël Arseneau.
In the opinion of the member, nuances would certainly have been indicated. “Quebec is, since last night, divided into two: the red zones and the orange zones. Nothing else. I would point out that among the orange zones, some still count a few dozen cases daily, while in the Magdalen Islands, for example, no new cases have been identified for nearly two months. Where is the consistency? Where is the predictability? He asked.
Joël Arseneau nevertheless welcomed the fact that the government has opened the door to the resumption of organized sports and indoor shows. “Finally, the appeal we launched alongside performing artists has been heard. As for sports, no specific date has yet been announced, but hope is now there. We will keep up the pressure so that the sports federations&#39; plans for a gradual and safe recovery are implemented. Culture and sport are good for morale, and I am delighted that the government is finally recognizing it, ”he concluded.
– 30 –
SOURCE :
Laura Chouinard-Thuly
Press Officer
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois
514 880-9594
Laura.Chouinard-Thuly@assnat.qc.ca
