Magog– The deputy for Sherbrooke, Serge Cardin, on behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announced the allocation of financial assistance of $ 230,000 to support a project to purchase equipment from the Old Bell Tower of Magog. The acquisition of this equipment will make it possible to offer optimal conditions for the dissemination of the performing arts, for both producers and spectators. This financial assistance is awarded by the Cultural Business Development Corporation (SODEC).
“Our government is delighted to support this hall, which has spent four decades in moving and amazed by the public, thanks to this investment. The Vieux Clocher de Magog is a launching pad for several Quebec artists who choose to kick off their tour there. I cannot stress enough the brilliant history of this venue, which has seen a number of renowned artists perform there ”, underlined Minister Maka Kotto.
“I have the privilege of announcing an investment for a place that is considered an institution in our region. I am more than happy that our government is affirming its commitment to promoting our national culture in Estrie, and more particularly in the Magog region, ”said MP Serge Cardin.
This financial support will allow the Vieux Clocher de Magog in particular to upgrade the sound and lighting equipment, rearrange the dressing rooms, purchase new stage dressing as well as new seats for spectators. This assistance thus meets the imperative needs of the Vieux Clocher de Magog to adequately meet the technical requirements of artists and producers, ensure an improved experience for the public and help promote better accessibility for citizens of the Estrie region. to culture. This assistance will help to preserve the reputation of excellence of this place of choice for entertainment enthusiasts, which annually hosts nearly 130 performances. The Regional Conference of Elected Officials of Estrie and the Vieux Clocher de Magog are the other financial partners of this initiative.
