Québec, February 16, 2021 - Méganne Perry Mélançon, the member for Gaspé and Parti Québécois spokesperson for SMEs, as well as for the economy and recovery, asks the Minister of the Economy and Innovation , Pierre Fitzgibbon, to urgently make the necessary adjustments to the Aid to Businesses in Regions on Maximum Alert (AERAM) program, clearly ill-suited to the reality experienced by entrepreneurs, especially restaurateurs.
IN SHORT
According to the deputy, who has collected the testimonies of many entrepreneurs, AERAM has three major flaws: it does not meet the real needs of businesses, it is too cumbersome to administer by the RCMs, and it only adds to the problem. bureaucracy and debt that already breathless restaurateurs face.
“We don&#39;t exactly understand Minister Fitzgibbon&#39;s goal. He says he wants to help companies in the red zones, but persists in defending a program criticized on all sides, which does not work. He knows it, moreover, since he admits himself that very few companies have applied under this program. What is more, we have just learned that requests are no longer accepted for the months of October to December, while some restaurateurs were busy collecting supporting documents. Why? Obviously, the issue is not budgetary; it can therefore only be linked to a flagrant lack of sensitivity, ”suggests Méganne Perry Mélançon.
She makes a very simple request to the minister: to listen. “Until now, he has kept a hard line and has been intractable. He will tell us magnanimously that he recently forgave the interest accruing on the loans. However, it is the equivalent of removing a splinter from a patient who is bleeding, ”she illustrated.
“The Parti Québécois was already saying it in May 2020: we must act quickly if we want to avoid the massacre in the restaurant industry. Direct assistance should be offered to entrepreneurs, calculated on the basis of lost income. Note to the government: almost a year has passed since then, ”concluded Méganne Perry Mélançon.
– 30 –
SOURCE :
Laura Chouinard-Thuly
Press Officer
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois
514 880-9594
Laura.Chouinard-Thuly@assnat.qc.ca
