Quebec - The parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois is keen to re-establish certain facts regarding the hiring of liaison officers in the office of the chief whip of the official opposition, a practice that complies with the rules.
People are often surprised to discover that political attachés and liaison officers are paid by the National Assembly or, in the case of the government, by the Executive Council. However, this is what is provided for in the Assembly&#39;s regulations, adopted by all the parties.
The Regulation respecting the remuneration and working conditions of the staff of the cabinets of the National Assembly is very clear. It stipulates that “[t] he adviser or political attaché performs the professional tasks entrusted to him and which are in particular the functions of deputy to the director of cabinet, press attaché, researcher or researcher. &#39;liaison agent. They are &quot;political&quot; attachés in the broad sense, not specialists in legislative work. The political parties have always applied this rule and comply with the non-partisan opinions of the Assembly to ensure that it is respected.
It is expected that political attachés and liaison officers should have a “home base”. Their function is, by definition, to leave the port to reach the citizens. They may be called upon to perform their duties in the field, at the National Assembly, at party headquarters, in constituency offices, or even at home, in their region. Moreover, when a party is in power, these attachés work in regional ministers&#39; offices, also financed by public funds. The list of liaison officers attached to each liberal regional minister attests to this.
Obviously, we are surprised to learn that other political parties do not have as much interest as us in having political attachés on the ground, in all regions. It is the result of choosing and setting priorities in the allocation of the resources that are allocated to us. At the Parti Québécois, our priority is to reach out to citizens.
Although its opponents are in the majority to sit on the Office of the National Assembly, the parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois specifies that it will continue to work in collaboration with the other parliamentary groups in order to establish the best possible practices, in the interests of citizens. If investigations are triggered, we will participate fully and insist that they also include political attachés and liaison officers of other parties, including those in the government. If the Liberal Party and the Coalition Avenir Québec, which today play offended virgins, are honest in their approach, they will agree to submit to investigations without any problem. For our part, we will be happy to participate in the clarification of the rules, if the need arises.
