Quebec - The leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the Parti Québécois spokesperson for immigration and cultural communities, Maka Kotto, have called for an emergency debate to be held in the Assembly national report on the reception of Syrian refugees in Quebec.
“The Minister of Immigration said she found Quebecers&#39; questions on reception capacities and security issues legitimate. Why, then, not answer all the questions? Otherwise, other questions could arise. We must unite, not fall into partisanship and speak calmly about these issues. Although they are open to welcoming these refugees, Quebeckers, municipalities and community organizations, in particular, know nothing. Transparency must come first. We must hold a debate in the National Assembly, in order to support them and offer the refugees the best services and the best possible integration, so that their reception is a success, for the well-being of all ”, declared the Minister. leader of the official opposition.
“Today, the Minister of Immigration did not teach us anything new. It is in reaction mode, but we still do not have a timetable, a game plan or any idea of the sums that will be paid by Ottawa for the reception of refugees. Ms. Weil came to tell us today that she is monitoring the situation. All right, but what about discussions with the federal government? The minister shows us once again that we are behind Ottawa. The targeted cities and the citizens of Quebec are entitled to expect more transparency and precision in the actions that will be taken, ”continued Maka Kotto.
“The Government of Quebec must ensure that the reception conditions meet the basic criteria of comfort, humanity and, of course, security. These fundamental elements remain unanswered. Quebec has a responsibility to transcend the promises made during the recent federal election campaign. We must assume the responsibilities that are ours, ”added the Leader of the Official Opposition.
The Prime Minister must withdraw his remarks
In addition, Pierre Karl Péladeau invited the Liberal Prime Minister to reconsider his remarks from the weekend. “Indecently and partisan instrumentalizing the horrors of Paris, the Prime Minister accused the Parti Québécois and the Coalition Avenir Québec of xenophobia. However, nothing is more wrong. Those who have been committed to the Parti Québécois since its founding have been and still are driven by openness to the world and by the promotion of diversity, supporting the women and men who choose Quebec as a land of welcome. We have a duty to ask all legitimate questions and the right to question government actions without being called xenophobic. The Prime Minister must demonstrate the inherent loftiness of his post and withdraw his remarks, ”he concluded.
