Quebec - On the occasion of the 350th anniversary of the arrival of the first contingent of the Filles du roi in New France, the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches region, Agnès Maltais, on her behalf and that of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announced the appointment of the arrival of the Daughters of the King in Nouvelle-France as a historic event under the Cultural Heritage Act, in force since October 19.
“We have a duty to remember these young French women with a go-getter spirit. We also have a duty to express loud and clear our pride in these admirable women, at the origin of many of our original families. This recognition is all the more relevant as it reminds us of an important part of the history of Quebec for the generations of today and those of tomorrow, ”declared Minister Maltais.
“The arrival of the Daughters of the King in New France is a historic event that has helped forge the identity of our people. The designation of the arrival of the Daughters of the King in New France and its inclusion in the Cultural Heritage Register will make this event in Quebec history better known and remind us that our ancestors helped to populate the territory of the Nouvelle-France and to ensure its demographic growth and even its survival, ”said Minister Kotto.
It was to resolve the problem of the demographic imbalance with which New France was confronted during the 17th century that King Louis XIV decided to promote the passage of young unmarried women, called the Daughters of the King, from France to the colony. , in order to marry them to the colonists and to encourage the formation of families. The immigration of the Daughters of the King to New France was a royal policy that began in 1663.
That year, 38 Daughters of the King came to settle in New France; 36 of them were part of the first contingent that arrived on September 22, 1663. From 1663 to 1673, between 770 and 1,000 young women thus agreed to migrate to New France in exchange for advantages granted by the king. The latter not only ensures their crossing at his expense, but undertakes to clothe them and, for some, to provide them with a dowry of at least 50 pounds in order to facilitate their union.
The Daughters of the King come from underprivileged backgrounds; about a third of them are chosen from among the orphans of La Salpêtrière, in Paris. Others come from orphanages, convents and charitable institutions in northwestern France. Some young women from the bourgeoisie and the petty nobility are among the Daughters of the King.
Due to their humble origins, the Daughters of the King have often been misrepresented as women of bad life. The most recent research shows, on the contrary, that these young women wishing to immigrate to New France were selected according to fairly strict criteria. For the first cohorts, we even required certificates of good conduct testifying to the moral rigor of the candidate.
This highly symbolic exercise of the designation of the arrival of the Daughters of the King in New France is part of the Fêtes de la Nouvelle-France SAQ. The Government of Quebec is pleased to contribute a sum of $ 542,000 to the holding of these festivities. Government assistance is distributed as follows: the Secrétariat à la Capitale-Nationale grants an amount of $ 257,000, the Minister of Culture and Communications contributes $ 110,000; Tourisme Québec grants $ 135,000; and finally, the Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, $ 40,000.
Additional information concerning the arrival of the first contingent of the Filles du Roi in New France as well as all the heritage elements registered in the Cultural Heritage Register can be found on the site of the Quebec Cultural Heritage Directory (RPCQ), athttp: // www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca. This dissemination tool from the Ministry of Culture and Communications makes it possible to discover the richness and diversity of Quebec&#39;s cultural heritage by making it accessible to all. Part of the content of the RPCQ can now be found on the Government of Quebec&#39;s open data portal, at www.data.gouv.qc.ca.
The Secretariat for the National Capital, attached to the Minister of the Executive Council, advises the government and the minister responsible for the region, Agnès Maltais, on any question or measure having a significant impact on the region and on its social, cultural and tourist development as well. economical. The Secretariat acts in consultation with its various governmental and regional partners, while financially supporting the realization of projects contributing to the development of the Capitale-Nationale for a mobilized, innovative, festive and international region.
