Montreal - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, accompanied by the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Minister responsible for the Montreal region and Member of Parliament for Rosemont, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, today announced that the funds necessary for the permanent redevelopment of the hemodialysis service at Hôpital Maisonneuve-Rosemont are earmarked for the Quebec Infrastructure Program.
“I am very happy to announce this morning that Maisonneuve-Rosemont will be able to go ahead with the construction of a new building reserved exclusively for the Dialysis Department. The relocation of this Service was a priority, for several reasons: the dilapidated temporary infrastructure, clearly insufficient spaces, but also the aging of the population and the ever-increasing demand for dialysis services. It therefore became essential that the population of Montreal have rapid access to quality services and that the Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital have the capacity to meet the needs of its users so that they can be treated as close as possible to their environment. life. &quot;
The dialysis department of the Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital, which occupies, in addition to the ground floor of the Rachel-Tourigny Pavilion, trailers at the back of the pavilion, currently has an area of approximately 2,000 m2. . The permanent redevelopment project provides for the construction of a new building of approximately 7,000 m2, which will run along the western facade of the Ambulatory Care Center. These additional spaces will make it possible to consolidate services and add hemodialysis stations. In addition, the land being available, the erection of the new pavilion will not entail any interruption of service during the works. The submission of the revised Functional and Technical Program and the start of the government authorization process are scheduled for September 2013.
“I am happy to announce today the realization of this project. This eagerly awaited announcement is excellent news for the patients and users of this establishment, but also for the entire population of greater Montreal. Our government has made access to specialized and primary health care a priority. For us, this accessibility does not only mean that the services are available, but also that they are in the right place and under the right conditions. This will now be the case for hemodialysis at Hôpital Maisonneuve-Rosemont, ”concluded Minister Jean-François Lisée.
The contribution of the Ministry of Health and Social Services to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan, which was made public in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of nearly $ 19.4 billion for the Health and Social Services component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
