Saguenay– The Chicoutimi Health and Social Services Center will be authorized to undertake the design phase of the construction project of a sterilization unit for medical devices at the Chicoutimi Hospital. This was announced today by the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, and the Member for Chicoutimi, President of the Conseil du trésor and Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac region. -Saint-Jean, Stéphane Bédard. In the short term, the establishment will be able to develop the concept and prepare preliminary plans and specifications for this priority project for the region.
“The current organization of the premises has major drawbacks in terms of available space, functionality and the optimization of hygiene and sanitation practices. New construction will provide the hospital with modern and well-equipped premises that meet contemporary standards for such clinical facilities. What is more, in the wake of this work, premises will be freed up for the respiratory therapy service and the pathology laboratory, ”explained Dr. Hébert.
At present, it is planned to build a facility of 1,575 square meters for reprocessing medical devices, at a cost of approximately $ 10 million. Funding will be local, in particular thanks to the commitment of the Fondation de ma vie and the Corporation Saint-Vallier, which will each provide two million dollars. In a later phase, the operating theater could be upgraded to an upper floor.
This project is part of the functional renovations and asset maintenance envelopes of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. The plan in effect for the 2013-2023 period will ultimately result in investments of nearly $ 19.4 billion for the health and social services component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
“This plan marks a shift in the way we invest in and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make enlightened choices, ”declared Minister Stéphane Bédard. .
The two ministers also announced the extension until March 31, 2014 of genetic testing services for four hereditary diseases present in the region, thanks to an additional envelope of $ 120,000 from the Ministry of Health and Social Services. By then, the Institut national de santé publique du Québec will have completed the evaluation of the program currently underway.
These tests make it possible to detect the defective genes which are involved in congenital lactic acidosis, recessive spastic ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay, hereditary type 1 tyrosinemia and hereditary sensitomotor neuropathy. Almost 5,000 people have taken advantage of it since 2010.
“If both members of a couple are simultaneously carriers of one or the other of these diseases, they risk transmitting it to their offspring. In such a case, personalized support is offered to them by a genetic counselor and, if necessary, by a psychosocial worker, ”explained the Minister of Health and Social Services. “In order to ensure continuity of services, we are pleased to extend this offer of genetic tests for people in the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region,” he added.
Finally, Ministers Hébert and Bédard officially inaugurated the new general-purpose ambulatory clinic for teaching medical specialties, which opened its doors a few months ago. Thus, a total of 128 students will be attending the hospital this fall to take part in their academic and clinical activities.
&quot;Dedicated to clinical teaching, under supervision, of specialties such as internal medicine, obstetrics and gynecology, psychiatry and pediatrics, the clinic inaugurated today will allow students to see patients at their own pace, in a an environment conducive to learning, ”explained the Minister of Health and Social Services
The ten consultation rooms, the teaching room and the waiting room were fitted out thanks to a fund investment of nearly $ 1.3 million from the Department of Health and Social Services.
Since September 2006, the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences of Sherbrooke has offered the Medical Training Program in Saguenay, under a partnership between the University of Sherbrooke, the University of Quebec at Chicoutimi and the Center de santé and social services in Chicoutimi.
“Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean is now playing a very significant role in training the next generation of medical professionals. This approach will not only benefit the region itself, but also Quebec as a whole, ”concluded Minister Bédard.
