Montreal - While several hospitals receive an evaluation grade E following inspections carried out by the Ministry of Health, the MNA for Rosemont, Jean-François Lisée, the MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, and the door - speech of the Parti Québécois in matters of health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, strongly denounce the abandonment, by the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, of the Liberal Party&#39;s promise to renovate the Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital ( HMR).
“During the election campaign in 2014, the Liberal Party promised to act quickly to implement the reconversion plan for the Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital, demanded by all of eastern Montreal - and supported by the Parti Québécois. Now that the investigation into the dilapidation of hospitals gives HMR the worst score, how can the minister explain his decision to prioritize all other projects in his programming for the last three budgets? », Asked Jean-François Lisée.
“Indeed, while the HMR plan has passed all the validation stages, the minister has deliberately chosen to devote zero dollars to it in his 2014 infrastructure program, zero in that of 2015, and zero in that of 2016. Thus, no sum is available for the preparatory phase of a project which should be spread over eight to ten years and which, because of the Minister, was three years late. For all the people who work at HMR and those who receive care there, the Minister, who often likes to speak in the media, must also respect his word, ”added Diane Lamarre.
In the countryside, Yves Bolduc and Philippe Couillard nevertheless said that:
“This modernization project is more than necessary. Most of the facilities at Hôpital Maisonneuve-Rosemont were built about sixty years ago. We must be able to offer doctors, nurses, attendants, as well as all other health professionals modern and functional facilities that allow them to better serve patients. […] The Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital project is at the junction of the two priorities of a Liberal government, namely the revival of the Quebec economy with significant investments in our infrastructure and the modernization of our health establishments. . (Source: Liberal Party website http://www.plq.org/fr/article/hopital-maisonneuve-rosemont-le-plq-reitere-son-appui-au-projet-de-modernisation)
“This is another broken promise by the Liberal Party. Out of respect for the 670,000 citizens served by this establishment, the minister must stop devoting his energies to always giving more to his doctor friends and reread the commitments his party made during the election campaign. The population of the East has been waiting for this modernization for several years and has had enough of making people laugh at it, ”concluded Carole Poirier.
Members have formally asked Minister Barrette to release the funds needed to implement HMR&#39;s renovation plan as early as this year, and to commit to a clear timetable for the work.
