Quebec– Dave Turcotte, Parti Québécois spokesperson for social services and youth protection and responsible for the Center-du-Québec and Montérégie regions, as well as Diane Lamarre, spokesperson for health, accessibility to care and home support, denounce the Liberal government&#39;s inaction and lack of respect for the regions, more particularly that of Center-du-Québec.
“By promising once again today the renovation of the Hôtel-Dieu d&#39;Arthabaska, the Liberal Party is pushing back the boundaries of cynicism. Let us remember that the government promised the renovation of this hospital in 2009, in 2012 and in 2014. Now that there will be a by-election in the riding of Arthabaska, the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, is taking a detour by Victoriaville to announce that the project is now &quot;under study&quot;, but not to mention the timetable. It&#39;s groundhog day! Duplessis promised roads, Minister Barrette promised hospitals, ”said Dave Turcotte.
“Since its election, the Liberal government has cut $ 50 million from the health budget of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, which has forced the authorities to make heartbreaking choices, such as cutting nine nursing positions CHSLD auxiliaries, people who worked with vulnerable people. Contrary to vague promises about the Hôtel-Dieu, these cuts are true, they hurt ”, for her part exposed Diane Lamarre.
This Friday, Dave Turcotte called on the minister responsible for the Center-du-Quebec region, Laurent Lessard, on the topicThe abandonment of the Center-du-Quebec region by the Liberal government. “It is a region that has been completely forgotten by the Liberal government. The cuts in health, education and economic development have been piling up for two years. Laurent Lessard demonstrated once again this morning that he has no vision for the future of Center-du-Québec. He is not even in a position to tell us what sums will be set aside for the region in the surplus that his government has accumulated through cuts and price increases, ”he concluded.
