Lévis - The new hyperbaric medicine and emergency rooms at Hôtel-Dieu de Lévis were inaugurated today by the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, and the Minister responsible for the Chaudière-Appalaches region, Agnès Maltais, after $ 46.6 million in work.
The hospital, which is attached to the Alphonse-Desjardins Health and Social Services Center, now has a hyperbaric chamber that can accommodate 18 people at a time, which replaces the two-person chamber that had been in use since 1999. “The service Hyperbaric Medicine Clinic in Lévis thus becomes the largest in hospital settings in Canada. Thanks to the remarkable expertise of its doctors specializing in hyperbaric and diving medicine, as well as its hyperbaric technicians, the Hôtel-Dieu de Lévis will be able to treat up to 5,000 patients per year, compared to around 1,500 with the former. equipment, ”explained Minister Réjean Hébert.
Hyperbaric oxygen therapy is a therapeutic method that consists of delivering, through the respiratory route, a large amount of oxygen to treat injuries or illnesses, for example carbon monoxide poisoning, anemia or even soft tissue radionecrosis. following radiotherapy treatments.
The new emergency has 37 stretchers, as well as a shock area of 4 stretchers for the most unstable cases. “The number of emergency room visits has doubled since the last expansion carried out twenty years ago, in particular for demographic reasons. In addition, a spacious, modern and well-equipped emergency room is essential in the context of the regional and university mission of the Hôtel-Dieu de Lévis, ”declared Minister Agnès Maltais.
From the real estate point of view, an expansion of more than 6,500 square meters was carried out. In addition, the existing premises, covering an area of approximately 1,600 square meters, have been refitted. The work was carried out with the possible addition of two additional floors above the emergency room and the hyperbaric medicine department, for future clinical developments.
The project was funded for the most part by the Ministry of Health and Social Services, with complementary contributions from the Alphonse-Desjardins Health and Social Services Center and by the Hôtel-Dieu de Lévis Foundation.
