Lévis– The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, and the Minister responsible for the Chaudière-Appalaches region, Agnès Maltais, today confirmed that the project for a new integrated regional center in oncology at the Hôtel-Dieu de Lévis is authorized to proceed. The sums needed to carry out this project, currently estimated at $ 117 million, are reserved for the Quebec Infrastructure Plan.
“Aware of the growing needs in the region and sensitive to the concerns expressed, our government acted quickly in this matter, which was deemed a priority. This cancer center will become the thirteenth in Quebec to offer radiotherapy. We are thus confirming the importance we attach to the fight against cancer, both for local services and for highly specialized radiation oncology care, which is required in half of the cases ”, declared Minister Réjean Hébert. .
The regional cancer center will notably offer prevention and screening services and specialized care in the fields of oncological surgery, chemotherapy, oncological pharmacy and radiotherapy. He will intervene in palliative care, for symptom relief and end-of-life care. The Center will also play an important role in training and supporting local cancer control teams.
Minister Agnès Maltais added: “This project has the great merit of having been developed in collaboration with the CHU de Québec, which currently serves the Chaudière-Appalaches region. We note that the facilities of the Hôtel-Dieu de Québec are over-used, especially in radiation oncology. The project will thus promote an excellent balance in the offer of care offered to patients in both regions. In terms of real estate, we plan to build a building of approximately 8,800 square meters on the grounds of the Hôtel-Dieu de Lévis. The project also targets the acquisition of cutting-edge radiation oncology equipment (linear accelerators), as well as the consolidation of the medical imaging equipment park, particularly in the fields of magnetic resonance and positron emission tomography. . Note that today&#39;s announcement allows the Alphonse-Desjardins Health and Social Services Center to prepare the initial business case, with the collaboration of Infrastructure Quebec. The costs, schedule and certain other details of this project will thus be detailed following the preparation of the initial business case. The integrated regional cancer center should open its doors within five years.
The project will be fully funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services, as part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan, which was made public in April. This ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of nearly $ 19.4 billion for the health and social services component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
