Québec, May 5, 2020 - Véronique Hivon, the member for Joliette and Parti Québécois spokesperson for end-of-life care, reminds the government that it has put forward a directive allowing visits to the elderly in end of life. In addition, he also made a commitment, three weeks ago, to ensure a permanent link between the seniors sheltered and their relatives, and this promise had two components: the circulation of information concerning the state of health of residents, and the contribution of informal caregivers to institutional care.
IN SHORT
First, the Parti Québécois stresses that despite the existence of a directive authorizing visits by relatives to people at the end of their life, we note that it is not applied uniformly. “Some places allow visits, others hesitate to do so. I therefore invite the government to reiterate clearly that in such circumstances, we must allocate the presence of up to three family members, alternately, to the person who is living their last moments, a modality moreover. already expressly provided for, although not followed. It is a right that seems essential to us, an essential condition for a departure in peace and dignity, as much for the person at the end of their life as for their loved ones. We were pioneers, in Quebec, on the whole question of dying with dignity; it is up to us to show that it means something, even in times of pandemic, ”considers Véronique Hivon.
In addition, the situation that has been going on for several weeks now in CHSLDs is cause for concern, especially when a member of our family resides there. But many testimonies show the difficulties encountered by relatives trying to find out more about the state of health of a person lodged. “The staff of the residences, overwhelmed, simply cannot do the proper follow-up. In some places, the problem has been overcome by designating people responsible for maintaining a link between residents and their families, but this is not systematic. However, all families in Quebec must have access to this information; this is absolutely essential, and the government had formally committed to it, in a press release on April 14, ”said Véronique Hivon.
The member for Joliette continues with the second part of this commitment. “Prime Minister Legault and Minister McCann also assured that family caregivers could soon come and provide basic care to their loved ones, under certain conditions. What is it? It seems that we are slow to take the plunge, while this form of support would be more than welcome in the establishments. New staff who do not necessarily have experience generously come to lend a hand every day in the establishments. Why deny this possibility to caregivers, who are in the best position to offer compassionate and close support to the people they love? She asked.
“At a time when everyone is called upon to show solidarity and mutual aid, we must act. The sufferings of the soul are just as important as the physical sufferings. Let us prevent creating more by leaving seniors alone and disoriented, and anxious relatives, left to themselves, who will sometimes also have to live an extremely difficult mourning, in the absence of a final farewell. We must, collectively, provide seniors with humanity and dignity, and respond to the legitimate concerns of their loved ones, concluded the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois.
