Quebec - For the Parti Québécois, the decision of the City of Huntingdon to evade the Charter of the French language is an outright affront and can be explained by the negligence of the Liberal government to protect our language. &quot;The government cannot allow anyone to officially laugh at Bill 101 because they know the state will do nothing,&quot; said the member for Drummond and official opposition critic for language, Yves-François Blanchet.
The Charter of the French language confers on the Office québécois de la langue française (OQLF) the power to transmit to the Director of Criminal and Penal Prosecutions the files of violators of the provisions of Bill 101. Fines can reach 20,000 dollars per offense. , double in the event of a repeat offense. “The government has the means to enforce respect for the law. The City of Huntingdon has voted a resolution to challenge the law, the mayor has already announced that he will challenge the decisions of the court and the minister tells us that the OQLF is investigating. The OQLF is investigating what? Isn&#39;t the city&#39;s resolution sufficient proof ?, asks Yves-François Blanchet. The Liberal Party is much more energetic in imposing English in schools than in protecting French in public administration, ”he added.
The Parti Québécois believes that the government is renouncing all moral authority by not immediately cracking down with severity. Minister St-Pierre has the power to sanction the affront of Huntingdon. What is more, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy can also intervene since its holder can present a request to annul a municipal decision. &quot;If we let Huntingdon go, who will it be after?&quot; We already know that several other municipalities ignore Bill 101 on a daily basis. It is an illegal act, so the minister must act accordingly, ”continued the member for Drummond.
For him, it is the passive method chosen by Minister St-Pierre, who is constantly hiding behind the OQLF, which leads to such situations. “Obviously, Minister Christine St-Pierre is afraid. Is she afraid of compromising the privileged relationship between the English-speaking community and the Liberal Party? However, this has been going on for ten years. We are backing down on signage, backing off on the language of work even in state-owned companies, we are backing down on bridging schools and now we allow entire cities, without embarrassment, to laugh in the face of the most popular law. in Quebec, protests the deputy. Again this morning, we learn that it is English which dominates and which is imposed on the construction site of the CHUM. It is time for that to stop, ”said the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois.
Finally, the member for Drummond says that Jean Charest lacks legitimacy to fly to Paris in the coming days to speak French with the Secretary General of La Francophonie, Abdou Diouf. “French is trampled underfoot in Quebec itself. The duty of Jean Charest and Christine St-Pierre is to stop speaking and act with firmness. To do nothing is to become an accomplice of those who flout our French, ”concluded Yves-François Blanchet.
