Quebec - The member for Saint-Jérôme and leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the member for Chicoutimi, parliamentary leader and Parti Québécois spokesperson on the economy, entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports , Stéphane Bédard, and the member for Marie-Victorin and spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, call on Hydro-Québec about the extension of a call for tenders for the acquisition of cables necessary for its network.
As of August 4, 2015, the end of the period designated for the call for tenders, Hydro-Québec had received only one proposal, that of General Cable, a company in Saint-Jérôme which is the only plant in Quebec. able to supply low and medium voltage insulated cables. However, at the request of American competitors, Hydro-Québec extended the call for tenders until September 8.
“The crown corporation should have Quebec purchases as a priority. In its policy Our Acquisitions of Movable Goods and Services and Contract Conditions, in effect since August 17, 2009, Hydro-Québec clearly stipulates that in order to maximize the economic spinoffs in Québec, it undertakes to use its power to purchase to promote the maintenance and development of economic activity in Quebec. Has the Liberal government read this policy? “Asked Pierre Karl Péladeau.
The member for Chicoutimi, for his part, asks the Prime Minister and the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources for explanations: &quot;Why this decision which puts a Quebec company at a disadvantage in a strategic sector?&quot; Philippe Couillard and Pierre Arcand must correct the situation as soon as possible. Hydro-Québec has always been responsible for developing the sectors linked to its activities in Québec. It is one thing not to act to support job creation, but at least it should not be harmed! Particularly now, when Desjardins is once again revising downward the GDP growth projection, ”said Stéphane Bédard.
“Minister Pierre Arcand, by his silence, is complicit in Hydro-Québec&#39;s decision. What does he have to say to the new CEO? Will he invite him to go and find out about Hydro-Québec&#39;s policy on the acquisition of movable property and services? », Continued Bernard Drainville.
Last May, the member for Saint-Jérôme tabled a petition in the National Assembly demanding that Hydro-Québec source its cables from the General Cable plant in Saint-Jérôme, in order to maintain around 100 jobs, and that it uses its purchasing power to promote economic activity in Quebec. In response to this petition, Minister Arcand mentioned that Hydro-Québec was busy defining its cable supply strategy for the coming years. &quot;Is the new strategy of the state corporation then to favor foreign companies to the detriment of a Quebec company?&quot; », Concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau.
Let us recall that within the framework of the negotiation of the free trade agreement with Europe, the government of the Parti Québécois made sure to preserve the right of Quebec to adopt or maintain any measure encouraging local subcontracting. in the case of construction contracts awarded by Hydro-Québec, namely with regard to pylons, turbines, transformers, electric wires as well as electricity distribution or control devices.
