Montreal, August 10, 2017– The leader of the Parti Québécois and official opposition critic for the French language, Jean-François Lisée, announces that a Parti Québécois government will introduce a law 202 on language and immigration within the first 101 days of his tenure. “We must take strong action to restore the strength of the Quebec nation that it absolutely needs! », Declared Mr. Lisée.
IN SHORT
“The summer of 2017 is ending as the clouds accumulate over Quebec&#39;s national identity. We must therefore retaliate with force and operate a recovery which requires the return of a real and structuring national will at the helm in Quebec. This Bill 202 would consolidate our linguistic positions, including our reception, integration and francization measures, ”said the leader of the Parti Québécois.
The data from the 2016 census are clear: the decline of French in Quebec is indisputable, in particular as regards the proportion of citizens for whom it is the main language at home. On the Island of Montreal, Laval and the South Shore, the decline has been significant over the past ten years.
“Among these various measures, it is imperative to demand that 100% of future immigrants and their spouses be admitted to the territory only if they demonstrate a good knowledge of French. We must also, in particular, restore the right to work in French, recently undermined by Canadian courts, extend Bill 101 to companies with 25 to 50 employees - which is still refused by the PLQ and the CAQ - and demand a real knowledge of French among graduates of English-speaking CEGEPs and universities in Quebec. Several other measures aim to reaffirm that the official and common language of Quebec is French and will remain so, ”continued Jean-François Lisée.
The leader of the Parti Québécois also insists on the importance of ensuring a real integration of new Quebecers at work, in the regions and in the professions, and that of an equally real reduction in discrimination. &quot;The Liberals have accustomed us to public relations operations which have no real effect,&quot; he added.
“The Parti Québécois, as it did in the past, offers innovative and structuring avenues for the many challenges facing Quebec today. The October 2018 election will be the one where Quebecers will have the choice between amplifying Quebec&#39;s decline with the Liberals, supported by solidarity, or opting for a government that will offer the nation the pride and confidence necessary to face these challenges, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
