Quebec - The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the chairman of the caucus of members of the Parti Québécois, Maka Kotto, the spokesperson for secularism, Agnès Maltais, as well as the chief opposition whip official and spokesperson for immigration and cultural communities, Carole Poirier, presented the proposal of the parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois in matters of identity.
“The Parti Québécois has always been at the rendezvous of Quebec identity. And if it was a defensive fight, it must now be a positive, calm and inclusive affirmation. This is why the Parti Québécois is making identity, with shared prosperity and solidarity, a priority for the years to come, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
The document sets out the measures necessary to better train our young people for an engaged and enlightened citizenship around our shared values; to move in a tangible way towards a secular state; establish an immigration policy on a sounder basis; and ensure the success of every Quebecer of various origins.
Ensuring the success of adopted Quebecers
A first action, coordinated by Carole Poirier, aims to identify and guide the current members and supporters of the Parti Québécois from these communities in order to revive the Parti Québécois committee responsible for these issues and to better organize its action in the field. A second action, coordinated by Paul St-Pierre Plamondon, aims to engage in dialogue with Quebecers of various origins to listen to their thoughts on the Parti Québécois and invite them to participate in its renewal.
The Parti Québécois is proposing a series of measures to make the arrival of every adopted Quebecer a real success. These measures include: ensuring much better collaboration between immigration and employment services; reduce the deadline for issuing a comparative assessment of diplomas to a few days; ensure a complete course, including equivalences and work placements, for foreign graduates entering Quebec professions; ensure a fairer presence of Quebecers of all origins in the Quebec public service; firmly fight racism and discrimination in hiring, housing and elsewhere.
“The regulations will be adapted in order to achieve the objective of 100% Francization. Among other things, it is necessary to: ensure an intermediate or advanced knowledge of French for each qualified worker henceforth selected; provide refugees with a paid period of francization and adaptation; enshrine in law the right to francization for everyone. These are structuring measures that will allow for more successful integration. This means that we will have to significantly improve the funding and organization of francization in Quebec, ”said Carole Poirier.
As soon as a Parti Québécois government comes to power, its desire to ensure the success of all will be reaffirmed through concrete and visible actions, before opening debates on the rules of living together. Rigorous monitoring of measures aimed at the successful integration of Quebecers of various origins and the reduction of discrimination will be carried out, and a progress report will be presented to the National Assembly annually.
The Auditor General, assisted by the Institut de la statistique du Québec and experts in demography, employment and integration, will be given the mandate to prepare recommendations on the issue of immigration thresholds. These recommendations will allow the Parti Québécois government to develop in the fall of 2019 a proposal aimed at the success of immigration and inclusion, in a new five-year plan that will integrate the Quebec tradition of welcoming and solidarity towards the refugees. Adequate funding for this plan will be provided.
Clarify the rules on religious symbols
“A government of the Parti Québécois will introduce legislation to enshrine in law the elements which are the consensus on secularism in Quebec. We must clearly define, in the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, the parameters governing religious accommodation and exclude accommodation incompatible with equality between men and women, ”said Agnès Maltais.
The State must develop clear guidelines for educational institutions to respond to requests for accommodation. All civil servants, employees and agents of the State must have their faces uncovered in the course of their duties. This must also be the case for citizens when they receive services from the state. The chador should also be banned for all state employees.
As the Bouchard-Taylor report proposed, we believe that people who have the power of constraint - judges, prison guards and police officers - should in no case display their convictions, including religious ones. This must also be the case for other authority figures such as elementary and secondary school teachers, as well as daycare educators. As the world of daycare centers is very diverse, a committee will examine the applicability of this general rule in the various forms that daycare services take, particularly in the family environment. This measure will apply gradually; current employees will preserve their acquired rights.
“During their training and in the ethics guide that will be given each year to each employee of the State, the government will promote a duty of reserve, affirming its clear preference for the greatest possible reserve in the posting the convictions, political, social, religious or other, of State employees in the performance of their duties, out of respect for the diversity of citizens&#39; convictions, ”continued Agnès Maltais.
A team of parliamentarians and experts will be responsible for examining foreign experiences with regard to the wearing of the full veil, the niqab and the burqa, and will submit its proposals to the government.
Success relies on balance
All in all, with these proposals, the Parti Québécois wants to allow Quebec to finally get out of stagnation and hesitation on these crucial issues. “On the one hand, action for the successful integration of adopted Quebecers must be real, tangible and measurable. The failures of immigration and integration have lasted too long, generating too much frustration among our new citizens. Discrimination in hiring and in access to housing must be eliminated. Quebec must live up to its real desire to open up and welcome. The Parti Québécois wishes to chart a clear, coherent, resolute path, based on a collective will, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
All the details of the Parti Québécois proposal in the appendix.
