Quebec - &quot;The vision of La Financière agricole du Québec and the Liberal government seems to be based on an American-style industrial model: large agricultural businesses where farmers no longer own their farms or no longer have control over them. decisions. At the Parti Québécois, we want to ensure the sustainability of farms on a human scale throughout Quebec. This is the future of Quebec agriculture in question ”.
This is what the member for Iberville and official opposition spokesperson for agriculture, Marie Bouillé, said today in the National Assembly, after questioning the Minister of Agriculture again. &#39;Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Pierre Corbeil, on the major crisis currently raging in the agricultural sector.
Since last week, the Parti Québécois has been trying to make Minister Corbeil understand that the current agricultural crisis is not exaggerated and asks him what it intends to do to help agricultural producers who are on the brink of collapse. “Pig, beef, lamb and sheep production is in a very precarious situation. The crisis is so serious that the best producers simply cannot show up and have to shut down. The Financière agricole du Québec, an accomplice of the Liberal government, is allowing thousands of farms to disappear without flinching, ”denounced Ms. Bouillé.
Since 2008, Quebec has lost 20% of its hog farms (430 farms), 20% of its feeder calf farms (940 farms), 23% of its slaughter steer production and 10% of its sheep farms. (nearly 100 farms). &quot;We must stop this bleeding immediately, but obviously the Minister does not seem to know how to do it since he is talking to us about cheeses!&quot; He must wake up as soon as possible and stop trivializing the misfortune of farmers, ”continued the member for Iberville.
“The crisis in the agricultural sector is dramatic. Our regions are emptying their producers. The social and economic impacts are catastrophic. The Minister must take note of this quickly rather than deny it, just like La Financière agricole du Québec, ”concluded Marie Bouillé.
