Montreal— The Parti Québécois is asking the Chief Electoral Officer (DGE) of Quebec to take measures to ensure that the process for revising the list of electors is compliant and that the Election Act is followed, so that only people who meet the conditions to elector are eligible to vote.
“What we have learned since yesterday is deeply disturbing. If it is true that people are registered on the electoral list without having the right to vote, they consequently cancel the vote of citizens who have a legitimate right to express themselves. The right to vote is fundamental: we cannot steal democracy, ”declared Léo Bureau-Blouin, Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Laval-des-Rapides.
Indeed, the testimony of a resigning commissioner in Sainte-Marie – Saint-Jacques is disturbing. It seems that the members of some review boards are unable to cope with a surprising influx. We also learned today that Ontario students are registering for the general election on April 7.
“In the past, such situations have arisen and we want to prevent them from happening again at all costs. What is happening now in the ridings of Sainte-Marie – Saint-Jacques, Sherbrooke and Saint-François worries us, and we expect that the integrity of the electoral process will be guaranteed, ”said Nicole Léger, candidate. in Pointe-aux-Trembles and Minister of Families.
“There is still a week to register on the electoral roll. Today, we are asking the CEO for a complete and daily report on registration requests - in order to follow the phenomenon properly -, close and adequate support for the review committees and a post-registration verification. The Election Law allows the Chief Electoral Officer to take exceptional measures; we ask him to intervene before the general election, ”concluded Bertrand St-Arnaud, candidate in Chambly and Minister of Justice.
It should be remembered that the list of electors is established on a permanent basis and updated from information sent to the Chief Electoral Officer by electors or public bodies, such as the Régie de l&#39;assurance maladie du Québec.
Listen to an excerpt from the press conference.
