Quebec - The member for Verchères and official opposition spokesperson for ethics and integrity, Stéphane Bergeron, asks the government to act quickly to prohibit the granting of bonuses to resigning members like Yves Bolduc .
“Premier Couillard should have categorically demanded that his resigning minister, Yves Bolduc, renounce his severance bonus of more than $ 150,000. This is the third time in two years that a Liberal MP has left during his mandate by collecting his transition allowance, while Elaine Zakaïb, of the Parti Québécois, and Christian Dubé, of the CAQ, have given up. His sudden conversion is astonishing, knowing that his party was strongly opposed to the abolition of the departure bonus collected during his mandate. In my opinion, the extent of the controversy triggered by Yves Bolduc&#39;s gluttony has a lot to do with it, so much so that one comes to wonder whether his insistence on considering this question in a more global context does not constitute an attempt to diversion, ”said Stéphane Bergeron.
“There is an urgent need to act. Currently, we are in the field, especially with the people of Richelieu, and everywhere we feel the incomprehension and frustration of citizens regarding the fact that a deputy, even after having requested and obtained a democratic mandate, can pocket a bonus. if he leaves his post to return to the practice of medicine. This is all the more unacceptable in their eyes as his salary as a general practitioner will be paid by taxpayers. Philippe Couillard did not have the courage to refuse this bonus to his deputy. We ask him to act quickly to prevent this situation from happening again, ”he added.
“We can also see that the CAQ is trying to make a splash with the L&#39;Heureux-Dubé report. However, while we quibble over the hypothetical implementation of this report, we forget that Yves Bolduc&#39;s bonus will cost Quebec taxpayers more than $ 150,000, while he will take a well-paid position in the sector. of health, ”concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
