Quebec - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, announces the creation of the Task Force on the Protection of Quebec Businesses. This working group will look at the measures to be put in place to allow Quebec companies to better protect themselves against unwanted takeovers and to promote the maintenance of head offices located in Quebec.
“We want to take concrete action to promote our economic development, protect our flagships and ensure the maintenance of our head offices in Quebec. To do this, we must examine the rules governing the acquisition of companies and give more resources to boards of directors to exercise their free will during hostile takeover bids. The working group will examine the current framework and in particular submit proposals for legislative changes in this direction. While supporting an economy that is open and welcoming to foreign investment, it is time to consider adopting measures similar to those in force in many American states and elsewhere in the world, ”said the Minister.
The task force&#39;s mandate will be to address the nature, scope and medium and long-term impact of measures promoting the maintenance of head offices, which could lead to the modification of various laws applicable in Quebec. It will also have to examine the question of the intervention of the boards of directors and the free exercise of their duties of a fiduciary nature during unsolicited takeover bids.
The group will be chaired by Claude Séguin, Senior Vice-President, Corporate Development and Strategic Investments at CGI. He will be supported in his mandate by:
“Head offices are strategic decision-making centers whose presence constitutes a major stake for the economic development of Quebec. It is for this reason that I accepted to participate in this exercise. I am convinced that the group&#39;s work will allow us to identify many promising avenues both for our companies and for Quebec, ”said Mr. Séguin.
“I would like to salute the skills and experience of the members of the task force and thank them for accepting the government&#39;s invitation. I will closely follow the progress of the committee&#39;s work, ”the Minister concluded.
The working group is due to submit its report in fall 2013.
