Laval– Léo Bureau-Blouin, the Member for Laval-des-Rapides and Parliamentary Assistant to the Premier (youth section), has completed his first year at the Assembly under the theme “bringing politics closer to citizens”. national.
“What motivates me and inspires me in my duties is the proximity to citizens. When I took office on September 4, I saw a major divide between people and politics. I arrived in an office where all the citizens&#39; files had been destroyed. We had to restore the public&#39;s confidence, ”explains Mr. Bureau-Blouin.
To underline this year spent stimulating citizen participation, Léo Bureau-Blouin organized a special day starting with its traditional Saturday Citizen. “Citizen Saturdays are popular with the public. We are already on our sixth day of this type, which allowed me to meet several hundred citizens, in addition to daily meetings and town halls. It is a tool available to residents of Laval-des-Rapides to make themselves heard by their Member of Parliament, ”adds Mr. Bureau-Blouin.
As promised during the election campaign, Mr. Bureau-Blouin recently moved to the Cartier metro area. In order to meet the neighborhood and discuss the government&#39;s record, the deputy took the initiative to organize a corn roast in the area after Citizen Saturday. He also took the opportunity to announce that the next Laval-des-Rapides public meeting will take place on Thursday, November 7.
At the national level, Mr. Bureau-Blouin was also very active in promoting the participation of young people in the development of the society of tomorrow. Together with the Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation, Bernard Drainville, he initiated Bill 13 which will allow students to vote in their school in the next elections. Last May, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, gave her the mandate to reflect on the society of 2030 with young people. Since then, a website 2.0 (http://www.destination2030.gouv.qc.ca) has been set up and more than 1,500 young people have been met to co-construct the next Quebec Youth Policy.
“For the past year, I have tried to take concrete steps to bring politics closer to citizens. My first gesture was to abolish the practice of scorched earth and to allow the transfer of files between elections, regardless of the color of the new elected official. Then, I set up Citizen Saturdays and public meetings to allow Laval residents to express themselves on the issues that affect them. In addition, a citizen web platform was developed to allow me to survey the population on different subjects. I also organized a major consultation on public transit in Laval and a report was submitted to the Minister of Transport. Finally, in partnership with the community, I set up the 1st Volunteer Evening in order to underline the commitment within the community. After a year, I am proud of the road traveled and to have the privilege of representing the riding of Laval-des-Rapides, ”concluded Mr. Bureau-Blouin.
