Quebec, October 19, 2016 - The new leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, gave the signal that with him, the regions will have a strong voice in Quebec. As proof, the first motion tabled calls for an end to any measure of centralization of services that harms the regions of Quebec. &quot;We also demand that the ministers responsible for overseeing the regions, currently all elected from Montreal, be replaced immediately by one or more deputy ministers from the regions and possessing a real knowledge of their realities,&quot; he declared. , this morning at a press briefing. On this occasion, Mr. Lisée was surrounded by several deputies representing the resource regions and with a mandate to reach out to regional decision-makers, a team coordinated by Sylvain Gaudreault, the member for Jonquière, also spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of decentralization and regional development.
“The Couillard government is the most centralizing government that Quebec has known since the Quiet Revolution. It was he who abolished the regional conferences of elected officials. It has also eliminated the CLDs, local development centers, and closed the directorates of regional offices of several ministries. The Liberals also centralized the health sector, carrying out the most important centralizing reform that Quebec has known. And they were about to impose the same kind of reform on school boards; fortunately, the opposition has made them listen to reason on this issue. In short, with the Liberal government, it is the total abandonment of decentralization and the resource regions, ”summarized Sylvain Gaudreault.
Moreover, the leader of the official opposition denounced the fact that Premier Couillard did not deign to appoint a minister responsible for the regions, as all his predecessors had done. “The ministers responsible for dealing with the regions - namely Martin Coiteux, Municipal Affairs and Land Occupancy, Lise Thériault, Regional Economic Development, and, to a certain extent, Pierre Arcand, Natural Resources - are three elected officials from the Montreal region. They cannot have the sensitivity specific to elected representatives in the regions. The Prime Minister must correct the situation and appoint a Minister of Regions who actually comes from a region; it is essential that regional issues be adequately represented on the Executive Board, ”he added.
Finally, JeanFrançois Lisée asks the government to modify the composition of its advisory committee on the economy and innovation, so that it includes appropriate representation of the regions of Quebec, including that of the Capitale-Nationale. “It&#39;s unavoidable; it is a question of respect for the greater Quebec City region and the know-how of its entrepreneurs, ”he insisted. Mr. Lisée also returned to the charge, during the question period, to defend the economy of the regions. &quot;Each time, the Prime Minister has changed the subject, unable to defend his indefensible regional record,&quot; he concluded.
