The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesperson for immigration and diversity, Catherine Fournier, and the spokesperson for regional development and decentralization, Sylvain Gaudreault, presented today hui the Parti Québécois proposals on immigration, including those aimed at promoting the regionalization of immigration. Concrete actions will be necessary to reverse the trend, as more than 90% of new Quebecers settle in the metropolitan region, despite a labor shortage and a demographic decline affecting mainly the regions of Quebec.
They presented to the media a major document on the subject: &quot;Immigration, the proposals of the Parti Québécois to truly move from failure to success&quot;, available at www.pq.org/immigration.IN BRIEF Our proposals aim to:
“For 15 years, the liberal immigration policy has been a complete failure: in terms of manpower, francization, recognition of prior learning and diplomas, regionalization and retention, in particular. We have concrete proposals, immediately applicable, towards real success. A real successful immigration policy must now meet several simple objectives: respond to job shortages, particularly in the regions; ensure sufficient knowledge of French; check, at the point of entry, that candidates for immigration undertake to respect Quebec values and laws; and rely only on the tools available in Quebec. This is what we are committed to, ”said Jean ‑ François Lisée.
Regionalization of immigration
“By far, the best filter for choosing a future employee from abroad is the employer, whether private, public, cooperative or institutional. At the moment, employers are hiring these workers on a temporary basis and then, once in Quebec, they have a fast track to obtain their Selection Certificate through the Quebec Experience Program (PEQ). The same process applies to foreign students who wish to stay in Quebec. A Parti Québécois government will generalize this proven winning practice. But he will go further. In sectors and regions where there is a labor shortage, the existence of a validated job offer binding employer and candidate before arriving in Quebec will also put their file in an express lane. &#39;approval and verification of other criteria, notably linguistic, ”said Catherine Fournier.
“It is an aberration to see that in the current selection grid, an immigrant who indicates wanting to work in the region receives barely two points more than an immigrant who indicates that he wants to work in Montreal. With the current labor shortage affecting all regions of Quebec, this situation cannot go on. If we really want to reverse the trend, we have to raise the bar now. A Parti Québécois government will act quickly by modifying the selection grid so that 16 points are awarded to immigrants with a validated job offer in the region, which represents double the points currently granted to a validated job offer in the region. metropolitan area of Montreal. In addition, we will create a new category in order to grant additional points to an immigrant who undertakes to settle permanently in the region, ”added Sylvain Gaudreault.
The Parti Québécois also wants to extend the “Un emploi en sol québécois” program, which encourages immigrants living in the metropolis, where their unemployment rate is higher, to fill vacant jobs in the regions. Led by the Federation of Quebec Chambers of Commerce, this program will be extended to the three regions that do not have access to it (Bas-Saint-Laurent, Gaspésie, Côte-Nord) and will be made permanent. “Un emploi en sol québécois” has given excellent results. For the pilot project alone, 2,500 jobs were made available among more than 260 participating regional companies. The deputies also pledge that a Parti Québécois government reopen the regional offices of the Immigration Ministry and establish others in regions affected by the labor shortage.
To counter the failures of francization: ensure sufficient knowledge of French at the point of entry
It is illusory to believe that the simple increase in francization budgets will magically wipe out a failure rate of 90% and a departure rate from Quebec of 40 to 50% of immigrants who come to us before discovering that they neither have the linguistic competence necessary for integration, nor sometimes the desire to acquire it, preferring to go elsewhere. The waste of money and time, for Quebec society and for immigrants, is a huge waste. Several European countries have a solution to this problem: ensure that immigrants know the national language at the point of entry, therefore before arriving. As of 2013, 17 out of 27 countries in the European area, so 63%, required knowledge of their national language before entering their country. This of course excludes refugees and asylum seekers.
Some say that it would be impossible to recruit each year tens of thousands of qualified immigrants who, on their arrival, have knowledge of French as a first or second language. The document unveiled today shows that the global pool of French-speaking citizens exceeds 270 million people, spread across all continents.
We note, among other things, that the proportion of Portuguese (23%), Dutch (21%), British (16%) and Germans (14%) who speak French is greater than the number of Canadians outside Quebec who speak French. speak (10%). Without counting, of course, the 63 million French people, the 8 million Belgians and the 117 million French speakers in Africa. Significant concentrations are also found in Vietnam (650,000), Thailand (556,000) and elsewhere. In the United States, 1.3 million students learn it in high school every year and 216,000 students in graduate school. In Asia, between 2009 and 2013, the number of people learning French only through the Alliances Françaises offer increased by one million! The number of Chinese and Indians who learn French in higher education is growing markedly. Twenty years ago, 32 Chinese universities taught French. In 2014, there were 142!
The document released today explains how the requirement for knowledge of French at the point of entry would be adjusted according to the qualification of the job sought or obtained. As for the fears sometimes raised about the attraction of highly qualified personnel, the document reviews the exceptions currently in force which cover these specific and one-off needs, and undertakes to maintain them for the future.
Check that candidates adhere to Quebec values and laws
“The CAQ has launched an absurd debate on a“ test of values ”that it would like to give to candidates for immigration three or four years after their arrival in the territory. Otherwise, the person would be refused his Quebec Selection Certificate and would become “without status”, therefore subject to deportation by Canada. This proposal is inapplicable because a Canadian government would never agree to modify its immigration policy to meet the wishes of the CAQ. It would also have serious consequences on the human level, profoundly lacking in regard to the integration process of the candidate for immigration, that of his or her spouse, as well as that of his children - possibly born here - or to the bonds they will have developed in their employment as outside of it.
For several years, Quebec has required all adult immigration candidates to sign a declaration of values. This signature is required for the request to be valid. We will improve this declaration, including, among other things, respect for LGBTQ + rights and the ban on the wearing of religious symbols in a position of authority, as soon as our government puts it in place, ”said Catherine Fournier.
Use the tools available here and avoid the federal pitfall
“It is perfectly illusory to design, in 2018, a Quebec immigration policy relying on the goodwill of the federal government, as the CAQ does. The imperatives of the labor shortage, the needs of the regions to attract foreign students, and strong measures to curb the decline of French in the metropolis cannot wait for the goodwill of Ottawa. The Parti Québécois program on immigration completely avoids the federal pitfall. Its measures are applicable immediately and completely change the situation for jobs, for the regions and for French, ”concluded the leader of the official opposition.
