Quebec - This morning, during the interpellation concerning Quebec&#39;s immigration policy, the member for Bourget and official opposition spokesperson on immigration, Maka Kotto, reiterated his strong opposition to the simplistic proposal what the CAQ did about this earlier this week.
“Not only is the CAQ&#39;s proposal currently inapplicable, since Quebec does not fully control its immigration policy, it also represents a simplistic solution to a much more complex problem: the integration of newcomers. As usual, the CAQ surfs on a problematic in a populist way, full of intellectual shortcuts. We reiterate our opposition to his proposal; Quebec will not send a person home because they do not meet the requirements of the Legault test! The CAQ is slipping and going too far. Dismissing established newcomers is a completely devoid of humanity proposition. Obviously, this party is looking for a new identity, the Liberal government having stolen austerity and blind cuts, ”said Maka Kotto.
“Obviously, newcomers must have access to better francization services; it is therefore essential to improve the number and availability of courses in this area. However, if the CAQ was really in favor of better francization, why did it not support the improvements that we proposed, when we were in government, to the Charter of the French language? Added the deputy for Bourget.
Clear solutions
The member took advantage of the interpellation to submit the proposals of the Parti Québécois as part of the reflection on the new immigration policy in Quebec. Unfortunately, his nine recommendations to Minister Kathleen Weil were all rejected by the Liberals.
&quot;We are in favor of greater availability of resources in the regions for the integration of immigrants, of the separation of immigration policy from that of the fight against fundamentalism, and of maintaining the requirements for mastery. French. We could have significantly improved the new immigration policy, but the minister already had an idea in mind. It made its decisions on its own, without listening to most of the groups heard in the parliamentary committee, ”concluded Maka Kotto.
