Saint-Eustache– The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and the MNA for Deux-Montagnes, Mr. Daniel Goyer, announce the establishment of a new family medicine unit (UMF ) affiliated with the University of Montreal at the Lac-des-Deux-Montagnes Health and Social Services Center (CSSS).
“We have made a commitment to improve the accessibility of care and services by consolidating the first line and increasing the number of family physicians. This announcement is precisely in line with this objective, since this new UMF will increase the family medicine reception capacity of the Université de Montréal network while increasing the service offer to the population of the territory ”, declared the Minister Hébert.
The new UMF, which will adhere to the family medicine group (GMF) model, will be able to accommodate six residents from next July and, from 2016-2017, will have a capacity of sixteen residents, three externs and a nursing intern. practitioner specializing in primary care.
“I am delighted that our government is following through on its commitment to strengthen primary care. In addition to contributing to the training of the next generation in medicine and the health sciences, which will benefit the entire Quebec population in the longer term, this new UMF improves, here and now, access to high-quality local care and services, ”said the MNA for Deux-Montagnes, Mr. Daniel Goyer.
For the establishment of this family medicine unit, the Department grants a maximum annualized allowance of $ 712,640, of which $ 370,000 will be allocated to rental fees and arrangements. The balance will be devoted to human resources, IT resources, as well as various other functional expenses.
Currently, about 45% of medical students go into family medicine, while 55% go into other specialties. The implementation of this new UMF is part of the government&#39;s desire to increase the number of graduates in family medicine in order to reverse these proportions, and thus better meet the current and future health needs of Quebec society.
