Quebec - In favor of learning a second language for the greatest number of young Quebecers, the Parti Québécois denounces and deplores the improvisation of the liberal regime for a year for the implementation of intensive English in 6th grade.
“The implementation of the intensive English program in grade 6 is causing great concern among parents in Quebec. The government must reassure them by answering their questions, ”said the member for Jonquière and official opposition spokesperson for primary and secondary education and literacy, Sylvain Gaudreault, who testified today in the National Assembly, with the member for Champlain, Noëlla Champagne, a petition signed by several thousand people.
&quot;We are particularly concerned about the consequences for students who are lagging behind in their learning and for students with pervasive developmental disorder (PDD) or with attention deficit disorder with or without hyperactivity (ADHD),&quot; said continued Sylvain Gaudreault.
For the member for Champlain, the Liberal government is failing in its responsibilities by keeping parents concerned. “Quebec parents are asking themselves legitimate questions and the government must answer them clearly. What type of education will be provided to their children in such a context of improvisation? », Wonders Noëlla Champagne.
Let us recall that the partners of the Minister of Education, namely the Federation of Teaching Unions and the Autonomous Federation of Teaching, withdrew from the working committee ensuring the implementation of Intensive English; they believe that the consultation of the community was poorly done.
“The former Minister of Education, Line Beauchamp, affirmed during the study of the appropriations last April that she would resume contact with these unions so that they return to the committee. Two months later, a lot has happened in education, but nothing has changed in this regard. We have changed ministers and we are sailing from crisis to crisis. With the current minister&#39;s problems, we can fear the worst and that nothing will change, ”concluded the member for Jonquière.
