Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu– The MP for Saint-Jean and Deputy Government Whip, Mr. Dave Turcotte, and the MP for Iberville, Ms. Marie Bouillé, announce on behalf of the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible des Aînés, Doctor Réjean Hébert, the establishment of a new family medicine unit (UMF) affiliated with the University of Sherbrooke at the Haut-Richelieu-Rouville Health and Social Services Center (CSSS).
“Our government is committed to improving the accessibility of care and services by consolidating the first line and increasing the number of family physicians. This announcement is precisely in line with this objective, since this new UMF will increase the family medicine reception capacity of the Université de Sherbrooke network, while accentuating the service offer to the population of the territory ”, declared Minister Hébert.
The new UMF, which will adhere to the family medicine group (GMF) model, will be able to accommodate four residents and four clinical immersion trainees from next July. From 2017-2018, it will have a capacity of sixteen residents, two externs and four nurse practitioner trainees specializing in primary care.
“It is essential that during training, family physicians have access to well-structured internship environments, where they are supervised by experienced physicians. In addition to contributing to the training of the next generation in medicine and the health sciences, this new UMF improves access to high-quality local care and services in our region. At the same time, by being trained here, our future professionals are made aware of the peculiarities of medical practice in environments such as ours, ”said Mr. Turcotte.
Ms. Bouillé added: “I believe in the importance of local health services for the citizens of the constituency I represent. In this sense, I have worked tirelessly to attract doctors to Iberville in order to provide better access to the first line. The upcoming opening of a UMF will provide our region with an attractive hub for new family doctors who, after their training, will be able to choose to settle here, in Montérégie, permanently. And we will all work in this direction. &quot;
The MNA for Chambly and Minister of Justice, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, for his part said: “I am delighted that our government is following through on its commitments in terms of front-line services with such a judicious choice. The number of family physicians is increasing every year, which can only benefit the population of Montérégie and other regions of Quebec. &quot;
For the implementation of this new family medicine unit, the Department is granting a maximum annualized allowance of $ 748,600, of which $ 304,500 will be allocated to rental fees and arrangements. The balance will be devoted to human resources, IT resources, as well as various other operating expenses.
Currently, about 45% of medical students go into family medicine, while 55% go into other specialties. The implementation of this new UMF is part of the government&#39;s desire to increase the number of graduates in family medicine in order to reverse these proportions, and thus better meet the current and future health needs of Quebec society.
