Contrecœur– Martine Ouellet, Member of Parliament for Verchères, Stéphane Bergeron, Member of Parliament for Saint-Jean and President of Montérégie regional caucus, Dave Turcotte, and the Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Richelieu, Sylvain Rochon, wish to recall that the establishment of a logistics hub in Contrecoeur remains an essential choice so that Quebec can maximize the benefits. linked to the projected increase in the transport of goods by sea.
“Due to its geographic position, Quebec has an undeniable comparative advantage in becoming a world leader in containerized maritime transport. In addition, maximizing transport by train and boat helps minimize our carbon footprint. In the context of the Canada-Europe agreement and the expansion of the Panama Canal, containerized transport will take an increasingly important place in the Quebec economy. A logistics hub in Contrecoeur will allow us to be ready to meet demand, ”said Martine Ouellet.
“No one can doubt the region&#39;s ability to host an intermodal logistics hub of international caliber. The Contrecoeur site is a port accessible 12 months a year, land already in an industrial zone, well-established regional social acceptability and the presence of a major partner in this type of project: the Port of Montreal. With a logistics hub in Contrecoeur, the Port of Montreal could handle up to 3.5 million containers annually, which is nearly double its current capacity. It would thus become one of the three most important ports in North America, ”added Stéphane Bergeron.
“A study carried out by Lemay + DAA strategies and E&amp;B Data, and made public last December, confirmed that the Contrecoeur site has significant advantages. The study is clear; the logistics hub could generate direct and indirect spinoffs in the order of $ 8 billion over a 20-year horizon. In November 2013, the Parti Québécois National Council unanimously adopted a resolution supporting the establishment of a modern intermodal hub in Contrecoeur, ”said Dave Turcotte.
“The government must move forward with the Contrecoeur site. The people of the region are ready to face the challenges that lie ahead. It should not be a partisan issue; we are talking about an important decision for the entire Quebec economy. This is the creation of more than 24,000 jobs and potential tax benefits of up to $ 249 million. As the study by Lemay + DAA strategies and E&amp;B Data says, to maximize the benefits, the government must adopt a coherent strategy &quot;quickly and aggressively&quot;. Does the liberal candidate in Richelieu, Benoît Théroux, agree with the people? Will he position himself on his side or on the side of the government? ”Sylvain Rochon concluded.
Watch the press conference.
