Quebec - MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and Parti Québécois spokesperson for international relations, Carole Poirier, denounces the new liberal cuts in the field of diplomacy and international relations, which will force the abolition of nearly a quarter positions of representatives of Quebec abroad.
&quot;I find it heartbreaking, and even embarrassing, to see that the Liberal government suffers from such a lack of vision, ambition and pride when it comes to ensuring Quebec&#39;s presence and influence on the international scene,&quot; or to develop and maintain relationships with other nations. The Minister of International Relations and La Francophonie, Christine St-Pierre, did not even try to save the budgets allocated to her ministry, ”lamented the spokesperson.
Carole Poirier is worried about the abdication of the Couillard government in the area of international relations. “Once again, the Liberals prefer to delegate this lever to the federal government, as if we were unable to show off ourselves, or even as if we had no particularity to shine, no potential to develop. This attitude of withdrawal is purely ideological! In the end, it is our entrepreneurs, our artists, our researchers and our young people who will pay the price for the Liberals&#39; abdication in terms of Quebec&#39;s international influence, ”she added.
The member urges Minister St-Pierre to reverse her decision. “The Minister is working to shrink 60 years of work devoted to ensuring Quebec&#39;s presence abroad. Moreover, if she shuts down, liquidates or slashes all Quebec diplomacy, what exactly will she be minister of? The very relevance of his position is called into question by his decisions! Then, is it not important for Philippe Couillard&#39;s Liberals that Quebec make its voice heard internationally? Minister St-Pierre unfortunately has a habit of acting first and then apologizing; however, this time, when the harmful effects of his decision will be felt, in 5, 10 or 15 years, it will be too late to regret, ”she concluded.
