Sainte-Claire– The Minister for the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, announces, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Development Bank Quebec economist, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation of non-refundable financial assistance of $ 600,000 to the company Baldor Électrique Canada (Baldor). The $ 6 million project involves modernizing the equipment at the Sainte-Claire plant and thus increasing its production capacity. For its part, Baldor is investing heavily in the project, which is mainly financed by its internal funds.
In October 2011, the possibility of transferring the production of certain products from its factory located in Mexico to another factory of the group was studied at the head office of Baldor. To come first, the Sainte-Claire plant had to demonstrate that it was the best option in terms of costs and production capacity. In August 2012, the parent company officially announced that four types of pulleys would henceforth be manufactured at the Sainte-Claire plant. To date, about half of Mexican production has moved to St. Clair.
&quot;The Baldor subsidiary is a major contractor in Quebec,&quot; said Minister Gaétan Lelièvre. “We are delighted that it continues to invest heavily in Quebec, and that is why the Quebec government encourages foreign companies to solidify their foundations here. The competitiveness of a company requires increased productivity which essentially involves innovation and the modernization of its equipment. This intervention will allow the company to consolidate all 175 existing jobs and create 11 new ones, which is excellent news for the economic development of the Chaudière-Appalaches region. &quot;
Founded in 1964 under the name Poulies Maska inc., The Baldor plant in Sainte-Claire was acquired by the American company Baldor Electric Co. in 2008, then by the Swiss group ABB in 2011. It is part of the American division Baldor, itself a member of the Discrete Automation and Motion division of the Swiss group ABB. Specializing in the design, manufacture and marketing of high-end mechanical power transmission products designed for a wide variety of industrial applications, the plant employs 175 people.
&quot;Our production capacity was greater and the investment required to manufacture the products at home was less than the investment required to produce them in Mexico or transfer them to North Carolina,&quot; explained Mr. Pierre Boutin, director of the &#39;Sainte-Claire factory. “We have also worked in partnership with Investissement Québec and received the support of the Department of subsidiaries of foreign companies, which supported us in our dealings with our senior executives. We also obtained financial assistance of $ 600,000; this element has certainly worked in our favor. &quot;
Thanks to new equipment, the Sainte-Claire plant is now more efficient. The new range of value-added products will allow the company to access a growing market, increase its sales volume and continue to develop its know-how.
