Sherbrooke– L&#39;Habitation Mont-Bellevue, which has 16 new affordable housing units for families and individuals, was officially inaugurated today by the member for Sherbrooke and vice-chair of the public administration committee, Mr. Serge Cardin, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, in the presence of the mayor of Sherbrooke , Mr. Bernard Sévigny, and many community partners.
This project, carried out thanks to the SHQ&#39;s AccèsLogis Québec program, required investments of more than $ 2 million. The government of Quebec, through the SHQ, has granted financial assistance of more than $ 869,000 for the construction of this real estate complex. The community&#39;s total contribution amounts to nearly $ 480,000, of which some $ 252,000 comes from the City of Sherbrooke. Finally, it should be noted that the SHQ also guarantees the mortgage loan taken out by the organization Le Parallèle for social housing to complete the financing of this unique project which has given a second life to an old church.
“It is a real pleasure to inaugurate the Habitation Mont-Bellevue, because this type of project makes it possible to counter the devitalization and promotes the dynamism of our community. Our government is proud to have helped transform this neglected place into a stable and affordable living environment for 16 households in the region, ”said MP Serge Cardin.
“Converting this church into affordable housing for families and individuals is allowing this meaningful building to once again assert its presence in the community. It is a great pride for our organization to contribute to the preservation of this heritage ”, affirmed Mr. Robert Pouliot, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Office municipal d&#39;habitation de Sherbrooke and administrator of the Board of Directors of Parallèle. of social housing.
Half of the households at Habitation Mont-Bellevue benefit from the Rent Supplement program, which allows them to pay only 25% of their income for housing. This additional assistance represents an investment of nearly $ 138,000 over five years, 90% assumed by the SHQ and 10% by the City.
Société d&#39;habitation du Québec Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether it is by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000 people. households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
