Gatineau– The population of the Outaouais sector now benefits from a most modern multipurpose sports complex thanks to joint funding from the Government of Canada and the Government of Quebec.
This was announced today, on the occasion of the inauguration of the Branchaud-Brière Complex, the Minister of State (Democratic Reform) and Member of Parliament for Nepean-Carleton, the Honorable Pierre Poilievre, on behalf of the Minister of Infrastructure, Communities and Intergovernmental Affairs and Minister of the Economic Development Agency of Canada for the Regions of Quebec, the Honorable Denis Lebel, as well as the Minister of Public Security, Minister responsible for the region from the Outaouais and Member of Parliament for Verchères, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport and Member of Parliament for Taillon, Mrs. Marie Malavoy. They also took the opportunity to recall the joint Canada-Quebec financial assistance of up to $ 12 million granted to Vision Multisports Outaouais, for the realization of this project, in addition to a contribution from the Government of Quebec of $ 4 million. of dollars.
&quot;This new complex offers residents of the Outaouais the opportunity to be active and will contribute to the well-being of young people, families and residents for many years to come,&quot; said Minister of State Pierre Poilievre. Our government is proud to invest in infrastructure projects like this because we prioritize job creation, growth and the development of strong and prosperous communities across Canada. &quot;
“It is a privilege for our government to participate in the inauguration of this new sports infrastructure in Gatineau. By supporting the Branchaud-Brière Complex project, it thus contributes to the socio-economic development of the region. Indeed, for the City of Gatineau, this sports complex makes it possible to offer a center of excellence in ice sports and, by the same token, promotes the development and progression of local and regional athletes. In addition, the new complex offers an alternative of choice to those who enjoy physical activities aimed, among other things, at encouraging the population, mainly young people, to be active and adopt healthy lifestyles, ”declared Minister Stéphane Bergeron. .
Remember that the Branchaud-Brière Complex has two sections: a first housing two ice surfaces and bleachers of around 1,400 seats and including common service areas including a sports store, changing rooms, a physiotherapy center, a restaurant family and administrative offices. As for the second section, it offers an indoor synthetic soccer-football field adjacent to the Nicolas-Gatineau high school and integrated into the complex.
Joint assistance from the governments of Canada and Quebec, for a maximum of $ 12 million, has been granted to Vision Multisports Outaouais for the two ice surfaces. It comes from the Major Projects component of the Canada-Quebec Building Fund, which aims to finance the construction of major infrastructure projects of national and regional importance and which contributes to economic growth and environmental improvement. and the prosperity of communities.
In addition, financial assistance of $ 4 million is granted for the development of the indoor synthetic soccer-football field, which comes from the Fund for the development of sport and physical activity as part of the Facilities Support Program. sports and recreation from the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. By creating this fund, the Quebec government wanted to allow its regions to benefit from quality sports facilities.
Note that Vision Multisports Outaouais, the City of Gatineau and the Commission scolaire des Draveurs are also contributing to the construction of this new sports complex.
Economic Action Plan 2013 puts in place a new Building Canada plan to build roads, bridges, subways, commuter trains and other public infrastructure in collaboration with provinces, territories and municipalities. Thanks to the leadership of the Government of Canada, as well as to a solid economic and financial foundation, the Canadian economy has recovered better from the global recession than most other industrialized countries. Canada has been a leader among the G-7 countries during this period, generating over 965,000 net new jobs since July 2009. The new Building Canada plan, combined with other federal infrastructure investments, is helping to maintain Canada&#39;s infrastructure advantage, which is a key catalyst for economic growth and job creation.
The Government of Quebec&#39;s contribution to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
For more information on federal infrastructure investments and to follow web feeds, visit Infrastructure Canada.
For more information on the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, visit the website www.infrastructures.gouv.qc.ca/plan-infrastructure/index.asp.
For more information on Canada&#39;s Economic Action Plan, visit Canada&#39;s Economic Action Plan website.
Also available in English atInfrastructure Canada.
