Wendake - On the occasion of the inauguration of the longhouse, the Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale, Ms. Agnès Maltais, the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, and the Minister responsible for Indigenous Affairs, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche , wish to underline the historical, cultural, economic and tourist contribution of the Huron-Wendat community for the Capitale-Nationale and for all of Quebec.
Symbol par excellence of the legendary culture and hospitality of the Huron-Wendat nation, the longhouse, which adds to the many attractions of the historic site of the First Nations, contributes to enriching the cultural and tourist offer of the Capital- National.
“Our two nations have built this region through a strong partnership based on mutual respect. The inauguration of the longhouse once again demonstrates the dynamism of your nation and your willingness to share with us the various facets of your culture ”, underlined Minister Maltais.
“The addition of the longhouse reinforces the exceptional tourist offer of Wendake and, consequently, of the Quebec region. While offering visitors authentic experiences of Wendat life, it showcases the rich Aboriginal culture and testifies to the important heritage of the Huron-Wendat nation. It is exactly on this kind of attraction that it is necessary to bet to distinguish oneself on the international markets ”, declared Minister Bérubé.
“Opening the door to one&#39;s home means welcoming people there, making them discover what we are, what sets us apart. With the inauguration of its longhouse, the Huron-Wendat nation takes us into its world in an unusual way, allowing us to discover its history and customs. This is an original initiative which will enrich our knowledge of the First Nations and which will help consolidate the relations of friendship between the people of Quebec and the Aboriginals, ”said Minister Larouche.
The Government of Quebec&#39;s contribution of $ 140,000 is distributed as follows: $ 100,000 comes from the Secrétariat à la Capitale-Nationale, of which $ 50,000 comes from the regional tourism partnership agreement, and $ 40,000 comes from of Tourisme Québec.
Attached to the Minister of the Executive Council, the Secretariat advises the government and the minister responsible for the region, Ms. Agnès Maltais, on any question or measure having a significant impact on the region and its social, cultural, tourist and economic development. The Secretariat acts in concert with its various governmental and regional partners, while financially supporting the realization of projects that contribute to the growth of the Capitale-Nationale for a mobilized, innovative, festive and international region.
