Saint-Joachim-de-Montmorency– The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, took part today in the inauguration of the Amexco local slaughterhouse inc. of the Blondel Farm. This is the fourth establishment to have complied with the Law on the regularization and development of local slaughterhouses (chapter R-19.1) and to obtain a local slaughterhouse permit.
It should be remembered that this permit authorizes the operator to carry out two types of activity, namely the slaughtering and preparation of meat for the exclusive purposes of retail sale or delivery to the consumer. It also offers companies the possibility of having a second meat preparation workshop which aims in particular to promote local purchasing.
The Minister took the opportunity to congratulate the managers and team of the Ferme Blondel slaughterhouse and thank them for their collaboration. “You have every reason to be proud of your success and to be optimistic about the future of your business. Switching from a transitional slaughterhouse to a local slaughterhouse is a rigorous process that requires compliance with precise standards and significant investments. You have taken on this challenge brilliantly, ”he said.
The Ferme Blondel slaughterhouse is one of 61 establishments in Quebec which benefited, in 2010, from a transitional slaughterhouse permit and which must complete the necessary arrangements to obtain the local slaughterhouse title before June 2015. The Ministère de l&#39;Agriculture, des Pêcheries et de l&#39;Alimentation offers financial assistance to operators through the Support Program for the Standardization of Quebec Slaughterhouses.
In the case of the Ferme Blondel slaughterhouse, financial assistance of $ 216,000 was paid to the company, on the one hand, to carry out a technical audit project and an environmental conformity assessment project. and, on the other hand, to carry out the physical arrangements and acquire the necessary equipment with regard to compliance with standards and environmental compliance.
“I would like to thank all the partners who made this project possible, two years before the deadlines prescribed by law. We are eager to introduce our customers to quality products slaughtered and prepared in ultramodern facilities and according to the highest standards of health, ”said Gilles Rivard, owner of Ferme Blondel.
“In the wake of our Food Sovereignty Policy, support for transitional and local slaughterhouses testifies to the importance for our government of maintaining slaughtering services which are essential both for producers and for the development of our biofood industry. In addition, the activities of these establishments are in line with government guidelines in terms of promoting short marketing circuits and local markets and supporting the maintenance and development of animal production in the region ”, explained Mr. François. Gendron.
To find out more about the Quebec Slaughterhouse Standardization Support Program, you can visit the Ministère&#39;s website at www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca / panaq. For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can regularly consult the blog www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or visit the sectionwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSAd of the Ministère&#39;s website. He can also be followed on Twitter at the e-mail address twitter.com / mapaquebec.
