Sherbrooke– On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and of the Minister responsible for Tourism, Pascal Bérubé, the Minister responsible for the Estrie region, Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors , Réjean Hébert, participated today in the inauguration of the new permanent exhibition at the Musée de la nature et des sciences de Sherbrooke, entitled AlterAnima, uncommon encounters.
“The new permanent exhibition takes a dynamic approach to natural and environmental issues. This renewal in its museum offer will undoubtedly allow the institution to maintain itself as an important cultural lever for the region. I would like to underline the will to dare and the concern for high quality in the activities shown by those in charge of the Museum. This spirit of openness in the field of popular science can only be beneficial in gaining new audiences, ”declared Minister Hébert.
“I salute the result of this original and daring collaboration between the Museum and the general and artistic director of the Théâtre de Quat&#39;Sous in Montreal, Éric Jean, in the context of this new exhibition. No doubt visitors of all ages will appreciate it. This novelty will breathe new life into the museum&#39;s cultural offering, which will undoubtedly remain a reference and a leader in the sphere of dissemination of scientific culture in Quebec, ”Minister Kotto said.
“Bold and visionary, this invitation to discover nature will appeal to the population as well as tourists who love new places. The holding of the Canada Summer Games in Sherbrooke this year represents an exceptional opportunity for the museum to make itself known and distinguish itself across Canada. I am convinced that this new exhibition will contribute to the cultural and tourist influence of the Eastern Townships destination, ”Minister Bérubé said.
Remember that the creation of the exhibition AlterAnima, Unusual Encounters was made possible thanks to a $ 500,000 grant from the Government of Quebec. This financial assistance was broken down as follows: $ 400,000 came from the Creation and renewal of permanent exhibitions in museum institutions component of the Quebec Cultural Heritage Fund of the Ministry of Culture and Communications and $ 100,000 was allocated under the support for tourism development and promotion, Strategic assistance for Tourisme Québec tourism projects component.
