Sherbrooke– People in difficulty or at risk of homelessness now have access to 22 affordable housing units in two buildings in Sherbrooke. The Coop de solidarité l&#39;Autre-Toit, built thanks to the AccèsLogis Québec program of the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), was inaugurated today by the Member of Parliament for Sherbrooke, Mr. Serge Cardin, on behalf of the Minister of Affairs Municipalities, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Sylvain Gaudreault.
The government of Quebec and its community partners have invested more than $ 3.2 million for the construction of the two buildings. In addition to the SHQ, which awarded a grant of over $ 1.4 million, the City of Sherbrooke contributed to the creation of the Coop de solidarité l&#39;Autre-Toit by investing nearly $ 584,000. We should also mention that the SHQ guarantees the mortgage loan taken out by the organization to complete the financing of the project.
“Thanks to this project resulting from consultation and mobilization of the community, people in very vulnerable situations now have access to quality apartments at affordable cost in addition to benefiting from the support of qualified workers. These housing units help fight social exclusion and fight homelessness, which is why our government is very proud to be associated with this local initiative, ”said MP Serge Cardin, in the presence of the deputy mayor of Sherbrooke. , Mr. Robert Y. Pouliot, and community partners.
All tenants of the Coop de solidarité l&#39;Autre-Toit benefit from the Rent Supplement Program, which allows them to pay a rent similar to that of a low-rental housing, or 25% of their income. This additional financial assistance represents an amount of nearly $ 379,000, spread over five years and assumed 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the City of Sherbrooke.
Finally, it should be noted that the project received a grant of more than $ 36,000 from the Office of Energy Efficiency and Innovation of the Ministry of Natural Resources to ensure that it meets the standards of the Novoclimat program, which ensures tenants a significant saving on the heating costs of their home.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether it is by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000 households every year. year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec. This is why the Government of Quebec announced, in its most recent budget, a budget envelope of $ 231M for the construction of 3,000 affordable housing units over the next few years.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
