Montreal - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, accompanied by the Member of Parliament for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques and Parliamentary Assistant to the Premier (transportation electrification component), Mr. Daniel Breton, confirmed the non-refundable financial contribution of $ 1 million from the Government of Quebec to ADM Agri-Industries, a subsidiary of Les Minoteries ADM. This financial assistance, allocated through Investissement Québec, was aimed at the acquisition of new production equipment in Montreal, an investment of more than $ 20 million. The Minister made the announcement at the time of the inauguration of the new facilities.
“Productivity is at the heart of the survival of Quebec businesses, since it is the very basis of better competitiveness in the agro-industrial sector as in the manufacturing sector as a whole,” said Élaine Zakaïb. “Automation makes it possible to improve the productivity of the company while strengthening its sustainability and consolidating quality jobs. ADM Agri-Industries therefore made the right choice by deciding to automate its production. In addition, this project is perfectly in line with the objectives of the Food Sovereignty Policy. &quot;
&quot;By supporting this important project, our government is promoting the maintenance of Quebec expertise in the food processing sector and helping to keep 75 quality jobs in the region,&quot; said Daniel Breton. “This investment will have significant economic spinoffs for the neighborhood and the metropolitan region, but also for all of Quebec. &quot;
Also called the Moulin Royal, the ADM flour mill operates three mills for the production of wheat flour and semolina, and its daily production capacity is 900 metric tons. The revitalization project, which required investments of more than $ 20 million, mainly aimed at replacing the No. 2 flour mill with a new fully automated unit. The greatly improved extraction capacity of the mill will ensure better yields.
&quot;I would like to thank the Quebec government for its support for our modernization project in Montreal,&quot; said Mark Kolkhorst, president of Les Minoteries ADM. “We were able to erect a brand new factory within the existing facilities, which made the Moulin Royal a model facility. Our productivity and competitiveness gains will benefit ADM Agri-Industries and our customers across Canada. &quot;
