Thetford Mines– The Minister of International Development and Minister for La Francophonie and Member for Mégantic - L&#39;Érable, the Honorable Christian Paradis, as well as the Member for Repentigny and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (National Water Policy component), Mr. Scott McKay, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, celebrate today the inauguration of the Thetford Mines filtration plant.
“Water is essential to life and our government is proud to support the construction of the drinking water treatment plant in Thetford Mines, which will provide clean, safe water to the community for years to come. , said Minister Paradis. Investments in infrastructure, like this one, create jobs, support economic growth and contribute to Canada&#39;s long-term prosperity. &quot;
“I am very proud to participate, today, in the inauguration of the new filtration plant in the City of Thetford Mines, which is now equipped with the most modern essential infrastructure. Thus, the government assistance granted for this new infrastructure makes it possible to provide quality drinking water, thus promoting the health and well-being of citizens, in addition to improving public services to the community. Access to quality drinking water is a fundamental right, an essential service for all, ”added MP Scott McKay.
&quot;I am very happy with the completion of this important infrastructure project which will improve drinking water infrastructure and strengthen the power of attraction of Thetford Mines,&quot; said the mayor, Mr. Luc Berthold, who thanked the two levels of government for their tangible support for the new Thetford Mines filtration plant.
Remember that the entire project to bring drinking water supply installations up to standard includes, among other things, the construction of a filtration plant with a water intake in Grand lac Saint-François, various connection works. on the aqueduct networks of the Thetford Mines Center, Pontbriand and Robertsonville sectors as well as the repair and addition of drinking water reservoirs. Work to protect the underground water supply wells and repair the pumping station and drinking water reservoirs is also planned in the Black Lake sector. Some work is in progress and the project is expected to be completed by spring 2014. All of these interventions will help improve public health and the quality of life of citizens.
Federal and provincial funding comes from the Major Projects component of the Building Canada Fund, which aims to finance public infrastructure with a national or regional impact. Eligible costs for this project are estimated at over $ 57.3 million. The maximum contribution from the governments of Canada and Quebec is nearly $ 25.1 million each, to which is added the contribution of the City of Thetford Mines of just over $ 7 million.
Economic Action Plan 2013 puts in place a new Building Canada plan to build roads, bridges, subways, commuter trains and other public infrastructure in collaboration with provinces, territories and municipalities. Thanks to the leadership of the Government of Canada, as well as the country&#39;s strong economic and financial foundations, the Canadian economy has recovered better from the global recession than most other industrialized countries. Canada has been a leader among the G-7 countries during the period of economic recovery, creating more than one million net new jobs since July 2009. The new Building Canada plan, combined with other federal infrastructure investments, maintains Canada&#39;s infrastructure advantage, which is a key catalyst for economic growth and job creation.
Remember that the contribution of the Government of Quebec is part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI).
