Rivière-Rouge - The parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, and Member of Parliament for Repentigny, Mr. Scott Mckay, attended the inauguration of the Kiamika Reservoir Regional Park, in the Laurentians, less than 200 kilometers from Montreal. The inauguration took place in Rivière-Rouge in the presence of the various government and regional partners who played a role in the creation of this regional park. “Today we are witnessing the realization and achievement of a common vision aimed at preserving the region&#39;s biodiversity and improving the quality of life of the population in the long term. I have no doubts that visitors of all ages will enjoy it, ”said MP Scott McKay.
The Kiamika Reservoir Regional Park will offer a wide range of activities to users, who will be able to discover a unique biodiversity. Designed thanks to a partnership between the Ministry of Natural Resources (MRN), the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupation (MAMROT) and the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP), this park meets the needs of visitors as well as those of residents of the area.
Covering an area of 184 km2, the Kiamika Reservoir Regional Park is located on lands in the domain of the State. It constitutes a unique territory in Quebec because of its strong recreational potential and the proximity of the Mont-Tremblant international airport. Visitors will appreciate its sandy beaches and wilderness. They will be able to go hiking, camping, canoeing and sea kayaking there. Starting in the summer of 2013, the park will offer tourist products such as cruises and activities to explore natural environments.
“This event crowns all the efforts invested in the development of the Kiamika reservoir. The regional community and the ministries concerned have been actively involved in this process for about ten years. The new regional park will be a real lever and generate long-term economic, environmental and social benefits, ”concluded Mr. McKay.
