Victoriaville– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, on behalf of the Minister responsible for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, at the inauguration of the Victoriaville Industrial Ecopark, confirmed the allocation of a $ 31,500 grant to the Economic Development Corporation of Victoriaville and its region (local development center) (CDEVR (CLD)).
The industrial ecopark, set up in a new section of the Fidèle-Édouard-Alain industrial park in Victoriaville, aims to create an area for companies wishing to adopt a sustainable development approach as part of their daily activities. Government support will make it possible to hire a resource responsible for implementing the concept and implementing a support process.
&quot;The Victoriaville Industrial Ecopark is a promising addition for the manufacturing sector of Victoriaville and that of Center-du-Québec,&quot; said Yves-François Blanchet. “Already, the three industrial parks in Victoriaville are making a strong contribution to the region&#39;s economic dynamism. They represent prime locations for businesses. Now, the industrial ecopark will lead them to adopt new business practices that take into account the principles of sustainable development, an initiative that I welcome. &quot;
The support approach, called the d2 approach, aims to support companies that want to adopt new practices that respect the principles of sustainable development. This will therefore be compulsory for companies that decide to set up in the industrial ecopark. However, it will also apply, on a voluntary basis, to those in the industrial sector of Victoriaville located outside the ecopark but interested in applying new, more responsible business practices. A guide for businesses in the Victoriaville Industrial Ecopark will also be developed in order to explain, in particular, urban planning standards, the management of rainwater and energy resources, the sharing of infrastructures and the protection of natural environments.
&quot;The industrial ecopark project reflects our government&#39;s desire to promote the development of a sustainable development approach that combines economic prosperity, environmental protection and social progress for the benefit of current and future generations&quot;, said the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb. “The ecopark concept, which calls for the commitment of everyone to implement responsible business practices, is a promising initiative for the economic players in Victoriaville, and our government is proud to support it. &quot;
&quot;I would like to underline the exemplary participation of the various players who made possible the opening of the industrial Ecopark of Victoriaville&quot;, declared the mayor of Victoriaville, Mr. Alain Rayes. “This initiative once again demonstrates the vision of our municipal and economic stakeholders and their commitment to sustainable development. &quot;
“The Ecoparc and the support process rely above all on a change in behavior and ways of doing things; supporting businesses is therefore essential ”, underlined the president of the CDEVR (CLD), Mr. Johnny Izzi. “In order to properly plan this project, we consulted about sixty companies and stakeholders to find out their expectations regarding such an approach. The Victoriaville Industrial Ecopark and the d2 approach are therefore reflective of their needs and suggest interesting benefits, in terms of sustainable development, for the region. &quot;
The CDEVR (CLD) is a non-profit organization whose mission is to support economic development and increase the international influence of industries in Victoriaville and its region. She collaborates with local organizations, institutions and working committees in order to put in place tools favorable to business growth. She also works on prospecting and bringing to fruition foreign investment projects in the region.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
