Val-d&#39;Or– The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, proceeded today, along with the Minister for Native Affairs and Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Est, Ms. Elizabeth Larouche, at the inauguration of the new bridge spanning the Louvicourt River, on Route 117. “Renewing our road infrastructure is at the heart of the priorities of the Quebec Ministry of Transport. This new infrastructure is not only adapted to the needs of all users, but it is a very important asset not only for Abitibi-Témiscamingue, but also for all of Quebec, ”said Minister Gaudreault during the meeting. &#39;event.
Beginning in February 2013, the construction of the new Louvicourt bridge required investments of $ 6.4 million. To allow this work to be carried out, the construction of a temporary bridge was necessary. The demolition of the old bridge began on February 11, 2013 and road users were able to use two lanes on the new bridge as of mid-October 2013.
From left to right: Yves Coutu, Sylvain Gaudreault, Élisabeth Larouche. // (c) MTQ MAMROT.
“The new bridge replaces the old concrete bridge, built in 1949, which had reached the end of its useful life. With an average daily throughput of around 3,200 vehicles, 28% of which are trucks, the Louvicourt bridge therefore plays an essential role in the economic development of our vast and rich region, as well as in its supply. It is considered to be the most strategic since it is located on a very important axis, namely Highway 117 which links Abitibi-Témiscamingue to the south of the province, ”Ms. Larouche noted.
The new Louvicourt bridge has two traffic lanes with paved shoulders. Lighting has been installed there to accommodate pedestrians and cyclists, the bridge being part of the Route verte.
“I am particularly pleased with the fact that the deadlines and the budget were rigorously respected in the realization of this project. You can all be very proud of the work accomplished, ”concluded Minister Gaudreault.
