Drummondville– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, confirmed, on behalf of the Minister Delegate for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation of two loans totaling $ 1,450,000 to the company Structure Acier BRL 2000. Granted by Investissement Québec, financial support was provided to was devoted to building a new assembly plant and adding new equipment. Completion of this project, which required investments totaling $ 4.6 million, will create some 15 new jobs.
“In Quebec, and particularly in our beautiful region, we have dynamic businesses that are contributing to the development of the manufacturing industry,” explained Minister Yves-François Blanchet. “BRL 2000 steel structure knows how to meet the challenges it faces and actively participates in the growth of our regional economy. With her project, she consolidates the industrial vocation of Center-du-Québec, in addition to creating quality jobs. &quot;
BRL 2000 steel structure specializes in the design, manufacture and installation of metal frames. It erected a new 50,000 square foot building on 300,000 square feet of land. This will house all of the company&#39;s departments as well as the new modern and efficient factory. There are plans to double the number of assembly stations in order to meet the increase in production capacity and reduce the use of subcontracting.
“The manufacturing sector is a major spearhead of our economy,” said Minister Delegate Élaine Zakaïb. “Thanks to the Québec industrial policy, we have implemented measures aimed at manufacturing companies in all regions and aimed at helping them modernize, innovate, grow and become the flagships of tomorrow. &quot;
Minister Yves-François Blanchet confirms the allocation of two loans totaling $ 1,450,000 to the company Structure Acier BRL 2000. // (c) Yves-François Blanchet (source)
