Amqui - The Minister for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Matane-Matapédia, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, proceeded today, on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, at the inauguration of the new André Blouin footbridge, fitted out for off-road vehicles and located above the Matapedia River, in downtown Amqui.
This multifunctional footbridge, a rigid steel structure with a roof and measuring 49 meters in length, will replace the old one, whose maintenance had become difficult, in particular because of the flooding. This section of trail is shared with the Trans-Québec road and the network of quads trails of the Club VTT de la Matapédia. This project is the result of a partnership between the Ministère des Transports, the Fédération des clubs de motoneigistes du Québec, and the snowmobile and quads clubs of the Valley under the Financial Assistance Program for Trail Infrastructure and Protection of wildlife.
All of the work represents an investment of $ 161,000, i.e. $ 61,000 from the Ministry of Transport, $ 15,000 from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupation (Fonds conjoncturel de développement), and 85,000 $ from various local and regional partners.
“The off-road vehicle industry generates economic spinoffs in Quebec of more than $ 2 billion annually. The sums invested in this project fully justify the commitment of the Government of Quebec to support this leisure activity, which is also a major tourist attraction contributing to the economic vitality of our regions, ”declared Minister Gaudreault.
“I am delighted with the completion of this promising project for our region. This new footbridge ensures accessibility and user safety while greatly helping to mitigate the inconvenience caused by the passage of ORVs near residential areas of the city, ”said the Minister Delegate.
“In addition, the practice of snowmobiling and quad biking is an important tourist lever. It is therefore essential to set up quality trail infrastructures, with the greatest respect for local residents and wildlife habitats, ”said Mr. Bérubé.
For the 2012-2013 fiscal year, nearly $ 4 million was granted to various promoters under Part I of the Financial Assistance Program for trail infrastructure and wildlife protection. In June 2013, the Quebec government announced additional financial support of $ 1 million per year over 3 years, among other things to assist ORV federations in the implementation of sustainable trail projects. In total, more than $ 7.2 million will be allocated in 2013-2014.
