Saint-Rémi - It was time for celebration today for the tenants and craftsmen of the La Rémoise housing complex, whose second phase installations were inaugurated by the deputy for Sanguinet and parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Finance and Economy, Mr. Alain Therrien. The 24 housing units, intended for seniors with a slight loss of autonomy, were built through the AccèsLogis Québec program of the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ). More than $ 3.2 million has been invested by the Government of Quebec and its partners in the field for the realization of this highly anticipated project by the community of Saint-Rémi.
“Thanks to the construction of these affordable housing units, the deans of Saint-Rémi and the surrounding area benefit from a stimulating, safe living environment adapted to their needs. By moving forward with projects like this one, the Quebec government promotes the autonomy of tenants and home support for seniors, which delays or prevents the use of public accommodation services, ”declared the deputy Alain Therrien, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault.
In addition to the SHQ, which granted a subsidy of nearly $ 1.5 million and which guarantees the mortgage loan taken out by the organization, community partners have contributed more than $ 627,000 to the project. Of this amount, some $ 577,000 comes from the City of Saint-Rémi, while more than $ 50,000 has been granted by the Office of Energy Efficiency and Innovation of the Ministère des Ressources naturelles to ensure that the building meets the standards of the Novoclimat program.
“Projects like this never get carried out without the cooperation of stakeholders, both political and community, and a persevering board of directors. Thus, 24 households made up of people aged 65 and over can age in a healthy and safe environment that encourages their commitment, helps to break their isolation and promotes the development of their potential. The entire community is delighted with the completion of this project, ”said François Trudeau, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Habitations La Rémoise.
It should be noted that additional financial assistance of more than $ 413,000, spread over five years and assumed 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the City, currently allows more than half of tenants to benefit from the Rent Supplement program. . Thus, these low-income households pay a rent similar to that of a low-rental housing, or 25% of their income.
Note that the first phase of La Rémoise, located a few steps from the building inaugurated today, also benefited from a subsidy of nearly $ 1.2 million granted through the SHQ&#39;s AccèsLogis Québec program. This residential complex of 24 units intended for families welcomed its first tenants in 2008.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether it is by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000 people. households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
