Havre-Saint-Pierre– The Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the Government of Quebec, traveled today to the Côte-Nord to observe the damage, and to support the municipalities concerned as well as tourism industry stakeholders.
The minister, passing through Havre-Saint-Pierre, met with the mayors of the municipalities affected by the forest fires of recent weeks as well as the leaders of the Côte-Nord | Duplessis regional tourist association. He was able to realize that the various attractions of the region are ready to welcome visitors despite the forest fires that have raged in the region in recent days and that many activities remain available from Tadoussac to Natashquan.
In addition, the Minister reminded that the efforts of the many SOPFEU firefighters mobilized in the region and the rain of the last few hours made it possible to stop the progression of the fire located in the Baie-Johan-Beetz sector. Everything is being implemented through the partners involved in the Regional Civil Security Organization to fight this forest fire that is raging on the North Shore. Minister Bérubé recalls that Route 138 is once again accessible to automobile traffic, that electricity has been restored in all the villages of the Côte-Nord and that refueling is normally carried out on the territory. All the conditions are currently met so that visitors can travel to the region in complete safety and enjoy the welcome of the people of the North Shore.
Mr. Bérubé stressed that the government&#39;s priority is to protect individuals and communities, which has also been done, in particular by securing the communities of Eastmain near Baie-James and Baie-Johan-Beetz on the North Coast.
“The region, which has more than 435 tourism companies, offers diversified products concealing exceptional natural environments. All industry players work in collegiality to ensure the renewal and sustainability of the tourism offer in the region. Tourism entrepreneurs do important work every day to develop and innovate and to ensure that the tourism industry develops up to its potential, ”said the Minister. He also invites people to visit the various attractions of the Côte-Nord region and to support the tourist community in large numbers.
