Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, informs the population that the situation on the North Shore is under control. There are currently 55 active forest fires in Quebec, including 10 in intensive protection zones. These are all mastered or contained.
“The Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, ensured the protection of the entire territory of the Lower North Shore. We have deployed all the necessary means to attack and contain the fire that is raging in the Baie-Johan-Beetz region. Moreover, almost all of the resources north of the 51st parallel have already been mobilized in this sector. The teams are hard at work and fighting intensive battles to ensure the safety of the population. Tank planes and additional personnel are dispatched to assist, ”said Ms. Marois.
Resource people are on site to conduct operations smoothly over the next few days. The director general of the Côte-Nord region of the Ministry of Natural Resources is in Havre-Saint-Pierre and makes sure that everything is in place to meet the needs of the population. Protection of the Aguanish sector is assured. Precipitation was observed in the area and the fire was maintained about 32 kilometers away. Encouragingly, the wind is blowing north, which should keep the blaze away from the communities. In Natashquan, there is no threat.
“Combined with the hard work of our wildland firefighters, the weather is expected to reduce forest fire activity over the next few days. There is therefore every reason to be confident. That said, it is essential to respect the preventive measures so as not to ignite new fires and to facilitate the work of our firefighters, ”added the Premier.
Remember that the government banned access to and traffic in the forest in the Baie-Johan-Beetz sector yesterday. This community is no longer threatened and road 138 has been opened to allow the reintegration of the population.
Even though no Hydro-Quebec installation is threatened, the Crown corporation continues to monitor them closely.
“I want to congratulate our forest firefighters who are doing a remarkable job in extremely difficult conditions. The people of Quebec are aware of your efforts and are grateful to you for them, ”concluded the Premier.
Citizens can consult the following government website to find out about the situation and the instructions in force: www.urgencequebec.gouv.qc.ca.
