Quebec - In order to regain the public&#39;s confidence, when it comes to justice and the appearance of justice, the member for Saint-Jérôme and leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, asked Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard entrust the investigation into the allegations of abuse caused to Native women and targeting eight Val-d&#39;Or police officers to an independent committee. The director of the Bureau of Independent Investigations (BEI), who has already been appointed, could indeed create an ad hoc committee of independent people to conduct the investigation while waiting for the BEI to be operational.
“Last Thursday, I already made this request to the Prime Minister. He stood up and told us he was comfortable with a police investigation of the police. Obviously, the Prime Minister considers that police forces can conduct an independent investigation into other police officers. However, our duty, as parliamentarians, is as much to assure the victims that full justice will be rendered as to preserve the public&#39;s confidence in the police. The investigation launched by the government does not allow this second obligation to be fulfilled, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“Investigating the allegations is one thing. However, it is important to also look at the living conditions of Aboriginal people. This is also why my colleague Carole Poirier obtained an initiative on the living conditions of aboriginal women in connection with sexual assault and domestic violence, ”he added.
The leader of the official opposition also recalled that the Ombudsperson said in an interview yesterday that the investigation should be entrusted to the BEI. &quot;What would prevent the director of this office from creating an ad hoc investigation team?&quot; It would give more credibility to the current investigation, ”she said.
“In light of the Protector&#39;s comments, the Prime Minister should realize that entrusting the investigation to an independent committee is the only thing to do. However, today the government rejected our motion which went in this direction. In addition, the Prime Minister says he still has confidence in his Minister of Public Safety, despite his admission that she had been aware of the allegations for several months already. In short, from the start, this file has been handled in an erratic manner, the result, first of all, of a lack of judgment on the part of Minister Thériault, ”concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau.
