Quebec - While new cases of Indigenous women victims of sexual assault by police officers have been denounced, the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in the area of public safety, Pascal Bérubé, the spokesperson in the status of women, Carole Poirier, as well as the spokesperson for indigenous affairs, Guy Leclair, wonder why the government still refuses to launch independent investigations into the cases revealed by the journalists of Investigation.
Let us first recall that the government of the Parti Québécois created the Bureau of Independent Investigations (BEI), and that the Minister of Public Security has the power to give it the mandate &quot;to carry out an investigation into any event involving a police officer. peace &quot;. The BEI was supposed to be operational in April 2016. “What is this government waiting for to entrust the BEI with the investigation into the attacks on indigenous women? Moreover, how is it that the training budgets for police officers of the Sûreté du Québec on the Aboriginal reality have been slashed? The responsibility of a Minister of Public Security is to correct this situation as quickly as possible, ”insisted Pascal Bérubé.
“When the cases of sexual abuse suffered by Aboriginal women in Val-d&#39;Or came to light, the Liberal government refused to launch independent investigations to shed light on the events. Today, new cases are added; this shows that what these aboriginal women experienced is not an isolated phenomenon. Lise Thériault, as Minister of Public Security, had said no to independent investigations. As Minister responsible for the Status of Women, does she admit her mistake? When will she act to protect these women? There is an emergency, all this has gone on long enough! », Insisted Carole Poirier. Until the inquiries are triggered, the spokesperson suggests that the government put forward measures to put an end to the practice known as the “geographic cure”, which consists of leaving Aboriginals in the middle of nowhere, the time for the effects of alcohol to wear off. “It would be a good start, if we really want to do justice to aboriginal people,” she said.
“Last fall, Premier Philippe Couillard declared that all of society was responsible for the situation in which Aboriginal communities found themselves, particularly Aboriginal women. Now is the time to show that words mean something to the Prime Minister and his ministers. The government has no right to let these women down, ”Guy Leclair concluded.
