Quebec - The leader of the official opposition and member for Saint-Jérôme, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the member for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, the member for Labelle and President of the Laurentian caucus, Sylvain Pagé, and the member for Bertrand, Claude Cousineau, denounce the refusal of the Minister of Health to respect the law and ensure the independence of the complaints process in Quebec hospitals.
At the request of the users&#39; committee of the CSSS des Sommets dans les Laurentides, the Québec Ombudsman conducted an investigation and concluded that the complaints advisers of health establishments no longer have the independence required to exercise their functions, since , with the entry into force of Bill 10, they became employees of the new CISSS. Recall that lawyer Jean-Pierre Ménard had also denounced the minister&#39;s reform, warning him that it compromised the rights of users of the health and social services network.
“The Québec Ombudsman tells the Minister that his reform violates the law, and he replies that the law will have to be changed so that it respects its reform. It&#39;s the world upside down! This reasoning is unacceptable and absolutely undemocratic. The Minister must rectify the situation and immediately put in place a truly independent complaints process, ”demanded Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“We salute the vigilance of the members of the CSSS des Sommets users &#39;committee to ensure that users&#39; rights are respected. In the large regions of Quebec, such as the Laurentians, these devoted and generous citizens are our eyes and our ears in order to identify the needs of a population often dispersed over very large territories. With his Bill 10, the minister has practically put them aside. I ask him to be worthy of his office; it must now take corrective measures to ensure that it complies with our laws, as requested by the Québec Ombudsman. He must also hear and take into account the words of these volunteers who are only seeking the well-being of citizens facing illness and suffering, ”declared Sylvain Pagé.
“User committees and complaints offices are essential sentinels in the health system. In addition, Bill 10 has moved users away from decision-making centers, which adds an obstacle for those who would like to file a complaint. The handling of complaints must guarantee independence and confidentiality. The minister&#39;s attitude is worrying, because he should at all times be concerned about the safety of the population. Its closure proves that it is ready to challenge the fundamental rules of good governance and that it imposes a culture of silence, to the detriment of the protection of the most vulnerable, ”added Diane Lamarre.
“It is deplorable that users, especially those in the Laurentians region, can no longer adequately make their voices heard within the decision-making bodies of the new CISSS and CIUSSS. We will continue to support them and work to ensure that their concerns are heard, ”concluded Claude Cousineau.
