Quebec - The Member for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and Parliamentary Assistant (fisheries section) to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Ms. Jeannine Richard, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, announces the allocation of financial assistance of $ 56,183 for the realization of two projects in support of the development of the seal industry.
On the one hand, financial assistance of $ 40,000 is granted to the Willie-Deraspe Foundation, of the Magdalen Islands, for the creation of a traveling exhibition aimed at making the general public aware of the issues and realities of the seal industry. The communities of Îles-de-la-Madeleine, Newfoundland and Labrador and Nunavut are committed to the implementation of this project, which will be spread over three years. The exhibition will offer a different perspective on the sealing industry, in particular by putting in context the reality and the perspectives of this industry. The design and organization of the exhibition were entrusted to Mr. Raoul Jomphe, director and screenwriter of the documentary entitled Phoque le film and author of the exhibition Phoque la controverse. Five regions from Quebec, Nunavut and Newfoundland and Labrador will host the exhibition.
“The disinformation practiced by some animal groups is seriously damaging the viability of this industry. It is important to educate the population and make the general public aware of the realities of this industry as well as the repercussions of this mammal on fishery resources and on communities, ”stated François Gendron.
On the other hand, the Association des chasseurs de phoques des Îles-de-la-Madeleine receives financial assistance of $ 16,183 for the realization of an experimental project which will consist in verifying the effectiveness of meat and fat residues. seal as bait for shellfish fishing. Declining stocks of species such as herring and mackerel, which are traditionally used as bait in shellfish fishing, are driving up operating costs for fishing companies. &quot;This project could well lead to an interesting alternative solution for the fishermen of the archipelago: it would promote the profitability of their business and would constitute an important lever for the development of the seal industry in the archipelago&quot;, indicated the Minister. .
“Seal hunting is a traditional activity for the communities of the Magdalen Islands and the Lower North Shore and it contributes to the vitality and economy of these communities. It is important to maintain and encourage initiatives aimed at demystifying the controversy concerning this industry and enhancing the potential of an abundant species around the Magdalen Islands ”, highlighted Ms. Jeannine Richard.
Financial assistance comes respectively from the Financial Support Program for Collective Initiatives in the Commercial Fisheries and Aquaculture Sector and the Innovamer Program. These financial assistance measures meet the objectives set in the Food Sovereignty Policy by contributing to the development and prosperity of the biofood sector.
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, please consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food ( www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
