Quebec, September 20, 2016 –Martine Ouellet, Member of Parliament for Vachon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on transport, asks the Committee on Transport and the Environment (CTE) to quickly undertake a mandate of initiative in order to &#39;&#39; analyze the agreement reached between the government and the foreign multinational Uber.
Ms. Ouellet therefore supports the motion presented today by the Member for Mercier, who also demands that the National Assembly take note of the request to suspend the pilot project with Uber, made by the majority of players in the taxi industry.
“The agreement reached does not respect the word given by the former Minister of Transport, Jacques Daoust, and creates two categories of taxi drivers. The new minister, Laurent Lessard, must explain this about-face to all parliamentarians and the 22,000 families affected. The Parti Québécois will continue to defend the rights of workers in the taxi industry and fair treatment, ”first explained the Member for Vachon.
“The Parti Québécois has always demanded that there be fair treatment between UberX drivers and taxi drivers. However, currently, the agreement ignores the taxi license, valued at between $ 150,000 and $ 200,000, and provides for charges at such a low level that it would take more than 200 years to compensate taxi drivers. In addition, the agreement does not require payment of tax arrears, estimated at more than $ 20 million before the start of the pilot project. We must obtain answers in parliamentary committee on these elements and several others, ”added Martine Ouellet.
“It is important to remember that in this file, it is not a question of technology, because all the actors - the drivers, the taxi intermediaries and the political class - are in agreement with the new technologies. Quebec companies have developed mobile geographic location applications that are just as, if not more advanced than Uber&#39;s and with programmers from here, in Quebec, ”the spokesperson concluded.
