Quebec - Following parliamentary consultations on the taxi industry, which ended last Thursday, MP Martine Ouellet, Parti Québécois spokesperson for transport, maritime strategy, transport electrification and digital strategy, communicated the expectations of the Parti Québécois to the Minister of Transport, Jacques Daoust.
“The parliamentary commission on the taxi allowed us to hear more than thirty speakers from various backgrounds. We were thus able to obtain a more real and current portrait of the state of affairs in the taxi industry, both in terms of technological developments which have already been deployed since 2009, but unevenly, and in terms of financial aspects. , security and insurance, ”said the MP.
Minister Daoust must immediately suspend illegal transport “Despite the indignation of the Minister of Transport, UberX refused to suspend its activities during the parliamentary commission. In what other industry does the Liberal Party government condone openly illegal activity? It is essential that Minister Daoust take the means at his disposal to suspend illegal transport, as the city of Calgary has done with its injunction, or by calling Bill 593, tabled by the Parti Québécois and aimed at countering the illegal taxi. Paris also did it, like Spain and several cities in Germany. There is no reason for the Liberal Party&#39;s inaction. This suspension, if not voluntary, must be in effect until the adoption of a new bill. Otherwise, how can we guarantee social peace and respect for the new rules? », Asked Martine Ouellet.
Improved customer experience and service offering
The Parti Québécois asks the Minister to ensure:
to facilitate the experience for customers;
by generalizing the implementation of digital technologies that integrate, in the same mobile application, geolocation, electronic payment, the Revenu Québec module for taxes as well as an evaluation of the customer experience;
by making a single umbrella mobile application available for all of Quebec or for major territories, which would allow customers to choose between the different taxi companies or the nearest taxi. In addition, independent owners could have access to a mobile dispatch system. This avenue seems particularly interesting to us;
to ensure a better offer in the territory;
by allowing the Commission des transports du Québec to set incentive rates, for example for evenings, weekends and holidays;
Finally, Martine Ouellet asks Minister Daoust to clarify his thoughts. “The minister has already made progress on the license buyback, but nothing is clear. How many licenses does he want to buy back? At what price? And to whom? Who will pay? Does the Minister intend to embark on the business of acquiring and leasing taxi permits? All of this is unclear and needs clarification. We must ensure that the drivers receive fair compensation, commensurate with the investments they have made to acquire their license, ”she concluded.
