Montreal - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, welcomes the report tabled by the Fashion working group.
In addition to providing a portrait of the fashion and clothing industry in Quebec, the report proposes solutions to the challenges it faces. The seven recommendations of the Fashion working group relate to adapting to new demands and trends in the global market, recruiting and training the workforce, updating the industry&#39;s brand image as well as harmonization and intensification of networking between companies in industry and those in other sectors.
“In a context of fierce competition, our fashion and clothing industry must equip itself to face the challenges that currently prevail in the markets, both locally and internationally,” declared Élaine Zakaïb. “I am happy to see the long-term vision adopted by the industry and its willingness to mobilize to ensure its sustainability and prosperity. &quot;
The Fashion working group is made up of twelve business leaders. It is co-chaired by Ms. Anna Martini, vice-president of Groupe Dynamite, and Mr. Elliot Lifson, vice-president of the board of Peerless Clothing. The group&#39;s mandate was to diagnose the industry and list its needs, with the aim of increasing its competitiveness. He also proposed concrete actions aimed at supporting creators and companies in the implementation of winning business strategies.
“Our fashion and clothing industry has taken an important turn to respond to the changes that have occurred in recent years, and it will have to continue to meet challenges in order to generate wealth,” added Élaine Zakaïb. “I would like to thank the members of the Mode working group for their invaluable help in this demanding process of reflection and consultation. We will conduct a full analysis of the report and give appropriate follow-up, to the benefit of the industry. &quot;
&quot;With our working report, we want to allow the fashion and clothing industry to grow and take its rightful place both in Quebec and internationally&quot;, jointly stated the co-chairs of the Fashion working group. , Ms. Anna Martini and Mr. Elliot Lifson. “We are convinced that our proposals will enable this booming industry to meet today&#39;s challenges and that they will create prosperity for Quebec. &quot;
