Quebec - The member for Sanguinet and official opposition spokesperson for the Conseil du trésor and in matters of information resources, Alain Therrien, questions the formation of a committee by the president of the Conseil du trésor, Martin Coiteux, in which private IT companies will be called upon, jointly with the government and the State&#39;s largest IT clients (CSST, RAMQ, SAAQ, health and education networks, etc.), to define the orientations, information technology policies and priorities for action.
“At least six of the ten largest IT providers in the Quebec public sector are part of the associations that will sit on the committee with the government. The proximity between the needs of government agencies and service providers is worrying. In fact, there is a good chance, in our opinion, that the orientations, policies and priorities for action are favorable to these same suppliers. The minister even excluded representatives of public sector professionals from the committee, demonstrating his bias towards external suppliers. I wonder about the Minister&#39;s real desire to bring expertise back in-house, ”said Alain Therrien.
Let us recall that the Parti Québécois government had worked to increase the autonomy of the government in matters of information technology, unlike what is currently being done. To do this, he planned to create two centers of expertise in computer science, in Rimouski and Saguenay. The Parti Québécois government also planned to set up a center of expertise for free software. Unfortunately, all of these initiatives were held back by the Liberal government.
In addition, in 2004, the Charest government seated the largest consulting engineering firms and the Ministry of Transport at the same table, with the aim of developing a vision of partnership. History seems to repeat itself. “The committee formed by Martin Coiteux is exactly like that of 2004, and we know the rest: major loss of expertise for the State, sharp increase in contracts awarded to the private sector, cost overruns, collusion, corruption and, ultimately, of the Charbonneau commission, which splashed the Liberal Party. It is not a good idea to leave the development of guidelines and priorities for action to the private sector; Quebecers will lose again, ”concluded the member for Sanguinet.
