Montreal - “What happened this week is overwhelming. People are worried, discouraged and exasperated by this government which refuses to take its responsibilities and by Minister Hamad who is in denial. How can Minister Hamad declare that the roads are all safe when the Prime Minister himself said it was a miracle that no one was injured? It is time to put an end to the improvisation, laxity and lack of leadership of the Charest government, ”declared the leader of the official opposition and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the spokesperson for the official opposition. in transport and MNA for Gouin, Nicolas Girard, and MNA for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Martin Lemay.
“The Minister of Transport of Quebec is clearly overwhelmed by events. However, the Prime Minister is washing his hands of this, he is not showing any leadership. However, the situation is serious and in a few days people will be coming back from vacation and there will be chaos on the roads. I therefore ask the Prime Minister to abandon the public relations of the Plan Nord and switch to the “Plan Sud” ”, indicated Ms. Marois.
“The collapse of the beam in the Ville-Marie tunnel unfortunately demonstrated to us the inability of the Charest government to manage a major crisis, thus breaking the bond of trust in Quebecers. There is a flagrant lack of transparency and monitoring on the sites. It is absolutely deplorable that Minister Hamad, with the complicity of Jean Charest, denies any responsibility when we have learned since Sunday that the Ministry of Transport had not authorized the plans and specifications for the work in the Ville-Marie tunnel. How does the minister explain that no employee of the Ministry of Transport was supervising the site at the time of the incident last Sunday? Added Ms. Marois.
“As for transparency, without the insistence of the Parti Québécois and the work of journalists, Quebeckers would have been kept in the dark. In the issue of road infrastructure in the Montreal region, opacity has become the trademark of this government. I believe that Montrealers and Quebeckers are smart enough to understand the issues related to road transport in our metropolis. We once again demand that all inspection reports concerning road infrastructure be made public, ”insisted Nicolas Girard.
“This new incident on our road network directly affects the lives of Montrealers and the residents of my riding. It also has a significant impact on the city&#39;s economy. Improvisation must stop, ”said Martin Lemay.
“In order to avoid future problems for citizens and businesses in the Montreal region, we are prepared to work with the government. Here are some suggestions:
“After the known problems on the Champlain Bridge, the Turcot interchange, the Dorval interchange, the Mercier bridge and now the Ville-Marie highway, the state must restore the confidence of citizens, that it regain control of planning and evaluation of projects. Finally, we need leadership and transparency, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
