Montreal - The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, and the Minister of Culture and Communications and Member of Parliament for Bourget, Mr. Maka Kotto, are proud to announce a government investment of $ 110.50 million in the Montreal region. This sum will allow the construction of an elementary school ($ 11.96 million), the expansion of 17 school buildings ($ 91.93 million) and additional funding for projects already authorized ($ 6.61 million). ).
“These significant investments clearly demonstrate that education is our government&#39;s priority. The projects announced will have the effect of adding 184 classes, which will welcome students from three school boards. This is enough to give the taste and the pleasure of learning! In total, this year, we will build 23 schools and fund 46 expansions for a total sum of $ 460 million, double the amount of last year! ”Ms. Malavoy said.
“I am very happy to participate in this announcement and I look forward to Montrealers! These infrastructure investments will have a direct impact on the services offered to them as well as on the well-being and quality of life of families in several neighborhoods. By meeting the major needs for premises and space for students and school staff in the metropolitan region, our government is demonstrating a real vision for the future for Quebec, ”added Minister Lisée.
“As the member for Bourget, I am happy to take part in this announcement, which targets my riding. Students at Louis-Dupire school will benefit from an addition of classes, like many others in the Montreal region. In my view, our government is proving that it is listening to the public and that it is taking concrete steps to provide them with accessible school buildings in sufficient numbers, ”said Mr. Kotto.
Thanks to this government assistance, the Commission scolaire de Montréal is obtaining a sum of $ 11.96 million for the construction of an elementary school. It will also be able to carry out seven school expansion projects: Saint-Gérard ($ 5 million), Bedford ($ 3.58 million), Saint-Noël-Chabanel, Pavillon des Découvreurs ($ 3.05 million) , Ahuntsic ($ 3.96 million), Léonard-De Vinci, preschool and undergraduate pavilion ($ 8.5 million), Guillaume-Couture ($ 6.08 million) and Louis-Dupire (6, $ 54 million).
This same school board also obtains a sum of $ 6.61 million in additional funding for projects already authorized. In total, the students of the Commission scolaire de Montréal will benefit from the addition of 83 classes and gymnasiums.
For its part, the Pointe-de-l&#39;Île School Board will be able to carry out five school expansion projects: René-Guenette ($ 5.72 million), Roseraies ($ 5.31 million), Jacques-Rousseau ($ 5.04 million), Pie-XII ($ 6.84 million) and Jean-Nicolet ($ 5.04 million). In total, the students of this school board will benefit from the addition of 66 classes and a gymnasium.
Finally, for the Marguerite-Bourgeoys School Board, it will be able to expand five schools: Enfants-du-Monde ($ 1.52 million), Vanguard ($ 11.07 million), Paul-Jarry (5 , $ 81 million), John-F.-Kennedy ($ 3.15 million) and Enfant-Soleil ($ 5.72 million). The students of this school board will benefit from the addition of 35 classes, gymnasiums and service spaces.
In total, over the next ten years, nearly $ 8.1 billion in investments will be used to improve Quebec&#39;s school infrastructure. Whether adding space, maintaining assets or other initiatives, these investments demonstrate the government&#39;s desire to offer quality educational services to students in environments conducive to learning. learning and development, while ensuring sound management of public funds.
With the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, the government is making sure to renew and improve infrastructure in all sectors, including educational institutions, the road network, public transit, health and social services institutions, municipal infrastructure, cultural facilities, social housing and public security establishments.
As soon as it came to power, the Parti Québécois government set about cleaning up investment projects. The ten-year horizon of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan will make it possible to assess needs prospectively, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make the right choices for Quebec. This new way of planning and managing infrastructure is based on honesty, integrity and thoroughness.
