Quebec - The member for Drummond and official opposition spokesperson for language and immigration, Yves-François Blanchet, joins his voice to that of the Société Saint-Jean-Baptiste de Montréal to denounce the nonchalance and the laxity of the minister responsible for the application of the Charter of the French language. “It is deplorable to have to wait for a citizen to take the initiative to identify violations of Bill 101 in the Minister&#39;s constituency so that she becomes aware of the problem. No less than 76 infringements were noted in terms of commercial signage. How can the minister have ignored this problem all this time when she has it in front of her every day? When is she finally going to take off her rose-colored glasses and face reality? », Declared Yves-François Blanchet.
The member for Drummond also vigorously denounces the reaction of the minister who, once again, takes pleasure in denial and minimizes an observation which is nevertheless blatant. “Yesterday, she even candidly admitted on a television set that some posters in her constituency were undoubtedly temporary, leaving the viewer to think that ultimately the situation is not so serious. Should we teach the minister that a poster is not posted for one or two weeks? A sign, normally, it is not really temporary, Madam Minister ”, added the deputy.
“This government does not care about protecting French and giving it the means to truly flourish in Quebec and particularly in Montreal. Why such a renunciation? The Office québécois de la langue française lacks the resources to do its work and signage complaints now represent 46.5% of complaints received, according to the organization&#39;s 2010-2011 annual management report. We must immediately give it the means to achieve its ambitions. The Parti Québécois will see to it! », Specified the spokesperson.
Yves-François Blanchet finally mentions that the Minister showed intellectual dishonesty by declaring yesterday that the Parti Québécois had refused last year to vote in favor of increasing the fines provided for in the event of an infringement of the Language Charter. French. “What Ms. St-Pierre forgot to mention is that these measures were slyly placed by her government in Bill 115 on bridging schools which was imposed on us by gag order. How can we so lack intellectual probity? Instead of participating by her laxity in the anglicization of Montreal and Quebec, the minister would do better to get down to work and propose real measures to strengthen the Charter of the French language. It&#39;s urgent !!! ”, Concluded the member for Drummond.
