Laval - The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, and the Minister of Families and Minister responsible for the Laval region, Ms. Nicole Léger, announce a government investment of $ 35.08 million in this region. This sum will allow the construction of two schools ($ 23.24 million), the expansion of a school building ($ 8.14 million), the acquisition of a building ($ 2.80 million) as well. and furniture financing ($ 900,000).
“These significant investments clearly demonstrate that education is a priority for our government. The announced projects will have the effect of adding 85 classes for the students of the Commission scolaire de Laval. This is enough to give the taste and the pleasure of learning! In total, this year, we will build 23 schools and fund 46 expansions for a total sum of $ 460 million, double the amount of last year! ”Ms. Malavoy said.
“These infrastructure investments will have direct spin-offs on services to the population of the Laval region as well as on the well-being and quality of life of families in different neighborhoods. By meeting the significant needs for premises and space for students and school personnel in this region, our government is demonstrating a true vision for the future for Quebec, ”added Minister Nicole Léger.
Thanks to this government assistance of $ 35.08 million, the Commission scolaire de Laval will be able to carry out five projects.
Sums of $ 12.91 million and $ 10.33 million will allow the construction of two elementary schools. The first will be located in the eastern sector of Laval, in the riding of Mille-Îles. The second will be located in the Vimont sector, in the riding of the same name.
In addition, an amount of $ 8.14 million has been allocated for the expansion of the Jean-Lemonde school, in the riding of Fabre. Another sum of $ 2.80 million is granted for the acquisition of the Laval Campus from the Vanguard private school, in the riding of Laval-des-Rapides, and for the financing of furniture.
Finally, a sum of $ 900,000 has been allocated to finance furniture for the Jean-Piaget school, in the riding of Chomedey.
In total, over the next ten years, nearly $ 8.1 billion in investments will be used to improve Quebec&#39;s school infrastructure. Whether adding space, maintaining assets or other initiatives, these investments demonstrate the government&#39;s desire to offer quality educational services to students in environments conducive to learning. learning and development, while ensuring sound management of public funds.
With the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, the government is making sure to renew and improve infrastructure in all sectors, including educational institutions, the road network, public transit, health and social services institutions, municipal infrastructure, cultural facilities, social housing and public security establishments.
As soon as it came to power, the Parti Québécois government set about cleaning up investment projects. The ten-year horizon of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan will make it possible to assess needs prospectively, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make the right choices for Quebec. This new way of planning and managing infrastructure is based on honesty, integrity and thoroughness.
