Îles-de-la-Madeleine– The Member for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (fisheries component), Ms. Jeannine Richard, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, announces investments estimated at more than $ 3.5 million from the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food for the refurbishment of the ice manufacturing and distribution plant located in Cap-aux-Meules in the Magdalen Islands.
This infrastructure, which is essential for the fishing industry in the archipelago, produces nearly 2,000 tonnes of ice annually, used in particular for the preservation of fish and shellfish on board fishing boats and the refrigeration of marine products during their processing.
“All of the plant&#39;s equipment, built in 1975, had become obsolete and could no longer adequately meet the needs of its users. In order for fishing and marine products processing companies and wholesalers in the archipelago to continue to benefit from this service, the plant&#39;s equipment had to be improved, ”said Ms. Richard.
The work that is in progress should be completed in March 2014 before the start of the new fishing season. In particular, they will allow the installation of new ice-making equipment, a continuous, more secure and versatile ice payment and distribution system. The project also provides for the replacement of the overhead conveyor by an underground conveyor, as well as the construction of two food grade ice reserves.
This project meets the objectives of the Food Sovereignty Policy by allowing the fisheries sector to benefit from conditions favorable to the growth and sustainable development of the biofood industry.
With investments of $ 2.3 billion and annual food demand of nearly $ 34 billion generating 475,000 jobs, the biofood industry is a driving force behind the Quebec economy.
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, we invite you to regularly consult the blog (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and its website (www .mapaq.gouv.qc.ca / PolitiqueSA), or to follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
