Quebec - The Minister of Finance and the Economy and Member of Parliament for Rousseau, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, and the Member for Mirabel, Ms. Denise Beaudoin, are pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and du Sport, Marie Malavoy, a government investment of $ 19.36 million that will allow the Seigneurie-des-Mille-Îles School Board to build two elementary schools.
“These significant investments clearly demonstrate that education is a priority for our government. The announced projects will have the effect of adding 42 classes for students of the Seigneurie-des-Mille-Îles School Board. This is enough to give the taste and the pleasure of learning! In total, this year, we will build 23 schools and fund 46 expansions for a total sum of $ 460 million, double the amount of last year! », Declared Mr. Marceau.
It should be noted that in total, for the Laurentides region, the investment will amount to $ 48.73 million. Earlier today, the Minister announced $ 29.37 million in assistance to the Rivière-du-Nord and Laurentides school boards for construction and expansion projects.
“Investing in such infrastructure will have direct benefits for the services to the population of the Laurentians region as well as for the well-being and quality of life of families in different neighborhoods. As the Member of Parliament for Mirabel, I rejoice for my fellow citizens! By meeting the significant needs for premises and space for students and school staff, our government is demonstrating a real vision for the future for Quebec, ”added Denise Beaudoin, Member of Parliament for Mirabel and Mr. Daniel Goyer, Member of Parliament. of Deux-Montagnes.
The Seigneurie-des-Mille-Îles School Board is obtaining $ 9.68 million for the construction of a 21-class elementary school, which will be located in Saint-Joseph-du-Lac.
It was also granted another sum of $ 9.68 million for the construction of a second elementary school with 21 classrooms, this time in Mirabel, in the Saint-Augustin sector.
In total, over the next ten years, nearly $ 8.1 billion in investments will be used to improve Quebec&#39;s school infrastructure. Whether adding space, maintaining assets or other initiatives, these investments demonstrate the government&#39;s desire to offer quality educational services to students in environments conducive to learning. learning and development, while ensuring sound management of public funds.
With the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, the government is making sure to renew and improve infrastructure in all sectors, including educational institutions, the road network, public transit, health and social services institutions, municipal infrastructure, cultural facilities, social housing and public security establishments.
As soon as it came to power, the Parti Québécois government set about cleaning up investment projects. The ten-year horizon of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan will make it possible to assess needs prospectively, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make the right choices for Quebec. This new way of planning and managing infrastructure is based on honesty, integrity and thoroughness.
