Saint-Jérôme - The Minister of Finance and the Economy and Member of Parliament for Rousseau, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs. Marie Malavoy, a government investment of $ 29.37 million for the Rivière-du-Nord and Laurentides school boards. This sum will allow the construction of an elementary school ($ 10.05 million), the expansion of three school buildings ($ 13.76 million) and two additional funding for the realization of two projects already authorized (5, $ 56 million).
“These significant investments clearly demonstrate that education is a priority for our government. The projects announced will have the effect of adding 55 classes and gymnasiums for students from the Rivière-du-Nord and Laurentides school boards. This is enough to give the taste and the pleasure of learning! In total, this year, we will build 23 schools and fund 46 expansions for a total sum of $ 460 million, double the amount of last year! », Declared Mr. Marceau.
It should be noted that in total, for the Laurentides region, the investment will amount to $ 48.73 million. In fact, $ 19.36 million in assistance has been allocated to the Commission scolaire de la Seigneurie-des-Mille-Îles for the construction of two elementary schools.
“Investing in such infrastructure will have direct benefits for the services to the population of the Laurentians region as well as for the well-being and quality of life of families in different neighborhoods. By meeting the significant needs for premises and space for students and school staff in this region, our government is demonstrating a real vision for the future for Quebec, ”added the deputies present, Ms. Denise Beaudoin, Mirabel, M Daniel Goyer, Deux-Montagnes, and Mr. Roland Richer, Argenteuil.
The Commission scolaire de la Rivière-du-Nord is thus granted a sum of $ 10.05 million for the construction of an elementary school with 21 classrooms in Sainte-Sophie.
This school board is also obtaining sums totaling $ 10.84 million for the expansion of École Sainte-Anne, in Mirabel, and École Bellefeuille, in Saint-Jérôme. Additional funding totaling $ 5.56 million will also allow it to carry out two projects already authorized, one in Saint-Jérôme and the other in Mirabel.
For its part, the Commission scolaire des Laurentides is obtaining a sum of $ 2.92 million to expand the Carrefour school, located in Amherst.
In total, over the next ten years, nearly $ 8.1 billion in investments will be used to improve Quebec&#39;s school infrastructure. Whether adding space, maintaining assets or other initiatives, these investments demonstrate the government&#39;s desire to offer quality educational services to students in environments conducive to learning. learning and development, while ensuring sound management of public funds.
With the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, the government is making sure to renew and improve infrastructure in all sectors, including educational institutions, the road network, public transit, health and social services institutions, municipal infrastructure, cultural facilities, social housing and public security establishments.
As soon as it came to power, the Parti Québécois government set about cleaning up investment projects. The ten-year horizon of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan will make it possible to assess needs prospectively, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make the right choices for Quebec. This new way of planning and managing infrastructure is based on honesty, integrity and thoroughness.
