Quebec - The Minister responsible for Government Administration and Chairman of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, today tabled in the National Assembly Bill 38, An Act respecting the governance of public infrastructure, constituting the Société québécoise infrastructure and amending various legislative provisions.
“This bill is part of our process started last fall to thoroughly review our ways of doing things, following the damning SECOR-KPMG report on infrastructure management under the Liberal government. After having established integrity and probity in the awarding of public contracts with the adoption of Law No. 1, our government now wants to provide the public administration with best practices in the management of infrastructure projects, ”declared the Minister. Minister Bédard.
As provided for in Bill 38, the government is now committed to tabling an investment plan covering a ten-year horizon. Made public last week, the new Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) provides for investments of $ 92.3 billion and the creation or maintenance of nearly 60,000 jobs on average per year throughout Quebec. This plan offers a real vision based on honesty and rigor. It will ensure better cohesion between our investment choices and our ability to pay.
The new PQI will integrate all public infrastructure investments. All will now go through the same rigorous planning and monitoring process. In addition, to be registered with the PQI, any public infrastructure project of $ 40 million or more must first be authorized.
The bill also provides, as announced last December, for the merger of the Société immobilière du Québec (SIQ) and Infrastructure Québec, in order to pool their respective know-how. The new Société québécoise des infrastructures (SQI) will provide better support to public bodies by providing them with quality supervision and monitoring in the planning and execution of projects. The government will thus ensure optimal management of project risks, costs and schedules.
The bill also provides for the filing of an annual investment management plan (PAGI) by each minister with regard to the investments of his department and of the bodies under his responsibility. These plans will present, in particular, a forecast of the effect of public investments in infrastructure on the achievement of the objectives and orientations of each public body in terms of infrastructure as well as on government spending, reduction of the maintenance deficit. assets and the sustainability of infrastructure. This approach is part of a perspective of transparency and accountability to the public and elected officials.
“Our roads, our schools, our hospitals are a real collective wealth. These are tangible investments for our fellow citizens. We must therefore take the right steps to ensure a better planning and monitoring process for infrastructure investments. At the same time, we must ensure sound management of public resources, ”concluded Minister Bédard.
Bill 38 can be consulted on the website of the National Assembly at www.assnat.qc.ca.
