Quebec - While negotiations with Ottawa were unsuccessful for infrastructure projects in Quebec, the member for Jonquière and leader of the official opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, called on Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard so that the money owed to Quebec is quickly available to our municipalities.
“In a context where Quebec has lost 10,000 jobs over the past year, we would have expected the government to insist as much as possible in its negotiations to obtain the hundreds of millions of dollars that are due to us and that lie dormant in Ottawa. There are currently projects worth $ 14 billion, and representing thousands of jobs, waiting to be supported to start. Meanwhile, federal infrastructure funds are available for virtually all provinces except Quebec. After two years of dithering, can the Prime Minister explain to Quebeckers why the government has still not signed an agreement with Ottawa? », Asked Sylvain Gaudreault. More specifically, the Leader of the Official Opposition identified the Provincial-Territorial Infrastructure, Projects of National, Regional and Local Importance Component of the Building Canada Program, which represents $ 1.6 billion for Quebec.
“The Prime Minister boasts of having increased the number of contracts awarded without a call for tenders and of having reduced transparency for citizens. So in addition to damaging the fragile bond of trust, it does nothing to try to fix the problems that already exist. This morning in front of the UMQ, he had nothing to say to elected municipal officials. Quebec needs good economic news. We are asking the Prime Minister to tell us what is wrong with Ottawa. Between federalists, they should come to an understanding; that&#39;s what we are told all the time! But, in the meantime, jobs are being lost in Quebec and projects that could create them are blocked. What are the unacceptable conditions set by Ottawa that prevent projects from moving forward in Quebec? ”, Also insisted Sylvain Gaudreault.
