Terrebonne - The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, and the Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Minister responsible for the Lanaudière region and Member of Parliament for Joliette, Ms. Véronique Hivon, announce the construction of three schools and the expansion of eight school buildings for a government investment of $ 59.08 million in Lanaudière.
&quot;It is with great pleasure that I announce, in the Lanaudière region, the construction of three schools, for a government investment of $ 27.23 million, and the expansion of eight school buildings, for $ 31.85 million. of dollars. These investments clearly show that education is a priority for our government. The projects announced will have the effect of adding 112 classes and gymnasiums, which will accommodate students from 2 school boards. This is what communicates the taste and pleasure of learning! ”Ms. Malavoy said.
“This year,” continued the Minister, “we are going to build 23 schools in Quebec and finance 46 expansions, for a total sum of $ 460 million, more than double that of last year. &quot;
Thanks to these investments, the cities of Repentigny, Terrebonne and Saint-Paul will each be able to count on a new school to serve families. In addition, again in Terrebonne, as well as in Mascouche and L&#39;Assomption, the Commission scolaire des Affluents will benefit from substantial space additions in eight schools.
“Today, I can only rejoice for the citizens of the communities targeted by these eleven projects. A local school for children, at the heart of their living environment, makes all the difference for them and for their families. These major investments will have direct repercussions on services to the population as well as on the quality of life of local people. Our government recognizes the significant demographic increase in our region and is responding forcefully to the needs of Lanaudière residents, ”added Minister Hivon.
In total, over the next 10 years, nearly $ 8.1 billion in investments will be used to improve Quebec&#39;s school infrastructure. Whether it is about adding space, as for the projects announced today, maintaining assets or other initiatives, this investment demonstrates the government&#39;s desire to offer quality educational services to students, in environments conducive to learning and development, while ensuring sound management of public funds.
With the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, the government is making sure to renew and improve infrastructure in all sectors, including educational institutions, the road network, public transit, health and social services institutions, municipal infrastructures, cultural facilities, social housing as well as public security establishments.
As soon as it came to power, the Parti Québécois government set about cleaning up investment projects. The ten-year horizon of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan will make it possible to assess needs prospectively based on the priorities of the Quebec population, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make the right choices for the future. Quebec. This new way of planning and managing infrastructure is based on honesty, integrity and thoroughness.
