Québec - The member for Verchères and spokesperson for the official opposition in matters of ethics and integrity, Stéphane Bergeron, as well as the member for Taillon and spokesperson for health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, denounce the Prime Minister&#39;s refusal to act following allegations that the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, showed political interference and abuse of power against the management of the Center hospitalier of the University of Montreal (CHUM). The minister must resign or be shown the door by his leader.
“In his management of the crisis at the CHUM, the Prime Minister&#39;s sole motivation is to avoid having to dismiss his minister at all costs. By refusing to hold an independent investigation into the acts for which Gaétan Barrette is accused, he shows himself ready to tolerate the blackmail and intimidation that his minister is inflicting on leaders, favoring public relations over the sound management of the health network. . The methods that Gaétan Barrette would have used with regard to the directors of the CHUM are unacceptable behavior and unworthy of a minister. Three resignations were added to those of the director general and chairman of the board of directors of the CHUM, and the resigners all corroborated the allegations revealed last Thursday. These ways of doing things are inadmissible; Whether or not there is a return of the Director General of the CHUM following pressure from Philippe Couillard, the Minister cannot remain in office, ”declared Stéphane Bergeron.
Suspension of Bill 10 and independent investigation
“The Prime Minister must immediately suspend the entry into force, scheduled for next April 1, of Law 10, adopted under gag order, because too many powers are thus concentrated in the hands of the Minister of Health. Given Gaétan Barrette&#39;s way of doing things, one can wonder about potential other cases of interference. The Prime Minister must absolutely launch an independent investigation in order to shed light on all the potential situations of interference by Minister Barrette in the appointment of executives. Otherwise, Philippe Couillard&#39;s message to his minister will be clear: he can continue, with complete impunity, to demonstrate interference and abuse of power, at the CHUM as in the entire health system, ”concluded Diane Lamarre.
