Osaka - &quot;In green building, in electrification of transport, in technological innovation, the Quebec of 2014 fits remarkably into the economic priorities of Japan&quot; declared the Minister Jean-François Lisée, at the end of a six-day mission which conducted it, with 35 Quebec economic and institutional representatives, in five Japanese cities.
The Quebec message of high-tech and investment attraction was conveyed by the delegation to four members of the Japanese government, the governor of the province of Kyoto and to more than 120 representatives of companies and government organizations and about ten local journalists. Mr. Lisée was able to speak privately with senior executives from Nissan, Panasonic and Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma to discuss potential investments.
Five agreements were signed during the mission and several active files have progressed, others, many, have been initiated. Mr. Lisée praised the competitive advantage that Quebec represents for Japanese investment, given its adherence to the North American free trade treaty, the one, in the process of being concluded, with Europe and in the perspective of of a treaty, under negotiation, between Japan and Canada.
“This first mission of our government to Japan has made it possible to reaffirm the durability of Québec&#39;s commitment to Japan and to increase our business and research ties with this country at the cutting edge of innovation in several sectors. of interest to Quebec, ”declared the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée.
Accompanied by a multisectoral delegation of around thirty representatives of companies, institutions and research centers in Quebec, the Minister held important talks on politics, economy and innovation both in Tokyo , Yokohama, Osaka and Kyoto, during this mission which took place from January 19 to 24.
Japan is a highly competitive market and a world leader in science and technology, which presents many business opportunities for Quebec companies. &quot;Our exports there increased by 23% in 2012, totaling one billion dollars and we wish to increase them further significantly, in particular thanks to the tools announced in our Foreign Trade Development Plan, launched in October 2013&quot;, explained the Minister Lisée, when taking stock of the actions carried out this week in Japan.
Five partnership agreements were signed this week between organizations from Quebec and Japan. The Quebec company Acquisio, a world leader in media solutions platforms for interactive media agencies, has notably created, with its Japanese partner IREP, the joint venture Acquisio Japan. This partnership involves joint investments of $ 5 million and the creation of around 30 new jobs in Quebec. Also, the Quebec firm Toon Boom Animation, world leader in animation technology and digital content, is positioning itself advantageously with its Japanese partner HeARTBIT Digital Creation to seek in Japan a market share of up to 10% of the software of animation, from the first year.
Minister Lisée had high-level political and business talks which were an opportunity to sensitize several of the main Japanese decision-makers to the importance and the seriousness of Quebec&#39;s strategy in terms of transport electrification. On the political level, meetings were held in particular with the Minister Delegate of the Economy, Trade and Industry (METI), Mr. Yoshihiko Isozaki, the Minister Delegate of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MOFA), Mr. Seiji Kihara, as well as the Minister of Justice and President of the Canada-Japan Interparliamentary Group, Mr. Sadakazu Tanigaki and the Minister for Health, Labor and Social Affairs, Ms. Shinako Tsuchiya. On the business side, the Minister traveled to Yokohama, at Nissan Motor Corporation, to meet with the Global Vice President of Government and External Affairs, Mr. Toshifumi Hirai, as well as the General Manager of Technical Solutions, Mr. Makoto Yoshida.
In addition, the mission was an opportunity for the Hydro-Quebec Research Institute (IREQ) and the Japanese group SEI Corporation to announce their union in order to market a new technology in the field of Li-Ion batteries, including patents specific to each of the two institutions.
The Quebec Wood Products Promotion Office (QWEB) has signed a Cooperation Protocol on Forestry and the Environment with the Kyoto Model Forest Association (KMFA). By sharing their expertise in the field of forest protection and the fight against climate change, the protocol signed by these two organizations actively encourages the use of forest products as a preventive measure against climate change. and the increase in CO2.
The Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade was received by the Governor of Kyoto Prefecture, Mr. Keiji Yamada. With regard to the Declaration of intent for cooperation already in existence between the two governments, Minister Lisée proposed that cooperation projects be identified, indicating in particular Quebec&#39;s interest in the electrification of transport, which is the subject of a priority government strategy for the government of Quebec.
In the presence of Minister Jean-François Lisée, the University of Quebec in Montreal (UQAM) renewed its general cooperation agreement with the National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies (GRIPS) in Tokyo. This agreement aims to facilitate and intensify the exchanges already initiated between the partners, particularly in the areas of public administration and policy studies. Two joint research topics are identified:
The Minister took advantage of his meeting with the President of GRIPS, Mr. Takashi Shiraishi, to discuss the means to be implemented to increase exchanges of university students between Japan and Quebec.
In order to increase the creative spinoffs of our long relationship with Japan, Minister Lisée has set himself the goal of welcoming more Japanese delegations to Quebec in the coming years. Thus, at each of his meetings, the Minister promoted the C2MTL event, a beacon of creativity and innovation, which brings together in Montreal the cream of the influencers, active in all sectors of the world. &#39;Mondial economy. &quot;C2MTL is on its way to becoming the Davos of creativity and innovation,&quot; the Minister said in several forums, and in this regard, the Japanese, world leaders in innovation, must take their place. . &quot;
“This multisectoral mission to Japan is a success. Our relations with this country, the third largest economy in the world and the seventh largest customer of Quebec in the world in terms of exports, are marked by the desire to increase our commercial exchanges and our collaborations in the scientific, academic and cultural fields. Our government has given itself a vision to support the growth of Québec exports and the results obtained during this mission demonstrate once again that Québec has all it takes in talent and creativity to succeed internationally ”, concluded the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée.
