Saguenay– The Minister responsible for Government Administration, President of the Treasury Board, Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region and Government House Leader, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, announced on behalf of the Minister Delegate to the Industrial Policy and to the Economic Development Bank of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation of a $ 52,000 grant to the Société de la Vallée de l&#39;aluminium for the Export-Equipment project.
This first phase of the project made it possible, on the one hand, to determine the product and service needs of five aluminum smelters in the Middle East, in the Persian Gulf region, and, on the other hand, to present the services offered. specialized equipment manufacturers from Saguenay? Lac-Saint-Jean participating in the process.
&quot;The Export-Equipment project contributes significantly to the development of the aluminum processing niche of excellence in the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region,&quot; said Stéphane Bédard. “It is therefore with great enthusiasm that our government supports this project, which enables the expertise and potential of our regional businesses to be recognized around the world. &quot;
Financial assistance is granted within the framework of the Support Program for the development of strategic sectors and niches of excellence, section Support for structuring activities and projects. It enabled the hiring of a consultant who identified business opportunities in the Middle East and commercial activities where participation was desirable.
&quot;This project stems from a joint reflection between the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, Export Quebec, the Société de la Vallée de l&#39;aluminium as well as various organizations and companies in the aluminum industry,&quot; said know Élaine Zakaïb. &quot;It is therefore a unifying project that meets two main objectives, namely to increase the presence of equipment manufacturers outside Quebec and to promote the growth of equipment manufacturers in the low cycle of the global aluminum industry. . &quot;
Ten equipment manufacturers are participating in the project: Mecfor inc., Dynamic Concept, Nyx Dimensions inc., Morin Énertech inc., Groupe Réfraco inc., Le Groupe Génitique inc., Filtrartech inc., Maestria Solutions, Groupe Canmec inc. and Équibras inc.
“This approach is also part of the Québec industrial policy, which aims to encourage manufacturing companies to innovate and modernize in order to be more competitive on world markets,” continued Élaine Zakaïb.
Founded in 2001, the Société de la Vallée de l&#39;aluminium is dedicated to making the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region one of the main world poles of the aluminum industry in Quebec and around the world. Its presence promotes the success of SMEs already present in the region and facilitates the creation of new businesses as well as the development of partnerships. The organization also manages the Aluminum Transformation niche of excellence in the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region.
&quot;Thanks to the financial support of the Government of Quebec, we have benefited from the expertise of a consultant, who has been able to find fruitful business opportunities for our equipment manufacturers,&quot; said the president of the Société de la Vallée de l &#39; aluminum, Mr. Arthur Gobeil. “Export-Equipment is a project that will contribute to the growth and dynamism of our companies, in addition to bringing major economic benefits for our region. &quot;
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
