Saguenay - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, and the Minister of Transport, Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, confirmed the allocation of non-repayable financial assistance of $ 400,000 to the company Intel&#39;eau-Pompaction, located in Saguenay (Jonquière district), for an innovative project related to water treatment, which will allow energy savings.
The Intel&#39;eau-Pompaction company specializes in the design, manufacture, commissioning, maintenance, repair, instrumentation and control of pumping and water treatment systems. This aid, granted under the Innovation Support Program, will be used for the design and marketing of the AquaVision controller. It is a unique integrated control and supervision system for various pumping, dosing, booster, water analysis and treatment equipment and other related or complementary equipment.
“Our government is particularly proud to encourage the growth of dynamic and innovative businesses that contribute to the economic vitality of our regions,” declared Élaine Zakaïb. “It is therefore with enthusiasm that we support the project of the company Intel&#39;eau-Pompaction, which will maximize energy savings while integrating automation in the market for pumping equipment and water treatment. Greener, more modern and innovative companies are the ones favored by Quebec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, made public last Thursday. &quot;
Sylvain Gaudreault was delighted with the support for this Jonquière company and its project that has significant economic benefits for the city and its region. “The company offers an innovative approach that meets market needs by maximizing energy savings while minimizing installation and maintenance costs,” he said. “It is therefore a project that will contribute to sustainable development, for a greener Quebec, turned towards the future. &quot;
&quot;Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we will be able to accelerate the realization of market studies, the development of the marketing plan and the development of our new integrated control product: AquaVision&quot;, supported the president of Intel. eau-Pompaction, Mr. Yannick Beaulé. “Our controller aims to optimize all the pumping and water treatment systems offered by different manufacturers. Thanks to AquaVision, we will be able to offer users in the municipal, industrial and mining markets substantial energy savings while optimizing the management of their systems. This innovation will allow Intel&#39;eau-Pompaction to become a leader in this sector and thus to conquer foreign markets. &quot;
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
