Quebec - The member for Terrebonne and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of the environment and the fight against climate change, Mathieu Traversy, denounces the fact that in the matter of monitoring pesticides, the Ministry of the Environment has chosen to disclose only partial data, which has the effect of improving the results of the inspections it has carried out, aimed, among other things, at controlling the use of pesticides in Quebec.
“The Minister of the Environment, David Heurtel, has a duty to present a reliable, detailed and complete portrait of environmental inspections in Quebec, but he shows a dismaying lack of rigor. Unlike those sent to the Sustainable Development Commissioner, internal ministry data indicate that in 2015-2016, 9 out of 10 interventions were carried out by students rather than by inspectors. And barely 10% of these interventions were followed by the visit of an inspector, ”lamented Mathieu Traversy.
“With regard to inspection programs, in three out of five cases, either no follow-up was carried out in 2015-2016, or the annual inspection target was missed by 20% to 35%. The only program that shows satisfactory results is one with apparently truncated data. There is therefore no precise portrait of the use of pesticides in Quebec, ”continued the member for Terrebonne.
Mathieu Traversy also denounces the budget restrictions imposed on the Ministry of the Environment for 10 years, which, taken together, represent a loss of 5% of its total budget. In addition, the ministry&#39;s workforce decreased by 20% between 2003 and 2011. Only for the Center de Contrôle Environnementale du Québec, in total, the government cut its financial resources by 6.6%.
“These budget cuts compromise the ministry&#39;s ability to effectively carry out its missions, and increase risks to the environment and human health. However, this will necessarily have unfortunate economic consequences in the medium and long terms. It is inadmissible for the ministry to attempt to disguise the figures in order to hide its ineffectiveness, ”concluded Mathieu Traversy.
