Montreal - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today confirmed the green light from the government for the Translational Research Center project on mood disorders and suicide in Montreal. The Douglas Mental Health University Institute, located in the Verdun borough. This project is valued at $ 9.8 million.
“This announcement is timely, as National Suicide Prevention Week is underway. The support given to this Douglas Institute project demonstrates the priority we give to mental health, a theme around which, a week ago, a forum bringing together our partners in question was held, ”he added. declared Doctor Hébert.
The 4th floor of the west wing of the Perry Pavilion will be completely redesigned to accommodate the research center teams, and the facilities of the Brain Bank of Quebec will be modernized. “This project will provide a better understanding of the mechanisms generating mood disorders or suicidal intentions in people at risk. It will promote optimal integration of clinical research, epigenetics, neuroanatomy as well as molecular and cellular biology, ”said Dr. Hébert.
The total cost of the project, including construction and purchase of equipment, is estimated at $ 9.8 million. This achievement is made possible thanks to contributions of $ 7.2 million from the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology and $ 2.6 million from the Fondation de The Douglas Mental Health University Institute. A tranche of funding of 2.2 million is immediately made available to the establishment in order to start the work.
“Research is essential in this field of medicine, especially since one in five people will suffer from a mental health problem in their lifetime. This achievement is in continuity with the National Research and Innovation Policy unveiled in the fall. The creation of the Translational Neuroscience Center will allow the development of new expertise in Quebec, which we are very proud of ”, declared the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology. , Mr. Pierre Duchesne.
