Montreal - The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, denounced, this morning during a press briefing, the liberal cuts in intermediate resources (IR) and family-type resources (RTF) which house thousands of people with a physical or intellectual disability, or an autism spectrum disorder or mental health.
“According to our estimates, some 500 resources will suffer cuts of several thousand dollars as of February 15, and 340 of them are at risk of closure. This concerns approximately 2,500 users. In addition to these cuts, there is a tendency to systematically adjust the classification of users downwards, in order to reduce the sums allocated to RI-RTFs, which are set according to the condition of the people lodged, ”said the deputy, surrounded for the occasion of many representatives of the threatened RI-RTF.
Inheriting this issue poorly managed by the Liberal Party of Quebec (PLQ) in September 2012, the Parti Québécois government established a measure to maintain the amounts granted to the 500 resources in question, thus avoiding imposing reductions on them. The ultimate goal was to find solutions before January 1, 2016. “Returning to power, the PLQ refused to solve the problem it had itself created, putting these resources and the thousands of people that it had created at risk. they host. We regret to conclude that the government&#39;s action is in no way aimed at the well-being of these vulnerable people, but rather at the achievement of budgetary restriction objectives contrary to their interests, ”added Jean-François Lisée.
Together with the RI-RTF represented this morning, the Parti Québécois is calling for two actions from the government:
“With the mess of its reform of drug rehabilitation centers, the Liberal government has shown that it lacks compassion. He puts his selective austerity on those who can hardly protest! We ask him, as he did for Mélaric and the detoxification centers, to admit his mistake, to reassure the people accommodated in IR and their relatives, and to act immediately to avoid the worst ”, concluded Jean- François Lisée.
