Montreal– The MP for Marie-Victorin and official opposition critic for energy, Bernard Drainville, made public a letter he sent in September 2011 to the Minister of Natural Resources, Clément Gignac, to the with regard to the Hydro-Québec smart meter project. Minister Gignac did not deign to follow up.
“For nearly a year, this major Hydro-Québec investment project has sparked controversy. Quebec is not deriving the economic benefits it should, since the state-owned company has excluded local businesses by choosing a Swiss supplier. Result: barely 75 jobs will be created when we could have created hundreds. Today, the controversy takes on another dimension and people worry about the impact on their health. All the reasons are there for the government to extend the debate to the Régie de l&#39;énergie; social and environmental aspects must be integrated for an informed decision, ”said Bernard Drainville.
The Member points out that Hydro-Québec&#39;s procurement policy for goods and services is clear. “Hydro-Québec is committed to favoring recourse to Québec companies while ensuring healthy competition, […] and to using its purchasing power to promote the maintenance and development of Québec&#39;s economic activity &quot;. “The crown corporation obviously did not follow its own policy. Hydro-Québec executives still owe us explanations, ”said Bernard Drainville.
Like many speakers, the Parti Québécois is also wondering about the potential gains that the Crown corporation would obtain by replacing electricity meters with smart meters (remote reading). “There may be positive spinoffs from this modernization, but for now, Hydro-Québec&#39;s explanations are not very convincing. What is more, how is it that the Crown corporation gave the contract to replace the 3.8 million meters when the Régie de l&#39;énergie has still not approved the project? Asks the member for Marie-Victorin.
Bernard Drainville also finds it inconceivable that Minister Gignac refuses, until now, to assume his responsibilities. “In addition to letting the manufacturing contract slip away, the Liberal government is not responding to citizens&#39; concerns, just like in the case of shale gas. However, he has the power to do so. We ask him to exercise this power, ”he added.
In fact, section 73 of the Act respecting the Régie de l&#39;énergie specifies that “in examining an authorization request, the Régie takes into account the economic, social and environmental concerns that the government may indicate to it through decree&quot;.
“This is exactly what we are asking Minister Gignac to do: ensure that Quebec obtains the best possible spinoffs from a perspective of economic development and sustainable development. To get there, it must adopt a decree to broaden the debate to the Régie de l&#39;énergie because Hydro-Québec has not done what is necessary for a year to demonstrate that it is on the right track, ”concluded Bernard Drainville.
