Quebec - On the occasion of an inquiry relating to private investments, the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Bank for Economic Development of Quebec, Élaine Zakaïb, came to establish the facts in order to demonstrate that the total costs of the projects of Investments, from September 2012 to March 2013, were above the average of the last four years for this same period.
“A lot of falsehoods have been conveyed by the CAQ recently; I find it important to set the record straight, ”said Minister Élaine Zakaïb. &quot;Thus the average total costs of investment projects for this period (September to March) of the four years 2008 to 2011 amounted to nearly $ 3.1 billion, while since the coming to power of our government, last September, the total costs of investment projects reached almost $ 3.3 billion ”.
“In addition, our significant actions have enabled us to increase the number of interventions promoting private investment in Quebec. This number has increased from 867, for the period from September 2011 to March 2012, to nearly 900 interventions since we came to power last September. &quot;
For their part, financial assistance granted from September 2012 to March 31, 2013 reached $ 1.7 billion compared to $ 908 million for the same period in 2011-2012.
“I deplore that the CAQ come out of such falsehoods on the basis of a superficial review of the press coverage and thus tries to blacken the economic development of Quebec, whereas behind this development there are entrepreneurs who work very hard. As you can see, we have shown today that private investment and job creation in Quebec have not declined, quite the contrary. Despite the economic climate, our government is doing everything in its power to support local entrepreneurs and create an attractive business environment. In addition, the imminent establishment of the Banque de développement économique du Québec will support more than ever those who invest, innovate and take their place in world markets. For us, the work started last September is intensifying in order to set up the Development Bank as soon as possible. We have a vision and above all the political will to advance all regions of Quebec. ”
