Quebec - The three opposition parties in the National Assembly - the Parti Québécois (PQ), the Coalition Avenir Quebec (CAQ) and Quebec solidaire (QS) - unite their voices with those of hundreds of parents from across Quebec to ask the Minister of Education to stop cutting student services and reinvest in education.
Exceptionally, the deputies Françoise David (QS), Jean-François Roberge (CAQ) and Alexandre Cloutier (PQ) made common cause in the National Assembly today, questioning the Minister of Education for two hours. , François Blais, during a transpartisan interpellation session. For the occasion, hundreds of parents, citizens and education stakeholders gathered in front of the National Assembly to demonstrate against the Liberal government&#39;s repeated cuts to public schools in Quebec.
“The Premier of Quebec made a commitment to make education a priority. However, we can no longer count the cuts whose impact is being felt in schools across Quebec. Today, all opposition parties and citizens from all walks of life united their voices to call on the Liberal government to honor its commitment. The Minister of Education must hear this call and rectify the situation, ”declared the official opposition spokesperson for education, research and school perseverance, Alexandre Cloutier.
&quot;It is because we can no longer see the Minister of Education remain impassive in the face of budget cuts in the education system that we have decided today to add our voice to those of our colleagues from the Parti Québécois and Québec solidaire to appeal to François Blais. The young people of Quebec do not need a puppet ready to do all the antics that the Prime Minister and the President of the Conseil du trésor ask him to do. They need a real Minister of Education, capable of truly defending student services. The minister must come out of his ivory tower and listen to the testimony of parents across Quebec. He has a duty to come to the aid of students who are suffering from his service cuts, ”said Jean-François Roberge.
“To save our education system, which was really weakened by the liberal cuts, the three opposition parties have chosen to unite their voices at an almost historic moment. The President of the Treasury Board has decided to balance his columns of figures on the back of education and François Blais is unable to defend his ministry. Worse, he is looking the other way as public schools overflow and student services fall by the wayside. He is unable to recognize that the cuts will make school dropouts worse in disadvantaged communities. He even refuses to meet with students, teachers and school administrators. Today we bring the school to it. Minister Blais will be forced to face the gaze of parents who fear for the future of their children. Mr. Blais, take your responsibilities; the future is now! “, For her part indicated Françoise David.
