Saguenay - Visiting Saguenay today, the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, announced investments of $ 7,625,000 for the enhancement of the St. Lawrence and its positioning as a must-see tourist destination for cruises international.
An envelope of $ 5.9 million has been made available to ensure the continuation of the Cruise Strategy Assistance Program. This program will allow Tourisme Québec to support, as a priority, the realization of tourism infrastructure projects in the six stopovers welcoming international cruise ships in Saguenay, Baie-Comeau, Sept-Îles, Havre-Saint-Pierre, in Gaspésie as well as in the Magdalen Islands.
To this amount is added, as part of the Tourism Industry Development Program, the granting of financial support of $ 1,725,000 to the Association des croisières du Saint-Laurent (ACSL) for the realization of its 2013-2016 Action Plan. The assistance granted breaks down as follows: $ 500,000 in 2013-2014, $ 600,000 in 2014-2015 and $ 625,000 in 2015-2016. The cost of this plan, which focuses on stopover support, canvassing with international cruise companies and the quality of service at destination, amounts to $ 6 million.
These major investments are complementary to the $ 63.7 million announced on October 17 by the Minister, as part of the Economic Policy Priority Employment. The enhancement of the St. Lawrence was then presented as a key growth factor contributing to the development of tourism in Quebec.
&quot;The St. Lawrence is a still young international cruise destination, its notoriety is growing, but the quality of the tourist experience must still improve in a context of an expanding and constantly growing global industry, where competition unfolds and intensifies. To promote the growth of this industry and ensure its sustainability, as well as to make profitable the significant investments made, it is imperative for the government to continue to support stopovers. I am particularly proud to confirm to the ACSL increased financial support which will be deployed over a period of three years. This gesture testifies to the confidence that Tourisme Québec places in this leading partner who is successfully investing in the tourism success of Québec. The ACSL is proving to be a most effective marketing lever on the international scene. The performance of international cruises is proof of this, ”said Minister Bérubé.
According to the president of the ACSL, Mrs. Priscilla Nemey, &quot;these major contributions will allow the continuation of the momentum of the ACSL to consolidate the Saint-Laurent destination which will pass from the stage of emergence to an important stage of growth&quot;.
In addition, the development of the tourist offer must still progress in stopovers. The $ 5.9 million envelope will support initiatives that will help enrich the power of attraction of communities that have chosen to invest in international cruises as an avenue for diversifying their economies, and a springboard towards the creation of employment.
This whole series of initiatives fits in favorably with the implementation of the Tourism Industry Development Plan 2012-2020, with regard to Tourisme Québec&#39;s commitment to continue supporting international cruise stopovers and to propel the St. Lawrence to the rank of essential tourist icons.
The trend that manifests itself on a larger scale for the entire St. Lawrence indicates that the performance of 2013 will equal that of the 2012 season. It should be remembered that at that time, just over 230,000 cruise passengers and 90,000 crew members had visited the various stopovers, an increase of 60% compared to the previous season. For the 2014 season, a significant increase in performance is expected.
