Quebec - The Parti Québécois spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, today demonstrated that the Liberal government is rationing budgets to the detriment of patients , and more particularly those housed in intermediate resources (RI) and family-type resources (RTF).
&quot;In an internal note sent by the CISSS des Laurentides to all those in charge of intermediate resources in a region, we can read that at the request of the Ministry of Health,&quot; the establishment must reduce its expenses on a recurring basis &quot;, just over 2% of the budget for intellectual disability, physical disability and autism spectrum disorders (DI-DP-ASD). &quot;The situation is urgent and the additional efforts required are considerable&quot;, we can read in the note, which specifies that these cuts in no way concern the administration, which is also cut off. In other words, the cuts will hurt, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
“We also have an audio recording in which the regional director of IR from another CISSS explains that the cuts take priority over the needs of users. &quot;If I do not manage to fit into this budget, it is clear that I will have to take measures to get there (...) [and] it will be to close places&quot;, affirms the DI manager -DP-TSA, which must apply liberal austerity. This is the reality on the ground, ”added Mr. Lisée.
“To meet the government&#39;s unrealistic budget orders, the CISSS are inventing ways to reduce the remuneration in the RI-RTF. And what better than to discover that, suddenly, users are much healthier than before! We have in hand the results of a downward reclassification of all users of the same resource, simultaneously! Result: we halved its funding, ”denounced the deputy, who received a large number of testimonies of these declining classifications from several regions.
“We must realize that the law of silence reigns in the health and social services network. Those in charge of intermediate resources are terrified of reprisals and do not dare to denounce unacceptable situations openly, for fear of seeing their funding reduced or their resource completely closed, ”added Jean-François Lisée.
These disturbing illustrations come on top of the funding cut that will hit 500 RIs on February 15, pushing many of them to closure. The Parti Québécois and a group of RI asked for continued funding and an analysis by the Commissioner for Health and Welfare of the entire file, based on the needs of users rather than on the wishes of the Treasury Board. “The government has remained shamefully silent on these issues, including the dozen closures that have taken place in recent weeks. It must act before causing further damage to the lives of thousands of very vulnerable people, ”concluded the MP.
