Quebec - The Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food of Quebec, Mr. François Gendron, and the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, are concerned about the use of seeds treated with neonicotinoids and its possible consequences on bee colonies and other pollinators. Thus, together with the Union des producteurs agricoles (UPA), they invite the agricultural community to use seeds treated with neonicotinoids, substances used, mainly in field crops, in the fight against soil pests in a reasoned manner.
“We know that the use of neonicotinoids has consequences on the environment, and possibly on the rapid decline of bee populations, which is observed particularly in Europe and America. More research is needed to document the phenomenon and its consequences. While farmers, MAPAQ and MDDEFP are working to find sustainable solutions, in a context where the registration of pesticides is a federal responsibility, we appeal to the goodwill of seed distributors and agricultural businesses to reduce the use of neonicotinoids, ”said Minister Yves-François Blanchet.
For his part, Minister François Gendron stresses that the government is concerned about bee mortalities, because they play a key role in agriculture. “It is important to protect pollinators. The use of coated seeds should be done in a reasoned manner, only when there is the presence of pest insects in the soil, and not systematically. You should also know that the registration of pesticides is the responsibility of the federal government. I therefore asked the Federal Minister of Agriculture to speed up the review, ”he said.
“The Union des producteurs agricoles shares the government&#39;s concerns about the use of neonicotinoids and agrees that pollinators need to be protected. However, it is necessary to ensure that producers have access to untreated seeds as well as all the support, expertise and skills necessary for the adoption of good practices in integrated pest management and that the required efforts will be invested in the research and development of alternative methods, ”added UPA President Marcel Groleau.
The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (MAPAQ) has just sent out awareness letters to field crop producers informing them of the problem of bee mortality and the risks associated with use. neonicotinoids and reminding them of the importance of using them based on the principles of integrated pest management. A letter was also sent to the Association of Seed Merchants of Quebec and its members, in which they are invited to increase the supply of seeds not treated with neonicotinoids. Finally, a request was sent to the Ordre des agronomes du Québec to develop tools that will guide the advice given by its members on the use of these seeds. It should also be noted that information on this issue will be disseminated through the Phytosanitary Warning Network (RAP).
Minister François Gendron announces that special financial assistance will be offered under the Prime-Vert program. This aid will aim to support the diagnosis and detection of insect pests in the soil in the context of the rational use of seeds treated with neonicotinoids. To obtain the services linked to this assistance, producers should contact the Agriconseils network in their region. The Prime-Vert program also offers aid intended to finance the installation of deflectors on planters to reduce the amount of dust emanating from treated seeds and thus reduce the risk of pollinator exposure to insecticides.
To find out more about seeds treated with neonicotinoids, you can visit the Department&#39;s website at www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca / neonicotinoides. For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can regularly consult the blog www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or visit the sectionwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSAd of the Ministère&#39;s website. He can also be followed on Twitter at the e-mail address twitter.com / mapaquebec.
