Quebec - During an interpellation at the National Assembly, the member for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, and the member for Joliette, Véronique Hivon, argued to the Liberal government the need for Quebec to have of all its decision-making levers to make its own budgetary choices and for its economic, social and cultural development.
“We will have all the advantages of deciding for ourselves how to use the 50 billion Quebecers send to Ottawa each year. For example, the country of Quebec would adopt a real energy and industrial policy that would be faithful to its image and its strengths and which would capitalize on its strategic advantages. Talking about freedom, about making all our choices, about taking charge of our future, is not about being disconnected. Like Scotland, Catalonia and several other nations around the world, we believe the issue of freedom will always be relevant. The federal government does not consider Quebec, does not consider what we are. He makes choices that put us at a disadvantage. Quebecers are rich. With all our powers, we could build the best family policy in the world, be the champions of equal opportunities and sustainable development. We could also develop an energy policy in which the river would be a real vector of development, not a highway for transporting oil from the tar sands, ”declared Stéphane Bédard.
Véronique Hivon, for her part, illustrated the reasons for making independence with the image of a three-storey house: “First, there is the base: the defense and promotion of our culture, our identity and of our language; then come the reasons linked to the freedom to make our own political and economic choices; finally, on the top floor, there is the international space, where Quebec must be able to showcase itself, not just whisper in the ear of the Canadian representative. For all these reasons, among others, Quebec must become a country. &quot;
In addition, in addition to recalling the many duplication that exists between the federal government and the government of Quebec, the member pointed out that in matters of health and social services, the federal government is not shy about encroaching on Quebec jurisdiction. In addition, she pointed out that in the social field, more often than not, the federal vision slows down the full deployment of that of Quebec.
“Independence is a normal and legitimate question for a people. We asked the Liberal and Federalist government what the advantages may be for Quebec of remaining in Canada; again he could not answer. When it is time to question the future of Quebeckers, the Caquists are absent and the Liberals play with cynicism by multiplying quotes from the past. They are unable to provide us with arguments in favor of the thesis according to which staying in Canada is the guarantee of a better future for Quebec. We have demonstrated that independence, in itself, can never be negative, ”concluded Stéphane Bédard.
