Quebec - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, presented his action plan to improve contract management and project monitoring.
In response to the independent review by the firm SECOR-KPMG on the cost overruns of construction and professional services contracts, the Minister has committed, with the various teams of the Ministry, to a strategy aimed at improving its practices. both from the point of view of contract management and monitoring.
The action plan plans to target four areas of intervention:
“By March 31, 2015, the Department will have implemented a whole series of actions that will have significant benefits for the entire population. By monitoring projects more strictly, by planning them better, by equipping themselves with better tools to prevent any form of collusion, Quebecers will pay the fair cost for road work, ”declared Minister Gaudreault.
Measures have already been deployed in this direction. We should note the adoption of the programming of road works over two years, the use of the performance rating of engineering firms for the award of professional service contracts or the strengthening of internal expertise through the allocation of close 360 new resources related to protecting the integrity of public contracts.
&quot;In the spirit of the Act respecting integrity in public contracts and with a view to the creation of a transport agency, but above all in the interest of all Quebecers, I reiterate our government&#39;s determination to ensure the rigorous, transparent and efficient management of public investments in road projects ”, reiterated the Minister.
All the measures mentioned take into account a bill, currently under preparation, with a view to setting up a transport agency. “The establishment of the Transport Agency will be the centerpiece of our entire strategy. This agency will aim more particularly to develop and maintain the State&#39;s expertise in road works, to distance politics from administrative decisions and to endow the State with an autonomous and efficient organization, whose expertise will be at the core. population service ”, concluded the Minister.
The Action Plan for the Protection of the Integrity of Public Contracts is available in its entirety in the press room of the website of the Ministère des Transports du Québec at www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca.
PDF URL link: http: //stream1.newswire.ca/media/2013/11/12/20131112_C6556_DOC_FR_33271.pdf
