Québec– Gaétan Lelièvre, the member for Gaspé and official opposition spokesperson for municipal affairs and regional development, as well as the member for Rimouski and spokesperson for the fight against poverty and solidarity , Social Economy and Seniors, Harold LeBel, today called on Minister Jean D&#39;Amour about the Liberal government&#39;s offensive against the regions of Quebec. They notably denounced his sustained actions against local and regional development.
“We have been saying it since the Liberals came to power: government policies have a devastating impact on the regions of Quebec. The list of attacks is growing day by day. Families and the middle class are paying the price. Liberal policies could have an irreversible effect on the regional development model that we have taken more than 50 years to build. We cut authorities, we cut budgets and we say to new managers: get by. This is unacceptable, in addition to being totally illogical and unproductive, ”declared Gaétan Lelièvre.
The deputy pointed out that only this week, we learned that regional offices of the Council for the Status of Women will be closed, that the regional editions of the Chapeau, les filles! will be canceled, and that the government thinks of centralizing the tax on lodging, cutting the food and the power of decision to the regional tourist associations.
A mandate of initiative in parliamentary committee to discuss the future of the regions
In reaction to the discontent in the regions, Harold LeBel formally asked Minister D&#39;Amour that a parliamentary committee look into the future of the regions. “Yesterday, in a rare public outing, more than forty researchers from 11 Quebec universities denounced liberal actions in the regions. According to them, more than 40 years of consultation, dynamism and economic development are threatened by the government, whose decisions are not based on any facts or needs analysis. The researchers expressed the wish that a bill be introduced in order to be able to debate a new model of regional development. A mandate of initiative would be the first step towards establishing a respectful dialogue between Quebec and the regions, ”he added.
In addition, the deputy asked that researchers be heard within the framework of the parliamentary committee studying Bill 28, which redefines regional governance, which the Liberals have refused them to date.
The minister remains deaf to common sense
“Minister D&#39;Amour is responsible for two regions, Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie – Îles-de-la-Madeleine, with important and urgent needs. However, he limits himself to being the spokesperson for his government, instead of defending their interests. Besides, who defends the regions within the Council of Ministers? The Parti Québécois is no longer the only one to affirm that liberal policies are harmful for the regions; several actors in society, such as the Touche pas à mes regions! coalition, also denounce them. More than 10,000 people of all origins oppose the demolition of the regions led by the Liberal government, ”continued Gaétan Lelièvre.
“While Minister D&#39;Amour is trying to deflect the debate on structures, the local and regional development budget goes from $ 181 million to $ 100 million. How can the MRCs and elected municipal officials assume their new responsibilities with only 55% of the budget? It is outright a lack of respect for regional leaders and regional citizens, ”concluded the member for Gaspé.
