Quebec - The MNA for Matane-Matapédia and official opposition spokesperson for public security, Pascal Bérubé, the MNA for Pointe-aux-Trembles and spokesperson for primary and secondary education, Nicole Léger, and the member for Taschereau and spokesperson for secularism, Agnès Maltais, reacted to the information published in the media according to which educational institutions well established in Quebec have links with recognized terrorist organizations.
“It is a year ago today that Fatima Houda-Pepin was expelled from the liberal caucus; what is the government&#39;s assessment of its actions against religious fundamentalism? What will he do about these issues and the facts that are reported in the media? Will he continue to drag his feet on this issue? “Asked MP Pascal Bérubé.
“The Minister of Education says that the situation is worrying and that we must act quickly, but the Prime Minister is embarrassed and hesitant every time we talk about the presence and influence of religious fundamentalists in Quebec. There is, however, an urgent need to act; it is not by denying the problem that it will disappear! Philippe Couillard must be clear and categorical; it has a duty to guarantee the population that schools are places where Islamist propaganda cannot circulate, ”added Nicole Léger.
Minister of Justice lacks leadership
The deputy for Taschereau, Agnès Maltais, once again deplored the lack of leadership of the Minister of Justice, Stéphanie Vallée, who allows her agenda to be dictated by a Prime Minister who is dragging her feet on the issues of secularism and the equality between men and women. In fact, while she said that a bill would be tabled before the end of the last parliamentary session, the Prime Minister extended the deadline to the end of the mandate, only to then bring it closer.
“The government has broken its promise to act on these issues. Since the opening speech, Philippe Couillard has never ceased to find pretexts to back down, no doubt because he clearly feels uneasy when we address these questions. The Minister of Justice should be able to show more firmness and convince him to go ahead, ”concluded Agnès Maltais.
