Montreal - The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of immigration, cultural communities and for the metropolis, Carole Poirier, today presented their proposals to ensure the successful integration of immigrants and refugees. Twenty concrete measures on four main axes form the essence of this action plan.
“There is no better way to integrate than a job. However, year after year, the unemployment rate of immigrants stagnates at around 11% and, among those who manage to find a job, too many are overqualified. Every story must be a success. We therefore believe that it is necessary to act quickly on discrimination in hiring, in housing and elsewhere, by launching a vast awareness campaign as well as a robust action plan in four axes: better recognize the gains, put an end to structural barriers to hiring, firmly fight racism and discrimination, and take steps to include. These measures should be implemented immediately, but dialogue must continue with civil society, communities and experts, in a continuous process of improvement and adjustment of measures, identification of problems and solutions ”, he added. indicated the leader of the official opposition.
Axis 1: Integrating means better recognizing what has been learned
Studies show that immigrants to Montreal are more educated than those in other cities, but that their unemployment rate is worse than elsewhere. Recognition of prior learning is one of the key factors in finding a qualified job. Unfortunately, too often, people do not know which door to knock on or get lost in the various steps to follow. Thus, we offer:
Axis 2: Integrating means putting an end to structural obstacles to hiring
Despite all the skills required, several structural obstacles remain to be overcome for an immigrant seeking a job. Too often, companies require a first Canadian work experience in their job offer.
With regard to the Quebec public sector, the obstacles are still present; it employs an average of 5% of people from visible minorities, while Quebec society has 11%. We must therefore ensure that the public service is better representative of the population. We propose :
Axis 3: Integrating means fighting firmly against racism and discrimination
In Quebec, according to the Institut de la statistique du Québec, 13% of the population declared being discriminated against because of ethnocultural factors. This discrimination is suffered more in the context of work, either during employment, when applying for a job or advancement, or even in services.
As far as housing is concerned, the situation is similar. “One third of complaints received at the Commission des droits de la personne et des droits de la jeunesse concerning discrimination in housing relate to immigrant or visible minority status. Immigrants find themselves discriminated against in their search for housing, and some communities more than others. We must act to put an end to racism and discrimination, ”said Carole Poirier.
So, here is what we offer:
Axis 4: Integrating means taking the means to include
Several important aspects of integration must also be part of the actions to be carried out. Francization, as well as measures promoting the increased participation of Quebecers from diverse backgrounds, in particular, must have the required means.
We propose :
“Quebec must live up to its real desire to open up and welcome. As a society, we can no longer accept that skilled and competent people find themselves without a job. Ensuring access to quality employment is the best way to achieve integration. The measures we are presenting today will guarantee the success of every adopted Quebecer and allow everyone to reach their full potential, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée. For more information, see our technical sheet: http : //go.pq.org/tq6 And our action plan: http: //go.pq.org/tq7
