Québec, November 2, 2017 - The official opposition spokesperson for the Metropolis and for immigration and cultural communities, Carole Poirier, presented Bill 998, An Act mainly to facilitate the access to the labor market for people who are part of a visible minority because of their ethnic origin or the color of their skin and to fight against discrimination and racism. This bill aims to implement the 20 concrete measures for integration and the fight against discrimination and racism presented by the Parti Québécois last February.
IN SHORT
“The Liberals have been in power for 15 years. We have repeatedly asked them to act for the success of diversity. Several consultations on hiring discrimination and racism were held, but no concrete action resulted. When we presented our measures for the first time, the former minister offered us an objection, insisting on holding her consultation on systemic discrimination and racism. However, the Liberal government could immediately send a clear signal to promote the integration of newcomers, recognize their skills and knowledge, fight against discrimination in employment and housing, and support the francization of all Quebecers ”, supported Carole Poirier.
Bill 998 proposes three action plans to be put in place immediately: raising awareness of discrimination in hiring, integration and francization, and the fight against illiteracy. It also proposes to set up a permanent monitoring committee on integration and the fight against discrimination and racism, which would be responsible for monitoring, proposals and possible studies carried out on these questions.
Several other concrete measures contained in the bill aim to promote better integration into employment, in particular:
“The under-representation of adopted Quebecers in the public service is alarming. Only 38 of the 6,000 employees in the SAQ are from a visible minority. At Hydro ‑ Québec, it is 903 out of 20,000. In total, there is a shortage of more than 25,000 employees from diverse backgrounds in public bodies. Faced with this failure of the Liberal government, we propose the courage to act! », Added the MP for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve.
In terms of francization, the bill includes the following measures:
o Apply Law 101 to businesses with 25 to 50 employees as well as to federally chartered businesses and organizations;
o Put a stop to the practice of many employers claiming knowledge of English for tasks where it is not indicated.
“Every immigration story has to be a success. The government has the opportunity, by calling our bill, to demonstrate its commitment to the success of all adopted Quebecers. The ball is in the court of the new Minister of Immigration, David Heurtel, ”concluded Carole Poirier.
