Québec, April 19, 2017 - The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of immigration and cultural communities, Carole Poirier, welcomes the additional investments in francization of immigrants, as well as the expressed intention by the government to create a single entry to gain access. However, she demands that the Liberals show a more global vision in terms of integrating newcomers, because this is not limited to francization.
IN BRIEF- The additional amounts announced as well as the intention to create a single gateway for francization services are a step in the right direction.- However, the government must not limit itself to francization; it must act on all fronts, as the Parti Québécois is proposing with its 20 measures forming a global vision for the integration of immigrants. **
“Considering that in recent years, the Liberal government has made repeated cuts, a significant reinvestment has become essential to ensure the proper functioning of francization programs. We welcome the addition of funds; however, we must not forget all the new Quebecers who have not been able to access decent francization services. For many of them, the point of no return has been reached. The investments announced today will help, but they are still clearly insufficient to close the loophole opened by the Liberals. However, in order for them to fully integrate into society, newcomers must speak French. We must aim to francize them all, 100%; this is what Quebeckers expect, ”said Carole Poirier.
That said, the government effort must not be limited to francization, insisted the spokesperson. “Piecemeal action doesn&#39;t work. In terms of integration, the government must show a global vision and act on all fronts. In the Parti Québécois, we have proposed 20 measures in this direction, to be put in place immediately. Anonymous CV pilot projects, the ban on asking for a first work experience in Canada to obtain a position, the establishment of a common university course for the recognition of prior learning and the hiring of Quebecers from diverse backgrounds in the public service, so many measures to which the government opposed an end of inadmissibility ”, she lamented.
