Montreal - Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, today announced an investment of $ 63.1M for the building repair and expansion project Wilder.
Part of this financial assistance is devoted to an agreement in principle that will allow the Agora de la danse to be incorporated into this building, in addition to the three other organizations already announced, namely Les Grands Ballets Canadiens de Montréal, École de danse contemporary of Montreal and Tangente. Bringing together four Montreal organizations under the same roof, this place of creation, production, training and dissemination will be called ESPACE DANSE QUÉBEC. The Montreal offices of the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications (MCC), the Conseil des arts et des lettres du Québec and the Régie du cinéma will also be set up in this recycled building for cultural and artistic purposes. In total, nearly 300 people from the cultural field will work there.
“The richness of Quebec dance rests in part on the talent and dynamism of the women and men working tirelessly, for the love of art, within organizations such as those which will be housed in the ESPACE DANSE QUÉBEC. This project illustrates the desire of the Government of Quebec to support creation, production and distribution in the field of the performing arts. These new premises will allow these exceptional creators and trainers to pursue their mission and increase their artistic development and their influence, both in Quebec and abroad, ”declared the Premier.
“It is gratifying to see these organizations, which embody the amazing creativity and originality of the dance arts in Quebec, united in a spirit of camaraderie and synergy. The addition of an experienced presenter such as the Agora de la danse only makes the reconversion of the Wilder building even more structuring for all dance communities in Montreal and Quebec, ”added Minister Maka Kotto.
The Wilder building, located in the heart of the Quartier des spectacles, is owned by the Société immobilière du Québec (SIQ). The $ 63.1 million investment is therefore divided between the MCC, which will pay $ 43 million in grants to the four organizations, and the SIQ, which will commit a sum of $ 20.1 million to the project. The organizations&#39; contribution will amount to $ 24.7 million.
In addition, the SIQ will launch public calls for tenders for the repair and expansion of the building in June, while the organizations will continue their fundraising activities in order to complete the financial package. Note that 50% of the sums needed have already been raised through contributions and major donations from the private sector.
The contributions of the MCC and the SIQ to this project are part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan, made public in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 2 billion for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make informed choices.
Les Grands Ballets Canadiens de Montreal
The Montreal School of Contemporary Dance
Joint space Tangente and Agora de la danse
Tangent
Dance agora
Common areas
* These spaces are not eligible for a subsidy from the Ministry of Culture and Communications.
