Baie-Comeau - Thanks to joint investments of more than $ 5.2 million from the governments of Canada and Quebec, 107 social housing units in Baie-Comeau, spread across 21 buildings, have been refurbished. While in Baie-Comeau, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, emphasized today the end of the large-scale renovation work on the Habitat 72 housing complex, managed by the Municipal Housing Office (OMH) of Baie-Comeau.
The financial assistance was granted under the replacement, improvement and modernization (RAM) budget of the SHQ. Of the total investment, more than $ 2.6M has been granted by the Government of Canada while the Government of Quebec has granted nearly $ 2.1M. The City of Baie-Comeau, for its part, has invested some $ 523,000 in the project.
“The objective of this vast revitalization plan was to do everything possible to offer the families who live in these buildings a healthy and safe environment. Today we can say: mission accomplished. In addition to improving the quality of life and housing conditions of many households, this large-scale work ensures the sustainability of the social housing stock in Baie-Comeau, ”Minister Sylvain Gaudreault indicated during the announcement that took place in the presence of the deputy for René-Lévesque and responsible for the Côte-Nord region, Mr. Marjolain Dufour, and the mayor of Baie-Comeau, Mr. Claude Martel.
“Our government is committed to strengthening communities. Considerable sums are invested in Quebec for the modernization and improvement of social housing in order to improve the quality of life of families, individuals and seniors everywhere in the province ”, indicated the Honorable Denis Lebel, Minister of Infrastructure, Communities and Intergovernmental Affairs, Minister of the Economic Development Agency of Canada for the Regions of Quebec and Member of Parliament for Roberval-Lac-Saint-Jean, on behalf of the Honorable Candice Bergen, Minister of State (Social development).
“The sums invested clearly demonstrate the importance our government attaches to the well-being of the citizens of the Côte-Nord region, and I am delighted. In my opinion, it is essential to support the work of those who make all the necessary efforts to offer less privileged households in the region an adequate living environment in which they can flourish, ”declared MP Marjolain. From the oven.
These investments made it possible to renovate the housing units as well as to renovate the exterior of the buildings in this building stock, built in 1971. The sums were also used to redevelop the land and improve the security of the buildings.
“This work was eagerly awaited by our customers. They have made it possible to increase the quality of life for tenants, but also to beautify the neighborhood, ”said the vice-president of the board of directors of the OMH de Baie-Comeau, Mr. Jean-Paul Fouquet.
This year, through CMHC, the Government of Canada will invest approximately $ 2 billion in housing. Of this amount, $ 1.7 billion will be devoted to supporting nearly 600,000 households living in social housing. In Quebec, this represents some 127,150 households. These investments improve the quality of life of low-income Canadians and households living in social housing, including the homeless and those at risk of becoming homeless, seniors, people with disabilities, recent immigrants and Indigenous people.
To learn more about how CMHC supports building strong homes and thriving communities for all Canadians, contact CMHC at 1-800-668-2642 or visit www.cmhc-schl.gc.ca.
