Saint-Isidore-de-La Prairie– The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the Minister for the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la -Madeleine, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, and the deputy of Sanguinet and parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Alain Therrien, expressed their pleasure to see the birth of a wind farm in Montérégie, during the inauguration of the latter in Saint-Isidore-de-La Prairie.
The Kruger Énergie project in Montérégie has total investments of more than $ 300 million and represents an installed capacity of 100 MW of green and clean energy. It enabled the construction of 44 wind turbines of 2.3 MW distributed in five municipalities of Montérégie, namely Mercier, Saint-Constant, Saint-Isidore, Saint-Michel and Saint-Rémi. Investissement Québec also facilitated the capital contribution by granting a loan of $ 30 million. In total, the construction phase of the park has generated the creation of more than 150 jobs in the regions.
“The Government of Quebec is proud to be associated with a project with a promising future for all Quebecers,” declared Élaine Zakaïb. “We have chosen a green and sustainable economy for the benefit of future generations. In addition to helping build the green Quebec of tomorrow, this project will generate significant economic spinoffs, particularly in Montérégie but also in the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, since the wind turbines were partly built there. &quot;
Indeed, a minimum of 60% of the overall costs of building the wind farm had to be invested in Quebec and a minimum of 30% of the cost of the wind turbines had to be incurred in the Regional County Municipality (MRC) of Matane or in the administrative region. of Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine. This project was able to take off with the support of several regional stakeholders, particularly in terms of funding.
&quot;The project was well received in the region and now allows the use of the green energy produced as a lever for economic development&quot;, underlined Gaétan Lelièvre. “In fact, the entire community benefits from it. This is therefore excellent news for developing the industrial base of the regions, in particular that of Montérégie and Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine, while favoring regional investments focused on the sustainable development of our resources. natural. &quot;
&quot;Kruger Énergie is a fine example of a company that has chosen a green economy by favoring local investments focused on sustainable development,&quot; said Alain Therrien. “This project will highlight our wind power potential, around which real regional expertise is developing. &quot;
“With the support of the Government of Quebec and, above all, the local community, we were able to move forward with the construction of the very first wind farm in Montérégie,” recalled the Senior Vice-President and Chief Operating Officer. from Kruger Énergie, Jean Roy. “Since the beginning, more than $ 300 million has been invested in the realization of this green and sustainable project, and we are very proud of what we have accomplished in Montérégie. &quot;
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
