Jolitette - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, and the Member of Parliament for Joliette, Minister responsible for Social Services and Youth Protection and Minister responsible for the Lanaudière region, Ms. Véronique Hivon, announced today the allocation of a non-repayable financial contribution of $ 3 million to Bridgestone Canada for the implementation of a $ 38.4 million investment plan aimed at increasing the productivity of the facilities at its Joliette plant .
“Tire production is an important industry for the economy of the Lanaudière region. However, the Bridgestone plant in Joliette faces significant competition from North American manufacturers. In order for them to continue to obtain manufacturing mandates and thus guarantee the sustainability of their activities, the Joliette facilities must be modernized. By participating in the company&#39;s investment plan, which will run until 2015, the Government of Quebec is helping to secure the future of the Joliette plant and help it position itself favorably against its competitors ”, declared Nicolas Marceau.
“Bridgestone currently employs nearly 1,300 people and is a major economic player in Lanaudière. Carrying out this investment plan will consolidate these jobs here in Joliette and help maintain activities with its suppliers in the region and throughout Quebec. Bridgestone&#39;s modernization project will be structuring and beneficial for the local economy, and we are very proud, as a government, to contribute to it, ”added Minister Hivon.
The investments planned by Bridgestone will be used to automate certain tasks, while ensuring tighter quality control. In addition, the new equipment will reduce the plant&#39;s greenhouse gas emissions. This investment plan will increase the productivity of the plant while reducing production costs.
“For several years, significant investments have been made at our Joliette plant to improve its competitiveness. The confidence of the Government of Quebec will help us consolidate our reputation for excellence in terms of our productivity and ensure the success of our modernization projects, ”added Robert Verreault, General Manager of the Bridgestone Canada plant in Joliette. .
“The Priorité Emploi economic policy and the Québec industrial policy, tabled by the government last week, give an important place to increasing productivity with concrete measures that will promote the modernization of businesses and their equipment. These policies clearly demonstrate our government&#39;s desire to tackle this issue, ”concluded Minister Marceau.
