Montreal - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announces a government investment of $ 26.5 million for public transit measures aimed at facilitating travel in the Montreal region. Most of these measures will be implemented gradually, throughout the 2013 roadworks season.
“The announced measures will reduce the impact of road works on the entire metropolitan area. We must all help reduce these impacts, and the public transit solution is a winning option, ”said Minister Gaudreault.
The measures deployed since 2011 have been a resounding success. More people have opted for public transit, as evidenced by the increase in annual subscriptions from transportation companies. For example, for the January 2012 title, the Metropolitan Transport Association noted a 28% increase in annual subscribers compared to 2011. For its part, the Société de transport de Montréal notes that the number of subscribers has increased. jumped from 15,580 in August 2012 to 24,139 in October of the same year. This increase is notably attributable to the promotion of the free month offered by the Department.
A little over $ 13 million will be invested, in particular to improve the service offering to users. Accordingly, a reserved lane will be built in Montreal on Côte-Saint-Luc Road, west of the Décarie Expressway. In addition, the reserved lane on Autoroute 440 in Laval will be extended by 1.5 km between Montée Saint-François and Boulevard Pie-IX.
During the year, 840 new parking spaces at certain commuter train stations, such as Blainville and Saint-Jérôme, and at several bus terminals will be created. Of this number, about fifty spaces will be reserved for carpooling, in the parking lot located near Highway 15 in Mirabel. Improving the bus and metro transport service offer will also promote traffic flow and better serve the metropolitan population.
“I am very happy to participate in today&#39;s announcement because the metropolis has every advantage in diversifying and improving its service offering to encourage more Montrealers to opt for public transit. This is an objective that we have set for ourselves as a government, and this investment contributes greatly to it, ”indicated the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Metropolitan region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée.
“With my colleagues from Montérégie, we have made public transit a regional priority. These measures are in addition to the significant investments unveiled in recent weeks in terms of transportation for our region. As Minister responsible for the Montérégie region, I am therefore very happy to note that the region will have 440 incentive parking spaces as well as an improvement in the bus service offer for the municipalities of Candiac and de Vaudreuil, which are among the benefits for the citizens of our region, ”added Marie Malavoy, Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports and Minister responsible for the Montérégie region.
The measures announced also make more room for active transportation. In fact, the redevelopment of bicycle parking spaces will allow the addition of 112 sheltered spaces and 52 bicycle racks throughout the metropolitan area. In addition, a bicycle station will be set up at the Lionel-Groulx station.
Finally, the Ministry of Transport will once again finance a free month with the purchase of a first annual subscription from transport companies. A free month will also be offered to subscribers who subscribe to a family member or friend.
“With the arrival of summer and the decrease in ridership on trains and buses, the time is ideal to invite the population to discover these options. An excellent way to tame a new mode of transportation during the construction season, ”said Mr. Gaudreault.
Several 2011-2012 measures that have demonstrated their effectiveness will be renewed for 2013. For example, the six additional train departures on the Candiac line are maintained. The same goes for various express bus lines serving highways where road works are still in progress.
All the measures announced are fully funded by the Ministry of Transport and are in addition to the $ 136 million invested since 2011.
&quot;These are immediate and targeted measures to create, on the one hand, an incentive environment to facilitate the migration of citizens to public transport and to change solo carpooling to a greener mode of transport and, on the other hand, to reduce the traffic problems, particularly around roadworks, ”concluded Minister Gaudreault.
The list of measures implemented is available in the press room of the website of the Ministère des Transports du Québec at the address: http: //www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca/portal/page/portal/accueil/ pressroom.
