Matapédia - The construction work for the Bâtisseurs 2010 project has kicked off! In a few months, seniors with a slight loss of autonomy in Matapedia and the surrounding area will be able to benefit from 21 new affordable housing units adapted to their needs. The parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (wildlife and parks component) and Member of Parliament for Bonaventure, Mr. Sylvain Roy, took part today in the groundbreaking of this project. in the presence of the Mayor of Matapedia, Mr. Louis Michaud, and of the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Bâtisseurs 2010 organization, Mr. Rosaire Denis.
Carried out thanks to the AccèsLogis Québec program of the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), this project will result in an investment of more than $ 3.5 million from the government of Quebec and its partners in the community.
“Currently, seniors with a slight loss of autonomy in Matapedia must go into exile in municipalities located several kilometers away in order to find adequate housing. This uprooting can be very difficult for people whose health is sometimes precarious. The construction of these 21 housing units adapted to the needs of the elderly is therefore excellent news and will meet a pressing need in this community, ”declared MP Sylvain Roy, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault.
The SHQ granted a subsidy of more than $ 2 million for this project, in addition to guaranteeing the mortgage loan contracted by the organization Bâtisseurs 2010. The community&#39;s total contribution amounts to nearly $ 607,000, of which some $ 450,000 is invested by the Municipality of Matapedia. It should also be noted that the project received an additional grant of $ 259,000 under the Rénovation Québec program of the SHQ.
“Thanks to Bâtisseurs 2010, our community will now be able to keep its seniors and offer a pleasant living environment to everyone by allowing them to continue living in their part of the country, close to their own. Thank you to all our partners and our generous donors. Because we believed in this project, our dream is coming true ”, emphasized Mr. Rosaire Denis.
Note that additional financial assistance of more than $ 189,000, spread over five years and assumed 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the Municipality of Matapedia, will allow 11 tenants of this residence to benefit from the Rent Supplement program. . Thus, these low-income households will pay a rent similar to that of a low-rental housing, or 25% of their income.
Among the contributions from the community, it should be noted that the project received a grant of more than $ 35,000 from the Office of Energy Efficiency and Innovation of the Ministry of Natural Resources to ensure that it meets the standards of the Novoclimat program. , which ensures tenants a significant saving on the costs of heating their accommodation.
