Shawinigan– The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the region de la Mauricie, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, and the member for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, are pleased to announce the projects that have been selected at Cégep de Trois-Rivières and at Collège Shawinigan as part of the College-Industry Innovation Fund (FCII) competition. The Government of Quebec is contributing financially to the tune of $ 480,200 and $ 514,086 for the realization of these projects, which represent total investments of $ 1,203,000 and $ 1,285,215.
“These investments allow students in the Mauricie to have access to quality infrastructure while promoting higher education. Supporting excellence in research and innovation is important to our government. The research infrastructures, made available to colleges and the groups of researchers working there, make it possible to acquire know-how, particularly in applied research and technological development. Colleges can thus contribute, with their partners, to making Quebec one of the most brilliant knowledge-based societies, ”said Minister Duchesne.
The Cellulosic Products Innovation Center (Innofibre), a college technology transfer center at Cégep de Trois-Rivières, will acquire a molding and thermoforming infrastructure for pulp of all kinds. This infrastructure will make it possible to develop more products with high added value and innovative services in the fields of molded and thermoformed pulp.
The field of molded pulp products is little exploited in Quebec and has great growth potential for the forest industry. With the addition of this equipment, the Cellulosic Products Innovation Center will have a unique pilot plant in Canada to reproduce industrial processes. The new facilities will undoubtedly be adapted to help the industry revitalize and diversify its sector of economic activity, among other things, through the development of new products.
“Prosperity increasingly relies on its ability to innovate. This is true for Quebec but also for all regions. Colleges must have the resources and tools at their disposal to refocus their priorities, deepen their knowledge and generate new ideas. I am proud to see that this is the case at Cégep de Trois-Rivières, ”said Minister Blanchet.
“The acquisition of a thermomolded paste system represents an essential complement to Innofibre&#39;s facilities. This rapidly expanding field will make it possible to diversify certain paper productions in addition to offering a privileged solution for the recovery of residual fibrous materials of all kinds. This addition is part of Innofibre&#39;s strategic plan, which aims to respond to companies looking for bio-based ingredients for their products or packaging, ”added Mario Parenteau, Director of Innofibre.
The project concerns the development of the technology and environment laboratory, in the niches of electrochemistry and gas filtration. The state-of-the-art equipment acquired will be installed at the National Center for Electrochemistry and Environmental Technologies (CNETE) at Collège Shawinigan. With this project, CNETE aims to acquire a test bench for pre-industrial scale electrodialysis membranes and a test bench for pilot scale membranes for gas filtration.
The electrodialysis test bench will allow testing of the technology on a smaller scale. This will allow partners such as Northex Environment, Magnus Chemicals and BioAmber to obtain the technical information required to ensure the successful transfer of technology from the laboratory stage to industry. The laboratory scale test bench for gas filtration by membranes will allow the development of techniques, technologies and applications that will offer new inexpensive avenues for the treatment of gaseous emissions and the purification of biogas. The companies Terix Envirogaz, Biothermica and OCO Technologies are associated with this project.
CNETE&#39;s expertise helps companies develop innovations for the recovery of waste or residues from industrial processes, or the treatment and reduction of emissions and industrial pollutants of all kinds. This work is directly linked to sustainable development.
“This large grant will allow the Collegial Center for Technology Transfer to purchase cutting-edge equipment and expand its service offering. CNETE is experiencing a dazzling growth phase, thanks in particular to the strong dynamism of the research team and the director, Ms. Nancy Déziel. Today, my government recognizes this work with this first gesture, ”said MP Trudel.
“Obtaining a grant from the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology for the College-Industry Innovation Fund competition is a major asset for our college establishment. Indeed, this grant will allow the realization of projects carrying technological innovations, while making use of equipment at the cutting edge of technology! Such announcements have the most favorable results for the teachers and students of the College, ”added Sylvie Le Sieur, Director of Studies at Collège Shawinigan and chair of the research committee within the educational institution.
The contributions of $ 480,200 and $ 514,086 are part of the total sum of $ 4,434,179, the payment of which was announced on April 16 by Minister Duchesne for the acquisition of equipment in colleges and college centers. technology transfer. The projects were selected for the 2012 FCII competition.
This Fund enables college establishments to develop partnerships with the private sector, and therefore to support innovation in businesses. The Fund thus gives colleges the opportunity to benefit from the infrastructure necessary to carry out cutting-edge research. The projects selected are co-financed in equal parts by the Government of Quebec and the Canadian Foundation for Innovation. In addition, there is a 20% financial contribution from establishments or private partners.
The Ministry is currently developing the next National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI). This policy will be the result of numerous consultations held with stakeholders from all sectors concerned by research and innovation: businesses, educational institutions, the State and society. The PNRI will make it possible to meet the common objective of advancing Québec on the world stage of knowledge. This policy is intended to reflect an open society concerned with its future. Filing is expected shortly.
