Saint-Malo– The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, and the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors and the Estrie region, Mr. Réjean Hébert, announced the allocation, through Investissement Québec, of a loan of $ 1 million to the company JM Champeau inc. for a major $ 7.5 million expansion project to increase its production capacity.
JM Champeau manufactures various pieces of hardwood intended for specialized industries such as component manufacturers (moldings, cabinet doors and stairs), manufacturers of leisure equipment (baseball bats and billiard cues) and manufacturers of musical instruments (guitar necks). But while the sawmill was operating at full capacity, the company had for some time been in a position to increase its volume of drying and further processing.
“It is our role to support dynamic companies that want to build on their successes to pursue their growth,” declared Élaine Zakaïb. “The wood products manufactured by JM Champeau have grown in popularity, so much so that the company no longer meets demand. This performance testifies to the relevance of niches of excellence such as the transformation of appearance wood and composites in the Eastern Townships. By getting all industry partners to work together, these niches contribute to the success of each of them, while helping them innovate and grow. &quot;
The project, which consists of leasehold improvements and the purchase of equipment, will allow the company to exploit this drying and processing capacity by sourcing green sawn timber from third parties.
&quot;We are very happy with the realization of this project, which will have significant economic spinoffs, especially since it is Quebec equipment manufacturers who have been selected for its realization,&quot; said Réjean Hébert. “The project will thus help maintain the 120 high-quality jobs within the company and create jobs with suppliers. &quot;
More than half of production, or 55%, is exported to the United States, Mexico, Asia and Europe, while 45% of this is destined for Quebec. The company is committed to a process of continuous improvement and makes a point of maximizing the use of each tree cut. This commitment has earned it FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) certification.
&quot;These new facilities will allow us to maximize our production and meet the growing needs of our customers,&quot; said Pierre Champeau, President of JM Champeau. “This project will therefore allow us to pursue our growth and remain a leading player in our industry. &quot;
Investissement Québec&#39;s mission is to promote the growth of investment in Québec, thereby contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The Company provides businesses with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity investments, to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, she is responsible for administering tax measures and prospecting for investments abroad.
