Saint-Jérôme– On behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, her parliamentary assistant for the recreation and sport component and responsible for the Laurentides region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, announced today &#39; hui investments totaling $ 3,279,208, which will improve the vocational training offer in the Laurentides region.
Most of these investments, $ 2,821,044, will be made at the Commission scolaire de la Rivière-du-Nord. This assistance will enable it to support the implementation of the Precision Sheet Metal Studies program (5244), which it is now authorized to offer on a permanent basis. Thanks to this sum, the School Board will be able to carry out a project aiming at the redevelopment of an area of 1,099 m² of the professional studies center of Saint-Jérôme, where the program of studies is offered, as well as acquiring the equipment attached to it. The project, whose total cost is estimated at $ 3,313,896, should be completed by fall 2015.
This project is part of the five-year capital plans, which provide that projects totaling more than $ 24.3 million will be carried out to improve the supply of vocational training in Quebec. Various other projects aiming at the expansion and redevelopment of existing vocational training centers as well as the updating and implementation of new study programs will be implemented in several regions of Quebec.
“Having quality training in a field that you love and that has good job prospects, isn&#39;t that the best way to approach the job market? Vocational training is a skills development tool that benefits both individuals and regional economies. I am very happy to be associated with this decision, ”said Mr. Pagé.
In addition, Mr. Pagé took advantage of his visit to announce that additional investments of $ 458,164 would also be made in vocational training infrastructure in the region. This assistance will allow the Laurentides, Pierre-Neveu, Rivière-du-Nord and Seigneurie-des-Mille-Îles school boards to acquire the equipment required to meet the requirements of various current study programs. update.
It should be noted that this financial assistance is provided within the framework of the Economic policy: Priority employment, which aims in particular to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, in the short and medium term.
In addition to the 23.6 million dollars earmarked for vocational training, this policy provides some 401 million dollars to make educational infrastructures healthier learning environments and more than 130 million dollars allocated to the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructures, and this, throughout Quebec.
“We are making these investments announced today for young people in Quebec. It is to our advantage that vocational training attracts them more. We also need to get more adults to explore the many possibilities it offers. Vocational training is not only essential to the development of our economy, but it allows the young people who follow it to achieve fulfillment in fields that are close to their hearts, ”Minister Malavoy said.
