Quebec - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, confirms the allocation of financial assistance totaling more than $ 1.1 million to three companies in the Capital region- National. This financial support, resulting from the Innovation Support Program, is broken down as follows: $ 393,593 to FruitSélect inc., $ 400,000 to Pavemetrics Systems inc. and $ 385,800 to Groupe Domedic inc.
“Our companies constitute an invaluable asset for the economic growth of Quebec. It is therefore our duty to support them at each stage of their development, ”said Minister Delegate Élaine Zakaïb. “They have undeniable strengths and assets to shine and progress. By supporting them, we are reiterating our commitment to making Quebec a prosperous region that creates jobs. Our government is committed to giving Quebec businesses the means to achieve their ambitions in order to help them increase their productivity and thus promote their progress. It is also by focusing on entrepreneurship and private investment that we will ensure the sustainable enrichment of all regions of Quebec. &quot;
FruitSélect inc. is a berry processing company majority-owned by Fruit d&#39;Or. It produces whole, dried and sweet fruits, as well as other derived products, such as juice and cocktail syrup. FruitSélect inc. has developed a line of high-end products, natural and without additives, based on local products.
“Our project aims to design, improve and industrialize a process created by Fruit d&#39;Or. This is a technology based on the use of a reactor optimized for infusion of blueberries which provides superior yield and quality, explained the president of FruitSélect inc., Sylvain Dufour. “This method of processing small fruits, such as cranberries, blueberries or blackcurrants, will allow us to be more competitive with processors in the United States and Chile. Our objectives are to increase our productivity and also to increase our production capacity. 15 jobs will also be created. &quot;
Founded in 2009, Pavemetrics Systems Inc. designs and markets digital vision systems used in the inspection of transport infrastructure, such as roads, high-speed train tracks and metro tracks. The products of Pavemetrics Systems inc. are sold in around thirty countries, notably in the United States, France, China, Spain, Great Britain and Switzerland. In 2012 alone, Pavemetrics&#39; pavement inspection systems monitored 5 million kilometers of road - the equivalent of 12 times the distance between the Earth and the Moon.
&quot;We want to create a new automatic object and debris detection system for runways, access ramps and airport decks,&quot; said the President and CEO of Pavemetrics Systems Inc., Mr. Richard Habel. This product will significantly improve the safety of airport infrastructures thanks to its unique technology which produces high-resolution 3D profiles of the runway at speeds up to 100 km / h. In addition to expanding our product line, this innovation will create three direct jobs and several high-quality indirect jobs in the region. &quot;
The Domedic Group inc. has developed a smart pill organizer to improve the quality of life of patients with compelling health problems that require them to take regular medication. This electronic device (DO-Pill SecuR) warns the patient when he must take his medication and communicates with a server in order to contact, if necessary, a doctor, a pharmacist or a caregiver to inform them that the patient has forgotten to take his medication.
“Our device has successfully entered Quebec, but to export our expertise, we need to include a series of innovations,” explained the President and CEO of Groupe Domedic Inc., Mr. Benoît Demers. “Our project aims to improve the current pill box with the addition of technologies such as 2G and 3G cellular communication and the development of a pill box application for smartphones to meet the needs of more people. users. To achieve this, we will be adding three new resources to our team. &quot;
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the following RSS feed: www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
