Laval - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, has confirmed the allocation of non-refundable financial support of $ 1 million to the company Servier Canada for the establishment of a excellence in clinical research in the Laval Science and High Technology Park. Valued at $ 16.3 million, this project will consolidate 56 jobs, while 38 new collaborators will be hired over the coming months.
&quot;Quebec is the ideal place for the biopharmaceutical industry, which relies more than ever on collaborations and partnerships with public research institutions,&quot; said Minister Nicolas Marceau. Quebec is recognized for its knowledge-based economy, its quality research infrastructures, its cutting-edge knowledge in drug development and its highly specialized workforce. Without a doubt, Quebec is the perfect partner to prosper, and Servier Canada confirms it to us. &quot;
The project announced today also targets the establishment of a national vocational training center for Servier Canada, as well as the expansion of the company&#39;s activities. The construction of a new building, with an area of 30,000 square feet, which will combine the activities of the new center of excellence in clinical research and those of the new national vocational training center is thus planned.
&quot;By supporting this project, our government is ensuring that conditions favorable to the prosperity of the biopharmaceutical industry and the growth of large companies in Quebec are maintained,&quot; added Minister Nicolas Marceau. Our support for the establishment of a center of excellence in clinical research in Laval will consolidate Quebec&#39;s position among the world leaders in the field of clinical research. This center will make it possible to carry out large-scale mandates in Quebec, which will contribute to the influence of Quebec research on the international scene and to the attraction of private R&amp;D investments within the industry. &quot;
Servier Canada is the Canadian subsidiary of the French pharmaceutical company Servier, founded in 1954. Present in 140 countries, this company develops drugs intended to treat, in particular, cardiovascular, metabolic, neurological and psychiatric diseases. The Canadian subsidiary employs 303 people across the country, including 161 in Quebec. Of this number, 35 people are dedicated to research and development by performing clinical trials from phase I to phase IV.
&quot;The establishment of the first center of excellence in clinical research of the company Servier in the science and high technology park of Laval testifies to the company&#39;s desire to consolidate its activities in Quebec and increase its competitiveness in terms of international, ”said Frédéric Fasano, Managing Director of Servier Canada. “Quebec is indeed an important pole in the field of clinical research in North America. The quality of the research carried out here and the expertise of the Quebec workforce are major assets for the growth of Servier Canada in Quebec. &quot;
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the RSS feeds at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
