Lac-Mégantic– The Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Seniors, Minister responsible for the Estrie region and Member of Parliament for Saint-François, Mr. Réjean Hébert, announced today, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, investments of $ 694,136, including $ 583,858 for the redevelopment of premises and $ 110,278 for the acquisition of equipment, at the vocational training center Le Granit, an establishment of the Hauts-Cantons School Board. These investments will support the implementation of the Personal Assistance in Health Establishment (5316) and Health, Assistance and Nursing (5325) study programs, which the School Board is now authorized to offer on a permed.
Thanks to this sum, the School Board has implemented, in recent months, a project to redevelop an area of 539 m² of the Le Granit vocational training center, where these study programs are offered, as well as to acquire the equipment attached to it. The work, the total cost of which is estimated at $ 793,425, has been completed.
“The needs of the health sector in terms of skilled workers are constantly increasing. We provide the citizens of Quebec with quality health care, which requires qualified people in sufficient numbers. It is through investments like this that we will be able to meet this societal challenge successfully, ”said Dr. Hébert.
Government investments totaling more than $ 24.3 million were announced in September 2013 to improve the vocational training offer. In addition to the project unveiled today, various other projects aiming at the expansion and redevelopment of existing vocational training centers as well as the updating and implementation of new study programs will be implemented in several regions of Quebec.
“We are making these investments for young people in Quebec. It is to our advantage that vocational training attracts them more. We also need to get more adults to explore the many possibilities it offers. Vocational training is not only essential to the development of our economy, but it allows the young people who follow it to achieve fulfillment in fields that are close to their hearts, ”Minister Malavoy said.
