Trois-Rivières - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, and the Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, announced the allocation of financial assistance of 15 million euros. dollars to the company Kruger Biomaterials inc. and the FPInnovations research center for a joint project of more than $ 43 million. This involves, on the one hand, the establishment of a demonstration plant for the production of cellulose filaments and, on the other hand, the establishment of an accelerated research program for the development of new biomaterials. and bioproducts using these filaments.
“Quebec is proud to be able to count on innovative and competitive companies and research centers, such as Kruger Biomaterials and FPInnovations, which choose to innovate to distinguish themselves in the forest products industry,” declared Élaine Zakaïb. “Our industrial policy encourages innovation within the manufacturing sector, in particular by promoting links between companies and research centers. This project will allow the growth of our expertise as well as the development of a prosperous Quebec turned towards green technologies. &quot;
The financial assistance consists of a loan of $ 11.25 million, granted to Kruger Biomaterials inc. through Investissement Québec, as well as a $ 3.75 million grant awarded to FPInnovations by the Ministry of Natural Resources. In addition to generating significant spinoffs for the Mauricie region and Quebec, this project will ensure the preservation and creation of 48 jobs in total.
“This material has unique properties that can be used to improve and extend the range of pulp and paper products already available on the market as well as to create new materials. This will allow pulp and paper companies in particular to improve the resistance and softness of sanitary and household papers, to reduce the weight of cardboard packaging as well as to compete with materials from hydrocarbon chemistry, ”added Martine Ouellet. “We are pleased to support the pulp and paper industry in its consolidation of growing products, and to promote diversification to maintain and create structuring jobs in the forestry sector in Quebec. &quot;
This green chemistry project aims to produce, from wood fiber, materials that are traditionally produced from hydrocarbons. In addition to promoting process optimization, it takes into account the entire product life cycle. Found naturally in wood, the very thin and exceptionally long cellulose filaments are fully recyclable and provide a high degree of reinforcement.
Kruger Biomaterials inc. is a subsidiary of Kruger Publishing Papers inc. (PPKI), incorporated in 2013. The company will install the cellulosic filament production demonstration plant on the current PPKI site in Trois-Rivières. &quot;We are proud to participate in this large-scale project which will allow us to ensure the first development, here in Quebec, of manufacturing processes that will be coveted around the world&quot;, declared Mr. Daniel Archambault, vice-president. President and Chief Operating Officer, Industrial Products Division of Kruger. “This research and development project is a fine example of cooperation between private and public organizations for the benefit of the entire forest industry and regions whose economic vitality depends on this sector of activity. &quot;
FPInnovations is a pan-Canadian research center for the forest industry. This center has a division entirely dedicated to the pulp and paper sector, with offices located in Montreal and Vancouver. “Our research program, in collaboration with industry, academia and governments, has once again led to the invention of an innovative new product, cellulose filaments, which will allow industry to thrive in a global economy, ”said the President and CEO of FPInnovations, Mr. Pierre Lapointe. “In addition to helping to produce these filaments, this plant could also give rise to new applications. &quot;
