Boisbriand - The Senator, Mr. Jean-Guy Dagenais, on behalf of Federal Minister Gerry Ritz, and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, in the presence of the MP de Labelle and Minister responsible for the Laurentides region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, are pleased to announce the launch of the Innov&#39;Action agroalimentaire program. With a budget of over $ 31 million, this financial assistance program aims to increase the competitiveness of businesses in the agricultural and food processing sectors in Quebec by supporting research and innovation. It is funded by the governments of Canada and Quebec under the Canada-Quebec Growing Forward 2 agreement.
“Innovation remains at the heart of the competitiveness and profitability of agricultural and agrifood businesses. Growing the Future 2 and the Innov&#39;Action program allow the industry to find solutions to challenges and take advantage of the opportunities offered on the markets, ”said Senator Dagenais. “Our government remains determined to support research and innovation because they promote economic growth and long-term prosperity in Quebec. &quot;
“The concern for innovation is essential. Businesses, like the Quebec agrifood sector as a whole, must make innovation a constant concern and integrate it into their vision for the future. As I have already said, our government wants to take concrete steps to achieve the objectives that we have set for ourselves and that we have specified in the Food Sovereignty Policy, particularly with regard to enhancing the economic potential of the sector. In this sense, the new Agri-Food Innov&#39;Action program is timely, because it will allow our companies to be more competitive and to find their place in markets where competition is fierce, ”declared François Gendron.
Innov&#39;Action agroalimentaire replaces five research and innovation support programs that ended on March 31, 2013. By grouping together all the financial assistance, Innov&#39;Action agroalimentaire will be better suited to the related issues. enhancing the economic potential of the agricultural production and food processing sectors and will better meet the expectations of Quebec society. More specifically, through its four components, it will support initiatives relating to applied research, business adaptation and technology transfer.
The first component of Innov&#39;Action agroalimentaire is intended to support the implementation of projects aimed at increasing knowledge from applied research in the priority areas of agricultural production and food processing.
The second part is aimed exclusively at the production sector. It aims to facilitate the adoption of research results by supporting the realization of experimental development, adaptation or technology transfer projects or the preparation of new tools for disseminating technical knowledge.
This third component relates to the food processing sector. It is intended to promote the implementation of product or process innovation projects, particularly the development of foods with improved nutritional value or health value. It supports projects leading to product or process innovation or the conduct of clinical studies.
Finally, the fourth component of the program relates to the development of a culture of innovation, both in agricultural production companies and in agro-food processing companies. Networking activities between industry and research, activities for disseminating good innovation methods and hosting foreign experts are all eligible activities under this component.
Research and technology transfer establishments, dissemination centers, farms and food processing companies as well as associations or groups of companies wishing to learn more about the Innov&#39;Action agrifood program can consult the document at the following address: http: //www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/innovaction.
It should be remembered that the governments of Canada and Quebec, by concluding the bilateral agreement Growing the Future 2, associated with it funding of $ 293 million over a period of five years, from 2013 to 2018. This important agreement has The objective of supporting strategic initiatives in terms of innovation, competitiveness and market development, both for the benefit of the agricultural sector and for the benefit of the food processing sector. For more details on the pan-Canadian Growing Forward 2 initiatives, visit www.agr.gc.ca/cultivonslavenir. To find out more about the shared-cost programs of Growing the Future 2 implemented in Quebec, you can consult www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/cultivonslavenir.
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, visit the blog (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or the Internetwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA) website of the Ministère de l&#39;Agriculture, des Pêcheries et de l &#39;Food. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
