Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Pierre Duchesne, announces that &#39;&#39; an agreement in principle of nearly $ 10 million has been signed with the Cégep du Vieux Montréal, for the construction project of a multifunctional hall, the inauguration of which is scheduled for 2017, which it will share with the Maison québécoise du théâtre for children and young people, called the Maison Théâtre. Emphasizing the importance of access to arts and culture for young people, the Premier made the announcement in front of a fourth grade class of elementary school.
“This investment tangibly illustrates the desire of the Government of Quebec to renew and improve infrastructure in all sectors of society. Quality cultural facilities must be accessible throughout the territory and meet the needs of artists, creators, organizations and the population, all audiences included, ”declared the Premier.
“This new venue will enrich the cultural offer and offer an expanded showcase for theater for young audiences, while meeting the school and extracurricular needs of the college. This is an exemplary and fruitful collaboration between two organizations with complementary needs, which will benefit theatrical and student communities as well as the entire community, ”added Minister Kotto.
“By hosting both cultural and educational activities, this new multifunctional room will instill a taste for culture and knowledge in our young people. It will give them the opportunity to discover the richness of our culture, which is a pillar of our identity. The Quebec identity is precisely one of the priority axes of the National research and innovation policy that I launched last fall, ”said Minister Duchesne.
The Ministry of Culture and Communications (MCC) and the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology (MESRST) have agreed on the importance of maintaining the Maison Théâtre, a broadcaster specializing in theater. young audience, in the premises it currently occupies, belonging to the Cégep du Vieux Montréal. The agreement in principle announced today will allow them to continue their cohabitation and provides for the construction of a multipurpose room that they will share. The maximum financial assistance planned is $ 9.950 million, of which $ 8 million comes from the MCC and $ 1.950 million from the MESRST.
The new room will provide an additional, more intimate space better suited to early childhood shows presented by the Maison Théâtre. It offers more than 300 performances annually and reaches 70,000 spectators, aged 2 to 17, in particular thanks to school trips. The Cégep du Vieux Montréal will use the hall for its institutional and educational activities, serving among other things its student population registered in programs related to the performing arts.
