Chapais– Seniors with a slight loss of autonomy in Chapais will soon be able to benefit from 16 affordable housing units adapted to their needs. The deputy of Ungava, Mr. Luc Ferland, accompanied by the mayor of Chapais, Mr. Steve Gamache, and many partners from the community, today proceeded to the official groundbreaking marking the start of construction work on the Manoir Pierre-Guénette . This project, which will see the light of day thanks to the AccèsLogis Québec program of the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), required a total investment of more than $ 4.1 million.
The government of Quebec, through the SHQ, granted a subsidy of more than $ 2.4 million for the construction of the Manoir Pierre-Guénette. In addition, the SHQ guarantees the mortgage loan taken out by the Chapais municipal housing office. The community&#39;s total contribution amounts to some $ 1.9 million, of which more than $ 1.5 million comes from the City of Chapais.
“The entire Chapais community has mobilized to allow the construction of this residence, which will allow seniors to live in a living environment that is dear to them, close to their family and friends. I think we can be proud of this great achievement! Thank you to all the partners who have contributed to this local initiative, ”declared MP Luc Ferland, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault.
“Thanks to Manoir Pierre-Guénette, our community can now keep its seniors longer. Our entire region is delighted, ”said Denise Larouche, president of the board of directors of the Chapais municipal housing office.
It should be noted that additional financial assistance of nearly $ 138,000, spread over five years and assumed 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the City of Chapais, will allow 8 tenants of Manoir Pierre-Guénette to benefit from the Rent supplement program. Thus, these low-income households will pay a rent similar to that of a low-rental housing, or 25% of their income.
Among the contributions from the community, it should be noted that the project received a grant of nearly $ 32,000 from the Office of Energy Efficiency and Innovation of the Ministry of Natural Resources to ensure that it meets the standards of the Novoclimat program, which will ensure tenants a significant saving on the costs of heating their accommodation.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000 households. every year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec. This is why the Quebec government announced, in its most recent budget, a budget envelope of $ 231M for the construction of 3,000 affordable housing units over the next few years.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
