Saint-Jérôme - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, today announced the expansion and redevelopment of the Cégep de Saint-Jérôme. This project received authorization from the Conseil du trésor within the framework of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI). The Minister also took advantage of his visit to inaugurate the new premises intended for students of the Management of a catering establishment program and to confirm a financial contribution used for the acquisition of new equipment for the Institute of Advanced Transport of Quebec (ITAQ). In total, an investment of more than $ 18 million has been announced to support the college offering in Saint-Jérôme.
“This project is taking shape for the benefit of students in the region, while contributing to the socioeconomic development of Saint-Jérôme. News which, I am sure, will delight the whole community. The Laurentians region is currently experiencing significant demographic growth. The expansion of the premises of Cégep Saint-Jérôme will meet the school infrastructure needs generated by this situation. This work will allow students to study in a suitable environment that will promote their success, ”said Minister Duchesne.
An investment of $ 15.3 million will allow the Cégep de Saint-Jérôme to expand and rearrange its premises in order to accommodate the new cohorts of students planned for the coming years. To this end, the CEGEP&#39;s estimate, which stood at 3,300 students, has been increased to 4,000 students as of the 2012-2013 school year.
The Department has also allocated the Cégep an allowance of $ 193,400 so that modular premises can be installed to accommodate additional clients as of the 2012-2013 school year. These premises will be used until the expansion and redevelopment work is completed. The Cégep will also benefit from an annual allowance of $ 264,800 related to the rental and operation of these temporary spaces.
“We have the privilege, but also the responsibility to offer quality higher education to young people in the region. With this responsibility comes the duty to offer the college community a welcoming human and physical environment worthy of pride. This is precisely what the investment announced today will allow us to do, ”said Jacques Gariépy, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Cégep de Saint-Jérôme.
“At this point, the project is in the conceptualization phase and we are in the process of establishing the master plan that will determine what needs to be added or expanded. In short, several scenarios are on the drawing board to best respond to the growth we are experiencing. If the Cégep de Saint-Jérôme has never been cramped in its ideas, it will no longer be so in its premises! », Added the director of the Cégep, Ms. Francine Paquette.
On the sidelines of his announcement, Minister Pierre Duchesne inaugurated the new premises for the Management of a catering establishment study program. The development of the premises including an application kitchen, an educational kitchen and a school restaurant was made possible by the granting of government assistance of $ 2,117,000, to which was added $ 375,000 necessary for the construction. acquisition of new equipment.
This technical program, which leads to a diploma of college studies (DEC), has welcomed around thirty students since the 2012-2013 school year and takes into account the workforce needs of the region.
Minister Duchesne took advantage of his presence in the region to confirm a financial contribution of $ 310,162 to the project to acquire research equipment from the Institute of Advanced Transport of Quebec associated with the Cégep de Saint-Jérome.
The acquisition of new equipment will make it possible to create and strengthen partnerships with private companies. This will broaden the field of research from light transport to electrification or hybridization of heavy transport, following two main lines of research. The first axis concerns improving energy efficiency and reducing polluting emissions from traction chains. the second, the development of battery systems.
&quot;The specialized equipment acquired by the Institute of Advanced Transport of Quebec will serve as a lever for the research and development of new technologies, thus meeting the demand of the heavy vehicle industry, a promising market in Quebec,&quot; said the Minister. Duchesne.
The financial contribution of $ 310,162 is paid for equipment acquisition projects in colleges and college technology transfer centers, in the context of the 2012 College-Industry Innovation Fund competition of the Canadian Foundation for innovation (FCI).
“These investments allow students in the Laurentians to have access to quality infrastructure and promote higher education in our large territory. With my colleagues Denise Beaudoin, Member of Parliament for Mirabel, Claude Cousineau, Member of Parliament for Bertrand, Daniel Goyer, Member of Parliament for Deux-Montagnes and Roland Richer, Member of Parliament for Argenteuil, I am delighted with this structuring news for the population of our region ”, declared the member for Labelle and government official for the Laurentides region, Sylvain Pagé.
