Gatineau– Families and single people in Gatineau are now benefiting from 47 new quality and affordable housing units thanks to an investment of over $ 7.7 million from the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ) and its community partners. The Le Conservatoire housing complex was inaugurated today by the Minister of Public Security and Minister responsible for the Outaouais region, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault.
“Today we are celebrating the completion of a major project that will enrich the housing supply and whose spinoffs will benefit the entire Gatineau community. These new homes will allow 47 families and individuals to benefit from the living environment they need to thrive. As Minister responsible for the Outaouais region, I would like to stress that these accommodations are timely. Housing demand is strong in Gatineau due to the city&#39;s proximity to Ottawa. Accessibility to affordable and quality housing is therefore decreasing, while the needs are constantly growing, ”declared Minister Bergeron, in the presence of partners from the community.
In addition to the SHQ, which granted a subsidy of more than $ 3.3 million, in addition to guaranteeing the mortgage loan taken out by the organization, community partners contributed nearly $ 1.1 million to the project. Of this amount, some $ 972,000 comes from the City of Gatineau.
It should be noted that additional financial assistance of more than $ 413,000, spread over five years and assumed 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the City of Gatineau, allows 24 of the 47 tenant households to benefit from the Rent Supplement program. . Thus, these low-income households pay a rent similar to that of a low-rental housing, or 25% of their income.
“Access to affordable housing is an important issue that closely affects many families here in Gatineau. The role of a city is, among other things, to ensure that its citizens can find adequate housing. I therefore salute the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec, the Office municipal d&#39;habitation de Gatineau and the Habitations de l&#39;Outaouais métropolitain team who helped make the Le Conservatoire housing project a reality. The City of Gatineau is proud to have injected nearly $ 972,000 into this housing project, the construction cost of which amounts to nearly $ 8 million, ”declared Ms. Mireille Apollon, deputy mayor of the City of Gatineau. .
“Projects like the Conservatory&#39;s are made possible thanks to partners such as the City of Gatineau, the SHQ and the Office municipal d&#39;habitation de Gatineau. The housing complex, located in the urban village of Plateau, will provide more than 130 people with adequate housing. I would like to point out that there was no affordable housing in this area, ”concluded the chairman of the board of directors of Habitations de l&#39;Outaouais métropolitain, Mr. Denis Bergeron.
Note that the project received a grant of more than $ 107,000 from the Office of Energy Efficiency and Innovation of the Ministry of Natural Resources to ensure that it meets the standards of the Novoclimat program, which ensures tenants a significant saving on the heating costs of their home.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether it is by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000 people. households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, a Web magazine that deals in particular with the impact of SHQ interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
