Laval– The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced the injection of $ 6.7 million in share capital into the company Altasciences for the acquisition of the American company Vince &amp; Associates Clinical Research. Altasciences is a clinical research firm, better known here as Algorithme Pharma, its Quebec subsidiary located in the heart of the Cité de la Biotech in Laval.
The Quebec government has responded favorably to the request from Kilmer Capital Partners, a Canadian private equity fund and majority shareholder of Altasciences, to participate in the financing of this transaction which will benefit the Quebec subsidiary. The injection of $ 6.7 million in share capital, through Investissement Québec, allows it to become a minority shareholder in the company. In addition, thanks to the synergies between the two entities, this transaction will create 75 new jobs in Quebec over the next few years.
“Even though the pharmaceutical industry faces major challenges on a global scale, companies in this sector play a vital role in the Quebec economy. They have invested $ 5 billion in recent years and represent 400 companies in Quebec and more than 25,000 jobs, ”explained Minister Delegate Zakaïb. “The expansion of this Quebec leader in one of our industrial clusters is excellent news for the metropolitan region, especially since this acquisition will contribute to Algorithme Pharma&#39;s growth in Quebec and abroad. &quot;
The acquired contract research firm, Vince &amp; Associates Clinical Research, specializes in Phase I studies in patients from so-called special populations, a niche that is generating high demand in the United States. This acquisition thus allows Altasciences, and by extension its subsidiary Algorithme Pharma, to penetrate the American market while enhancing and diversifying its service offering in this niche.
Altasciences, through its group of companies, provides comprehensive clinical early stage drug development services for Phase I / IIa, including all support services required at this critical stage. The company takes care to maintain the distinct skills of each company, including Algorithme Pharma, as well as their own identity, while taking advantage of the in-depth expertise and available capacities of each. It also ensures that they benefit from the advantages resulting from belonging to a larger and common entity, namely Altasciences, emphasizing excellence in customer service.
