Montreal– Quebec Premier Pauline Marois, accompanied by MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, and Mayor of Montreal, Michael Applebaum, today announced that the City of Montreal will be able to create, through of the AccèsLogis Québec program of the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), 1,150 community and affordable housing units on its territory over the next year. This is an investment of nearly $ 90 million on the part of the Government of Quebec.
“This announcement is excellent news for Montreal households. They will benefit from better housing conditions, which will generate many other positive effects; because by investing in affordable housing, the government is helping to fight poverty. We have shown in the past that it is possible and profitable for society to fight poverty. It is the combination of heart and reason, ”said the Prime Minister.
Today&#39;s announcement took place at the Station No 1 Housing Co-operative, a complex of 74 affordable housing units for families and individuals. Carried out thanks to the AccèsLogis Québec program of the SHQ, this inspiring project has revitalized a former industrial district in the Mercier – Hochelaga-Maisonneuve borough, by recycling a building built in 1903 and slated for demolition. The Station No 1 housing cooperative has also received several distinctions for its heritage enhancement, its architecture and its contribution to sustainable development.
“With the investment announced today, we can aspire to great and big affordable community housing projects. The Station No 1 housing cooperative, which is a concrete example, has helped to revitalize and densify the sector, while respecting its past and its cultural heritage. I am hopeful that I will soon see the birth of such original and structuring projects all over the territory of the city of Montreal, ”said MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier.
“Today&#39;s announcement is certainly good news for Montreal. The creation of 1,150 housing units through the AccèsLogis program will allow us to achieve our social diversity objectives, in addition to contributing to the revitalization of our neighborhoods and, above all, to meeting the housing needs of our low- and modest-income fellow citizens. . We are pleased with this renewed commitment from the Government of Quebec to support the City of Montreal in our efforts in the area of social and community housing, ”declared Montreal Mayor Michael Applebaum.
“It is with enthusiasm that we receive the announcement of this 2013 contribution from the AccèsLogis program. These new financial resources for Montreal will support our efforts in the application of our social and community housing inclusion strategy. In Montreal, the needs are great and these new AccèsLogis units will allow us to ensure a harmonious redevelopment of the boroughs with the production of housing for families, seniors and vulnerable people, including the homeless, ”added the vice-president. President of the Executive Committee of the City of Montreal and responsible for housing and social housing, Benoit Dorais.
Since the implementation in 1997 of the SHQ&#39;s AccèsLogis Québec and Affordable Housing Québec programs, some 15,600 community housing units have been built or are in the process of being built in the Montreal region, which represents investments totaling more than of $ 2 billion. Remember that in its most recent budget, the Quebec government announced an envelope of $ 231 million for the construction of 3,000 affordable housing units.
