SAINTE-LUCIE-DES-LAURENTIDES, QC, Oct. 18, 2013 / CNW Telbec / - A new residence with 12 affordable units intended for seniors with a slight loss of autonomy will soon open its doors in Sainte-Lucie-des-Laurentides. The construction work for the Maison des Lucioles was kicked off today by the Member for Bertrand and Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Claude Cousineau, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and of Land Occupation, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ).
This project, carried out thanks to the SHQ&#39;s AccèsLogis Québec program, will result in an investment of nearly $ 2.5 million from the government of Quebec and its partners in the community.
The SHQ granted a subsidy of more than $ 896,000, in addition to guaranteeing the mortgage loan taken out by the organization La Maison des Lucioles. The community&#39;s total contribution amounts to some $ 260,000, of which more than $ 190,000 is invested by the Municipality of Sainte-Lucie-des-Laurentides and nearly $ 24,000 by the Office of Efficiency and energy innovation from the Ministry of Natural Resources so that the project meets the standards of the Novoclimat program, which provides tenants with appreciable savings in heating costs for their homes.
“One of the strengths of the AccèsLogis Québec program is that it is based on the active involvement of people in the community. Here, the entire community mobilized to build this residence, which will allow its tenants to live in a living environment that is dear to them, in a safe environment and close to their family and friends. We can be proud of this great local initiative, ”said MP Claude Cousineau.
“Thanks to the Maison des Lucioles, our community can now provide its seniors with the possibility of not emigrating when they can no longer live in their home. This residence will also make it possible to offer services not only to its tenants, but to the entire elderly population of the municipality ”, emphasized Mr. André Vena, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Maison des Lucioles.
Note that additional financial assistance of more than $ 103,000, spread over five years and assumed 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the Municipality, will allow 6 tenants of this residence to benefit from the Rent Supplement program. Thus, these low-income households will pay a rent similar to that of a low-rental housing, or 25% of their income.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether it is by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000 people. households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec. For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
