Malartic– Families in Malartic will soon have access to 36 affordable housing units built or renovated thanks to the AccèsLogis Québec program run by the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ). Passing through the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, the Minister of Transport, Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, accompanied by the Minister for Native Affairs and Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Est, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, today shoveled the earth symbolically for the Hetherington housing project.
This project, which includes the construction of a new 12-unit building as well as the renovation of six other four-unit buildings, will result in an investment of more than $ 5 million from the Government of Quebec and its partners in the middle.
“In a few months, 36 families will have access to new or completely renovated, affordable and quality housing. This is excellent news for these households and for the entire Malartic community, which will benefit from these infrastructures for a long time, ”declared Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
The SHQ granted a subsidy of more than $ 2.2 million for the construction of this housing complex, in addition to guaranteeing the mortgage loan contracted by the Immeubles Roc d&#39;Or organization. The community&#39;s total contribution amounts to some $ 1.1 million, of which $ 450,000 is invested by the Osisko Mining Corporation, $ 302,000 by the Town of Malartic and $ 36,000 by the Caisse Desjardins de la Vallée de l &#39; Gold. The project also received a grant of nearly $ 33,000 from the Office of Energy Efficiency and Innovation of the Ministry of Natural Resources so that the buildings meet the Novoclimat standard.
“We are well aware of the significant needs in terms of affordable housing in Abitibi as in all of Quebec. This is why the launch of a project like this one is of particular importance for our region, ”emphasized MNA Élizabeth Larouche.
It should be noted that additional financial assistance of more than $ 361,000, spread over five years and assumed 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the City, will allow 21 households to benefit from the Rent Supplement program. Thus, these low-income families will pay a rent similar to that of a low-rental housing, or 25% of their income.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether it is by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000 people. households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
