Saint-Roch-de-l&#39;Achignan– The Minister of Finance and the Economy and Member of Parliament for Rousseau, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, today announced the allocation of non-repayable financial assistance of $ 400,000 to the The Unisson Acoustic Speakers of Saint-Roch-de-l&#39;Achigan. This company creates, designs, manufactures and installs stages and aluminum structures. The government contribution will be used to build a new type of mobile outdoor stage, a project valued at $ 1,626,000 that will create fifteen jobs.
“Les Enceintes acoustiques Unisson has developed a product that will significantly reduce the constraints associated with producing outdoor shows. The unique design inspired by aeronautics will significantly reduce transport costs and improve safety during shows. For us, it is imperative to support daring promoters who dare to innovate. In addition, the business possibilities are numerous, and the expertise of the promoters of this innovative project suggests great achievements. Our government is happy to be able to contribute to its development in order to further stimulate the economy of the Lanaudière region, ”declared Nicolas Marceau. The new mobile outdoor stage model of Unisson Acoustic Speakers will use walls made up of pivoting sections like an airplane wing. These &quot;blades&quot; will automatically adjust according to the direction and intensity of the wind.
“The stage itself will consist of a completely removable aluminum structure, made from folding beams, which will have the effect of reducing by ten the number of trucks required for travel. In addition, the latter will be able to support a weight five times greater than current mobile structures. With its new type of stage, Les Enceintes acoustiques Unisson will become the only Canadian supplier of large-scale mobile stages, i.e. 27,000 square feet, capable of withstanding winds of 120 km / h, at competitive production costs in look at traditional moving stages, ”added the vice-president of Unisson Acoustic Speakers, Mr. Olivier Jobin.
“Unisson Acoustic Speakers is positioned favorably to continue its growth. The manufacture, transport and installation of this new equipment will lead the company to double its turnover in the two years following the launch of the product, ”the Minister said.
