Danville - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced the allocation of financial assistance of $ 540,000, repayable without interest and from the Economic Diversification Fund - MRC des Sources, to the company Les Serres du St-Laurent inc., producer of the Savoura tomato.
This financial assistance will support an investment project of $ 909,000, which will be implemented in the company&#39;s greenhouses located in Danville, in the Eastern Townships. The planned works concern the insulation and irrigation systems of the greenhouses. These investments will help reduce operating costs and increase the company&#39;s profitability.
&quot;With this large-scale project, Les Serres du St-Laurent is ensuring the sustainability of its facilities in Danville and contributing to the economic vitality of the MRC des Sources and the Estrie region,&quot; declared Élaine Zakaïb . “I would like to remind you that our government is committed to providing the MRC des Sources with all the necessary tools to boost its economy. Thanks to the establishment of an economic diversification fund of $ 50 million, the MRC has the means to ensure the realization of structuring projects. &quot;
Founded in 1988, Les Serres du St-Laurent is the largest greenhouse company in Quebec. It produces nearly 8 million kilograms of greenhouse tomatoes per year and generates 206 jobs in four production sites, two in Danville, one in Portneuf and one in Saint-Étienne-des-Grès.
&quot;This project will allow us to reduce our production costs, in addition to ensuring our competitiveness in a booming sector,&quot; said Marie Gosselin, President and CEO of Les Serres du St-Laurent. “We are pleased to benefit from the support of the Government of Quebec, which will contribute to the growth of our activities. &quot;
The Economic Diversification Fund - MRC des Sources constitutes an effective and accessible financial tool with the objectives of promoting the realization of structuring projects and improving the competitiveness of businesses. In particular, feasibility studies, investment projects and product or process development projects aimed at supporting business growth are eligible for this fund. Financial interventions take the form of loans, loan guarantees, equity investments and grants.
