Saguenay– A residence with 26 affordable units intended for seniors with a slight loss of autonomy will soon see the light of day in Saguenay. Construction work on the Résidence Saint-Jean-Eudes was kicked off today by Sylvain Gaudreault, Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister responsible for the Société d &#39; habitation du Québec (SHQ) and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, in the presence of Mr. Jean Tremblay, Mayor of Saguenay, and partners from the community.
Carried out thanks to the SHQ&#39;s AccèsLogis Québec program, this project will result in an investment of nearly $ 4.4 million from the government of Quebec and its partners.
“Résidence Saint-Jean-Eudes will allow seniors to enjoy quality housing that meets their needs, while remaining in an environment that is dear and familiar to them. These investments bear witness to the importance our government attaches to improving the living conditions of seniors. This local initiative clearly shows how much the people of our region are in solidarity with one another, and I am very proud of it, ”said Minister Gaudreault.
The SHQ granted a subsidy of nearly $ 1.7 million for this project, in addition to guaranteeing the mortgage loan taken out by the organization. The community&#39;s total contribution amounts to $ 648,000, of which nearly $ 597,000 is invested by the City of Saguenay.
“Thanks to the completion of this long-awaited project, our seniors will be able to continue to live peacefully in their community, which will prevent them from being uprooted, which is sometimes difficult. Our entire population will benefit from it, ”emphasized Gaétane Pelletier, president of the board of directors of Résidence Saint-Jean-Eudes.
It should be noted that additional financial assistance of nearly $ 224,000, spread over five years and assumed 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the City of Saguenay, will allow nine tenants of this residence to benefit from the Supplement Program. rent. Thus, these low-income households will pay a rent similar to that of a low-rental housing, or 25% of their income.
In addition, like all projects carried out under the AccèsLogis Québec program, this residence will be designed to obtain Novoclimat certification, a requirement that reflects the importance given to improving energy efficiency by the Government of Quebec. . The project received a grant of more than $ 51,000 from the Office of Energy Efficiency and Innovation of the Ministry of Natural Resources to help it achieve this goal.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether it is by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000 households every year. year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the new Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
