Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Véronique Hivon, took advantage of her presence at the opening of the 2nd International Francophone Congress on Palliative Care and the 23rd Congress of the Quebec Palliative Care Network to announce a $ 15M investment in palliative care, of which $ 11M will be devoted to palliative home care.
“Today we are making a significant gesture, a gesture of solidarity. We demonstrate the priority given to the development of palliative care, as we had committed to. For our government, it is essential to improve the supply of palliative care and improve access to it, and that is precisely what the investment announced today will allow. It should also be noted that this is a first, because no government has yet announced a global investment specifically dedicated to palliative home care, ”said the Prime Minister.
In fact, of the sum of $ 15 million, $ 11 million will be used to develop palliative home care, including community support and training. “This investment will mainly make it possible to increase access to palliative care and to intensify the necessary interventions offered to sick people, in the environment where the majority of them wish to end their lives. It could also make it possible to offer more support to relatives, who play a fundamental role in home support, and to improve training, especially for people working in residential and long-term care centers, as well. only for volunteers, whose role is inseparable from the proper functioning of palliative care teams, ”explained Minister Véronique Hivon.
In addition to this $ 11 million, an amount of $ 4 million is allocated to the addition of dedicated beds and will support the establishment of new palliative care homes, or even increase the number of beds in homes. already existing. Depending on the needs of each region, this investment could also make it possible to add beds in residential and long-term care centers or in hospitals, since it remains important to have a diversified offer that takes into account the different realities experienced in Quebec.
“The theme of this congress, Meeting our Diversities: Towards Palliative Care for All, reflects our government&#39;s direction in the area of end-of-life care. Today&#39;s announcement is a big step forward and reflects our sincere desire to act in a spirit of solidarity and humanity, by making palliative care as accessible and best suited as possible to the needs of Quebec women and men. of Quebecers, ”added Minister Véronique Hivon.
The Premier and the minister responsible for the Dying with Dignity file said they were impressed by the size of the congress and were confident about the impact of the work that will be carried out there in the coming days. “Beyond the announcement made today, I am convinced that the stimulating exchanges that this congress will generate, and in which a multitude of stakeholders from Quebec and La Francophonie will participate, will greatly contribute to fostering the emulation necessary for a even greater growth in palliative care in Quebec, ”concluded the Premier.
