Quebec - As part of the I protect my public school mobilization, the member for Saint-Jérôme and leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, accompanied by the member for Lac-Saint-Jean and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters education, research and school perseverance, Alexandre Cloutier, and the deputy for Rosemont and lieutenant for the metropolis, Jean-François Lisée, participated in the human chain in front of the Sans-Frontières elementary school in Montreal. Let us mention that the member for Taschereau, Agnès Maltais, the member for Vachon, Martine Ouellet, as well as the member for Richelieu, Sylvain Rochon, did the same near a school in Quebec.
“As a citizen but, above all, as a parent, it was essential for me to be present with parents, students, teachers, professionals and support staff of public schools, in order to tell the government of Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard that his cuts to our greatest wealth, the education of our children, are unacceptable, ”declared the leader of the official opposition.
“At the start of the school year, government cuts directly affect student services and the quality of education. Hundreds of professional positions are being abolished across Quebec. The government is also proposing to increase the number of students per class and no longer take into account the special needs of students in difficulty in the formation of groups. Today, parents across Quebec are saying to the Minister of Education: Enough is enough. The Minister must come out of denial and hear this cry from the heart, ”added Alexandre Cloutier.
For his part, Jean-François Lisée echoed the major concerns of Montrealers in connection with the cuts in public schools. “No less than 22.5% of families with children are below the low income cut-off in the Montreal region, compared to 13.1% of those in Quebec as a whole. We see the harmful effects on the ground, in all schools, particularly those located in disadvantaged areas of the metropolis. At the Montreal School Board alone, no less than 70 professional positions have been abolished this year, ”he illustrated.
“We will continue to be with parents in Quebec, who are rightly concerned about cuts in education. The Prime Minister and his Minister of Education have themselves admitted the cuts in services and their impacts. Philippe Couillard continues to say that it is difficult now, but that it will get better later; however, what about current students, those who are paying the price today? », Concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau.
