Quebec - The member for Saint-Jérôme and leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, pays tribute to Prime Minister Jacques Parizeau, a great craftsman of modern Quebec, whose entire life has been devoted to Quebec and its independence, political and economic.
“It is with sadness that we learn of the death of Prime Minister Jacques Parizeau. On behalf of the great family of the Parti Québécois, I extend my sincere condolences to his wife, Lisette Lapointe, as well as to all her family and loved ones. Throughout his life, fully linked to the development of modern Quebec, Mr. Parizeau deeply believed in the ability of Quebecers to truly become masters of their destiny and their future. A great intellectual and renowned economist, Jacques Parizeau led his public life with righteousness, integrity and courage. Thanks to him, the Quebec nation has crossed the gates of modernity, to the outskirts of the country of Quebec. Thank you, Mr. Parizeau! », Declared Pierre Karl Péladeau.
Great craftsman of the Quiet Revolution
“The first Quebecer to obtain a doctorate from the London School of Economics, HEC professor Jacques Parizeau has contributed to the emergence of a new generation of French-speaking Quebec financiers and economists. He initiated or participated in the creation, as economic and financial advisor to Prime Minister Jean Lesage, of the most important economic levers of our nation: the nationalization of electricity, the Régie des rentes, the Caisse de dépôt et placement, the General financing company, among others. These development tools are an integral part of our society and have enabled the State to support local businesses for nearly 50 years, ”added Pierre Karl Péladeau.
First elected as a Member of Parliament in 1976, he was Minister of Finance in the office of Prime Minister René Lévesque until 1984. In 1979, Mr. Parizeau created the Stock Savings Plan, one of his many major achievements. He facilitated the establishment of large Quebec businesses, while supporting small and medium-sized businesses.
Jacques Parizeau was elected leader of the Parti Québécois on March 19, 1988. On September 12, 1994, he led the party to victory and was the 26th premier of Quebec until January 29, 1996. He led Quebec to the greatest democratic exercise which is: a referendum on its sovereignty. Under an umbrella coalition for Yes, it brought together three political parties and several civil society organizations. On October 30, 1995, a few thousand votes separated Quebec from its independence.
“Premier Jacques Parizeau&#39;s contribution to Quebec is invaluable. It allowed Quebeckers to believe in themselves, to believe that it was possible for a people to build its economy, for and by itself. Through his actions, he was one of the most influential Quebecers of his generation. Respected here and around the world, he made Quebec shine. Quebecers owe a lot to Prime Minister Jacques Parizeau; it will remain etched in the memory and history of our nation, ”concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau.
