Montreal - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, is pleased to announce the candidacy of Jean-François Lisée in the riding of Rosemont. &quot; Finally! Jean-François takes the leap, exclaimed Pauline Marois. He is a man who has an extraordinary flair, ideas for Quebec and who is made for political commitment. This is excellent news for our party, for the sovereignists and for Quebec. &quot;
Journalist, professor, founder of CÉRIUM, columnist, blogger, political advisor to prime ministers and renowned author, Jean-François Lisée is a recognized personality in the world of communications, notably for his blogs in L&#39;Actualité.
“Quebec must resume its march towards its sovereignty and get back on its feet. We have had a government that acted as a board of directors for too long. With Pauline Marois, we will finally have a major head of state with a social project that will restore vigor to Quebec and pride to Quebecers, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
Pauline Marois said she was excited about the team presented by the Parti Québécois and believes that Quebecers will be too. “We have a dream team, women and men from all walks of life who want to contribute to the improvement of Quebec, we have ideas and a program that will rally the population and we have the most beautiful social projects. &quot;
The leader of the Parti Québécois also took advantage of the inauguration of Jean-François Lisée to recall the commitments that her party has made so far. “We set out our ideas for forming an honest government: fixed election dates and public funding of political parties. We shared our ideas for ensuring affordable access to education for everyone, from early childhood through university. We have proposed solutions to enrich Quebecers. For the Liberals and the Caquists, it is the companies first. For the Parti Québécois, it is Quebecers first. Now it&#39;s up to us to choose! “Exclaimed Pauline Marois.
Remember that the Parti Québécois is the largest political formation in Quebec with its 90,000 members.
