Quebec - The Member for Taschereau and House Leader of the Official Opposition, Agnès Maltais, denounces the maneuver of the Leader of the Government, Jean-Marc Fournier, against the Member for Saint-Jérôme, whose sole purpose is to create a diversion of the current crisis of the Liberal government.
&quot;Wanting to fight again with the member for Saint-Jérôme, Jean-Marc Fournier now distorts the words of the Ethics Commissioner,&quot; said Agnès Maltais.
Here is what Jean-Marc Fournier claims:
“[…] The information note of February 2014 of the Ethics Commissioner, therefore before the last election, to the knowledge of all those who were candidates at that time, this note is very precise and it indicates that the trustee must have all the powers as if he were the owner. &quot;
“The trustee must have all the powers as if he were the owner. He must be able to watch even over alienation. &quot;
However, the reality is quite different:
The information note of February 2014 from the Ethics Commissioner indicates that “the member of the National Assembly must, when entrusting a trustee or an agent with the management of some of his assets, ensure that this person has all the powers necessary to exercise this responsibility, as if he were the owner of the assets, for the duration of the contract ”. (page 2 of the note)
The Ethics Commissioner&#39;s implementation report indicates that: “The requests for advice that have been submitted to us up to now lead us to recommend that the legislator specify the ethical framework concerning the instructions of a member. of the National Assembly for the benefit of the trustee or the agent, in particular if the elected official can, when he entrusts his interests to a trustee or an independent agent, give a formal instruction not to alienate his property. The absence of a clearly defined orientation by the Code in this matter could lead to confusion on what can be done now and in the future, with the risk of adopting a solution which does not correspond to the will of the legislator. &quot;(Pages 50 and 51 of the report)
In any case, therefore, the claims of Jean-Marc Fournier are not corroborated by the Ethics and Professional Conduct Commissioner.
“Jean-Marc Fournier decided to divert the mandate of the jurisconsult and to put two institutions of the National Assembly in opposition, to achieve his partisan ends. We can now see that the unfounded personal attacks against the member for Saint-Jérôme are the new scarecrow of this government which suffers from a lack of credibility, ”concluded Agnès Maltais.
