Quebec - The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, today announced the files that will be assigned to the two new members of the Parti Québécois, Marc Bourcier (Saint-Jérôme) and Catherine Fournier (Marie-Victorin), in more to indicate that some changes have been made within the parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois.
The new member of Parliament for Saint-Jérôme, Marc Bourcier, inherits the files of work and the electrification of transport. “This is a new challenge for me, which I welcome with enthusiasm. In addition to my work as a teacher and city councilor, I took part in several community activities to help the people of Saint-Jérôme. I believe these experiences will greatly help me in my role as a spokesperson. And let&#39;s not forget that Saint-Jérôme is a national hub for transportation electrification! &quot;, did he declare.
The new MP for Marie-Victorin, Catherine Fournier, will be responsible for consumer and home protection. “Jean-François asked me to bring the cause of consumers loud and clear and to give them a voice in the National Assembly. I intend to defend their interests vigorously, ”she responded.
In addition, Jean-François Lisée appointed the deputy for Bourget, Maka Kotto, lieutenant for the French language; this is in addition to his role as caucus chair. He also appointed Dave Turcotte, the member for Saint-Jean, spokesperson for issues affecting the pharmaceutical industry and the RAMQ. He remains the spokesperson for social services and youth protection. The member for Labelle, Sylvain Pagé, is now spokesperson for issues affecting Loto-Québec. For his part, the deputy for Berthier, André Villeneuve, is spokesperson for matters affecting the SAQ.
The leader of the official opposition also introduced his new press secretary, Bruno-Pierre Cyr. “I am happy to announce that Bruno-Pierre is back in the team. As you know, he worked in the office of the Leader of the Official Opposition as communications advisor and press secretary to Pierre Karl Péladeau and Sylvain Gaudreault. Previously, Bruno-Pierre was press secretary to the Minister of Families, Nicole Léger, in the Marois government. We wish him a safe return! », He indicated.
Bruno-Pierre Cyr succeeds Chantal Huot, who will reluctantly leave her post of press officer for family reasons. “In my name and that of the entire parliamentary wing, I would like to thank Chantal for her exceptional work and her great availability, especially during the leadership race and in the context of the recent by-elections. Chantal, you have contributed to real success, and we are all grateful to you, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
