Québec, September 6, 2017 - At the dawn of the new parliamentary session, the leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, announces changes to the Parti Québécois spokesperson team.
“Throughout this election year, our team will face significant challenges. By remaining well connected to the people of Quebec and their priorities, we will meet them. Our spokespersons will continue their excellent work; not only will they question the decisions of the Liberal government, but they will also propose concrete solutions to improve the lives of Quebeckers and the actions of the government. In the October 2018 elections, the citizens of Quebec will have a choice to make; our realistic and courageous proposals, as well as the links that we will maintain with them, will make it clear, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
The Leader of the Official Opposition is making changes to his team of spokespersons. These, particularly well connected to the wishes of Quebecers, will present concrete solutions to move Quebec forward.
Véronique Hivon obtains the family file. It retains justice and end-of-life care. Ms. Hivon also remains spokesperson for the Mauricie region and policy officer for relations with civil society and citizen participation.
Sylvain Pagé obtains the dossier for the reform of democratic institutions. It preserves public health, prevention, sports, recreation, healthy lifestyles and Loto-Québec.
Catherine Fournier obtains the feminine condition and the fight against homophobia and transphobia. It keeps housing and consumer protection files.
Mireille Jean will deal with issues relating to information resources. This file is in addition to those it already defends, namely professional laws, digital economy and SME priority - innovation, exports and productivity.
Guy Leclair recovers the work file.
“Families will remain at the center of our priorities; Véronique Hivon will see to it. As for Guy Leclair, he is back on the important labor issue, when this government has accustomed us, in terms of labor relations, to special laws rather than healthy negotiations. For her part, Mireille Jean will keep an eye on the Liberal clutter in terms of computer resources, which is costing Quebecers billions. Sylvain Pagé will take care of the reform of democratic institutions, while we are proposing to make the voting system more representative of the popular will. Finally, Catherine Fournier obtains the files of the female condition, victim of the liberal austerity of recent years, as well as of the necessary fight against homophobia and transphobia, for a society always more open to diversity ”, specified the leader of the official opposition.
“Since the start of the year, our parliamentary wing has forced the Liberal government to reconsider its positions on several issues: we have fought against the $ 500 increase in the tax burden imposed on Quebec seniors, incidental health costs and the increase in agricultural property taxes, among others. Count on us; this fall we will continue the work. We will defend Quebeckers against the permanent austerity of the Liberal government, ”concluded Jean ‑ François Lisée.
