Quebec, July 15, 2014 - The member for Rosemont, Jean-François Lisée, asks the Minister of International Relations and La Francophonie, Christine St? Pierre, to retract by next Tuesday for his false words about the missions abroad of the deputy, while he was Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, failing which, he will initiate a libel suit.
The minister made false statements about the number of Mr. Lisée&#39;s missions to France and suggested that some of them were not in the interest of Quebec, which is untrue. The economic component of these missions alone generated more than $ 110 million in contracts for the 175 Quebec companies that supported Mr. Lisée.
“Contrary to what she said publicly last week, Ms. St? Pierre had already received answers from her officials to all her questions: on the relevance of each of the missions, on the absence of additional costs for the State for my visits to my family and for the irreproachable character of my behavior ”, declared Jean? François Lisée.
Minister St? Pierre has indeed stated on several occasions that Jean? François Lisée had carried out 11 &quot;missions&quot; in Paris, which is false. There were 5, so less than Liberal Minister Pierre Arcand for the same amount of time. She also claimed he did a &quot;one-day mission with a 4-day private portion,&quot; which does not appear anywhere in the mission expense records.
“Spreading information that she knew to be false is a serious blow to my integrity and my reputation. Furthermore, I believe that bringing my family into the public debate is an unacceptable mistake. With a purely partisan objective, she tried to create a diversion on the back of my ethics and my values, ”continued the member for Rosemont.
If Ms. St? Pierre refuses to retract, Mr. Lisée asks her to undertake to pay out of pocket her defense costs and, if applicable, the penalty imposed by the judge. For his part, Mr. Lisée will pay his lawyers himself and, in the event of a win, will pay the sum obtained to a charitable organization.
A poor attempt at a liberal diversion The leader of the official opposition and member for Chicoutimi, Stéphane Bédard, wanted to support Jean-François Lisée.
“Minister St. Pierre&#39;s diversionary attempt fooled no one. A minister cannot say anything by issuing falsehoods and biased questions. Minister St? Pierre must recognize her error and retract now, ”concluded Stéphane Bédard.
