Montreal, February 22, 2018 - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the vice-leader, Véronique Hivon, are proud to welcome Jean-Martin Aussant as advisor for the promotion of independence, for matters affecting the metropolis as well as private and collective entrepreneurship, and as future head of the secretariat for the independence of Quebec within the government of the Parti Québécois.
“The return of Jean-Martin is another example of the great gathering that is being created around the Parti Québécois. It is also a strong indication that we are determined to achieve independence. Jean Martina acquired, in the files entrusted to him, a solid and considerable experience; it is an important asset which is added to our team, ”declared the leader of the Parti Québécois first.
Mr. Aussant was given mandates linked, on the one hand, to the leadership of the Parti Québécois and, on the other hand, to the official opposition. At the party, he will be responsible for the design and organization of the promotion of independence, from today until the referendum meeting. He will therefore play a key role in developing the independence offer. which will be presented to voters in 2022 and to the official opposition, it will be active on issues affecting the city and entrepreneurship, private and collective. Jean-François Lisée also specified that after the October election, “Jean-Martin will have missions, within the government, the production and updating of studies on the accession of our nation to its independence. , accession which will take place during our second term. &quot;
The main interested party said for his part very happy to return to active politics today. “My decision is essentially motivated by the search for the collective interest. In my opinion, this clearly requires that we have, at home, the full capacity to decide and act for and by ourselves: that is simply called sovereignty. Today, no party has a monopoly of sovereignty, neither of collective thought, nor of good economic ideas; but I believe that it is in the Parti Québécois that we find the ideal combination of these three essential elements for our advancement. To our sovereignist friends who are not currently engaged or who are engaged elsewhere, I say that the time has come to rally. The October election can be an important turning point if we all come together. Quebec must be put back into the world! &quot;, Insisted Jean Martin Aussant.
“It is a gesture of deep conviction that Jean-Martin is making and a powerful signal that he is sending by choosing political action, now, within the Parti Québécois. The message today is that the time has come to engage and act. And that the best vehicle for carrying a progressive vision, for Quebec to get back on its feet, get back on its feet and regain momentum to achieve its full freedom, is the Parti Québécois. The movement is on the move; we keep adding up. As a person Jean-Martin loves so well put it, &quot;let the latest arrival leave the door open&quot;! », Concluded Véronique Hivon.
