Quebec - On this 13th World Suicide Prevention Day, the member for Rosemont and Parti Québécois spokesperson for public health, youth protection and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, asks Prime Minister Philippe Couillard stop the cuts in these areas, because they have a significant impact on the assistance that can be provided to people in distress.
“For 17 months, that is, since they have been in power, the Liberals have cut some $ 23.7 million in prevention and public health, which is equivalent to 7% of the budgets of organizations in these sectors. These, even if they are already struggling to make ends meet, yet continue to provide services to the population. And, when it comes to keeping someone alive, we will all agree that these services are priceless, ”said the member for Rosemont.
Jean-François Lisée recalls that the government has an important role to play in prevention. “Suicide in Quebec is a real social issue. It concerns everyone, and the State has the responsibility to find the means to reduce the sad statistics which overwhelm us year after year. In fact, even today, in 2015, three Quebeckers, on average, commit suicide every day. Imagining the number of people bereaved as a result of these tragedies is giddy. The Minister for Rehabilitation, Youth Protection and Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, must commit to putting pressure on her Prime Minister to step up prevention efforts, and not the other way around; currently, austerity policies only upset the network and mobilize the energies of the teams in the wrong place, ”he continued.
The spokesperson also took advantage of World Suicide Prevention Day to express his deepest gratitude to the stakeholders and organizations who, every day, try to give back the taste for life to one or more people who are not. see more utility. “These people work miracles; they need the support of their leaders, a commitment from the political class to be able to do their work in peace. The Couillard government must put its priorities in the right place and show them that it cares for them. &quot;
Finally, Jean-François Lisée recalled that the free intervention line 1 866 APPELLE (277-3553) remained accessible at all times to people in distress.
