Montreal - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, accompanied by about thirty party members, is participating today in Montreal in the march organized as part of Earth Day. According to her, this day has a special character this year. “The Liberal government shows manifest indifference to sustainable development in Quebec,” she believes. Not only does he allow our basement to be exploited at ridiculous prices without taking into account the harmful repercussions that this will have on our environment, but he has also been baiting for months on our main resource for the future: our young people. &quot;
“We are convinced that the economy and the environment can work together and strengthen each other. We have the capacity to collectively enrich ourselves with our resources while respecting citizens&#39; rights and the environment. We must assert our ownership over the natural resources that belong to all Quebecers. We will thus be able to ensure a better sharing of wealth, ”explained Pauline Marois.
“With a Parti Québécois government, no company will be able to extract mineral resources without paying royalties as is done with Jean Charest. We will put in place a royalty regime modeled after that of Australia. Our natural resources will be used to enrich themselves collectively, ”she assured.
The leader of the Parti Québécois also reiterated her party&#39;s commitment to shut down the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant. “Unlike the Liberal Party, our commitment is clear. Gentilly-2 needs to be decommissioned and we will. To support the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, we will set up a $ 200 million economic diversification fund that will focus on the development of renewable energies. &quot;
Pauline Marois also recalled the irresponsible actions of the Liberal government which ceded the rights of Quebecers to oil held by Hydro-Quebec on Anticosti Island. “With a Parti Québécois government, if Quebec produces oil, the community will ensure that at least 50% of the wealth created will go to Quebecers. We will be inspired by what is done in Norway, an oil-producing country that I visited and which is exemplary in terms of the environment. &quot;
To enrich itself, Quebec must end its gigantic trade deficit. Right now, $ 68 million leaves Quebec every day, mainly to pay for the imported oil that we consume. By stopping consuming imported oil, we could end this ruinous deficit and use those millions to create jobs at home. We must free the Quebec economy from imported oil and free Quebecers from the oil companies. This is what we are proposing: a plan to reduce our dependence on imported oil, ”she added.
“We must recognize that the Liberal government and Mr. Legault&#39;s CAQ do not have sustainable development in Quebec at heart. Quebeckers are in favor of the exploitation of our natural resources, but not just any old way and not at any price. We will not let anyone mortgage our future in any way, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
