Montreal - Leader of the Official Opposition and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, urges Stephen Harper&#39;s government to abandon abolishing the gun registry. &quot;This unfortunate and silly decision by the Conservative government to dismantle the gun registry is a real shock to the women who have fought for gun control since the Polytechnique tragedy.&quot; This is what Pauline Marois said today at the Monument-National, a significant place in the struggle of women for the right to vote, when she presented five new candidates of the Parti Québécois for the next electoral campaign.
For Pauline Marois, Quebec has come a long way in recent decades, like women. However, Quebec society has been facing significant setbacks in recent years. The governments of Jean Charest and Stephen Harper are rolling back women&#39;s rights.
“The most promising path for the professional advancement of women is education. However, the 75% increase in tuition fees decreed by the government of Jean Charest will particularly harm the education of women. A Parti Québécois government is committed to maintaining the freeze on tuition fees. Access to higher education for all must be preserved, ”declared the Leader of the Official Opposition.
The numerous rate hikes imposed by the Liberal government are hurting all Quebecers, but particularly women. The health tax is a clear example that affects everyone regardless of income. Pauline Marois is committed to ensuring that a Parti Québécois government abolishes this unfair tax as soon as it comes to power.
“Responsibility for the health care of a family is often to a large extent attributed to women. When a family member is losing their autonomy, it is often the woman who acts as a caregiver. The Parti Québécois is committed to lightening their burden by establishing a national home care policy, ”said Pauline Marois, the one who created the network of early childhood centers.
The issue of unreasonable accommodation is another issue that threatens the very principle of equality between men and women. If the government of Jean Charest refuses to act, a government of the Parti Québécois will quickly adopt a charter of secularism which will clearly restore this principle dear to Quebeckers.
The biggest threat to women, however, comes from Ottawa and the Stephen Harper government. In 2004 Canada ranked 7th on the World Economic Forum&#39;s Gender Inequality Index, falling to 25th in 2009.
&quot;In Ottawa, it is the army before health, prisons before education, royalty before elders and arms before women,&quot; said Pauline Marois. Several Conservative policies particularly affect women, such as the abolition of the gun registry, the reform of old age security systems or the questioning of free choice through the tabling of private bills. This is unacceptable, ”concluded Pauline Marois, recalling that the Parti Québécois program is the one that best meets the needs of Quebec women.
