Quebec– Jean-François Lisée, the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, and the member for Taillon and spokesperson for health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, marked the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. They joined their voices to that of the Montreal organization Ex aequo - which has been dedicated for 35 years to the promotion and defense of the rights of people with physical disabilities - to denounce the impacts of liberal austerity on people with disabilities. .
“Today, Mr. Martin Juneau, President of Ex aequo, gave many distressing examples of what austerity imposes as constraints on people with disabilities: less access to health services due to billing of fees accessories, less government assistance for the purchase of devices to compensate for a deficiency, cuts to home care and support, especially for meal preparation, and so on. The Parti Québécois joins its voice to that of Ex aequo and calls on the Couillard government to stop the cuts that are being made to the detriment of people with disabilities, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
“The authorization to bill accessory costs, which the Minister of Health has given to all physicians by his Bill 20, represents a huge setback in terms of access to care. People with disabilities will be particularly affected by these overloads. The Ombudsperson was moreover very clear on this subject on page 5 of her opinion on ancillary costs: &quot;Affecting the entire population, these constraints penalize [o] more certain segments of the population, [... ] [especially people with a disability &quot;. It is an indefensible political choice which is in total rupture with the health insurance contract that Quebecers have given themselves, ”denounced Diane Lamarre.
“What we have been hammering for 20 months is that the Liberal cuts have serious consequences for patients and more particularly for vulnerable people. Even the Commission des droits de la personne et des droits de la jeunesse said publicly last June that it was worried about the impact of the current budgetary context on the equality rights of people with disabilities. Unfortunately, we are forced to see our concerns come true. Despite everything, human rights organizations continue to mobilize and we would like to underline their work and their commitment, not only on this day, but throughout the year, ”concluded the deputies.
