Québec, November 3, 2016 - The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the Parti Québécois spokespersons for public security, justice, and culture and communications, Pascal Bérubé, Véronique Hivon and Martine Ouellet, welcome the government&#39;s decision to grant commission of inquiry powers to the committee of experts tasked with shedding light on the practices of Quebec&#39;s three main police services in terms of internal investigations into leaks of information to the journalistic community. However, they demanded clarification as to the mandate of the committee, the duration of its execution and the method of distribution of its report.
“We continue to insist on the non-partisan nature of the process, as the Prime Minister himself indicated last Tuesday. The collaboration promised by the Prime Minister has still not materialized. The mandate must also be clarified in collaboration with the other parties in order, in particular, to ensure that the period of the Davidson-Dutil affair is included in the examination of the facts, as well as that covering the leaks associated with the charges against Nathalie Normandeau, ”said Jean François Lisée.
&quot;As of today, the government must specify, contrary to the certain vagueness maintained during the announcement, that the commission of inquiry will be public, which is absolutely necessary to ensure confidence in the process, confidence already sufficiently shaken since the revelations at the start of the week, ”said Véronique Hivon.
“We still do not understand why the government refuses to remove from office the director of the Police Department of the City of Montreal, Philippe Pichet, the time to shed light on these stories. However, the Charter of the City of Montreal allows it to do so. Director Pichet lacked judgment in authorizing the electronic surveillance of journalists, and he maintains that he acted well, which is unacceptable, ”said Pascal Bérubé.
“We must also look at the federal side. The National Assembly must demand that Justin Trudeau oblige the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and the Canadian Security Intelligence Service to confirm, publicly and formally, that there has been no eavesdropping or shadowing of journalists, nor other violation of press freedom or the protection of sources. Simply saying that everything is correct, as it did today, is deliberately vague and clearly insufficient, ”concluded Martine Ouellet.
