Quebec - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, is pleased to mark the International Day of Older Persons, an opportunity to highlight the fundamental place occupied by seniors in all spheres of Quebec society. On the sidelines of this Day, Minister Réjean Hébert will participate in a press conference organized by the Quebec Association for the Defense of the Rights of Retired and Pre-Retired Persons, as part of the “Sherbrooke, city of senior citizens”.
“On the occasion of the International Day of Older Persons, I would like to reiterate that the development, well-being and active aging of seniors are goals that have led to my involvement in politics. We must also improve the health care system so that it can better cope with the aging of the population, ”said the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert.
The Government of Quebec intends to propose concrete solutions by working, in particular, to implement a national home care policy that truly meets the needs of the elderly and by creating an autonomy insurance plan.
In addition, it is up to all social and economic players to create the conditions favorable to active and healthy aging for all seniors. Dr. Réjean Hébert also wishes to thank the organizations and volunteers who work with senior citizens across Quebec. &quot;It is prevention and listening to the needs of the elderly that constitute by far the most effective means of ensuring that they receive the well-being they deserve,&quot; he stressed.
Remember that the International Day of Older Persons, decreed by the United Nations, represents an annual moment of reflection on the issues surrounding the rights of the elderly and the principles attached to them: independence, participation, development. personal and dignity. It also makes it possible to underline the importance of the generations being united among themselves while preserving their identity.
