Montreal - The Minister of Health and Social Services, Dr. Réjean Hébert, took advantage of his presence today at the Career Day of the Federation of Quebec Resident Physicians to make public the regional medical manpower plans (PREM) 2013 in family medicine. “Our priority is to ensure access to medical services for all Quebecers, wherever they live. The implementation of medical staffing plans is part of this logic of equity. They aim for a distribution of physicians that takes into account both the needs of the different settings and the available resources, ”the Minister declared.
More specifically, Dr. Hébert announced that a gross addition of 320 new family physicians is planned for 2013, 20 more than in 2012. Taking into account departures, this is a net addition of 170 family physicians. “The number of family physicians in training continues to grow. This year, only 6% of residency positions were unfilled in family medicine, a percentage equivalent to that for specialty positions. It&#39;s a great accomplishment! However, the needs in family medicine remain important, we will therefore redouble our efforts to strengthen primary care and encourage more physicians to turn to this field of practice that is family medicine ”, also indicated the doctor. Hébert.
With regard to PREMs in specialized medicine, the Minister confirmed that the 2011-2015 five-year plan is continuing. “The five-year plan offers interesting opportunities in all regions of Quebec, particularly in the crown of Montreal, in all specialties. That said, we will take all the necessary measures to train more doctors in specialties where staffing needs remain pressing, that is to say in geriatrics, rheumatology, dermatology, physiatry, hemato-oncology and plastic surgery ”, concluded The Minister.
The 2013 PREMs will be in effect from December 1, 2012, until November 30, 2013, both in family medicine and in specialties. More information on PREMs is available on the website of the Ministère de la Santé et des Services sociaux at www..msss.gouv.qc.ca/prem.
