Quebec - On this World Teachers&#39; Day, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, as well as the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology , Mr. Pierre Duchesne, wanted to unite their voices to pay tribute to the teaching staff of elementary, secondary, college and university establishments in Quebec.
“On this day dedicated to them, I would like to share with teachers all the admiration I have for them. On a daily basis, they devote themselves to passing on their passion and knowledge to our young people, as well as to those who attend adult education and vocational training centers. I can only salute the exceptional work they do and which allows each and everyone to develop their thirst for learning and to fully express their potential. I also invite the population to warmly thank them for the quality of their commitment, ”said Ms. Malavoy.
At the initiative of UNESCO, World Teachers&#39; Day is celebrated on October 5 of each year. A privileged instrument for promoting the teaching profession, this day sheds light on the complex reality faced by teaching staff and salutes the essential role they play in society. This year&#39;s theme, &quot;Take Action for Teachers!&quot; Is a reminder of the importance of supporting their action, of enhancing their professional development and of recognizing that the future of our society and the influence of our culture depend in large part on the quality of their teaching. Teachers prepare young people and adults to evolve in a world where innovation and creativity are essential.
“As a society of knowledge, the rise of Quebec is taking shape more and more within our CEGEPs and universities. The teachings given there constitute the bases on which the society in which we live is built. I am happy to see the talent and deep commitment of our teachers as well as the vitality of our education network. I take my hat off to the teaching staff who shape them and lead them to excellence, ”said Mr. Duchesne.
Note that Ms. Malavoy is taking advantage of World Teachers&#39; Day to visit Saint-Edmond High School in Greenfield Park, in Montérégie. On this occasion, the teachers and students of the school will be able to meet with the new Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports and present to her, in this Week against violence and bullying at school , the projects they have completed in the past year.
