Quebec - On the occasion of the International Day against Homophobia and Transphobia, the MNA for Jonquière and Leader of the Official Opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, and the MNA for Joliette and Parti Québécois spokesperson for justice, Véronique Hivon, called on the government about concrete actions that could be taken to improve the recognition and inclusion of people forming the LGBT community.
“Quebec has made major social changes for 40 years: amendment to the Charter of human rights and freedoms prohibiting all forms of discrimination based on sexual orientation, civil union and adoption for people of the same sex in 2002, regulation for the change of sex in the civil status of transgender persons of full age in 2015 ... The Parti Québécois has always been alongside the LGBT community. Our company has made progress, but we must not forget that there is still a long way to go, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
In the fight against homophobia, last year, the Parti Québécois denounced the cut of one million dollars made by the government, and the consequences of which were concrete. Indeed, the second awareness campaign on this subject was suspended, despite the very conclusive results of the first, in 2013. The Liberal government also cut in the training given by the National Institute of Public Health of Quebec to sensitize the public. professionals to the realities of LGBT people. “Awareness is essential so that interventions are carried out correctly, everywhere, and that young people of sexual minorities are better followed. We ask the government to launch, quickly and with the necessary budgets, the second awareness campaign. Austerity should not be a reason for cuts in integration or openness to diversity, ”added the leader of the official opposition.
Véronique Hivon announces for her part that the Parti Québécois wishes to adhere to the Charter of well-treatment towards lesbian, gay, bisexual and trans-identity seniors, proposed by the Fondation Émergence. “This charter sets out 11 principles to help older adults from sexual minorities reduce their vulnerability. This year, the International Day is held under the theme Homophobia and transphobia affect all ages. It reminds us that LGBT seniors too face stigma and discrimination, and that it is important to continue awareness raising efforts, ”she said.
As for the fight against transphobia, the process of sex change at civil status is the key symbol of a full and complete recognition, from a legal point of view, of transgender people, based on the principle of self-determination. . “Today, we are going further and offering several solutions for transgender people. Our colleague MP for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, also tabled a letter for the attention of Minister Vallée, in May 2015; it contained seven recommendations in this direction, including extending the change of sex to minors, which is a major issue, and immigrants, which could be implemented quickly, ”concluded the member for Joliette.
