Quebec– “International Seniors&#39; Day is an excellent opportunity to reiterate our government&#39;s strong will to do everything in its power to implement a series of projects dedicated to building a better future for Quebec seniors. Aging should not be seen as a problem to be solved, but as an opportunity to be seized to improve our ways of doing things, which will not only benefit seniors, but also our fellow citizens of all ages. This is what the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, declared today on the occasion of this thematic day established in 1990 by the World Organization of Nations. -United.
Minister Hébert explained that in an aging society, improving the quality of life of seniors and maintaining their autonomy as long as possible are objectives around which we must orient our actions. “In less than 20 years, one in four people will be over 65. This is why we are determined to intensify and diversify our action with the elderly, whether they are in good shape or who are losing their autonomy, ”he added. In particular, the Minister referred to the Age-friendly Municipalities initiative, in which more than 700 municipalities or MRCs are involved. This approach aims to adapt our communities to the reality of an aging population.
On the other hand, across Quebec, there are many who help improve the quality of life of seniors. Each year, the Hommage Aînés awards recognize the volunteer commitment of a person contributing to the well-being, quality of life and participation of seniors in their community, and in each region of Quebec. Note that this year, the prizes will be awarded in November.
Also, the Minister underlined the sustained participation of the elderly in volunteer activities across Quebec: “Seniors constitute an invaluable capital of expertise and wisdom. They generously contribute, every day, to the development of Quebec today and tomorrow, in particular by acting as volunteers. This day is a wonderful opportunity to underline the continued support they offer to Quebeckers of all ages, ”said Minister Hébert.
The Minister recalled that on this International Day of Seniors, which takes place under the theme &quot;What future do we want?&quot; », It is important to pay attention to the wishes expressed by our elders, particularly with regard to their participation in community life and how and where they wish to age. To this end, he recalled in particular the intensification already initiated in the offer of home services, with a budgetary addition of 110 million dollars for the current year, and 500 million dollars over five years, as well as the autonomy insurance project.
“In 2007, more than 4,000 seniors made their voices heard during the public consultations on the living conditions of seniors. During this major event, seniors expressed a wish: to be able to age in their own place and to receive services adapted to their needs, wherever they choose to live. With the assurance of autonomy that our government is proposing to create, we want to offer a response to this widely expressed wish, ”concluded Minister Hébert.
It should be noted that the consultations relating to the white paper on autonomy insurance will be held this fall within the framework of a parliamentary committee.
