Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltais, express, on this International Women&#39;s Day, their confidence in the advent of a more just and safer society for women.
“Our nation has achieved great things for the advancement of women in our society over the past four decades. I am thinking in particular of our family policy, including the Quebec Parental Insurance Plan and reduced-contribution daycare centers, the Pay Equity Act and the automatic collection of support payments. However, there is still a lot of work to complete the progress made in recent years and thus achieve full equality. I believe, and I know that I am not the only one to be convinced of this, in a future of which our girls and our boys can be proud, ”said the Prime Minister.
In Quebec, the theme of International Women&#39;s Day 2013 is Feminism, more relevant than ever… for an egalitarian tomorrow. Many activities of the women&#39;s movement will take place under this theme in all regions of Quebec.
In addition, the theme chosen by the United Nations for this International Women&#39;s Day 2013 is A promise is a promise: it is time to take action to end violence against women.
“The implementation of the 2012-2017 government action plan on domestic violence, unveiled in December 2012, demonstrates the government&#39;s determination to make Quebec a place where respect and equality take precedence. For me, this plan represents a clear and concrete response to the theme chosen by the United Nations for March 8, 2013. It is about working tirelessly until all women can live in safety, ”Minister Maltais concluded. .
The Action Plan contains 135 commitments aimed particularly at strengthening action with victims. Almost a quarter of the commitments seek to adapt government interventions to the realities of indigenous peoples. This component reflects the importance given to the particular situation experienced by women in Aboriginal communities and the government&#39;s desire to respect the values and culture of the First Nations and the Inuit population.
