Quebec - The member for Saint-Jean and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of employment, social economy, fight against poverty, solidarity, vocational training, adult education, literacy and youth, Dave Turcotte, underlines International Literacy Day, this year with the theme “Literacy and sustainable societies”, by touring various stakeholders in the field.
“Literacy is an extraordinary means of economic, social and cultural development. The government therefore has every interest in investing in order to break the vicious circle of illiteracy and poverty. When we see that more than half of Quebecers have difficulty reading and writing, it may seem discouraging, but I prefer to see an immense potential that we could exploit, with political will, in order to create more prosperity. in Quebec, ”said Dave Turcotte.
Unfortunately, currently the opposite is happening, and liberal austerity measures will certainly not improve the situation of this clientele. “Quebec ranks second last among Canadian provinces in terms of literacy; 53% of the population does not meet the minimum threshold to function in a society. This means that these people are in a vulnerable situation, in several respects, ”added the deputy.
In the field all day
As part of his tour, Dave Turcotte attended the 5th “I do not let go, I win! From the Literacy Foundation. He then visited the Adult Education Committee of Little Burgundy and Saint-Henri (CÉDA), as well as the awareness kiosk of the organizations La Boîte à lettres, Le Fablier, une histoire de famille and Literacy IOTA. Then, in Saint-Hyacinthe, he will participate in the walk and discussion forum on literacy of the Educational Aid for Adults and Youth (APAJ). Finally, the MP will take part in the APAJ press conference, which will take place at 6 p.m. today.
“I will continue to support the actors who work every day in the field, in particular the popular education centers. Literacy is essential for the development of our society, but also for each individual; it helps to find a job and helps make us successful citizens, ”concluded Dave Turcotte.
