Quebec - Reacting to revelations that at least one journalist has been placed under surveillance by the SPVM, the leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the Parti Québécois public security spokesperson, Stéphane Bergeron, and the spokesperson for justice, Véronique Hivon, propose three measures so that Quebec can face this crisis which affects the independence and the freedom of the press: first, that an investigation by the Independent Investigations Office (BEI) is triggered and its report made public quickly; then, the immediate suspension of the Chief of Police of the City of Montreal, Philippe Pichet, for the duration of the investigation; and finally, that a non-partisan expert committee be set up as soon as possible in order to write the foundations for a bill on the protection of journalistic sources.
“In view of the reported facts, it is desirable that an investigation by the BEI be launched in order to shed light on this whole story. How to explain that the surveillance of the telephone communications of a journalist could have been requested, then granted? However, the use of such means must be absolutely exceptional, ”indicated the leader of the official opposition.
“When we set up the BEI in 2013, it was, among other things, to deal with this kind of situation. When a foundation of democracy, freedom of the press, is threatened, independent investigators should be entrusted with the mandate to shed light on what happened, ”for his part insisted Stéphane Bergeron.
“We also believe that the Chief of Police of the City of Montreal, Philippe Pichet, who yesterday justified his decisions in this case, should be suspended for the duration of the BEI investigation. It was M. Pichet who authorized this abusive surveillance; he must be relieved of his duties immediately for this unprecedented attack on democracy, ”continued Jean-François Lisée.
&quot;Finally, we ask that a committee of four experts, chosen by the parties, and not by the Minister of Justice alone, be set up quickly in order to propose the bases of a law to protect journalistic sources and work. , and that this committee table its report for study in the National Assembly within three months, in accordance with the motion that we will present to this effect today, ”added Véronique Hivon.
