Quebec - The leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the Parti Québécois spokesperson for the status of women, Carole Poirier, wished to mark International Women&#39;s Day by reiterating that there is still some way to go before achieving equality between men and women.
“Whatever Prime Minister Philippe Couillard and the Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Lise Thériault think, this is a current debate. In 2011, in Quebec, the full-time employment income of women was 75% of that of men. Parity, in decision-making places and here, in the National Assembly, is not achieved. In 2014, according to a study by the Fondation de l&#39;Entrepreneurship, 10.3% of Quebec women were business owners. The number of women who want to go into business is on the rise, and it must continue, to enrich women and society as a whole. I would also like to recall the extraordinary mobilization that took place around the Women&#39;s Summit, an inspiring event. We have made ten commitments to achieve parity in politics, ”recalled Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“I say it and I will say it again: I am not ashamed to say that I am a feminist. And my way of being a feminist is to work every day to improve the lot of women in Quebec. It is for this reason that I defended tooth and nail our young girls against sexual exploitation, that I proposed a commission on the living conditions of native women, that I introduced a bill aimed at to guarantee unhindered access to abortion clinics, that I have tabled a bill allowing elected municipal officials to enjoy genuine maternity leave. That is the feminism of the Parti Québécois! », Carole Poirier continued.
What is the minister&#39;s commitment?
The members of the Parti Québécois wonder about the commitment of the Minister responsible for the Status of Women to the cause of the advancement of Quebec women.
Recall that recently, the minister, after several days of controversy, ended up confessing lip service that she was a feminist &quot;in her own way&quot;. “Basically, what is his &#39;way&#39;? Is it being part of a government that is destroying the network of early childhood centers, a formidable tool for the emancipation of women? It is to cut half the budget of Equal to Decide, 40% of the budget of Chapeau, les filles !, or 80% of that of Mauritians of influence, programs that make it possible to increase the number of women in decision-making positions, in local and regional places of power, as well as in traditionally male trades? Is it ignoring the urgency of presenting a credible action plan to combat sexual exploitation? Is it to abandon the aboriginal women of Val-d&#39;Or? By imposing cuts to services and areas of activity particularly affecting women, the government is threatening the gains acquired at the cost of decades of struggles and mobilization, ”insisted Pierre Karl Péladeau.
We should also mention that Lise Thériault also indicated that for women, the responsibility to emancipate themselves and to realize themselves was linked to their individual will. “Let&#39;s go, go ahead,” she said. “If the advancement of women is an individual responsibility, not a collective one, I would like to know what the objectives and the raison d&#39;être of this minister are. Can she name us even one goal? And just one concrete measure put in place to achieve this goal? “Asked the spokesperson.
The Parti Québécois has several suggestions for the minister:
