Montreal - The Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation, Bernard Drainville, participated today in a day of work and discussions organized by Québec Open as part of the International Open Data Day.
Minister Drainville reiterated the Quebec government&#39;s desire to fight corruption, promote civic engagement and restore the bond of trust between the population and their democratic institutions. “Access to information is a fundamental element to breathe new life into Quebec democracy and stimulate citizen participation,” said Bernard Drainville. The transparency offered by open government guarantees integrity, fairness and the effective management of public funds. And it will allow citizens to play their role of watchdog of Quebec democracy even more. &quot;
Over the next few months, the Minister will undertake consultations on the five-year report of the Access to Information Commission, which should lead to a modernization of the act. &quot;Access to information should allow all Quebec citizens to have answers to the questions they ask themselves about the actions of their government and in doing so to ensure sound management and good conduct public affairs. It is time to make the law on access to information the spearhead of greater accessibility to government data. Open data is the necessary step towards the establishment of a genuine open government, which will be one of the essential characteristics of the democracies of the 21st century. Quebec can be a leader in this area, ”added Bernard Drainville.
Let us also recall that on February 21, the Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation had the following motion adopted, jointly with the Member for Bourassa-Sauvé, the Member for Verdun, the Member for Chauveau and the Member for Mercier:
“That the National Assembly mark the International Open Data Day which will take place on February 23; that it recognize the fundamental contribution of open data to breathe new life into Québec democracy and stimulate citizen participation; that it salute this initiative which contributes to equipping citizens to enable them to play a more active role in society and which promotes the free flow of information in the best interests of society. &quot;
