Quebec– The member for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, the member for Bourget and spokesperson responsible for the Charter of the French language, Maka Kotto, as well as the member for Lac-Saint-Jean and spokesperson parole in justice matters, Alexandre Cloutier, asked the Liberal government to quickly legislate to modify the Charter of the French language, following the judgment rendered by the Court of Appeal on the language of signage.
“The government must act quickly; it is his duty to propose an amendment to the Charter to ensure that in Quebec, we display in French, and to reiterate that the common language of the public space that we have chosen is French . Our language and our culture are among our greatest assets; they must therefore be constant priorities for the government of Quebec, ”said Stéphane Bédard.
&quot;Prime Minister Philippe Couillard has a duty to protect our language and Law 101. He himself said, during his opening speech, that the promotion and protection of the French language were daily duties for his government, the French language being, here, always under pressure; he must therefore act now. That said, while Premier Couillard does nothing, the CAQ agrees with the judgment; Obviously, the only party that vigorously defends French is the Parti Québécois, ”added Maka Kotto.
The judgment confirms that we can bypass Bill 101
The judgment of first instance, in April 2014, already mentioned, very clearly, that there has been a trend in the Quebec business world since the 1990s, namely that of displaying the trademark more and more in a other language than French:
[254] But in recent years, some traders have resorted to an expedient, namely the registration of trademarks in English with the Canadian Intellectual Property Office, to thwart, there is no point in hiding it, in subsection 58 (1) of the Charter which provides that public signage and commercial advertising must be in French.
“The scope of this judgment is to confirm that we can get around the spirit of Bill 101. This goes against the desire of Quebecers to preserve public commercial signage in French. From now on, a company will be able to legally display its trademark only in the English language. What we want, therefore, is for the Government of Quebec to intervene and amend the Charter to close this breach. The trial judge invited the legislator to take note of this legal loophole, and to fill it. Now the Liberal Party of Quebec is in power; it is up to him to take his responsibilities, ”concluded Alexandre Cloutier.
