Renegotiation of NAFTA
Quebec, August 18, 2017 - Official opposition spokespersons for the economy, Alain Therrien, as well as for finance and Quebec-Canada relations, Nicolas Marceau, note that under the Couillard government, Quebec was demoted to spectator rank in the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), when billions of dollars are at stake.
IN SHORT
“During the negotiation of the trade agreement with Europe, the representative of Quebec directly negotiated the subjects of Quebec jurisdiction. This time he&#39;s in the stands. The future of several key sectors of our economy therefore lies in federal hands, with the full consent of the government of Philippe Couillard. This is a major setback for Quebec, ”said Alain Therrien.
NAFTA is Quebec&#39;s most important trade agreement; each year, exports to the United States reach $ 59 billion and imports, $ 34 billion. Obviously, its renegotiation worries many Quebec companies, especially those in the forestry - for which access to the American market is fundamental - and agricultural sectors - which are keen to protect supply management. Fast-growing electronic commerce is another issue that directly concerns entrepreneurs and Quebec consumers and for which we must remain vigilant.
Alain Therrien also recalls that during the failed negotiation of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, Ottawa opened a breach of 4% in imports of dairy products. “Will the federal government, which is speaking this time instead of Quebec, offer the Americans the same advantage? He wondered.
Nicolas Marceau insists for his part on the importance of maintaining an independent dispute settlement mechanism, and on the importance of recognizing the competitive nature of our forest regime. “If the federal government continues to speak for us, I doubt the Americans, whose goals are stated, will be impressed. Justin Trudeau and his ministers have nothing but empty phrases and big empty statements to offer! Philippe Couillard must assume his responsibilities and look after the interests of Quebec, ”he argued.
