Quebec - The member for Bonaventure and official opposition spokesperson for information resources, Sylvain Roy, is worried about the importance of the crackdown made by the Permanent Anti-Corruption Unit (UPAC) this morning, and reiterates its request for a more comprehensive investigation into the IT contracts granted by the Government of Quebec.
&quot;The arrests this morning, in connection with a computer contract at Revenu Québec, will they be sufficient for the President of the Treasury Board, Martin Coiteux, to assume his responsibilities in the file of computer contracts?&quot; The problem persists. There is no vision among the Liberals as to how the government of Quebec should manage IT. The consultants cost the citizens of Quebec a billion dollars last year, and nothing seems set to change this year. This is unacceptable! Martin Coiteux must seize the pole that we hold out to him and launch an investigation into the overall management of IT in Quebec, ”said Sylvain Roy.
The Member for Bonaventure reminds that immediate problems related to information resources, such as the absence of competition between the bidding companies, the loss of internal expertise or the lack of planning in IT matters, are known. The time has come to develop a vision for the future. “Carelessness and reliance on unlimited external expertise have failed; the numerous computer blunders, and now the arrests, demonstrate it. We have to think more globally, not only for the future of government IT systems, but also for taxpayers&#39; money, which is currently wasted, ”added Sylvain Roy.
“When the Parti Québécois was in power, two regional centers of expertise in information resources were created. We have also started a major review of contractual practices in IT, in addition to implementing a series of measures to promote free software; moreover, their application was slowed down by the Liberal government, but it offered no alternative solutions. It is time to go further. Minister Coiteux must launch an investigation into all IT management in Quebec, ”concluded the Member for Bonaventure.
