The leader and vice-leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée and Véronique Hivon, as well as the candidate in Rousseau, Nicolas Marceau, compared the serious plan of the Parti Québécois for early childhood, which favors childcare centers, with that, improvised, from the CAQ, which rather envisages nursery schools for 4 years. According to the calculations of the Parti Québécois, not only is François Legault&#39;s proposal unrealistic and not very credible but, in addition, it would cost parents more and complicate their lives.
IN SHORT
The CAQ 4-year-old kindergarten is a bad idea:
“An electoral campaign is made to highlight the differences between the parties&#39; proposals, the advantages and disadvantages of each. However, one file perfectly illustrates François Legault&#39;s deep credibility deficit: that of 4-year-old kindergartens. If we compare the two systems - CPE, to which we give priority, and nursery schools for 4 years - the CPEs win on all fronts: lower ratios, services 260 days per year compared to 180 in kindergarten, opening hours more extensive, lower costs… in short, nursery schools for 4 years are a bad idea, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
&quot;Rather than recognizing the important contribution of the CPEs and committing to do more and better for our children, François Legault cobbles together an inadequate response that favors commercial daycares,&quot; good business models &quot;, according to the CAQ. However, if Mr. Legault refuses to understand that the best services are found in childcare centers, could he at least admit that his solution will cost more for parents in Quebec? », Continued Véronique Hivon.
In fact, taking into account the expenses attributable to dinners, the weeks of camp necessary to compensate for the breakdown in service in summer and the use of daycare services, given the fact that children leave school around 3 p.m. 4-year-old nursery schools represent an estimated expenditure of $ 3,469 per child, per year. “In other words, a parent who sends their first child to CPE rather than 4-year-old kindergarten will save about $ 1375 per year. And these savings are even greater if he does the same with his other children, since our plan provides that it will be half-price for the 2nd, and free for the 3rd and following, ”recalled the vice-chef.
In addition, to accommodate all these children in 4-year-old kindergarten (82,000, according to CAQ estimates), 5,000 more classes would be needed. “It&#39;s no secret that our schools are already overflowing. The CAQ estimates that it will be able to meet the needs by injecting $ 153 million. It&#39;s a joke! This amount would only create a little more than 33,400 places. Anyway, the parents have spoken: for 73% of them, according to a survey, the place of a 4-year-old child is in a sandbox, not on a school bench. Let the children be children, and let them benefit from the recognized excellence of our CPEs ”, for his part claimed Nicolas Marceau.
By far, the Parti Québécois plan is the most credible and the most ambitious for families and children in Quebec. “We will complete the network of childcare centers by 2022. We will abolish the liberal family tax and reduce fees for large or low-income families. Our goal is to offer our little ones the best: an educational program of proven quality and a stimulating learning environment. And that is the model of childcare centers, ”added Véronique Hivon.
“We know that Quebecers want change. But they don&#39;t want any change. They want serious proposals, credible solutions to the real problems that concern them. And that is exactly what the Parti Québécois is offering them, ”concluded the leader.
