Quebec - The member for Bourget and official opposition spokesperson responsible for the Charter of the French language, Maka Kotto, takes advantage of the recent judgment of the Court of Quebec reaffirming that Bill 101 still has its raison d&#39;être to reiterate the importance of protecting the French language in Quebec.
“Judge Salvatore Mascia rejected the complaints of the businesses at the origin of this case, according to which linguistic protections were no longer necessary. We believe quite the opposite. In the context of Quebec, a French-speaking enclave in an English-speaking continent, constant vigilance must be ensured. The vitality of our common public language depends, among other things, on how we protect it, ”said Maka Kotto.
The deputy also recalls that the 2011 census data show a decline in the demographic weight of French, in terms of the number of speakers having it as their mother tongue or as their language of use. In addition, a study by the Superior Council of the French Language, made public in December 2014 and entitled The use of French and English by Quebecers in public interactions, portrait of 2010, confirms that the objective of the law 101 - to make French the common language of all Quebecers in the public sphere - has not been achieved; even that we move away a little more every day, especially in Montreal.
“We must be concerned about the decline in the demographic weight of mother-tongue Francophones, but even more so about the decrease in the proportion of the population who speak French at work and in their public interactions, particularly in Montreal. This proves that efforts to protect our common public language must be constant. But what is the government&#39;s language action plan? We haven&#39;t heard from him at all on this since he took office. What does he intend to do for French as a language of work, commerce and posting? Unfortunately, the only times Philippe Couillard commented on the language issue was to say that the employees of a production line should be able to respond in English to foreign buyers who came to visit their factory, and in Iceland, when he said that the Premier of Quebec did not need to speak French in international forums, ”concluded Maka Kotto.
