Quebec - Diane Lamarre, the member for Taillon and official opposition spokesperson for health and access to care, once again denounces the control of information exercised by the Ministry of Health and Services social (MSSS) since the adoption of Bill 10, under gag order, last February.
“Online data on the state of emergency rooms in two regions, Laval and Montérégie, disappeared with the forced merger of establishments in the health network by Minister Barrette. This is another eloquent example of the Liberal government&#39;s lack of transparency, ”denounced Diane Lamarre.
In fact, following Minister Barrette&#39;s structural reform, the informa.msss.gouv.qc.ca website, which until recently allowed citizens to have access to information updated daily. , including the occupancy rate of emergency rooms, has ceased to be supplied by several health establishments. “It is unacceptable that citizens can no longer have access to this information,” added the MP.
However, in its document entitled Government guidelines for a more transparent government, the Liberal government claims to want to make proactive dissemination one of the most important aspects of the reform of the law on access to information.
“The government&#39;s actions are totally contrary to its promises. It eliminates the performance and non-performance indicators of the health system. By acting in this way, Minister Barrette hides the information that he himself used, when he was at the FMSQ, to denounce the flaws in the system, ”added Diane Lamarre.
Closure of the Ministry of Health library
To this aberration in terms of access to information is added another: we learn that the government is deliberately choosing to close the library of the Department of Health and Social Services next September. The reason? The weight of the documents, which would make structural work necessary, it seems. “In the age of digitization, it looks more like a false pretext. We strongly denounce this decision, which deprives experts of tools allowing them to analyze our system and better protect the population. We are asking the Couillard government to back down. He must stop depriving Quebecers of essential information and copying Stephen Harper&#39;s conservative strategies in terms of access to information, ”concluded the MP.
