Quebec - The Parti Québécois returns to the charge and calls for the abolition of the health tax. He hopes that this gesture will be taken in the next budget, for the benefit of 4.5 million Quebec taxpayers.
“The health tax is odious. It hits middle class families hard and directly. In 2010, we strongly denounced it. It must be abolished now, ”declared the member for Rousseau and official opposition critic for finance and economic development, Nicolas Marceau.
This regressive tax, implemented by the Charest government in 2010, does not take into account the income of taxpayers. So those who have an annual income of $ 30,000 pay the same amount as those who earn $ 1 million.
Last week, the Leader of the Official Opposition and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, pledged to help middle-class families; this abolition would allow families to have $ 400 more in their pocket. Those who can afford it (those earning $ 130,000 and more) would contribute according to their income to the Health Services Fund.
“For a minister in the Liberal government of Jean Charest, $ 400 represents the equivalent of the cost of a dinner for a couple in a large restaurant. For a middle-class family, that&#39;s the equivalent of two grocery stores. When we hear a minister say that it is a reasonable amount, it is astounding, ”said the member for Rousseau.
The deputies of the National Assembly will vote tomorrow, Wednesday February 15, 2012, on a motion from the official opposition which reads as follows:
“That the National Assembly demand from the government the abolition of the health contribution and its replacement by changes to the tax structure in order to transfer the tax burden of the health contribution from the middle class to the upper income classes. &quot;
“Rather than manage, the liberals of Jean Charest prefer to tax. Quebeckers can&#39;t take it anymore. With the weak liberal majority in the National Assembly, the ball is in François Legault&#39;s court: will he side with the Liberal Party, the one who wants to tax, or in the camp of the middle class, whom the Parti Québécois wants to help? », Nicolas Marceau concluded.
