Quebec - The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the justice spokesperson for the Parti Québécois, Véronique Hivon, accompanied by Ms. Arlène Gaudreault, president of the Association québécoise Plaidoyer-Victimes, Manon Monastesse , director of the Federation of women&#39;s shelters, Nancy Roy, executive director of the Association of families of assassinated or missing persons, and Sylvie Langlais, president of the Regroupement des homes pour femmes victim de violence, asked the Prime Minister and to the Minister of Justice of Quebec, Stéphanie Vallée, that the notwithstanding clause be used, in order to avoid the multiplication of trial abortions and the resulting breach of public confidence in the justice system.
IN SHORT
- The Parti Québécois demands that the Minister of Justice act immediately and that the derogation clause be used to prevent other accused of serious crimes from escaping justice - Quebecers are angry, are outraged after a man accused the murder of his wife was released as a result of the Jordan decision; - The justice system is at the very heart of our democracy; It is urgent to take action.
“The Prime Minister must not reject the use of the notwithstanding clause under false pretenses. Indeed, by claiming that this is an exceptional measure equivalent to a nuclear weapon, he fails to say that his own government used it five times, in 2014, in a bill on the regimes. of retirement. Today a man charged with murder requested and was granted a stay of proceedings; it is extremely serious and damaging to the confidence of Quebeckers in their justice system. For months, we have been asking him for clear actions, to consider the derogatory clause, by coordinating with the federal government if necessary; it is urgent to do so now, to prevent others accused of serious crimes from escaping justice. And I emphasize that the Prime Minister has barely got personally involved in the matter, despite the multiplication of aborted trials in recent months, and that he does not intend to intervene further for a few more days. This is absurd! », Denounced Jean-François Lisée.
“In recent months, we have witnessed the release of several accused of fraud or breach of trust, including alleged accomplices of Gilles Vaillancourt, and members of organized crime. Should these people get away with it that easily? Now, a first accused of murder escapes justice; it cannot go on any longer, ”added the leader of the official opposition.
“Our level of indignation reaches new heights when we see that too long delays mean that a man accused of the murder of his wife has been released. I want to tell the victim&#39;s family that they have our sympathy, our compassion. Can you imagine the drama that these people are going through at the moment? They are victims again because the system is incapable of delivering justice. Victims do not have to be abandoned because the system has been abandoned. Stéphanie Vallée must respond immediately to our call to action, ”concluded Véronique Hivon.
