Lévis - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces that the latest results of analyzes carried out by the Department show that the sectors of the Chaudière River where the the water intakes in the cities of Lévis, Saint-Georges and Sainte-Marie are now safe. Cities can thus return to draw their water from the river according to a rigorous monitoring program designed to eliminate any potential risk for the population.
This announcement comes after the Ministry has made sure it meets three essential conditions:
“The three conditions that we had to meet are now met. Yes, there was a certain delay which could have caused some inconvenience, but we are facing a serious situation which requires rigor and vigilance. The safety of the population remains a top priority. We are now authorizing the return to the Chaudière River because we have implemented measures to ensure the quality of the drinking water supplied to the population, at all times, ”declared the Minister. Minister Blanchet.
In order to supervise the return to the Chaudière River as a source of drinking water supply, the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP), in collaboration with the Health Agency and social services of Chaudière-Appalaches, the National Institute of Public Health of Quebec, the Ministry of Public Security and the cities concerned, developed a close monitoring program, which is mainly based on the analysis of predetermined parameters including the sampling frequency has been adapted according to the situation.
Each of the cities has also provided for an alternative source of temporary food that is sufficiently resistant for the winter, in the event that the results of analyzes reveal the presence of substances at concentrations presenting a potential risk to human health. The shoreline clean-up operations currently underway as well as the sudden increases in the flow of the river during the spring rains or flooding could lead to a resuspension of the hydrocarbons accumulated in the sediments of the river or in those which are on the river. the banks. Rigorous monitoring is carried out in this regard.
In addition, some municipal stakeholders mentioned that they needed time before returning to their permanent water intakes, in particular to carry out cleaning work on their system. Each city will therefore follow its own agenda for returning to the Chaudière River. “I imagine us all heaving a sigh of relief, because it could have been so much worse. But that should not be enough for us. The entire government is considering post-Lac-Mégantic: nothing will be the same again. Among the topics for future reflection, we must add consideration of the potential sources of spills upstream of water intakes in our towns and villages. We are working on it, ”concluded Minister Blanchet.
