Lac-Mégantic– The Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP) is today launching a call for tenders for soil decontamination work in Lac-Mégantic. The main objective of the Government of Quebec is to ensure that this work is efficient and that it is carried out as soon as possible and at the best possible cost.
This call for tenders marks the start of an important stage in the rehabilitation work, which aims to restore the citizens of Lac-Mégantic to unrestricted use of the land affected by the tragedy. Its launch is accompanied by the distribution of the preliminary environmental characterization report phase II of Lac-Mégantic produced by the consulting firm Golder Associés. This preliminary report, which presents the contamination levels and the volumes of contaminated soil, enabled the Department to orient the call for tenders.
There are several technologies for the rehabilitation of contaminated soils. Those acceptable for this call for tenders, which will combine performance and respect for the environment, are of a biological, chemical, thermal desorption, physico-chemical nature or any simultaneous or successive combination of these technologies.
The MDDEFP is currently analyzing the content of the report and will send its comments to the firm for the drafting of the final version. In order not to influence the current call for tenders process, the MDDEFP will not comment on the content of the report, which can also be consulted on the Ministry&#39;s website at www..mddefp.gouv.qc .ca / lac-megantic / index.htm.
The main lines of the call for tenders:
The quantity of contaminated soil to be treated is of the order of 558,000 metric tons.
Soils can be treated near the site, where storage platforms have been set up, or in any other authorized treatment site.
The quality of treated soils must meet the standards established by the Soil Protection and Contaminated Land Rehabilitation Policy.
The MDDEFP will also launch today a call for tenders in order to retain the services of a prime contractor for the management of works on the site. Remember that the contract with the Pomerleau firm for similar services ends on January 1, 2014.
For full details of the calls for tenders, visit the SEAO website, the Government of Quebec&#39;s electronic tendering system, at www.seao.ca.
