Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, was once again in Lac-Mégantic yesterday - July 16 - to learn about the development operations and reassess the extent of environmental issues. In particular, he went to the yellow zone, on the outskirts of the red zone, to make a first visual assessment, with the experts, of the scope of the work to be undertaken in terms of soil decontamination.
This visit made it possible to observe the important work accomplished for the recovery of the oily water present on the site of the accident, as well as for the cleaning of the wastewater treatment plant, which was heavily contaminated. The efficiency of this cleaning operation makes it possible to envisage in the short term a sufficient reactivation of the station to treat all of the city&#39;s wastewater.
The Minister also confirms the complete resumption of the activities of the companies whose services were retained for the cleaning and decontamination of the site, the lake and the river. “Immediately sensitized to the fears expressed by companies regarding the expected payments for their work, the government made the only responsible choice: to ensure the payment of sums due or which may become due, in order to ensure the immediate follow-up. environmental operations, ”confirmed Minister Blanchet.
On the lake, in the Marina sector, there are still oily residues leaving traces on the banks. In addition, the subsoil of the red zone and part of the yellow zone acts like a sponge which gradually lets a little oil flow through the ground to the shores of the lake. Almost all of these spills are recovered but the phenomenon could continue, to a lesser extent, until the sector is completely decontaminated.
As regards the river, occasional pumping operations are continuing, particularly at the booms which generally have small accumulations of hydrocarbons. However, it is still too early to determine when the affected municipalities will be able to resume their water supply to the river. Water sampling continues, while the first results are known.
The shoreline contamination assessment activities have started, particularly in the Lac Mégantic sector. The Department, in collaboration with its partners, is evaluating the necessary resources and the time required to complete the shoreline clean-up.
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs): the VOC analysis of the most recent samples (July 13 or July 14) shows concentrations below the detection limits for all sampling points. This is the trend observed over the past 4 to 5 days.
Semi-volatile organic compounds (VOCs): the analysis of VOCs carried out upstream of the water intakes of Saint-Georges, Sainte-Marie and Charny made it possible to establish that there is the presence of one of these compounds. Charny (Saint-Rédempteur) only. The concentration obtained on July 14 is below known standards. The July 13 results indicated the presence of its compounds at each of the targeted sites, but again, below known standards.
Petroleum hydrocarbons (C10-C50): the most recent results (July 13) are available for the upstream side of the Sartigan dam, for Sainte-Marie, for Saint-Lambert, for Saint-Nicolas and for Saint-Rédempteur. There is a quantifiable presence at Saint-Rédempteur (0.4 mg / l) and upstream of the Sartigan dam (1.1 mg / l). The standards are not met and this is the first time that there is a quantifiable presence of these compounds in Saint-Rédempteur.
Identification of petroleum products (PPI): traces of petroleum products were identified upstream of the Sartigan dam (C16-C36) only (July 13). Unidentifiable traces were identified at each of the other sampling points, with the exception of Saint-Lambert and Beauceville. The compounds may be altered or too low in concentration for the detection method used.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs): the analysis of the PAHs of the samples taken on July 12 shows quantifiable traces of some of its compounds upstream of the Sartigan dam only. The concentrations observed meet known standards. There is an unquantifiable presence of these compounds downstream of the dam and at Notre-Dame-des-Pins. The presence of these compounds appears to diminish over time.
“I would like to salute the exceptional work carried out by our teams, as well as the great resilience of the citizens of Lac-Mégantic. Our decisions will continue to be guided by a firm desire to meet their needs and ensure a return to normal life, ”said Minister Blanchet.
