Quebec - The Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks reports on the considerable efforts made to limit the environmental and social consequences of the events that occurred on July 6 in Lac-Mégantic. “We are currently working on setting up monitoring teams and more permanent action protocols for the rest of the operations. The teams on site are doing a remarkable job. The risks remain significant, but we are managing to circumscribe and control their scope, ”declared Minister Yves-François Blanchet.
For the moment, the level of the lake is stable at 394 meters and the flow of the dam is now at 20 m³ / s. We continue to proceed with a gradual increase in order to obtain a flow of 25 m³ / s, that is to say the flow observed on July 6. Under this scenario, and according to the precipitation forecast for the next few days, there is no need to worry about possible overflows. Remember that opening the dam gates will facilitate cleaning operations. In any case the level of the lake was not a problem.
According to observers, an oil slick of about 180 square meters crossed the Innergex dam in the Chaudière River near Charny this morning. However, the quantity of hydrocarbons contained in such a slick is evaluated at approximately one liter, which is not significant. Moreover, the on-site visit of those responsible for sampling did not reveal any visual trace or smell of oil in the river near the dam.
Without being alarming, this situation shows the importance for the Ministry and the municipalities of remaining vigilant, and of maintaining in force the temporary measures implemented for the water supply.
However, the latest samples carried out by specialists show that the contamination did not go beyond the Sartigan dam. In addition, tomorrow we will begin an assessment of the state of the banks of the Chaudière River. Experts also carry out inspections on the Lac-Mégantic waterworks and sewer networks. These inspections will continue tomorrow. Oil cleaning and pumping operations are ongoing.
The sewage treatment plant is currently being pumped to empty and clean it. This operation should last a few days. In the meantime, the wastewater is discharged directly into the river, but with a dilution rate that increases in proportion to the flow of the river. After checking the type of discharges and the pollutant loads involved, the discharge of wastewater into the river is acceptable to the Department in these exceptional circumstances.
“Getting back to normal is a humanitarian and ecological priority. The authorization granted to the City of Lac-Mégantic to discharge its wastewater directly into the Chaudière River is a temporary necessity which will have a momentary effect on a watercourse already damaged, but it is necessary, in particular for citizens. . This decision is also largely offset by the gradual return to a river flow of 25 m³ / s. The results we have obtained so far in our river rescue and lake clean-up operations are encouraging and lead us to believe that the actions implemented are the right ones, ”said Minister Blanchet.
