Lac-Mégantic - 11:30 am - Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks. Mr. Yves François Blanchet has been present in Lac-Mégantic since yesterday morning (July 6) and ensures that all the necessary staff and equipment are deployed to ensure the safety of the population and the protection of the environment. The Urgence-Environnement teams went on site before dawn following the report of the derailment and the mobile analysis laboratory (TAGA) was quickly mobilized on the spot in order to carry out the necessary measurements and analyzes in the context of the derailment. such a disaster.
Four booms have been installed on the Chaudière River and workers are keeping a watch to identify any signs of the arrival of the spilled oil and thus intervene in collaboration with the municipalities, if necessary. The Department&#39;s teams are also evaluating the impacts on municipal water sources along the river. The municipalities downstream of Lake Mégantic that draw their drinking water from the Chaudière River have also obtained support from experts in order to take the necessary measures to protect the supply of their populations. Several oil pumpings began as soon as the Ministry&#39;s staff arrived, at the mouth of the storm sewer outlet flowing into the Chaudière River.
As for the plume of black smoke, atmospheric measurements are carried out in order to identify the presence of toxic substances and to assess whether special measures must be taken to avoid consequences for the surrounding populations or in the sectors where they could move. the smoke by virtue of the direction and force of the winds.
Minister Blanchet yesterday carried out with the Sûreté du Québec an aerial survey of the disaster areas in the heart of the city in order to assess the damage and environmental issues. Despite the images of terrible devastation, he ensures that all measures are taken to limit the impacts on the population and the environment. This afternoon, the Minister will fly over the river and the municipalities at risk in order to assess potential threats and ensure the effectiveness of interventions. Finally, the Ministry works in coordination with the Civil Security Organization, the Ministry of Public Security, the Prime Minister&#39;s office, municipal authorities, fire departments, the Sûreté du Québec and all other stakeholders concerned. .
