Quebec - The Ministère du Développement durable, de l&#39;Environnement, de la Faune et des Parcs continues to ensure a continuous presence in Lac-Mégantic and on the sites affected by the events of July 6. The Urgence-Environnement teams are continuing their work in the field. The Department acts diligently and prudently in the management of various environmental issues.
The Chaudière River is still the subject of rigorous observation. Pumping and oil recovery activities are currently concentrated in the more contaminated sectors of Audet and Saint-Ludger and in the Sartigan dam sector. All efforts are continuing so that the iridescence of petroleum does not reach the St. Lawrence River. The latest visual observations of the river seem to show that the measures implemented are working.
Ministry experts continue to closely monitor the quality of drinking water and remain in close contact with the municipalities affected by the events.
Patrols are carried out every day to monitor the situation on Lac Mégantic. The latest observations are encouraging since all the oil was picked up with a boom and brought back to the bank to be pumped. Regarding the Mégantic dam, the flow is gradually increased to reach 25 m3 / s by Friday noon, in order to facilitate the recovery of the hydrocarbons deposited on the banks of the Chaudière River downstream. of the dam. To cope with the increased flow, work has been undertaken to strengthen the booms and redouble the anchoring systems. The Ministry is in contact with those in charge in the field to ensure the smooth running of operations.
A first rapid spotting was carried out in Lac-Mégantic on July 9th. In the area most affected by the train derailment, more than one meter of mud was found, which would be heavily contaminated. For the moment, the contaminated area has been fenced off and is not accessible to specialists from the Ministry since it still presents a risk for workers. It is therefore not possible to make an exhaustive assessment of the state of the soil on the site or to undertake decontamination work at this time. The Department will address this issue as soon as possible.
