Quebec - Over the next few days, the Ministère du Développement durable, de l&#39;Environnement, de la Faune et des Parcs will focus its efforts on the condition of the Chaudière River and on reclamation work on the site. Ten days after the events, the Ministry carried out a reassessment of the needs and resources on the ground in order to determine the actions to be prioritized.
This morning&#39;s aerial observation confirmed the presence of a barely perceptible iridescence that covers only one percent of the river&#39;s surface in the area upstream of the Sartigan dam. In the sector downstream of the dam, there are some traces of the presence of hydrocarbons, but in very small quantities. As for the sectors located between Saint-Ludger and the dam and between Saint-Romuald and Notre-Dame-des-Pins, they do not show any observable traces of hydrocarbons. Recovery operations will continue normally in the next few hours.
Analyzes of the water in the Chaudière River are continuing. Despite encouraging results, it is still too early to allow municipalities to resume their water supply. The Ministry&#39;s specialists are monitoring the situation very closely. An assessment of the river banks is currently underway. Contamination is evident in several places along the stream. The shoreline clean-up operations will begin as soon as possible.
Since Saturday, a road has been built in Lac-Mégantic so that the teams on site have access to certain cars. Workers must follow a very strict movement procedure, which includes the emptying and decontamination of the wagons. Air quality will be closely monitored in this area. Mobile teams of firefighters will follow the workers to the scene of the derailment.
The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, will also be in Lac-Mégantic tomorrow to discuss with the Department&#39;s teams on the continuation of the operations. “There is of course a perimeter of great danger where no work will be possible for our teams in the short term. However, we want to be able to give the authorities soon an idea of the timeframe before the decontamination of the soil for reconstruction is carried out, hence the proximity visit scheduled for tomorrow. In the meantime, we are aiming for a return to normal with regard to the quality of the water, the water supply and the discharge of wastewater, on the river, in the lake and in municipal facilities, ”he said. -he declares.
