Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces the addition of 2 companies to the list of parties covered by Ordinance No. 628 aiming to legally ensure the continuation of decontamination work on the sites affected by the events of July 6. World Fuel Services inc. and the Canadian Pacific Railway Company (CP) will thus have to comply with the obligations contained in the ordinance.
This order, made under the powers conferred on the Minister by section 114.1 of the [Environment Quality Act] (Environment Quality Act), was initially served on July 29 in Montreal, Maine &amp; Atlantique Canada Cie (MMA), Montreal, Maine &amp; Atlantic Railway Ltd (MMAR), Western Petroleum Company and World Fuel Services Corporation.
However, in light of the latest updated information, World Fuel Services inc. may also be targeted as the owner of the oil contained in the derailed train. For its part, the CP company had the mandate to ensure the transport of this oil. As part of this mandate, CP did business with Montreal, Maine &amp; Atlantique Canada cie / Montreal, Maine &amp; Atlantic Railway Ltd., since the section of railway where the accident took place is under their responsibility. For these reasons, World Fuel Services inc. and CP may be targeted by the amended ordinance, just like the other companies already questioned.
“Our duty is to do everything to ensure that the companies responsible for this accident assume the costs associated with cleaning and decontamination operations. This is what Quebeckers and the people of Lac-Mégantic demand, ”said Minister Blanchet.
Remember that the ordinance requires the companies concerned to recover petroleum and all other contaminants in the water and in the soil and to prevent them from spreading into the environment. Companies must also submit a comprehensive action plan that will cover the following elements: environmental characterization of what is likely to have been affected by oil and other contaminants, cleaning and decontamination measures, mitigation measures as well as environmental monitoring measures.
In addition, MMA and MMAR, two of the companies targeted by the order, filed for court protection on August 7. In order to avoid any interruption or delay in operations on the ground, the government announced last Thursday that it was taking charge of the rest of the work in Lac-Mégantic and on the Chaudière River, at the expense of the parties concerned by the &#39;order. Subsequently, the government will take all necessary measures to ensure that the companies involved bear the costs if they do not comply with the terms of the order.
The amended ordinance and all the documents from the Department concerning the Lac-Mégantic file can be consulted at the following address: [www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca/lac-megantic 4.3(http:// www.mddefp.gouv .qc.ca / lac-megantic).
