Lac-Mégantic– Following the tragic events of July 6 in Lac-Mégantic, the Quebec government is taking new measures to force the companies involved to assume their responsibilities. On behalf of the government, the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces the issuance of an ordinance to legally ensure the continuation of the decontamination work. This order, made under the powers conferred on the Minister by section 114.1 of the Environment Quality Act (EQA), was served today on Montreal, Maine &amp; Atlantique Canada Cie, Montreal, Maine &amp; Atlantic Railway Ltd, Western Petroleum Company and World Fuel Services. The terms of the order are in effect immediately, and the companies affected must respond to it without delay.
By law, as the owners of the crude oil or responsible for its transportation, the companies covered by the order are responsible for repairing the damage caused. The ordinance thus requires these companies to recover the oil as well as all the other contaminants in water and in the ground and to prevent them from spreading in the environment. Companies will also need to conduct an environmental characterization to determine what may have been affected by the oil and other contaminants. According to the results of these studies, an action plan must be submitted and approved by the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP).
If the companies do not comply with the measures provided for in the ordinance, the Quebec government intends to act immediately on the ground and take charge of all the decontamination work. The government will then take all the necessary measures to ensure that the companies involved bear the costs.
Moreover, this ordinance is in line with the government strategy implemented in Lac-Mégantic since the early days of the events. The rapid action of the various stakeholders in the field made it possible to considerably limit the extent of the damage. With this ordinance, the government is taking the necessary measures to ensure that the work continues as it should.
The order complements the legal action taken by the City of Lac-Mégantic. The Town&#39;s formal notice was intended to ensure payment of sums due to workers for work already done. As for the ordinance, it aims more at ensuring the continuation of the work which is in progress and the implementation of those which must be started as soon as possible. For example, oily sludge removal operations in the area where the train derailment occurred is one of the priorities. Recovery, characterization, cleaning and decontamination work will also continue.
The text of the ordinance can be consulted on the website of the Ministère du Développement durable, de l&#39;Environnement, de la Faune et des Parcs.
&quot;The public interest and the obvious responsibility of the companies challenged by the ordinance would have required that they immediately propose to the government and the population to assume immediately and under the prescribed conditions their full and entire responsibility in the repair of all damage caused. In the absence of such a proposal, the procrastination is now over, and the Ministry of the Environment is availing itself of the provisions provided for by law, ”declared Minister Yves-François Blanchet.
The taking of this ordinance comes when the interventions on the site are no longer taking place to the satisfaction of the provincial and municipal authorities. The Government of Quebec therefore wishes to initiate the restoration phase with this ordinance. Three main lines of action will be prioritized in the coming weeks:
