Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves François Blanchet held a press briefing today to inform the population of the situation of the Chaudière River. On this occasion, he was accompanied by the vice-president of the Alliance of Great Lakes and St. Lawrence Cities and President of the Quebec Metropolitan Community, Mr. Régis Labeaume. In the middle of the afternoon, the Minister and Mr. Labeaume flew over the Chaudière River in a helicopter and noted that iridescence had reached Saint-Georges and that some were visible near Saint-Joseph.
“Since the tragedy, several citizens of the municipalities bordering the Chaudière are rightly worried about the presence of oil in the watercourse. Water quality is the Department&#39;s biggest concern today. Our teams are currently working to contain and recover most of this oil and measures have been taken to limit the progression of the water table and to avoid any contamination of the aqueduct networks ”, assured Minister Blanchet.
The department&#39;s specialists are deployed at eight points on the Chaudière River and three points in Lake Mégantic to collect water samples. In addition, pumping activities are continuing. A large volume of oily water and petroleum was collected at several locations in Lac-Mégantic in order to limit as much as possible new inflows of hydrocarbons into the Chaudière River. The sewer system in the city of Mégantic was closed in order to contain the spilled oil. In addition, the flow of the Mégantic dam has been reduced to a minimum (3.5 m3 / s).
The ministry also ensured that all measures were taken to avoid a disruption in the drinking water supply by the municipalities located along the Chaudière River, including Saint-Georges, Sainte-Marie and Lévis (Charny). . Emergency water intakes were installed in other watercourses, in particular in Saint-Georges in Lac Poulin, in Sainte-Marie as well as in Lévis (Charny) in the Beaurivage River.
Several booms were added to the facilities to better control the progression of the oil slick, bringing the total to eight booms between Lac-Mégantic and Saint-Joseph. “The three cities have deployed significant expertise and resources to be able to respond to this emergency. It is to their credit. Through this tragedy, it is heartening to see that effective means are being implemented to protect citizens. We are working hard to get there, ”said Minister Blanchet.
Regarding air quality, the latest analyzes carried out by the team of the Center of Expertise in Environmental Analysis of Quebec (CEAEQ) confirm that the level of air contamination is now within acceptable limits. .
At present, and for the next few days, the ministry is in a state of emergency. Priority is given to the supply of drinking water and to work on the containment and recovery of spilled oil, in order to minimize the impact on citizens, wildlife and the environment. Three main actions will continue over the next few days in order to monitor the water quality of rivers:
