Lac-Mégantic– At the end of a tour of the facilities and an aerial flight over the Chaudière River, the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves François Blanchet, wishes to inform the population of the development of the situation. She is serious, worrying but under control.
“From an environmental standpoint, the disaster afflicting the community of Lac-Mégantic first made us fear the worst. For the moment, the contamination of the Chaudière River is serious, but less than we had feared. We continue to anticipate all scenarios, we are in close contact with the municipalities, and we are confident that the impacts will only be marginal before reaching the mouth of the Chaudière in the river, ”declared Minister Blanchet.
The aerial observation by the Minister and an expert, thanks to the collaboration of the Sûreté du Québec, made it possible to observe the deposit on the river of a thin film of oil (between 0.5 and 3 microns) with bluish reflections. or metallic and visible to the naked eye. This flow covers most of the surface between Lac-Mégantic and St-Georges-de-Beauce but does not pose a significant risk to public health and is largely contained by the sequence of booms installed at St-Georges-de-Beauce. -Georges. To this end, the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP) informed all the municipalities concerned by submitting to each of them the measures to be taken in order to avoid contamination of the sources of drinking water.
In order to minimize the quantity of oil spilled into the environment, Urgence-Environnement follows up on pumping activities. Also, five (5) additional booms were installed to contain and recover the spilled oil. In this regard, coordination is ensured with the Quebec Water Expertise Center to ensure that the valves are opened so as not to interfere with the efficiency of the installations and to ensure a minimum flow for ecological preservation purposes.
Despite all the actions taken, it is still possible that the spilled oil could cross the booms to the mouth of the St. Lawrence River in Quebec City. If this is the case, the authorities consider it very likely that these hydrocarbons will be biodegraded by the microorganisms. The presence of oil will therefore pose no risk to health and will only cause minor visual impacts to the environment beyond the mouth of the river into the river. “The situation is worrying and should certainly not be minimized, but it appears to us to be under control. I remain on site and I continue with our experts to assess the different situations in order to react appropriately. No effort will be spared to ensure the safety of the population and the protection of the environment, ”the Minister concluded.
