Lac-Mégantic– The Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Seniors and Minister responsible for the Estrie region, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today announced that major expansion and redevelopment work will be carried out at the Granit Health and Social Services Center (CSSS). At an estimated cost of $ 3,432,000, this work includes the expansion of the establishment&#39;s ground floor to accommodate the rehabilitation unit, as well as the redevelopment of the spaces vacated by it, nearby emergency room, to move into the intensive care unit.
“In addition to ensuring that the units concerned are brought up to standard, this new, better-adapted environment will lead to significant efficiency gains and contribute to the overall improvement of the establishment&#39;s service delivery. This is undoubtedly great news for the staff of the establishment as well as for all the citizens of Lac-Mégantic. », Declared Minister Hébert.
The projected expansion, covering an area of 495 square meters, as well as the minor redevelopments planned in the existing part will allow space savings made necessary to meet the increased demand for the services of the unit. rehabilitation, mainly due to the aging of the population. The repatriation of the intensive care department near the emergency department will help ensure the presence of a doctor at all times near the intensive care unit and promote better sharing of certain support resources. In fact, the nursing staff, who have several similar skills in the two units, will thus be able to be used even more effectively, thereby increasing their availability, among other things for the benefit of the Support program for the autonomy of the elderly.
&quot;This work will promote gains in terms of efficiency and quality of services, and at the same time help to adapt the establishment to the aging of the population while stimulating the local and regional economy, which the city de Lac-Mégantic is also in great need, ”added Minister Hébert.
This project should be carried out over a period of 18 to 24 months and will be entirely financed from the regional budgetary envelopes allocated by the Ministry for this type of work.
