Quebec- The Ministère du Développement durable, de l&#39;Environnement, de la Faune et des Parcs is now able to provide an overall estimate of the quantities of oil spilled and recovered following the events that occurred in Lac-Mégantic there now 16 days.
The train that derailed at Lac-Mégantic consisted of 72 100,000-liter cars, for a total of 7.2 million liters of light crude oil. During the derailment, 9 cars retained all of their contents, ie 900,000 liters. Since the accident, 43 railcars have been moved and emptied of their contents, recovering more than 600,000 liters of residual oil. The Ministry therefore estimates that nearly 5.7 million liters of crude oil were released into the environment, affecting the air, water and soil. Recovery operations are continuing.
In Lac-Mégantic, evaluations made on July 19 indicate that approximately 9,150,000 liters of oily water were recovered. These waters are composed of approximately 5% petroleum, which means that an approximate volume of 457,500 liters of petroleum has been recovered so far. All the oil spills on Lac Mégantic have been recovered.
In addition, the cleaning of the sewer system under the wagons has been done in part, and the ventilation stacks are still in place. The slight overflows that occurred due to the rains of the last few days showed that the cleaning of the sewers was effective, given the minimal traces of hydrocarbons observed and then intercepted by the booms at the mouth of Lake Mégantic. At the treatment plant, on the morning of July 22, the flow of treated wastewater was 88%. This flow could reach 100% today.
In the Chaudière River, it is estimated that approximately 51,200 liters of oily water could have been pumped and removed from the environment. A shoreline treatment plan is being developed. Tests will be carried out today to evaluate various methods of oil recovery. A representative of the Department will be present during this evaluation.
It is still too early to present a comprehensive assessment of the situation. However, aerial observation carried out on July 21 did not reveal any traces of oil on the river, and the sporadic accumulation points observed last week have disappeared. As for the latest land observations, they confirmed the absence of odors and traces of hydrocarbons between Sainte-Marie and the Saint-Nicolas sector in Lévis. From Saint-Georges to Beauceville, only light deposits of oil were observed upstream and downstream of the Sartigan dam in Saint-Georges.
The Ministry remains in daily contact with the neighboring municipalities in order to inform them of the state of the situation concerning drinking water. Access to regular water intakes will be restored as soon as possible.
