Saint-Prosper - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced the allocation of a $ 64,450 grant to the company Le Spécialiste du bardeau de cèdre (SBC ) to support the completion of a $ 608,900 project aimed at setting up a new production line and fostering the development of new markets. This project will create 5 jobs, in addition to consolidating the company&#39;s 110 current jobs.
&quot;Our manufacturing companies play a leading role in the creation of wealth and jobs in Quebec,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “Our government is therefore focusing its efforts on helping these businesses increase their productivity and competitiveness, especially those that demonstrate rock-solid determination, such as SBC. The 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, by focusing on greening and modernization, innovation and the emergence of new flagships, also sets up the winning conditions for a competitive Quebec manufacturing sector. &quot;
Founded in 1996, SBC specializes in the manufacture of white cedar shingles and wedge shingles as well as in the manufacture of bagged cedar mulch in various colors. The project announced today is to expand the company&#39;s dyed shingle plant and add a wedge shingle production line. The company will thus be able to increase the flexibility of its production and conquer new markets. SBC also wishes to carry out a feasibility study to automate the production of factory-dyed shingles.
“Our company is recognized as a North American leader in cedar processing,” said Rita Rancourt, President of SBC. “We do everything we can to offer quality products, to remain at the forefront in increasingly competitive markets and to meet the high demands of our customers. SBC has therefore given priority to setting up modern facilities and regularly invests in research and development, in addition to being on the lookout for technological innovations. Government support comes at a key moment in our growth, as we aim to automate part of our activities in order to remain competitive, particularly in the United States, our main export market. &quot;
“Our government makes a point of supporting businesses that create wealth and quality jobs in all regions of Quebec,” concluded Élaine Zakaïb. “In this regard, since September 2012, our government&#39;s interventions in the Chaudière-Appalaches region, through Investissement Québec and the Ministère des Finances et de l&#39;Économie, have enabled entrepreneurs to benefit from financial assistance of over $ 66 million, which facilitated total investments of over $ 269 million. Our actions have thus contributed to the creation or safeguarding of more than 1,200 jobs. &quot;
Thus, Investissement Québec authorized aid of more than $ 46.5 million for projects requiring investments of nearly $ 188.8 million and creating or consolidating 631 jobs. For its part, the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, within the framework of the Economic Development Fund, granted financial assistance totaling $ 14.1 million for the implementation of investment projects of $ 54.6 million. dollars creating or consolidating 306 jobs. In addition, through its regular programs, the Department has allocated $ 5.5 million for the implementation of investment projects of $ 25.7 million creating or consolidating 272 jobs.
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
