Quebec - The member for Rimouski and official opposition spokesperson for the fight against poverty, solidarity and social economy, Harold LeBel, proposed to the Committee on the Economy and Labor (CET) to take up the Collective&#39;s petition for an invalidity pension. This petition highlights the reality of many people considered unfit for work due to severe employment constraints. They are beneficiaries of a social solidarity benefit which, according to the signatories, does not take sufficient account of their reality and violates some of their fundamental freedoms.
The liberal deputies, in the majority at the CET, refused to allow the latter to meet in official session to hear representatives of the Collective.
“The representatives of the Disability Pension Collective have made enormous efforts to bring their issue to the public eye. After having made several meetings and amassed no less than 7,123 signatures for a petition, it seems to me that it would have been the least of things to welcome them in a formal body of the National Assembly, ”decried the Member for Rimouski.
Harold LeBel is not giving up, however, and intends to continue representing these people who seek, above all, to have the inequities recognized in the treatment they receive from the Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity. In addition, these people, considered unfit for work, cannot take certain actions to improve their living conditions without running the risk of reducing their social solidarity allowances; for example, it is impossible for them to live as a couple or to save a little money.
“We must concretely follow up on this petition. If we have not been able to get buy-in from all CET members, we have to find something else! We therefore insist that the reflection project proposed by the Office for disabled people on the very day the petition is filed - and demanded for several years by the Confederation of disabled people organizations of Quebec (COPHAN) - be set up quickly. in order to identify solutions that meet the needs and realities expressed by the members of the Collective for an invalidity pension, ”concluded the deputy.
