Québec - The member for Verchères and spokesperson for the official opposition in matters of ethics and integrity, Stéphane Bergeron, as well as the member for Taillon and spokesperson for health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, this morning called on the Minister of Health and Social Services, Gaétan Barrette, about the crisis he caused at the Center hospitalier de l&#39;Université de Montréal (CHUM) by interfering in the process. appointment of the head of the surgical department.
“The return to post of the Director General of the CHUM, Jacques Turgeon, does not resolve the crisis, because Minister Gaétan Barrette does not regret anything; he said himself that if it had to be done again, he would do it again. The crisis at the CHUM is only the tip of the iceberg of its interference in the health network. According to the very statements of the resigners, the Minister made untimely and partial interventions, he interfered in the management of the hospital center and he used threats and blackmail. It took the Prime Minister&#39;s direct intervention to resolve the situation and extricate the minister from this crisis that he himself had created by insisting on having someone appointed for reasons which remain as nebulous as ever. Ultimately, it was the Minister and not the CHUM that was put under supervision; Mr. Turgeon negotiated and obtained a direct line to the Prime Minister&#39;s office if ever Minister Barrette again tried to interfere in the management of his establishment, ”declared Stéphane Bergeron.
The member also recalled that the Ethics Commissioner, having found admissible the request of the Parti Québécois, is currently investigating this file.
Bill 10: precursor of abuses
“Bill 10, riddled with errors, was adopted under gag order, despite all the unfavorable opinions and, above all, without the support of the health network, which will have to implement this structural reform. The central and unique purpose of this bill was to put the minister at the center of the health care system and to give him an unprecedented amount of power. The fears that we expressed, like several network stakeholders, have come true with the case of the CHUM. There is nothing to assure us that the minister will not do it again, especially since he has expressly said that he has no regrets and that he will do the same thing again. Public confidence in the minister is now shaken. If there is any doubt that the Minister can, at any time, bypass the processes planned at different levels to impose his choices, other crises like that of the CHUM are being prepared. The minister must give guarantees that the leaders are appointed for their skills and not for their friendships; that&#39;s good governance, ”concluded Diane Lamarre.
