G aspé– On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the MNA for Gaspé, Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region and Minister responsible for the Regions, Gaétan Lelièvre, held a press conference today to announce the award of a grant of $ 6,180,000 for the enhancement of the auditorium hall of the C.-E.-Pouliot de Gaspé school as part of the government intervention strategy for the development of the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region. The mayor of the City of Gaspé and prefect of the MRC de la Côte-de-Gaspé, François Roussy, the president of the board of commissioners of the Chic-Chocs school board, Jean-Pierre Pigeon, and the president of CD Spectacles, Michel Desjardins, were present at the event.
“Thanks to a major investment from the Ministry of Culture and Communications, the auditorium room of the C.-E.-Pouliot school will be a transformed cultural place that will meet the expectations of Gaspésiens. I would also like to underline the hard work and the great solidarity of all those involved, these culture lovers, who made it possible to complete this structuring project for the entire region, ”said Maka Kotto. .
The financial assistance granted will make it possible to undertake major work. The aim is to renovate and rearrange the interior of the hall, in particular the stage, the backstage and the boxes, and to increase the number of seats from 409 to 554.
“The Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region is distinguished, among other things, by a dynamic cultural life that generates economic and social development. With more than 300 organizations in the region, culture is the fourth largest sector in terms of employment. The government&#39;s intervention strategy for the development of the region is reflected in concerted, coherent and promising actions while maximizing the investments of the ministries and organizations working in the region. Accessibility is a major challenge, particularly with regard to adapting the cultural offer to various clienteles and optimizing equipment, ”said Gaétan Lelièvre.
The total cost of the project is estimated at $ 10,447,947. The contribution of the Ministry of Culture and Communications of $ 6,180,000 is paid under the 2011-2016 Quebec Infrastructure Plan for 2012-2013. The rest of the financial package breaks down as follows: the Government of Canada allocates a sum of $ 1,200,000, the City of Gaspé, $ 1,400,000, the Commission scolaire des Chic-Chocs, $ 750,000, and the fundraising campaign local organization carried out by the organization providing shows raised $ 917,947, of which $ 150,000 came from the MRC de la Côte-de-Gaspé under the Pacte Rural.
