Quebec - The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the Parti Québécois spokesperson for culture, communications, digital economy and electronic commerce, Martine Ouellet, have proposed concrete measures to ensure better visibility of Quebec creations on digital platforms and better funding for culture in Quebec.
&quot;As the ADISQ Gala approaches, the Parti Québécois wanted to reaffirm its commitment to culture and the artists and artisans who bring it to life. That was the point of the motion I introduced, which was passed unanimously yesterday: to ensure that creators are paid fairly on all the platforms that broadcast their work. And that is the meaning of the proposals we are presenting today, ”said Martine Ouellet.
“Quebec culture is unique and fundamentally distinct from all those around us. This reality must be embodied on the various platforms that serve to disseminate it, in particular the new digital platforms. And it must be visible there. Both online sales sites and those that allow streaming must offer their customers in Quebec specific home pages highlighting at least 70% of Quebec creations, 65% of which are French-speaking. Obviously, there is no question here of restricting the content of the online offer, but of promoting French-speaking and Quebec works displayed on these sites. In music, of course, but also in cinema or literature - iTunes, Spotify, Google Play, Netflix, etc. - Quebeckers want access to local artists and this access must be facilitated by distribution platforms, ”continued the leader of the official opposition.
“The digital players, who occupy an increasingly important part of the market, must also contribute to the financing of culture in general. The government must act as soon as possible so that online transactions are finally subject to Quebec sales tax, as are sales in stores. Whether by raising awareness among industry representatives or, if necessary, using legal means, the government has several levers at its disposal. It could, in particular, rely on transaction intermediaries - as suggested by Marwah Rizqy, professor in the tax department of the University of Sherbrooke -, or that it directly subject the sites concerned, but it must put an end to to this iniquity. Several million dollars could thus be recovered and invested in culture, ”added Jean-François Lisée.
“Culture is the soul of a people. We must therefore support our artists, for greater creative diversity in Quebec, in all our regions. Gérald Godin for the cinema, or Louise Beaudoin for the software, had been able to find solutions adapted to their time. It is high time for the government to assume its responsibilities so that Quebec culture shines even more, both nationally and internationally. We must never forget, either, that culture is one of the three sectors that create the most jobs in Quebec; it is therefore a very profitable investment, ”concluded Martine Ouellet.
