Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu– The member for Saint-Jean and deputy government whip, Mr. Dave Turcotte, confirmed, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the renewal of the implementation agreement for the strategy and action plan of the TransformAction niche of bio-food excellence in Montérégie for the years 2013 to 2018.
&quot;The niche partners are actively working to gain recognition for their region as a center of expertise and competitiveness in food processing,&quot; said Dave Turcotte. “The renewal of the agreement confirms the pursuit of actions in the niche, which has posted remarkable performance since its inception in 2006. Its members are also demonstrating exemplary mobilization. Thanks to ACCORD, they act together to be competitive. &quot;
&quot;The Montérégie is a true leader in the biofood sector in Quebec, and the TransformAction niche of excellence undoubtedly contributes to the growth of this key sector of the region&#39;s economy,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “Quebec&#39;s industrial policy also relies on ACCORD niches of excellence, important regional economic development tools. Thus, an additional $ 22 million will be injected to support projects arising from niches of excellence. &quot;
Like other niches and the pole of excellence present in all regions, the TransformAction bio-food niche stems from the ACCORD process, set up by the Government of Quebec in 2002. This niche is made up of companies. of the food processing sector and benefits from the collaboration of the Agri-Food and Consumer Products Transformation Council and that of the Government of Quebec. The Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, and the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport and Minister responsible for the Montérégie region, Ms. Marie Malavoy, also left party to this agreement.
&quot;The TransformAction niche of bio-food excellence aims to support food processors in the Montérégie region according to five areas of development, namely mobilization, access to internal and external markets, innovation, productivity as well as standards and quality&quot; , said Minister Gendron. “Since its creation, this niche has helped set up more than 40 structuring projects with a total value of more than $ 5 million, which is undoubtedly eloquent proof of its relevance. &quot;
The Montérégie biofood sector also brings together several interconnected sectors along the value chain, from primary production to processing. &quot;The large number of companies active in this sector in Montérégie allows us to benefit from solidly established distribution activities,&quot; commented Minister Malavoy. “These companies have unique know-how which, coupled with a culture of innovation, allows us to distinguish ourselves and improve production and processing methods for food products. &quot;
“The partners in the niche have made it their mission to mobilize food processors in the Montérégie region by creating alliances and strategic networks,” said the president of the TransformAction niche bio-food excellence committee, Mr. Benoît Grégoire. “The objective is to generate structuring and innovative activities and projects for businesses and to position the Montérégie for its distinctive and quality food products as well as for its culture of collaboration and innovation. &quot;
To find out more about the ACCORD approach and the niches and centers of excellence, visit www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/accord.
To consult the Québec Industrial Policy 2013-2017, visit www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
