Havre-Saint-Pierre– The MP for Duplessis, Ms. Lorraine Richard, on behalf of the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, today announced financial assistance of $ 403,291 for the development of the International Cruise Terminal in Havre-Saint-Pierre, as part of the Cruise Strategy Assistance Program.
This aid will be used for the expansion of the Pélagie-Cormier Portal, for the development of spaces as well as for the addition of the equipment necessary for the site to fully fulfill its role as a terminal for the reception of international cruise ships. This assistance will also allow the Port of Havre-Saint-Pierre to carry out the work required for the presentation of a permanent fossil exhibition. Completion of the entire project requires investments in the order of $ 1.2 million.
“Endowed with exceptional natural attractions, Havre-Saint-Pierre is a destination of choice for international cruise ships. I am proud to confirm these investments which will allow the destination to improve the reception of this international clientele. The completion of this project is essential to the development of this stopover, which plans to welcome 4 ships in 2013, ”Minister Bérubé said.
“Cruise tourism is a very promising development avenue for our region. The arrival of this new tourist clientele is already contributing to the extension of the tourist season, as well as to the maintenance and creation of jobs, ”said the MP for Duplessis.
The Strategy for Sustainable Development and Promotion of International Cruises on the St.Lawrence River made it possible to accompany and support, until March 2013, municipalities, organizations and private companies in the establishment and promotion of &#39;&#39; a network of strategic stops to offer cruise lines a choice of itineraries and tourist experiences of international caliber. As indicated in the Tourism Industry Development Plan 2012-2020, Tourisme Québec will continue its intervention and support for the development and promotion of international cruises on the St. Lawrence until March 31, 2016.
