Longueuil - The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Minister responsible for the Montérégie region and outgoing Member of Parliament for the riding of Taillon, Marie Malavoy, today announced that she will not seek a new mandate in the constituency of Taillon.
Following discussions with the leaders of the Parti Québécois and the Prime Minister, Marie Malavoy made her decision yesterday to allow the party to present a high quality candidate who will be able to represent the people of the Taillon riding with dignity.
“I am leaving with the feeling of accomplishment. As Minister, I fulfilled the mandates entrusted to me by the Prime Minister during her opening speech, namely those of setting up kindergartens for 4 years in disadvantaged areas, strengthening the teaching of national history and working on the development of a new national sports, leisure and physical activity policy, which should be made public soon, ”said the Minister.
“I am passionate about education. For me, it is the path to freedom. Leading the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport has been as much a privilege as it is a source of inspiration and achievement, ”argued Marie Malavoy.
“As Minister responsible for the Montérégie region, I have worked tirelessly with my caucus colleagues to ensure that our region obtains its fair share of public investments. I have a special thought for the recent announcement of a $ 20 million investment by our government for the construction of the Théâtre de la Ville cultural complex in Longueuil, ”she continued.
“Learn to live together. This is what I set for myself when I arrived as a Member of Parliament for Taillon in 2006. Since then, it has kept me going. I sincerely hope that on the evening of April 7, the Parti Québécois led by Pauline Marois will once again be able to obtain the confidence of citizens in order to build a more prosperous, stronger, more independent and more independent Quebec. more welcoming, ”concluded the Minister.
Marie Malavoy thanked the activists of the Parti Québécois as well as those who supported her in her functions as Minister and Member of Parliament.
A convinced sovereignist, she will continue to make her contribution to the building of a country.
