Québec, March 3, 2021 - In order to improve the well-being of children and adolescents in Québec, the member for Gaspé and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois pour la jeunesse as well as in sports, leisure and healthy lifestyles, Méganne Perry Mélançon, asks the government to authorize, as soon as possible, the resumption of organized sport in regions where the epidemiological situation is stable.
IN SHORT
The government should authorize the resumption of organized sports for young people in regions where the epidemiological situation allows it. Public health should support this decision; Last fall, she recommended that we continue to practice these sports. Children and adolescents need more than ever to take down screens and find a little normalcy, and this includes sport.
While the epidemiological situation in several regions has been stable for many weeks, Méganne Perry Mélançon deplores that the rules of the new &quot;orange zones&quot; are more restrictive than in the fall, when the practice of sport was however authorized. By calling for the resumption of indoor sports activities, she throws the ball to Prime Minister François Legault who, during his press briefing on February 23, opened the door to this possibility after the return of the spring break. It also echoes the growing number of voices raised in Quebec to demand that organized sports resume among young people, who are increasingly feeling the effects of this deprivation of sports and leisure activities.
Remember that as of last fall, Public Health recommended that we allow the practice of organized sports for young people, but the government preferred to maintain the hard line. “On the one hand, he repeats that his decisions are based on science; on the other hand, the government is ignoring the recommendations of Public Health, to the detriment of the physical and mental health of young people, ”lamented the MP, calling on the government to be more consistent.
&quot;I once again ask the government to trust the various sports associations, which have safe and approved recovery plans, as well as the young people, who are just waiting to get back into motion and find their teammates. The Prime Minister and the Minister for Education must go beyond fine words and promises, and quickly allow the resumption of organized sport, both civil and school. It is necessary for the physical and mental health of young people. They have made great sacrifices so far, and it is time to give them some air, ”concluded the MP.
– 30 –
SOURCE :
Laura Chouinard-Thuly
Press Officer
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois
514 880-9594
Laura.Chouinard-Thuly@assnat.qc.ca
