Saint-Narcisse - The Member of Parliament for Champlain and President of the Territorial Planning Commission, Mrs. Noëlla Champagne, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce that the Parish of Saint-Narcisse will benefit from government assistance of $ 1,508,559 for the supply and treatment of its drinking water. This assistance comes from the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
“I am very happy with our government&#39;s support for the Parish of Saint-Narcisse for the implementation of these major water infrastructure works. Carrying out this project represents a most precious investment for the future of the parish, which will be able to provide drinking water of sufficient quality and quantity, thus promoting the good health and well-being of its citizens. Access to quality drinking water is a fundamental right, an essential service for all, ”said MP Champagne.
“Every Quebecer must be able to benefit from access to quality public services. Our government&#39;s commitment is to provide municipalities with the support they need to move forward with their infrastructure projects. Thus, the aid granted to the Parish of Saint-Narcisse will make it possible to guarantee essential services to citizens, in addition to providing this municipality with infrastructures that comply with the standards in force and to improve the quality of public services ”, indicated the Minister Gaudreault.
The Saint-Narcisse Parish project aims to develop a new drinking water production well, including the construction of a service building to house the required equipment, and the installation of a pipe. drinking water supply necessary for its connection to the existing drinking water tank. The project also includes the installation of a sodium hypochlorite disinfection system, the addition of new pumps and telecommunications equipment, the construction of another service building near the drinking water tank. current as well as the redevelopment of the pumping mechanism at one of the existing wells. Various works will complete this project.
These interventions will make it possible to remedy the lack of drinking water and thus meet the current and future needs of the Parish of Saint-Narcisse in addition to allowing the renewal of deficient or obsolete infrastructures.
Completion of this project requires a maximum eligible investment of $ 3,017,117 under component 1.4 of the PIQM. The Government of Quebec is contributing $ 1,508,559 to this project while the Parish of Saint-Narcisse is investing an amount of $ 1,508,558.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and to make informed choices.
