Montreal - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, today unveiled the 2013-2015 Action Plan of the Table de concertation sur le recycling des Matériaux organic materials in order to set up the worksite for the management of organic materials in Quebec. Accompanied by Mr. Benoît de Villiers, President and CEO of RECYC-QUÉBEC, Mr. Blanchet presented the twelve major actions of this plan, which aims to achieve the objectives set by the Québec Residual Materials Management Policy of diverting 60% of organic materials from disposal by 2015 and to ban them from disposal by 2020.
“With the action plan that we are presenting today, we really have all the elements in hand to make the organic materials management project a success in Quebec. This is an important project for the province, in addition to considerably reducing the quantity of materials sent to landfill, our efforts related to the management of organic materials will allow us to improve the gas balance. greenhouse effects, ”added Minister Blanchet.
Encouragingly, citizens seem ready to follow suit and participate in this great project. According to a Léger Marketing survey conducted on behalf of RECYC-QUÉBEC, 76% of Quebecers indicated that they will participate in the collection of organic materials when it is implemented in their locality or already participate in it. Several actions in the Table de concertation action plan are aimed precisely at improving social acceptability related to the recovery of organic materials and the establishment of a new collection.
“It is certain that information efforts will have to be deployed at all levels in order to properly equip the municipalities that have not yet followed suit and also the corporate community on the options available and the best ways to proceed. Public awareness will undoubtedly be at the heart of the approach. Their participation in the recovery of organic materials is a crucial element in achieving our objectives, ”explained the President and CEO of RECYC-QUÉBEC, Mr. Benoît de Villiers. &quot;We hope that over the next few years, all Quebecers will have adopted the same good habits for organic materials that they have developed with the selective collection of recyclable materials,&quot; he added.
So that the collection of organic materials can be implemented on a larger scale, RECYC-QUÉBEC, in collaboration with its various partners, will work in the coming months to carry out the studies and develop the necessary tools to facilitate in particular the implementation of the collection and treatment of organic materials by municipalities and industries, businesses and institutions. Beyond collection, awareness-raising efforts will be made with users of products resulting from the transformation of organic materials. In addition, studies will be carried out to promote the development of new outlets.
The organic waste recycling action plan is divided into four major orientations:
“In total, more than a hundred players in the management of organic materials in Quebec have collaborated in the development of this action plan over the past year. unprecedented concertation work ”, underlined Mr. Blanchet. &quot;The challenge is great, but we are convinced that the plan presented today, drawn up with stakeholders in the field, will allow us to achieve the objectives we have set for ourselves and to considerably improve the quantity of organic materials recovered in Quebec. », He concluded.
The highlights as well as the full 2013-2015 Action Plan of the Table de concertation sur le recycling des organic matters are available at: http: //www.recyc-quebec.gouv.qc.ca/client/fr/programmes -services / Table_matieres_organiques.asp.
Concerned with making Quebec an innovative and sustainable management model for residual materials for a waste-free society, RECYC-QUÉBEC&#39;s mission is to promote reduction at source, reuse, recycling and recovery of residual materials. RECYC-QUÉBEC thus influences production and consumption patterns. It is the body designated to coordinate the development activities provided for in the Québec Residual Materials Management Policy.
The results for the Léger Marketing survey question were obtained using a web survey conducted by Léger from August 19 to 21, 2013 with a representative sample of 1,000 Quebecers, aged 18 years of age or over and able to speak French or English. Using data from Statistics Canada, the results were weighted by sex, age, region, language spoken at home, education and presence of children in the household to make the sample representative of the entire study population.
