Sorel-Tracy– The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, today announced the candidacy of Elaine Zakaïb who will represent the Parti Québécois in the riding of Richelieu in the general election. “Élaine is a proud Soreloise. Her great knowledge of her region of origin and her particular affection for the people who live there make her a first-rate candidate for the riding of Richelieu, ”said Pauline Marois.
“I want to contribute to the Quebec of tomorrow. I would not have applied elsewhere than in Richelieu, that is to say at home. When I learned that the members of the Parti Québécois de Richelieu and outgoing MP Sylvain Simard wanted me to run as a candidate, I experienced great emotions. It is really an honor for me to have the opportunity to present myself in my part of the country, ”said Élaine Zakaïb, insisting that her priority would be the economic development of her constituency and of the entire region. Quebec.
“I intend to work in the continuity of Sylvain Simard who defended our region well in the Alstom plant file. I also want to work on solving the serious problem of access to family doctors and home care, especially for our seniors. The issues of the extension of Highway 30 and the exodus of young people will also be at the top of the list of issues that will concern me throughout the campaign. If citizens choose to trust me to become their Member of Parliament, these are the issues they will see me defend on their behalf in the National Assembly. &quot;
Élaine Zakaïb has been President and CEO of the Regional Solidarity Fund QFL since 2004. She also held various positions within the QFL Solidarity Fund from 1992 to 2004. A lawyer by training, she also holds a master&#39;s degree in corporate finance.
“While the Charest government relies on division and discord to get re-elected, the Parti Québécois presents candidates of all ages, all origins and with varied skills. Élaine is a good example. She will bring with her a whole baggage in terms of economic and regional development. I am convinced that she will be able to put it to good use for the citizens of Richelieu ”, declared Pauline Marois.
&quot;A person of this quality, deeply rooted in his region, competent and moreover committed sovereignist, that can only be excellent news for the region,&quot; concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois.
