Quebec - The deputy for Berthier and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on agriculture, André Villeneuve, as well as the deputy for Verchères and spokesperson for Quebec-Canada relations, Stéphane Bergeron, are concerned about the impact the abandonment of dairy producers by the federal government, which refuses to adjust regulations to prevent the importation of dairy proteins, diafiltered milk, from the United States.
“It circumvents the spirit of the law and lowers the price paid to producers for the milk they produce. We are talking about family businesses, which are passed down from generation to generation. The consequences are serious: weakened companies, postponed investments, shattered dreams. These companies are the pride of Quebec and the minister has abandoned them. He let the situation spoil. He does nothing. The only time he got up was to attack the maple syrup industry, a flagship of Quebec. He must act, go beyond words and think about the men and women who are paying the price for his inaction, ”said André Villeneuve.
The member also recalled that on December 1, the National Assembly unanimously passed a motion that he tabled, urging the federal government to close the regulatory gap. &quot;Minister Pierre Paradis should have used the unanimous will of Quebec parliamentarians to build a balance of power with Ottawa.&quot; Which he didn&#39;t do. He has to act, now, ”he continued.
“The result of the Liberal government&#39;s inaction is that Ottawa feels no pressure from the Quebec government and is therefore in no rush to act. Minister Paradis does not even know if Philippe Couillard spoke directly to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau! If he was really ready to fight for the federal government to close the breach, he would have managed to be aware of every word said on the subject by Premier Couillard. Perhaps he prefers to ignore the content of the discussions between the two prime ministers, because the subject was not on the agenda? Pierre Paradis must do more than have an opinion. He must do everything in his power to ensure that the federal government finally closes the breach, ”concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
