Quebec - The Minister responsible for Government Administration and Chairman of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, confirmed the adoption of a government decree lowering the threshold for the amount of contracts and subcontracts covered by the Act to $ 10 million. on integrity in public contracts (Law 1). The decree was published today in the Official Gazette of Quebec.
“Today, we are taking another important step in the implementation of Law 1. This further expansion of the scope of the law demonstrates the effectiveness of our integrity efforts through an approach to once firm, gradual and responsible. At the same time, this shows that the work teams are well established and ready to analyze more authorization requests, ”said Minister Bédard.
Under the adopted decree, companies will have to obtain an authorization to contract issued by the Financial Markets Authority for calls for tenders launched as of December 6. The contracts concerned are:
The contracts concerned are those of government administration departments and agencies, organizations in the education, health and social services networks, government corporations as well as cities and municipal organizations. For example, professional service contracts in information technology are covered by this decree.
Since the adoption of Law 1, nearly 200 companies have obtained their authorization for contracts of $ 40 million or more or contracts targeted by decree in Montreal. Lowering the contract threshold to $ 10 million will make it possible to subject approximately 400 more companies.
It should also be remembered that the Act respecting integrity in public contracts gives the government the power to determine by decree, as and when the categories or groups of public contracts require prior authorization to contract.
“Law 1 and the authorization regime put in place by our government send a clear signal: the government is taking all the necessary means to ensure the integrity of public contracts. The noose is tightening on companies that are dishonest or that would be tempted to be, ”said Minister Bédard.
The Autorité des marchés financiers makes available on the website www.lautorite.qc.cales the documents required to submit an authorization request. Companies can file their application now with the Autorité des marchés financiers. In addition, as of November 18, Quebec businesses will have to use online services to submit their authorization requests.
