Quebec - “As the holiday season approaches, the media drive and all the other initiatives aimed at raising funds, clothing or non-perishable goods remind us that too many Quebeckers live in poverty. A situation that cannot be tolerated and for which we have a collective responsibility ”.
This was stated by the member for Saint-Jean and official opposition critic for employment, social solidarity and the fight against poverty, Dave Turcotte, and the member for Matapédia and spokesperson. speech in social services, Danielle Doyer.
The Member also tabled a motion in the National Assembly which underlines the 11th great media drive and which reminds us that sharing and mutual aid are values common to all Quebecers.
The need to hold a debate in parliamentary committee
The Parti Québécois has repeatedly called for a parliamentary commission to be held on this subject. The objective of this commission is to study the opinion of the Advisory Committee for the Fight against Poverty and Social Exclusion on the income targets sent to the government in 2009 and the response of the Minister of Employment. and Social Solidarity in this opinion. Many organizations as well as the Collective for a Poverty-Free Quebec support the holding of this commission together with a general consultation.
“The Law to combat poverty and social exclusion is almost ten years old. It is time to hear from organizations and independent experts so that we can give new impetus to the fight against poverty and social exclusion, ”said the member for Saint-Jean.
Ideas to fight poverty and social exclusion
The Parti Québécois proposes several ideas to fight against poverty and social exclusion, including the repatriation of employment insurance in Quebec, the revision of the minimum wage and the exclusion from any fee-for-service pricing policy, such as “ co-payments ”or any other form of regressive taxation in the health sector.
“There are still too many Quebeckers living in poverty and certain decisions taken in recent years have been catastrophic, notably the unreasonable price increases. It is time to take stock in order to breathe new life into the fight against poverty and social exclusion, ”concluded Dave Turcotte.
