Saint-Félicien– Residents and tourists alike will benefit from improvements to the Belle-Vue Marina and the Saint-Félicien Municipal Wharf thanks to joint funding announced today by the Government of Canada and the Government of Quebec.
&quot;I am proud of this superb project which will make the marina and municipal wharf safer for the community, improve access to the Ashuapmushuan River and promote tourism and economic prosperity in the region,&quot; said the Honorable Denis Lebel, Minister of Infrastructure, Communities and Intergovernmental Affairs and Minister of the Economic Development Agency of Canada for the Regions of Quebec. Our government is proud to invest in infrastructure projects like this because we prioritize job creation, growth and the development of strong and prosperous communities across Canada. &quot;
“Our government is pleased to contribute to the repair of the entire Belle-Vue marina site and the Saint-Félicien municipal wharf on the banks of the Ashuapmushuan River in order to make them safer and more accessible to citizens and residents. sector organizations. Thanks to this work, the City of Saint-Félicien will be able to offer new recreational areas to citizens and visitors, in addition to ensuring the sustainability of these infrastructure works, creating jobs and building municipality an even more pleasant place for all ”, added the Member of Parliament for Roberval, Mr. Denis Trottier.
This project has two components, both of which will consolidate public access points to the Ashuapmushuan River. The first component consists of the redevelopment of the Belle-Vue marina, which aims to improve safety by strengthening the banks of the river and rehabilitating the boat access ramp as well as the docks. In addition, a new service pavilion will be built and a recreational area will be set up. Beacons will also be installed. The second component consists of the repair of the municipal quay of Saint-Félicien, which will give access to the river to citizens, and will focus in particular on the reinforcement of the retaining wall over a length of 135 meters and the replacement of the platform of the quay. in order to combat soil erosion.
Under the Major Projects Component of the Building Canada Fund, the Government of Canada has made a commitment to set aside up to one-third of eligible project costs, for a maximum amount of $ 1.76 million. The total eligible project costs are $ 5.28 million. The Government of Quebec will provide a contribution of $ 1.76 million and the City of Saint-Félicien will provide the remainder, or $ 1.76 million. Federal funding is conditional on all applicable federal requirements under the Building Canada Fund, including the signing of a contribution agreement with the Government of Quebec.
Economic Action Plan 2013 puts in place a new Building Canada plan to build roads, bridges, subways, commuter trains and other public infrastructure in collaboration with provinces, territories and municipalities. Thanks to the leadership of the Government of Canada, as well as to a solid economic and financial foundation, the Canadian economy has recovered better from the global recession than most other industrialized countries. Canada has been a leader among the G-7 countries during this period, generating more than one million net new jobs since July 2009. The new Building Canada plan, combined with other federal infrastructure investments, helps maintain Canada&#39;s infrastructure advantage, which is a key catalyst for economic growth and job creation.
The Government of Quebec&#39;s contribution to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
For more information on the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, visit the website www.infrastructures.gouv.qc.ca/plan-infrastructure/index.asp.
For more information on Canada&#39;s Economic Action Plan, visit Canada&#39;s Economic Action Plan website.
