Quebec - The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand Saint-Arnaud, is pleased to mark the fourth Quebec Family Mediation Day.
This day provides the opportunity to familiarize yourself with this method of amicable conflict resolution and to discover its advantages. In addition to improving communication between parents in a situation of separation, family mediation allows them to reach an agreement, in the interest of all members of the family, as well as to reduce their legal costs.
“Thanks to family mediation, parents can agree on the terms of their breakup. They can do this before, during, or even after separation, during revisions, to the benefit of their children. Quebec Family Mediation Day is an opportunity to salute the remarkable work of these professionals who help thousands of families each year overcome this difficult period. They thus help to make the process of separation or divorce more humane and less judicial, ”declared Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud.
In Quebec, there are 977 mediators accredited by their respective professional order: lawyers, notaries, guidance counselors, psychologists, psychoeducators, social workers and marriage and family therapists. Youth centers are also authorized to certify their employees to do mediation.
In order to promote the benefits of this multidisciplinary practice, the Barreau du Québec, in collaboration with the Committee of accreditation bodies in family mediation (COAMF), is organizing a general public activity on the theme Mediation: for the sake of children. Mediators who are members of the Quebec Family Mediation Association (AMFQ) will also be available to answer questions from the public on family mediation. For more information on these free activities, consult the website of the Ministère de la Justice at www.justice.gouv.qc.ca / médiationfamiliale.
It should be remembered that among the parents who used family mediation services, 82% managed to reach an agreement. In addition, to obtain a judgment from the court, parents who used family mediation services paid, on average, half the costs of those who did not.
Before starting the mediation process, parents are advised to attend a post-breakup parenting session. In fact, since December 1, 2012, free information sessions on parenthood after separation have been offered in the evening in 42 courthouses. They allow parents to better equip themselves to live this transition, in the interest and for the well-being of the children, and to know the means at their disposal, in particular family mediation.
Moreover, following a survey of people who attended the sessions offered as part of the pilot project, more than 97.5% of respondents said they strongly appreciated the formula. In addition, 89% of them indicated that the session had equipped them to ask better questions of the person who will help them resolve their separation. Finally, 99.7% said they would recommend that people with children attend this session as soon as their separation begins.
The complete schedule of the next sessions as well as all the information on the family mediation program, including the Evaluation report - Session on parenthood after separation (pilot project), are available at www.justice.gouv.qc.ca / family mediation.
