Quebec - The member for Jonquière and leader of the official opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, participated today in the ceremony for the presentation of the Medal of the National Assembly to four Quebecers who have distinguished themselves in their field of activity : Mmes Arlette Cousture and Lise Watier, as well as Mr. Oliver Jones and Doctor Pierre Lapointe.
“It was a privilege and an immense pleasure to speak to honor these citizens of Quebec whose remarkable career, talent, commitment and exceptional work are all sources of inspiration and pride for our nation, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault from the outset.
The leader of the official opposition praised the merits of each of the recipients. “Author Arlette Cousture masters the art of touching people. His stories portray, with sensitivity and accuracy, the fates of ordinary people of extraordinary qualities. Without a doubt, since she has reached so many people and is timeless, her work will remain a benchmark in Quebec literature. Mr. Oliver Jones, for his part, is one of the greatest ambassadors of Quebec musical talent. Having become a key figure in jazz on a global scale, he owes his impressive success, in addition to his skill, a deep love for his art, as well as the respect and genuine affection he has for his colleagues and for the public, among others, ”he stressed.
“For his part, the scientist, researcher and physician Pierre Lapointe devoted his talent, his rigor and his determination to improving intervention plans at the scene of an accident. Thanks to his expertise, precious minutes were saved, serious consequences were avoided. We had a duty to show our gratitude to this man of heart who made it possible to save lives. Finally, the National Assembly honored Ms. Lise Watier, the darling businesswoman of Quebecers. The one that knew how to make its mark, in a not so distant time when entrepreneurship was predominantly, if not exclusively, male. Ms. Watier was daring, creative, and she won her bet, fulfilling her dreams. Her exceptional career paved the way for new generations of women entrepreneurs, whom we would like to see more and more numerous, ”added the Member for Jonquière.
