Val-d&#39;Or– The Minister for Native Affairs and Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Est, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, announced today, on behalf of the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, the relocation of the Family Medicine Unit (UMF) from Val-d&#39;Or, affiliated with McGill University, and the enhancement of its reception capacity.
“Our government is committed to improving the accessibility of care and services by consolidating the first line and increasing the number of family physicians. This announcement is precisely in line with this objective, since these new provisions will increase the family medicine capacity of the McGill University network while increasing the service offer to the population of the territory, ”declared the Minister. Hébert.
The UMF will temporarily move to part of the vacant lot of the Val-d&#39;Or Hospital, inside modular buildings that will provide it with an estimated area of just over 800 m2. This new environment will allow it, among other things, to accommodate twelve residents and one day, four residents more than its current capacity.
For the relocation and consolidation of this family medicine unit, the Department grants a maximum annualized allowance of $ 850,000, of which $ 260,000 will be allocated to the rental and fitting-out costs of the modules, an amount that the real estate solution chosen will allow. moreover to decrease to $ 98,000 as of 2016-2017. The balance of $ 590,000 will be devoted to human resources, operating costs, as well as various supplies.
Currently, about 45% of medical students go into family medicine, while 55% go into other specialties. The consolidation of this UMF is part of the government&#39;s desire to increase the number of graduates in family medicine in order to reverse these proportions, and thus better meet the current and future health needs of Quebec society.
“This is of course great news. This shows that our government is taking concrete action to improve the accessibility of front-line services for the population. This is particularly important for a region like ours, because it is also a question of proximity to care, ”added Ms. Larouche.
