Montreal - The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane De Courcy, underlined the launch of the Black History Month programming. This unifying event celebrates every year, during the month of February, the contribution of black communities to Quebec society.
The 2014 edition of Black History Month takes place under the theme None of us, acting alone, can achieve success, a quote from the first speech as President of the Republic of South Africa, delivered by Nelson Mandela in 1994. After more than fifty years of struggle against apartheid, a political regime based on racial discrimination, and twenty-seven years of imprisonment, Nelson Mandela advocated reconciliation between blacks and whites in South Africa . For their combined efforts to end apartheid, Nelson Mandela and then President Frederik de Klerk were awarded the 1993 Nobel Peace Prize.
“The life of Nelson Mandela is an example of determination in building a free and democratic society, where everyone has equal opportunities. The theme of Black History Month takes up the words he spoke twenty years ago, words that remain inspiring for Quebec today. They recall the contribution of Quebeckers from black communities to the building of Quebec and the importance of the participation of all citizens in the development of our society, ”said Minister Diane De Courcy. The Minister will present a motion to the National Assembly in February to mark Black History Month.
This year, the Department provided $ 35,000 to support Black History Month programming. A partner of the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities for several years, the Black History Month Roundtable will publish, like in previous years, a thematic calendar that pays tribute to personalities recognized for their commitment to make Quebec a dynamic and inclusive society.
To find out more about the programming for the 23rd edition of Black History Month, you can visit the website www.moishistoiredesnoirs.com.
