Saint-Charles-Borromée– The Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Minister responsible for the Lanaudière region and Member of Parliament for Joliette, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today inaugurated the new premises dedicated to the unity of intensive care at the Lanaudière Regional Hospital (CHRDL).
“Just one year after announcing the start of work alongside Minister Réjean Hébert, I am very happy to participate in this official inauguration. With an increased reception capacity, thus promoting accessibility to intensive care, more spacious, more modern, more user-friendly and safer premises, this new unit is a major gain for the CHRDL and will know how to make a real difference on a daily basis. , for the benefit of patients, their families and professionals in the Lanaudière network, ”declared Ms. Hivon.
The work carried out consisted of an extension intended to accommodate the intensive care unit, above the new part of the CHRDL emergency room. The number of beds in this unit has been increased from 12 to 16, in order to better meet the growing needs of the population of Lanaudière-Nord, and the unit may eventually, depending on future needs, accommodate two additional beds.
The surface area of the new unit is three times the size of the old one, thus reducing patient crowding and the risk of infection. In particular, it has larger bedrooms, a living room for families, a waiting room, a conference room as well as areas dedicated to doctors and workers.
The relocation of the intensive care unit will also make it possible to carry out the second phase of the project, namely the redevelopment and renovation of the day surgery unit, which will be installed in the vacated premises. Alcoves will be set up to accommodate 20 stretchers and rooms will be devoted to cataract surgery and minor surgeries. The total costs of these two phases of work amount to $ 11.8 million.
“The completion of the new intensive care unit shows that we are committed to providing the best possible services to the population and improving access to the network. Once again, our government is responding &quot;present&quot; to the people here who, as we know, have to deal with many challenges in the health sector. Health is for us, as for the residents of Lanaudière, a priority, and the realization of this work is tangible proof of this, ”concluded Minister Hivon.
