Saint-Paul / - On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the MNA for Joliette, Minister responsible for Social Services and Youth Protection and Minister responsible for the Lanaudière region, Véronique Hivon, announced today an agreement in principle of $ 620,100 for the construction of a municipal library. The mayor of Saint-Paul, Alain Bellemare, participated in this press conference.
“A place of research, knowledge, relaxation and encounters, the municipal library is a convivial and creative space par excellence. The citizens of Saint-Paul will now benefit from increased access to books and cultural activities with the construction of this new library. I salute the work of elected municipal officials for their desire to provide their municipality with a quality library that will meet the needs of the entire community, ”Minister Kotto said.
(c) Guillaume Denommée- MSSS
“In the life of a community, the library is a real crossroads conducive to discovery, renewal and personal and intellectual development. The new Saint-Paul library will fill a gap by offering the population an enriched collection and extended opening hours. In addition, as the surface area will be ten times larger than that of the place where it is currently located, it will be more functional and favorable to entertainment activities, to the delight of all audiences, ”declared the Minister Hivon.
&quot;The current space is definitely inadequate for a population which is constantly growing, and our desire to improve this situation is based on orientations focusing on improving the quality of life, the vitality of the environment and efficient municipal organization. It will thus become possible to improve our services by offering a new building that is accessible, welcoming and suitable for young and old, ”said the mayor of Saint-Paul, Alain Bellemare.
The area of the municipal library will be reduced from 40 m2 to 477 m2, which will increase the number of documents, seats and the quantity of books available. This expansion will also improve accessibility for people with reduced mobility. The improved opening hours will ensure a better quality of services and an increase in attendance. Consultation and reading areas will also be made available to users, as well as new equipment including workstations with an Internet connection. The library benefits from the support of the BIBLIO CQLM Network.
The total cost of the project is estimated at $ 1,469,579, which includes an amount allocated to the creation of a work of art under the Policy on the Integration of the Arts into Architecture and the Building Environment and government and public sites. The financial contribution of $ 620,100 from the Ministry of Culture and Communications comes from the Capital Assistance program and will allow the Municipality to carry out studies prior to the realization of the project. The remainder of the funding, namely $ 849,479, will be assumed by the Municipality of Saint-Paul.
