Quebec - The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, today launched the Week Against Bullying and Violence in Schools, which will be held from September 30 to October 4. This year, the theme of the Week will be Connected to the Positive, an invitation to young people to put “cyber-appreciation” into practice in their virtual exchanges.
The Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport recently set up a partnership with four organizations that have dedicated themselves for many years to the fight against bullying and violence, namely, Together for the respect of diversity, Jasmin Roy Foundation, the Pacific Institute and Tel-jeunes. It should be noted that the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League has already shown its support for the campaign. Some of its players will even participate in exchanges on social networks.
The theme, Connected to the Positive aims to promote responsible and positive use of social media among young people. To this end, many activities will be carried out in schools. Among them, let us mention the workshops on “cyber-appreciation”, a concept developed at the elementary school of Parc-Orléans of the Commission scolaire des Premieres-Seigneuries de Québec. Reference tools, an activity guide, the website www.branchepositif.gouv.qc.ca, video clips and brochures will also be made available to students. These new educational tools are offered free of charge to school boards.
“We are organizing a week, but you should know that awareness activities will continue during the 51 others. Students and teachers must continue to mobilize to make cyberspace a pleasant and safe place to learn and have fun, ”said the Minister.
Since the unanimous adoption of Bill 56, the school network has been mobilized. Currently, 99% of schools have an anti-bullying and anti-violence plan and have designated a contact person to ensure it is implemented. As prescribed by law, elementary and secondary schools in Quebec are invited to carry out various civic awareness activities.
