Montreal - The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Mrs. Agnès Maltais, officially kicks off the campaign A world of talents to perform during a lunch-conference organized by the Board of Trade of Metropolitan Montreal. This campaign, led by the Conseil emploi métropole (CEM), in collaboration with Emploi-Québec, aims to highlight the advantages for SMEs in the census metropolitan area (CMA) of Montreal by hiring women workers and skilled workers with an immigrant background.
A world of talent for performance meets a pressing need: by 2016, nearly 700,000 jobs will be available in Quebec, including 315,000 in the Montreal CMA. The situation is explained by the retirement of a significant number of workers.
This campaign is a continuation of the government&#39;s All for Employment strategy, initiated at the start of the year to give new impetus to the labor market in Quebec. &quot;One of the priorities of our strategy is to refocus action on groups that are under-represented in terms of employment, including the skilled immigrant workforce,&quot; said Minister Maltais. The A world of talents to perform campaign is in addition to the means implemented in consultation with labor market partners to achieve this. &quot;
“We had to act,” said Ms. Marjolaine Loiselle, president of the CEM. Quebec welcomes 50,000 immigrants a year, including a large number of skilled workers who settle in the metropolis. One of CEM&#39;s priorities has therefore been to equip SMEs in the metropolitan region so that they can access this skilled workforce under the best possible conditions. Skilled immigrant workers constitute an extraordinary pool of talent for our businesses and, thanks to this campaign, they will have easier access to resources to promote their hiring, integration and retention. &quot;
The A World of Talent to Perform campaign will rely on a strategy combining conferences, networking and activities on the Web - in particular the UnMondeDeTalents.com site - and in social media (Twitter, LinkedIn and YouTube) in order to make entrepreneurs in the metropolitan region aware of the advantages of hiring skilled immigrant workers. This message will be relayed in particular by the members of the CEM, including Mr. Michel Leblanc, President and CEO of the Chamber of Commerce of Metropolitan Montreal, by Ms. Lidia Divry, Director General of TechnoMontréal, by Ms. Véronique de Sève, Secretary General of the Central Council of Metropolitan Montreal of the CSN, by Mr. Pierre Desroches, President and CEO of Laval Technopole, by Mr. Gilles Côté, President and CEO of Développement économique Longueuil, as well as by several entrepreneurs who will talk about their own experience in terms of the successful integration of immigrant labor.
“Immigration is a reality above all in Montreal: more than 87% of immigrants to Quebec live in the metropolis. Their professional integration is therefore of capital importance for our economic development. Immigration is also an exceptional asset for our businesses. It is a great source of skilled labor and, by sharing different cultures that it creates, strengthens our creative spirit. The Chamber is proud to collaborate in this campaign, which will make it possible to make employers aware of the potential of newcomers, ”added Michel Leblanc, President and CEO of the Chamber of Commerce of Metropolitan Montreal.
The WebUnMondeDeTalents.com site is designed as a practical and personalized guide to support entrepreneurs who want to take advantage of the advantages of hiring skilled workers with an immigrant background. He accompanies SMEs step by step during the recruitment and integration process and provides clear and precise answers to questions concerning the hiring of this workforce.
The Metropolitan Employment Council (CEM) promotes consultation on major issues of the metropolitan labor market in Montreal between its main players. He plays an advisory role with the Commission des Partenaires du marché du travail and the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women.
