Quebec - On the occasion of Public School Week, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, wishes to express her unwavering support for public schools and for the competent and caring staff who work there, especially teachers.
“The public school is an open school, proud of the diversity of its students, it is that of everyone! It is a vector of learning, integration and social cohesion. It is our duty to promote it and strengthen the feeling of belonging of the students who attend it. I would therefore like to take advantage of Public School Week to thank all the actors who work every day on this important mission, ”she declared.
The Minister also wished to greet Mr. Guy Rocher, the recipient of the Hommage prize, awarded by the Autonomous Federation of Education on the occasion of the Week for public schools. Mr. Rocher has made an exceptional contribution to the development of public education in Quebec, among other things through his participation in the work of the Parent Commission, which is, let us remember, at the origin of the democratization of our education network. public, as well as the creation of CEGEPs and the University of Quebec.
An initiative of the Autonomous Federation of Education, the fourth edition of Public School Week has the theme “A school for everyone”. This theme emphasizes the francization and literacy mission of public schools. The Minister also wishes to underline the dedication of Ms. Claire Pimparé, who has been associated with the event since its inception.
In addition to the context of Public School Week, Minister Malavoy participated this morning in a meeting of the Montreal Success Network, which aims in particular to support school perseverance. She took the opportunity to underline the importance that she attaches to the dynamism of the various actors in the community in terms of mobilization around the school environment. In this regard, it goes without saying that public schools remain an essential tool.
It is now possible to follow the latest news concerning the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport on Twitter @ MELSQuebec.
