Quebec - The Minister for Native Affairs, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, was visiting the Algonquin community of Pikogan yesterday and today. She met the Chief of the Council of the Abitibiwinni First Nation, Mr. Bruno Kistabish and took part in the ceremony dedicated to the former residents of Saint-Marc-de-Figuery.
This first official visit by Ms. Larouche to Pikogan was an opportunity for the Minister and Chief Kistabish to discuss various topics, including issues related to negotiations between the Government of Quebec, Lac-Simon and Pikogan. “I am very happy to be here today to meet and visit the Algonquin community of Pikogan. I wish to maintain a sincere and respectful dialogue with the Council of the Abitibiwinni First Nation so that we can move forward together in a solid and lasting relationship, ”Minister Larouche said yesterday.
Ms. Larouche took part in the opening ceremony of the 2013 Commemoration of the Saint-Marc-de-Figuery boarding school. Remembrance activities take place August 8-11 and bring together more than seven Indigenous communities. For the occasion, Ms. Larouche was accompanied by the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Ouest, Mr. François Gendron.
“It was important for me, as well as my colleague Minister and Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Est, Élizabeth Larouche, to come and show our solidarity with the representatives of the communities concerned not only as members of the Government of Quebec, but also as elected representatives of the region, as a form of fraternity, ”declared Minister François Gendron.
Let us recall that in Canada, from 1870 and for more than a century, approximately 150,000 children of Aboriginal origin were taken from their families to be placed in residential schools. Ten of these boarding schools were located in Quebec, including that of Saint-Marc-de-Figuery, located near Amos. This establishment welcomed many indigenous children between 1955 and 1974. The Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which visited Abitibi-Témiscamingue last February, aimed to shed light on what had happened in these establishments, as well as to guide and engage victims in their healing process. The Commission gave rise to vibrant testimonies from survivors of the Saint-Marc-de-Figuery Indian residential school.
“We will not be able to rewrite collective and individual history, nor entirely erase the scars left by abuse. But by ensuring that your experiences are heard, by making known this sad part of our history, in a certain way, we will approach a feeling of justice rendered, and we will be able to build together the united and respectful Quebec of which we let&#39;s dream, for ourselves and for future generations, ”said the Minister.
Following the Commission, Ms. Larouche had moreover undertaken to go further in bringing peoples together. Work has begun by the Secrétariat aux affaires autochtones to this end in order to develop an action plan to counter racism and discrimination against Aboriginal people.
