Quebec - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, present the bill creating the Economic Development Bank of Quebec. Québec (BDEQ), tabled today in the National Assembly. This government corporation will bring together the services of Investissement Québec (IQ) and the front-line activities of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy. The new unified entity, which will have a permanent presence in all regions, will have the mission of supporting the economic development of Quebec and its regions through the creation, growth, retention and establishment of businesses throughout Quebec. .
&quot;Today, we are giving concrete form to our commitment by tabling this bill for the creation of an Economic Development Bank, a powerful lever for the development of the regions&quot;, declared Minister Élaine Zakaïb. “This development bank will indeed allow each region of Quebec to define its own development strategy, which will take into account its challenges and its assets. In addition, the local development centers (CLDs), which will be the privileged gateways to the Development Bank, will act as local branches to reflect the diversity of the territory. It will also make life easier for our entrepreneurs by taking on the administrative burden of finding funding to allow them to focus on what they do best: running their business. I would also like to point out that the Development Bank does not want to replace the current funding organizations. We simply want to improve the current offer, fill in the gaps and strengthen collaboration between the economic players already present in each territory. Above all, we want to adopt a new, more proactive approach that considers the entrepreneur as a client. &quot;
“We need to review our economic development tools in order to better support our economy,” said Minister Nicolas Marceau. “This Economic Development Bank is in line with our vision: a vision focused on sustainable development, support for entrepreneurship and development by and for the regions. The new company will optimize the role of the State as an economic lever by filling the current gaps in terms of financing, in particular for business start-ups, by supporting private investment and by promoting regional consultation. &quot;
In order to be able to offer its full range of services to its various clienteles and to offer services adapted to their reality, the BDEQ will have permanent interveners in all regions of Quebec, thus allowing the development of local expertise. Both so-called remote areas and large urban centers will thus benefit from a targeted approach that takes into account their challenges and their specific assets.
In order to offer improved services that are better suited to clienteles, the Development Bank will be made up of three subsidiaries: Développement économique Québec (DEQ), Ressources Québec (RQ) and Capital Émergence Québec (CEQ).
The regional directorates, the regionalized development fund and a new vice-presidency for social economy will report to DEQ; Capital Émergence Québec (CEQ) will specialize in business start-ups and restarting; Ressources Québec (RQ), which already exists within IQ, will continue its activities.
The regional offices will work closely with the CLDs, which will be the main entry point for entrepreneurs; they will establish with the CLDs an economic development strategy that will reflect the diverse reality of each region; They will, if necessary, send requests to the support services offered by the BDEQ and to those offered by its two subsidiaries. They will also promote access to measures and programs of other organizations or ministries concerned with the creation and growth of businesses, such as innovation, workforce training or compliance with environmental standards.
This regional approach will include a specific strategy for the large regions of Montreal and Quebec. For Montreal, the BDEQ will tie into existing industrial clusters, which operate from a metropolitan perspective. For the Capitale-Nationale region, the BDEQ will rely on the already well-established dialogue that has led to remarkable growth.
The Development Bank will also be the financial arm of the Industrial Policy, currently under development. It will be aimed at all clienteles: small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) as well as large enterprises, foreign investors as well as private enterprises, cooperatives and social economy enterprises. &quot;The social economy, its name says, first has a social return before having an economic return,&quot; explained Élaine Zakaïb. “But its roots in its community and its collective dimension give it an essential role and high chances of long-term success. It is up to the State to support this type of development which requires patient capital. &quot;
The BDEQ will support all types of projects, both those from the more traditional manufacturing sector - especially if they aim to increase competitiveness - and those from the new economy, while prioritizing innovative and promising projects that are part of the ACCORD niches of excellence or industrial clusters or which target renewable energies and green technologies. It will also intervene at all stages of a company&#39;s growth, from birth to maturity, including innovation and commercialization.
&quot;With the Economic Development Bank, to provide financing and support, and the Industrial Policy, to establish our orientations and our strategy in this crucial sector, we will have all the tools to enable our entrepreneurs to create wealth for the benefit of all. Quebecers, ”concluded Nicolas Marceau.
Watch the press conference.
To find out more about the Banque de développement économique du Québec: http: //go.pq.org/d4b
The BDEQ is a unifying and mobilizing project, and many groups have given their support to the project.
