Sainte-Clotilde-de-Beauce– The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank of Quebec and Member of Parliament for Richelieu, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, is proud to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the Municipality of Sainte-Clotilde-de-Beauce could benefit from a maximum financial assistance of $ 357,188 for the conversion of the church into a multifunctional center. This assistance would be granted under the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
“I am very happy with the financial support from the Government of Quebec announced today to the Municipality of Sainte-Clotilde-de-Beauce for the realization of its community and cultural development project. Ultimately, this project will make it possible to respond more adequately to the needs of the population and improve their quality of life, while ensuring the sustainability of infrastructures in addition to strengthening the community&#39;s sense of belonging to its environment, to its municipality. , to its region, ”declared Minister Élaine Zakaïb.
Concretely, the project aims to transform the church of Sainte-Clotilde-de-Beauce into a multifunctional center for the holding of community sports, recreational and cultural activities. Thus, the developed spaces will be made available to the population, institutions and organizations in the region for rental purposes. Among the main interventions planned, we can mention the redevelopment of the choir of the church, the construction of fixed partitions, the addition of a support beam, the installation of a new floor covering, the carrying out of plumbing and renovation work. electricity as well as the insulation of the side walls and the facade.
Under the current PIQM rules and standards, the maximum eligible cost established at this stage of the project could represent $ 535,782. Thus, the contribution of the Government of Quebec could amount to $ 357,188 and that of the Municipality of Sainte-Clotilde-de-Beauce to $ 178,594.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
