Quebec - The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, wishes to take stock of the consultations concerning the changes proposed by the government and announces that the latter will provide a gradual and significant improvement for the 85,000 poorest people in our society, that is to say the people who receive unconstrained financial assistance of last resort.
“The work in progress is based on our intention to allow a greater number of people to participate in the economic and social development of Quebec as well as on our conviction that the best way to fight poverty remains employment. The regulatory changes are part of a careful analysis of the evolution of the labor market which indicates that nearly 700,000 jobs will be available due to retirements. It is clear that decisions have to be made. In parallel to this work, I have been able to observe that over the past 15 years, significant progress has been made for families with children, while the situation has deteriorated for single people ”, he added. declared Minister Maltais.
Update on the consultations and orientations currently envisaged
There are 1,900 households affected by this measure in the first year, three quarters of which are made up of single people. For the month of June 2013, 343 people for all of Quebec are in question. When this measure was introduced in 1989, unemployment was higher than it is today and these people were excluded from the labor market. Since then, the employment rate of 55-59 year olds has gone from 50.2% in 1989 to 65.2% in 2012 and the labor market has seen constant improvement, particularly in recent years for those people who are now in demand and can remain employed.
It should be noted that it has been clearly demonstrated that participating in employment measures not only helps to increase disposable income, but also to increase the chances of finding a job by 50%.
&quot;We must do everything to put these people back in motion and this is what the Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity will apply,&quot; said the Minister.
As planned, this measure will come into effect on June 1. People who currently receive the allowance will not lose it and will benefit from an acquired right. For 53 and 54 year olds, systematic meetings will be held to offer them a personalized path to employment. As several of them are isolated and have not met an agent for a long time, some will be declared to have severe employment restrictions and will switch to the social solidarity scheme.
“The organization of these systematic personalized meetings is a first. This is the best way to identify the most vulnerable, to offer them measures adapted to their needs, and above all, to ensure that no one is escaping, ”said Ms. Maltais.
This measure, which concerns 9,471 beneficiary households with a temporary constraint due to the presence of a child under the age of five in December 2012, will be the subject of an adjustment. First, remember that the right to the allowance will be maintained if one of the adults has to provide constant care to another adult, if he has a health problem, or if he has a dependent child with a disability other than that of preschool. Then, the regulations will be amended to ensure that claimants can keep their special benefit of $ 129 as long as they have not started an employability process in the period from June 1 to September 30, 2013. Once registered for an employability measure, the allowance can then reach $ 195 per month. This part of the draft regulation will therefore also come into force on June 1, but a deadline for taking the steps for employment will be added to give the people concerned every opportunity to start their career.
To understand the real situation of these households, here is the example of a couple with a three-year-old child and having an allowance for temporary constraint: their disposable income is currently $ 22,880, it will be $ 21,332 without this allowance. but it could reach $ 23,672 if one of the adults participates in an active employment measure (an additional $ 195 per month). It should also be noted that providers who participate in such a measure may also be paid for childcare services and / or travel expenses. This other example shows that employment is the best way to fight poverty: the disposable income of the same couple, if one of the adults works 35 hours a week at minimum wage, will be $ 30,953.
The Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity works in close collaboration with the Ministry of Health and Social Services and resource groups offering drug addiction services with accommodation. This part of the draft regulation will also be amended to ensure that the changes made to the special benefit will better guarantee the quality of drug addiction services offered to providers, without reducing access or creating service disruptions. .
The working meetings made it possible to establish general guidelines to regulate the special allowance for living expenses for drug addiction services with accommodation. These beacons relate in particular to:
These guidelines will make it possible to guarantee access, quality and continuity of drug addiction services with accommodation for last-resort financial assistance providers, by ensuring sound management of public funds and by capitalizing on their potential. integration into employment. The parameters set by the government are therefore respected.
Today&#39;s announcement concerns the most disadvantaged people in society, i.e. single people receiving no restrictions, who have seen their disposable income deteriorate over the past 10 years (from 54% to 51% of the measure of consumption basket).
&quot;I have often said to the National Assembly, in the media and in the public arena, that $ 604 per month is clearly insufficient and I am happy that the government is following through on the desire to improve support for single people. expressed by my colleague, the Minister of Finance, Nicolas Marceau, when the budget was tabled on November 20, ”added the Minister.
This measure will therefore follow up on an important finding documented and analyzed in the 2012 Situation Report on poverty, inequalities and social exclusion in Quebec made public by the Center for Poverty and Exclusion (CEPE). , January 29, 2013. Its president, Alain Noël, wrote on this occasion: “can we, for example, achieve for single people progress as significant as that achieved over the past 15 years for families with children? &quot;. In addition, the Advisory Committee for the Fight against Poverty and Social Exclusion was the first to highlight the deterioration in the financial situation of single people receiving unconstrained benefits. The terms of this improvement will be made public at the time of the final announcement of the changes to be made to the draft regulation, in a few weeks.
“Like the regulatory changes that are the subject of consultations, this announcement is part of a desire to adapt last-resort financial assistance programs to today&#39;s challenges, and thus rethink solidarity to better help the most vulnerable in our society. I heard the fears of the Ombudsperson and rights groups and I made a commitment not to let anyone down. I carry within me this desire to provide the most needy with unwavering support. We will support them and I intend to make public a Service Commitment for employment in the near future and not escape anyone. Moreover, this commitment will provide for the publication on a quarterly basis of national data regarding the interventions carried out with these people so that everyone can see that with the employees of the Ministry and all the partners, we are working to roll back poverty, ”Minister Maltais concluded.
In closing, note that the Quebec Department of Justice confirms that the provisions of the draft regulation are not contrary to the Charter of human rights and freedoms. Comments and suggestions will be collected until April 15, 2013. They will be analyzed before the decision is made and the Minister will meet with the groups on regulatory changes before the final decision by the Government of Quebec.
