Québec, October 29, 2014 - The member for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, and the member for Terrebonne and family spokesperson, Mathieu Traversy, reiterated the request of the members of the Parti Québécois that the Minister of Families, Francine Charbonneau, reassures families in Quebec, be transparent and stop thinking about a way to tax them more.
The member for Terrebonne also participated today in a press briefing with representatives of the Movement for the Safeguarding of Quebec Family Policy. The campaign Still crazy about our children? brings together citizens and organizations concerned by maintaining the measures on which our family policy is based, in particular the development of childcare spaces, the Quebec Parental Insurance Plan and family-work-study balance.
“Minister Francine Charbonneau has delayed the development of the thousands of child care spaces expected by parents. In addition, the Permanent Program Review Commission clearly has Quebec&#39;s family policy in its sights; it is very worrying. Quebec families will pay for liberal austerity. The Minister must do her job for families, be clear and defend them in all regions, ”declared Stéphane Bédard.
“This morning&#39;s news confirms that the Association québécoise des CPE is right to be worried and that the government is questioning the principle of universality. The Minister must come out of her silence and reassure Quebec families; it is his duty ”, added Louis Senécal, general manager of the Association.
The member for Terrebonne recalled all the positive effects of a strong family policy, both socially and economically.
“Thanks to this ambitious family policy, Quebec has notably enabled parents to reconcile family life and work, or even to go back to school. Single mothers and fathers have improved their living conditions. More than 70,000 women have entered the labor market more quickly. Funding childcare services and support for families is not an expense, it is an investment, it is an economic development measure, ”concluded Mathieu Traversy.
