Sorel-Tracy– The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec and Member of Parliament for Richelieu, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, is proud to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the City of Sorel-Tracy will receive a financial contribution of $ 647,550 for the replacement of drinking water pipes. This assistance is granted within the framework of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
More specifically, the project aims to replace drinking water pipes under rue Chevalier as well as under certain segments of the Marie-Victorin road. In total, nearly 1.5 kilometers of water pipes will be renewed in Sorel-Tracy.
“I am very happy with the financial support granted today to the City of Sorel-Tracy for the implementation of this water infrastructure work. Our government recognizes the need to renew and develop drinking water, wastewater and stormwater infrastructure in communities across Quebec. This is why it is working in partnership with valuable partners such as municipalities, in order to provide access to quality public services for all, with a view to sustainable development, ”said Minister Élaine. Zakaïb.
Completion of this project requires government financial assistance of $ 647,550, under component 1.5 of the PIQM. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this component of the PIQM program not only ensures the sustainability of infrastructure, but also improves the quality of life of the population and creates many jobs in all areas. regions of Quebec.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make informed choices.
