Quebec - The member for Richelieu and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois pour les Seniors, Sylvain Rochon, deplored that the Minister responsible for Seniors, Francine Charbonneau, did not provide any concrete answers to her questions during the study of the budget appropriations .
“We need a Minister of Seniors who stands up to defend them, who brings their voice and concerns to Cabinet when issues that concern them are discussed. We asked her about incidental charges, which groups representing over half a million seniors have spoken against, and asked if she shared seniors&#39; concerns with her colleagues. In response, she reiterated her support for the legalization and expansion of ancillary costs, ”said Sylvain Rochon.
“When I mentioned the different groups that represent seniors, the minister accused me of putting on a show. It was very sad for them to find that she is so insensitive to their concerns, especially with regard to the shortcomings in access to home care, denounced just a few days ago by several of them. them. The Minister was also not able to confirm that the planned sums were indeed going to be added to the financial exemption program for domestic help services, the PEFSAD ”, he continued.
In addition, when the question of the support offered by the Secretariat for Seniors to projects to break isolation and support destitute seniors was discussed, the Minister confirmed that she was interested in starting the projects, but not in their sustainability. . The result: groups invest effort, time and resources to set up projects, the minister announces them with great fanfare, then, too often, they disappear after one, two or three years, for lack of support. “The Provincial Pair Committee and the Amos Seniors Support Group are two examples of this sad reality. What is the point of mobilizing all these resources and then abandoning the projects? Where is the logic? “Asked the deputy.
Sylvain Rochon also insisted on the reduction of services affecting the CHSLD network, due to liberal austerity measures. “In Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, for example, 11 nursing positions and 9 patient attendants were abolished in 2015-2016, according to what we obtained thanks to the Act respecting access to information. No matter how hard the dedicated staff try, they remain overworked; at the end of the day, it is the residents who pay for the lack of resources. We also know that 32% of the CHSLDs inspected are in poor condition. However, the Minister was not able to provide us with a reinvestment plan or even a timetable for the necessary work, ”he added.
Broken promises
The member concluded by recalling the broken promises of the Liberal government, particularly with regard to family caregivers. In fact, during the election campaign, the Liberals promised them investments and the establishment of respite days. “These commitments are ultimately like the 250,000 jobs: the promise has become a target, then a goal and, finally, a myth. &quot;
