Notre-Dame-des-Pins - The Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions and Member of Parliament for Taschereau, Ms. Agnès Maltais, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and of the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Doctor Réjean Hébert, is proud to announce the payment of a sum of $ 100,000 to the Municipality of Notre-Dame-des-Pins, in the Chaudière-Appalaches region. This financial assistance, which comes from the Quebec-Municipalities-Municipality friendly to seniors infrastructure program (PIQM-MADA), will be used to renovate and bring the municipal recreation building up to standard.
Thanks to the PIQM-MADA, the municipalities involved in the MADA process have access to funds intended to support them in carrying out small infrastructure projects for seniors and their families.
“Today&#39;s announcement supports the commitment made by the Municipality of Notre-Dame-des-Pins to seniors. Thus, the aid granted will make it possible to carry out certain renovations and upgrading of the municipal recreation building. The completion of this project will facilitate access for seniors and those with restricted mobility to this common place and will allow them to indulge in activities that take place there in complete safety. This project is part of a concerted approach with seniors in order to improve their quality of life and promote active aging, ”said Minister Maltais.
&quot;I am proud of our government&#39;s commitment to seniors as part of the MADA process, this great initiative put forward a few years ago and in which the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the territory. Improving the living conditions of our seniors means contributing to their development as a person in the community. It means assuming together a responsibility that concerns us all in order to make Quebec a good place to age, ”Minister Gaudreault said.
“This project, like many others that are emerging in all regions of Quebec, confirms the priority that our government gives to the quality of life of seniors. I would like to salute the initiative of the Municipality of Notre-Dame-des-Pins and the efforts made by those responsible for the renovation and upgrading of their leisure building. This project will meet the needs of seniors and people with restricted mobility in this community in addition to contributing to their safety and quality of life while allowing them to remain active as long as possible, ”added Minister Hébert.
Briefly, the project consists of carrying out renovation and upgrading work to the Notre-Dame-des-Pins recreation building. It includes, among other things, the repair of the foundation and the roof, the insulation and coating of the exterior walls, the replacement of doors and windows as well as various additional work. Ultimately, these interventions will promote the well-being and quality of life of seniors and people with restricted mobility while allowing everyone to benefit from these renovated common places.
Under component 2.5 of the PIQM, the contribution of the Government of Quebec amounts to $ 100,000. Note that other partners are also participating in the realization of this project.
Remember that the PIQM-MADA has an annual budget of $ 3M from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, reserved for the financing of infrastructure adapted to the needs of seniors. Since 2010, more than 130 projects have benefited from this envelope accessible to municipalities engaged in the MADA process. These investments are part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. The PIQM-MADA program is also an action included in the policy of Aging and living together, at home, in one&#39;s community, in Quebec.
Today, with the support of 704 municipalities or MRCs, the MADA process was implemented in Quebec by the Secrétariat aux frères in 2008 and continues under the responsibility of the minister responsible for seniors and the minister of health and social services. This approach is inspired by an approach developed by the World Health Organization (WHO), and the model it proposes was designed to allow citizens to age while remaining active in their communities. The collaboration of the entire community is one of the winning conditions of the process, but it could not be fully successful without the participation of the seniors themselves and that of the local organizations that represent them. Quebec is considered by the WHO as the most advanced society in the world in the application of this approach based on the adaptation of municipal policies and services to the aging of the population.
