Lac-Mégantic– The Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection and Minister responsible for the Dying with Dignity file, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today inaugurated the Maison de fin de vie du Granit in Lac-Mégantic. As of September 22, the house, which will bear the name of “Maison La Cinquième Saison”, will open its doors and will provide the population of the territories with health and social services centers (CSSS) in Granit and Haut-. Saint-François six beds that can accommodate people at the end of their life.
“For our government, access to end-of-life care is a priority. It is very important to offer people who are at the final stage of their life the opportunity to live their last moments in accordance with their wishes and in the most serene and dignified way possible, by alleviating their suffering. . In this sense, Maison La Cinquième Saison represents a major step forward for the community. It will offer the people concerned and their loved ones a place that is perfectly suited to their reality and their needs, ”said Minister Hivon.
Built in the Notre-Dame-de-Fatima district of Lac-Mégantic, this house is the result of a great mobilization and the work of several volunteers from various sectors, in particular the municipal, financial and community sectors. The project was supported by the two CSSSs in the region and will receive a total recurring amount of $ 360,000 from the Ministère de la Santé et des Services sociaux and the Agence de la santé et des services sociaux de l&#39;Estrie, of $ 60,000 per bed.
“This is excellent news for the residents of this sector of the Estrie region. The accomplishment of this project is a superb example of local solidarity and collaboration between the various community bodies. This is why I am particularly proud that our government supported its achievement, ”rejoiced Réjean Hébert, Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Seniors and Minister responsible for the Estrie region.
It should be remembered that the government announced last May an additional investment of $ 15 million recurrent in palliative care, including $ 7 million for improving the range of palliative care services at home, $ 4 million for community support projects. palliative care at home and $ 4 million for the creation of new dedicated beds and the establishment of palliative care homes, such as the one inaugurated today.
