* Quebec ** - The Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, is pleased to participate in the announcement of the collaboration project between Bombardier Recreational Products inc. (BRP) and the company TM4, a subsidiary of Hydro-Québec. TM4 will build a new electric propulsion system for the light recreational vehicle market. This will be integrated by BRPd in vehicles currently under development. The government of Quebec, as part of its Technoclimat program, will contribute $ 1.3 million.
“We are proud to support two Quebec companies and, at the same time, economic development and job creation in Quebec. This collaboration illustrates our desire to position ourselves as a leader in the field of transport electrification while contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions ”, indicated the Minister.
In particular, the TM4 electric propulsion system will meet BRP&#39;s performance and marketing requirements and will stand out with its reduced size and weight. Other applications could be targeted by TM4, namely motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles, mining vehicles and other small utility road vehicles.
“Developing electric motors for recreational vehicles is complex and requires extensive expertise in electric motorization,” said Denis Morin, Vice-President, Product Engineering, BRP and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Center for Advanced Technologies ( CTA), a partnership between the University of Sherbrooke and BRP. &quot;We have chosen to work with TM4 for their know-how in the motorization of electric vehicles, their proximity, their availability and the exchange of engineering skills&quot;.
&quot;The new electric motorization system developed by TM4 in partnership with BRP will stand out with maximum torque and power for a minimum space requirement,&quot; declared Mr. Renaud Cloutier, Vice-President Business Development of TM4. &quot;It will perfectly meet the electrification needs of small light vehicles&quot;.
“I congratulate TM4 and BRP for their partnership. It is by stimulating the development of innovative products that we will remain competitive and efficient, ”concluded Minister Ouellet.
Government assistance of $ 1.3 million is offered under the Green Technology Demonstration Program aimed at reducing GHG emissions - Technoclimat. This program stems from the Climate Change Action Plan. Its objective is to finance innovative demonstration projects which must aim to reduce GHG emissions in Quebec, have good marketing potential and be carried out in Quebec.
