Lévis - The Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Minister responsible for the Chaudière-Appalaches and Capitale-Nationale regions and Member of Parliament for Taschereau, Mrs. Agnès Maltais, takes advantage of the inauguration of the new commercial premises of GRT Habitation Lévy to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, government assistance of $ 192,150 granted to the organization for the acquisition of its new premises. This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship Infrastructure Program (PIEC).
“I am very happy with our government&#39;s support for the GRT Habitation Lévy project for the acquisition of premises adapted to its growth needs. This new space allows the organization to pursue the development of community projects by promoting the revitalization of environments through the renovation of existing buildings and thus to better play its role of promoter of social and community housing units. These new premises will enable GRT Habitation Lévy to respond more adequately to the demand for collective housing from the populations of Lévis, Lotbinière and Bellechasse, ”declared Minister Agnès Maltais.
Concretely, the GRT Habitation Lévy project aimed to acquire a commercial space of 2,490 square feet in co-ownership formula on the ground floor of a new building, Espace Saint-Louis, located in Old Lévis. where the organization has always had its offices. In addition, the relocation of the company&#39;s activities had become necessary, since the old premises could no longer support the growth of the company. The Lévis Municipal Housing Office has entrusted GRT Habitation Lévy with the development of its projects, thus becoming the sole developer for all future social and community housing units on the territory of the City of Lévis.
Completion of this project required a total investment estimated at $ 865,500. The Government of Quebec is contributing an amount of $ 192,150 under CEIP. This contribution was increased by an amount of $ 31,948 to take into account the interest that the organization will have to pay during the period of payment of the assistance.
It should be noted that other partners have also contributed to this project, in particular the Société de développement économique de Lévis (SDE).
Created in 1978, GRT Habitation Lévy, which assumes a social, community and cooperative vocation, its mission, among other things, to provide assistance and expertise to groups of people who wish to set up a cooperative or an organization of non-profit housing. It supports the promoter group in all phases of the projects and thus enables low-income households to take charge of their housing conditions by offering affordable housing.
With an investment envelope of $ 10 million, the CEIP aims to support social economy enterprises in the implementation of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition projects for commercial infrastructures. or industrial. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, to contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories and to promote the preservation and enhancement of the quality of the environment.
