Québec - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, is pleased to mark the 58th Cooperation Week, which runs until October 20 under the theme &quot;Cooperatives help to building a better world ”.
Cooperation Week will have made it possible to present the many advantages of cooperation, while members will have been able to share their experiences in connection with their membership in the vast cooperative and mutualist movement in Quebec. They will therefore have taken the opportunity to raise public awareness of this prosperous and sustainable business model.
“Cooperatives are an important entrepreneurial engine for Quebec, even though their survival rate is twice that of Quebec businesses after ten years. Entrepreneurial succession is one of our government&#39;s priorities; it is an essential component in the creation of wealth and jobs. I therefore take this opportunity to congratulate all the artisans of the cooperative movement who contribute daily to the dynamism of our economy, ”said Minister Delegate Élaine Zakaïb.
Cooperation Week is organized by the Quebec Council for Cooperation and Mutuality (CQCM). This organization&#39;s mission is to participate in the social and economic development of Quebec by promoting the full development of the cooperative and mutualist movement in Quebec. In addition, the CQCM acts in accordance with the principles and values of the International Cooperative Alliance.
“Quebec is a leader in cooperative development. Our cooperatives are daring and innovative; they represent an important economic force. The Government of Quebec is a long-standing partner of the cooperative movement. We share common concerns about economic and social development. In this regard, by setting up the Economic Development Bank, we are committed to doing more by supporting, among other things, the social economy, ”Ms. Zakaïb concluded.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the following RSS feed: www.mdeie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
