Dakar, Senegal - The Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée, gives a very positive assessment of his stay in Senegal. This first part of the African mission, on the occasion of which he is accompanied by more than a hundred business people and institutional circles, civil society and international cooperation, notably gave rise to the signing 16 commercial and institutional agreements (see list in appendix).
“The Senegalese portion of our mission will have very positive results, I would even say that they are beyond our expectations. The welcome we have received suggests a future and numerous economic exchanges between Quebec and Senegal. The signing of these 16 agreements - and we can think that others will be signed in the coming months - shows that the business possibilities are excellent at the moment on the African continent ”, supported the Minister.
Minister Lisée also took advantage of his visit to Dakar to officially open the first Expansion Québec office in Africa, whose mandate will be to support Quebec companies wishing to set up in Senegal and West Africa. . “The opening of this office is a strong signal to companies wishing to enter into business partnerships in Africa. From now on, they will be able to benefit from personalized commercial support and fully equipped workspaces allowing them to explore business opportunities here. Above all, the opening of this office is proof that we are here to stay, ”said Lisée. The office will be headed by Mr. Amadou Diallo, who was notably Ambassador of Senegal in Ottawa and who lived for 25 years in Quebec where he worked in particular within the, then called, Ministry of Economic Development, Innovation and of Export (MDEIE). The choice of Mr. Diallo elicited many positive comments from Senegalese leaders.
The Minister took advantage of his meeting with President Macky Sall to discuss the major issues of La Francophonie and the next Summit to be held in Dakar, in 2014. While half of the speakers of the French language are of African origin, gentlemen Lisée and Sall stressed the importance of making this cultural space a place of exchange and economic prosperity. “With President Sall, we discussed specific issues of collaboration between companies on both sides. We both wanted discussions to continue with the aim of establishing a direct air link between Montreal and Dakar, ”added Mr. Lisée.
Minister Lisée also met with the Minister of Trade, Entrepreneurship and the Informal Sector, Mr. Alioune Sarr, the Minister of Public Service, Labor, Social Dialogue and Professional Organizations, Mr. Mansour Sy , the delegate general of the president for the organization of the 15th Francophonie Summit, Mr. Jacques Habib Sy, the Minister of Industry and Mines, Mr. Aly Ngouye Ndiaye as well as the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Senegalese of the &#39;Outside, Mr. Mankeur Ndiaye.
Participants in the multisectoral mission will travel to Ivory Coast and Ouagadougou in the coming days where they are also eagerly awaited.
Expansion Quebec (establishment) Opening of an office in Dakar to help Quebec companies and facilitate the development of their business in Senegal and West Africa.
Géothentic Inc. (partnership) Conclusion of an agreement with its partner - distributor / installer - SETI Senegal in order to make it the exclusive service provider of Géothentic in Senegal.
Novatech Group (partnership) Signature of a letter of comfort with its Senegalese partner, the firm Seck Immobilier. This letter provides for a delivery target of 500 modular houses as well as the creation and training of a first Senegalese assembly team for possible other projects.
International CEGEP (partnership) Obtaining a mandate financed by the World Bank for technical and pedagogical support for the creation of the Institute of Vocational and Technical Education (ISEP) of Thiès, the first professional and technical higher education institute in Senegal. Senegal wishes to set up a network of ISEPs, present in all regions, under the model of technical education in Quebec CEGEPs.
Paul Gérin-Lajoie Foundation (partnership) Institutionalization and funding of the Dictée PGL by the Senegalese Ministry of National Education.
The company GCAR (an establishment and a partnership) - Opening of an office &quot;division of car rentals&quot; in Dakar to offer its customers of companies, foreign organizations and individuals the rental and supply of vehicles .- Obtaining an approval from the World Bank in Dakar as a transport supplier for its staff.
ATI AUTOMATION Inc. (establishment) Opening of an office in Dakar integrated into its plan to expand operations in Senegal and West Africa.
CRC Sogema (one establishment and one contract) Two announcements concerning its relations with the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) with the government of Senegal - Implementation of a tax management system aimed at the establishment of &#39;&#39; a new module for VAT as part of the Support Plan for Revenue Mobilization in Senegal - Obtaining a $ 500k contract from the World Bank for assistance in setting up the integrated management of financial information which must comply with the standards of the West African Economic and Monetary Union (UEMOA).
Géodem (partnership) Ratification of an agreement in principle with the mining company Afrigold on the establishment of a strategic partnership aimed, on the one hand, at the business development of the Senegalese company and, on the other , a transfer of technology and expertise that the Quebec company will provide.
Synergis Group (partnerships) Signature of a strategic partnership agreement with the company Equanym, aimed at identifying and developing business opportunities in Africa as well as carrying out joint mandates.
CIMA + International (contract) Signature of a contract to provide additional supervision services for the modernization of urban infrastructure in the City of Touba in Senegal.
Presse café (2 locations) The upcoming opening of two new franchises in Dakar, Senegal, which will follow the opening of the first branch in this city in 2012.
The National School of Public Administration of Quebec (partnership) Collaboration in the holding of a training colloquium on social dialogue in contemporary societies. The event could be held in conjunction with the 15th Francophonie Summit which will take place in Dakar in October 2014.
