Baie-Comeau– The Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today announced the establishment of a day center at the La Vallée des Roseaux palliative care home, a project that will better serve the population of the Manicouagan and Haute-Côte-Nord RCMs. The Minister was accompanied for the occasion by the head of the Côte-Nord region and deputy for René-Lévesque, Mr. Marjolain Dufour.
“The day center will offer a variety of services to people at the end of their life and their loved ones to provide them with support adapted to their situation, which will meet their specific needs. This project will undoubtedly improve the quality of life of many people and, at the same time, offer respite to family caregivers. This is another concrete example of our government&#39;s desire to improve access and the quality of end-of-life care offered throughout Quebec so that everyone can experience this final step in serenity and dignity ”, Ms. Hivon said.
The creation of this day center will allow people at the end of their life and their families to benefit from the support of qualified interveners, to reduce the use of hospital services, to break the isolation, and, ultimately, to stay longer. home. This initiative will serve as a pilot project to assess the impacts of the creation of a palliative care day center in a remote region context. The day center will also have accommodation beds that can accommodate people who need to receive oncology treatment far from their home.
“This is excellent news for people at the end of life and their loved ones, who will benefit from new palliative care services complementary to those already available. It is essential that the palliative care offer be adapted to the reality of each of the regions and communities of Quebec, and I am enthusiastically observing that this project fits perfectly into the reality of the North Shore, ”added Mr. Dufour.
The project will be funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services to the tune of $ 216,500, an amount which includes an annual recurring amount of $ 150,000 and another of $ 66,500, non-recurring, for the start of the project. . Remember that this center is the result of a call for projects resulting from an investment of $ 15 million, announced last May by the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, for the funding of community support projects in the area of palliative care. .
