Salaberry-de-Valleyfield– The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports and Minister responsible for the Montérégie region, Mrs. Marie Malavoy, and the Member of Parliament for Beauharnois, Mr. Guy Leclair, announce on behalf of the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, the granting of a non-recurring budget allocation of $ 1,530,000 to the Suroît Health and Social Services Center (CSSS), for the creation of a brief hospitalization unit (UHB) and the redevelopment of the brief intervention unit (UIB) in mental health at the Suroît Hospital.
“The development of these two units is a priority stage of the transitional project of the Suroît Health and Social Services Center with a view to upgrading the Suroît Hospital scheduled for 2020. Our government quickly took action. mobilized with a view to accelerating its implementation, which will have the effect of reducing the pressure on the emergency room of the hospital, ”said Dr. Hébert.
The project consists of a redevelopment of the ground floor of the Hospital to accommodate the short mental health intervention unit as well as a bed arrangement for the short hospitalization unit, which will be located near the emergency room. This is a project fully funded by the Ministry, and the amount of $ 1,530,000 granted to the CSSS du Suroît to carry it out, which is part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan 2013-2023, includes the work construction costs, contingencies, professional fees, the purchase of furniture and equipment as well as contingent administrative costs.
Let us recall that this project constitutes phase 6 of a transitional project in ten phases aimed at meeting the needs of the establishment during its upgrading planned for 2020. Taking into account a review of priority needs and in order to reduce the pressure on the emergency, the stage of fitting out the UIB and the UHB has been moved forward and will be carried out before phase 3, ie the expansion of the laboratories.
“The additional space provided by these new premises will better serve the population of Salaberry-de-Valleyfield and the surrounding area. This concrete assistance given to the Hôpital du Suroît shows that our government is closely monitoring the needs of our region, in particular by offering the best possible health care infrastructure, ”added Ms. Marie Malavoy.
“I congratulate all the architects of this project, especially for their great ability to adapt to the circumstances and priorities that arise along the way. I am also delighted to note that our government has acted diligently and shown itself to be proactive in quickly providing support to the establishment, ”said Mr. Guy Leclair.
