Montreal - On the occasion of an event organized by the community, the Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Ms. Véronique Hivon, asked the federal government to renew the Homelessness Partnership Strategy (HPS) by respecting the Quebec orientations in the fight against homelessness.
In its last budget, the federal government expressed its intention to unilaterally modify the HPS rules in order to support the sole “Housing First” approach, which would have the serious consequence of depriving many major Quebec projects of funding. fight against homelessness that meet various needs and realities. On April 30, Minister Hivon presented a motion that was unanimously adopted by the members of the National Assembly to denounce this intention.
“We are asking the federal government to change this direction. From a program that allowed communities to define their own priorities to fight homelessness, we will end up with a program that requires us to have a single approach. If the new federal direction remains unchanged, we will not be able to continue to act according to our priorities. It should be remembered that the prevention and fight against homelessness go through diversified approaches: there is no single recipe, ”declared Minister Véronique Hivon.
While the government of Quebec has made the development of a national policy on homelessness a priority, which had been demanded for several years under the previous government, and that the entire community in the fight against homelessness is strongly mobilized around the positive spinoffs that will ensue, the new federal orientations would jeopardize this momentum.
“Concretely, if federal guidelines were to be retained, this means that community organizations that offer a service that does not fall within the rigid framework of the“ Housing First ”approach alone would see their funding from the HPS withdrawn. A whole organization of services would be shaken up, jobs that would be compromised and especially vulnerable people with great needs who would no longer have access to resources which are crucial for them, ”concluded Ms. Hivon.
