Quebec - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, said she was proud to participate in the presentation organized by Nova Bus, which reported on the progress of its bus project fully electric motor.
“The Government of Quebec recognizes the importance of the manufacturing industry in our economy. We are therefore going to create a strategy to stimulate this sector of activity which employs on average one in eight Quebecers. We believe that one of the ways to achieve this recovery is to focus on clean energies. This is why I am particularly happy to attend the presentation today of the first Quebec electric bus prototype, ”announced Minister Delegate Élaine Zakaïb.
The creation of this bus fits perfectly into the public transport electrification project that the government wishes to put in place. Also, this bus is only the first step of an even more ambitious project. Nova Bus and its partners, TM4, Bathium, Précicad, René Matériaux Composites and Giro, grouped together in the Electric Bus Consortium, will design and market a second urban electric bus, made of aluminum, which will make it possible to efficiently exploit Quebec&#39;s natural resources.
The Electric Bus Consortium will also design an aluminum electric microbus targeting the residential, peri-urban and tourist transport markets. This project will be led by the companies Structures CPI, Infodev and Styl &amp; Tech.
These two projects will mobilize more than 35 SMEs and several research centers in Quebec. More than 250 jobs will thus be created or maintained.
“The project announced today targets the economic development of Quebec through sustainable development and through the mobilization of our businesses. This will allow us to use our natural resources as well as the creativity and talent of Quebecers to their full potential. We are confident in this innovation, which will offer our transport companies a Quebec solution that generates 0% greenhouse gas emissions. I congratulate Nova Bus and its partners and wish great success to Quebec&#39;s first electrically powered bus, ”added Ms. Zakaïb.
