Quebec - The Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale region and the Chaudière-Appalaches region, Ms. Agnès Maltais, is proud to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that a subsidy of $ 65,860 is granted to the MRC de Lotbinière for the maintenance of its public transport service.
This subsidy is paid within the framework of the government assistance program for regional public transport intended for the development of public transport.
“Our government encourages and supports the development of public transit, which makes it possible to optimize the use of the road network while increasing the fluidity of travel, reducing the level of congestion and reducing pollution attributable to the consumption of hydrocarbons. . Today&#39;s announcement will allow the Lotbinière region to make its public transit service more attractive and significantly increase its use, ”said Minister Maltais.
For residents of the MRC de Lotbinière, this assistance means the continuity of a booming public transport service which represents an ecological alternative for users who travel to Quebec, in particular.
&quot;By participating in the financing of public transit, we are investing in sustainable development and in the mobility of people, both social, environmental and economic issues that are at the heart of our government&#39;s mission,&quot; added Ms. Maltais.
Public transit is one of the cornerstones of the next Québec Sustainable Mobility Policy. Currently being developed, this policy will take over from the Québec Public Transport Policy. The new policy, which will be implemented from 2014, will place the user at the heart of his concerns and guide the actions that will be undertaken by 2020 with a view to improving the public transport service offer throughout. of Quebec territory. The preparatory documents as well as some of the briefs filed during the consultation can be viewed on the website of the Ministère des Transports at www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca.
The parameters of this program can be viewed on the website of the Ministère des Transports at www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca.
