&quot;These data shed light on part of the question, but leave in the shade those of the language of work which appear to us to be essential&quot;
Quebec - In light of the data made public by Statistics Canada this morning, Ms. Diane De Courcy, Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, commented on the portrait that these figures suggest for the Quebec.
The minister said at the outset that: “we can all clearly see that once again the weight of French is decreasing, and more and more dramatically since the last two censuses. This decline is evident, both in Canada as a whole and in Quebec, and more particularly in Montreal and Laval ”.
Ms. De Courcy mentioned that this decline in French was already observed by many in the streets, in shops or when looking for work. These impressions are now confirmed by Statistics Canada figures.
The minister maintained that these data are worrying for all those who want people to be able to live in French in Quebec.
“This desire, I subscribe to it with conviction, as the guarantor of this Act, like a majority of Quebeckers of all origins. But I can&#39;t do it alone. This will - still current - must achieve consensus today more than ever. Especially when we know that since the last two censuses, we have welcomed nearly half a million immigrants to Quebec, not to mention the many foreign students and temporary workers who come to us every year, ”continued Ms. De Courcy.
With regard to those we welcome, the Minister affirms that we have a collective responsibility to do more and to do differently, to implement modern means to ensure the progress of French. These means must be identified with all Quebeckers and all Members of the National Assembly. These means can be incentive, administrative and legislative. For Minister De Courcy, “one thing is certain, wishful thinking will no longer suffice”.
Ms. De Courcy concluded: “There are at least two things that this morning&#39;s figures do not tell us: first, what is the degree of attraction of French, and then what is the working language in our companies. These are the most relevant questions when we know to what extent the language of work is decisive for the integration of immigrants. What is it really? Statistics Canada did not answer this question this morning. Quebec will have to ensure that it has access to this important data soon ”.
