Quebec - The MP for Rimouski and Official Opposition Critic for Seniors, Harold LeBel, reacted to the many headlines that have recently appeared in the media about the living conditions of our seniors.
&quot;We want to call on the Minister responsible for Seniors, Francine Charbonneau: what has she been doing since April? Today, we learn that due to a lack of supervision in the shelters, around twenty elderly people have died after choking on food. It is inconceivable that there are not sufficient resources to take care of our elders and supervise the daily activities for which supervision is necessary. However, when they were in the opposition, the Liberals themselves demanded a mandate of initiative in a parliamentary committee on the living conditions of adults residing in residential and long-term care centers ”, declared Harold LeBel.
“Minister Francine Charbonneau must react and tell us how she intends to improve the living conditions of our seniors. Unfortunately, the government does not appear to have a plan to deal with the aging population. He has abandoned the autonomy insurance project, but has no other proposal to make, ”continued the member for Rimouski.
Liberal cuts that hurt “We have also learned that the specific regional adaptation agreements for the living conditions of seniors, previously managed jointly by the CRÉs, health agencies, senior consultation tables and the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Land Occupancy, will henceforth be administered by the Ministry in Quebec. Once again, we centralize. How will the ministry do to determine the priorities from one region to another, without consultation and collaborative work in the field? Harold LeBel added.
Finally, the member said he shared the concerns of the FADOQ Network about Bill 28 and some of its measures. “By considering altering the remuneration of pharmacists, the finance minister&#39;s omnibus bill compromises the pill dispenser preparation service. However, knowing that seniors want to stay at home as long as possible, this service is, for obvious reasons, of capital importance, ”he concluded.
