Quebec - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced the allocation, by Investissement Québec, of a loan of $ 975,000 to the firm of architects St-Gelais Montminy + Associés Architectes (STGM) for the relocation of its offices in the very heart of the Pointe-D&#39;Estimauville eco-district, in Quebec City, to a new building aiming for LEED Platinum certification. This project, valued at $ 2,775,000, includes the acquisition of the land and the construction of a 10,000 square foot building.
“Our government believes in sustainable development and is therefore proud to support growing businesses that choose green and sustainable solutions,” said Minister Zakaïb. “This initiative will have positive repercussions on the local economy and will contribute to the expansion of this eco-district which already has several green office buildings. &quot;
Work will begin between now and the holidays and the inauguration of the offices will take place in the fall of 2014. STGM, which specializes in particular in green architecture, has experienced good growth in recent years and was starting to feel cramped in its premises. This move represents a great opportunity to build a green building, especially since one of the architects of this firm received, in 2007, LEED certification from the Canada Green Building Council. The new building will house all of the firm&#39;s services, whether in architecture, project management, building engineering or consulting on codes and standards and 3D simulation.
“Our business was in dire need of additional space. With the construction of this new building with an architectural design that is at the same time simple, efficient, efficient and eco-responsible, we will not only become owners, but we will have 10,000 square feet of space that will allow us to implement our project much more easily. integration of services related to building design, ”explained Mrs. Dominique St-Gelais, senior partner of the firm.
&quot;We are also very pleased with the financing we obtained from Investissement Québec, since we will be able to conserve our cash for other projects, such as the opening of new offices in the regions or the addition of services to our integrated offer&quot; , she continued.
St-Gelais Montminy + Associés Architectes was founded in 2001 and has offices in Quebec, Montreal and Lévis. The firm has about fifty employees, including professionals in architecture, interior design and project management. She notably worked on the prestigious project of the Palais Montcalm in Quebec, on those of the campus of the National Police School of Quebec, in Nicolet, and of the Hotel La Ferme, in Baie-Saint-Paul, as well as on d others of importance in several regions of Quebec. STGM also has particular expertise in the construction of non-residential wood buildings and in the design of eco-responsible buildings, such as the Métrobus Service Center of the Réseau de transport de la Capitale and the Salon de jeux de Québec, which both obtained LEED Silver certification.
Investissement Québec&#39;s mission is to promote the growth of investment in Québec, thereby contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. As a Crown corporation, it provides businesses with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity investment, to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, she is responsible for administering tax measures and prospecting for investments abroad.
