Quebec - On the occasion of a visit from the CPE Auetissatsh, the Minister of Families, Ms. Nicole Léger, and the Minister for Indigenous Affairs, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, today unveiled the projects that were selected as a result. recommendations from the analysis committee for the allocation of places in Aboriginal communities. This committee is made up of representatives of the Ministère de la Famille and the Secrétariat aux affaires autochtones, as well as a representative of the native communities. These projects will create 303 reduced-contribution spaces to meet the needs of Aboriginal communities.
The projects selected will allow the creation of subsidized places mainly for children living within an indigenous community, but also outside its territory, insofar as they are supported by this community and are considered as a priority response to its needs. The implementation of these projects will begin in 2013 and continue gradually until 2016.
“Our government wishes to meet the needs of all families in Quebec in terms of childcare services. It is important to meet these needs in Aboriginal communities by increasing the number of spaces to $ 7. Today, I am therefore happy to announce the imminent creation of these 303 new spaces resulting from the consultation of our various partners in the Aboriginal communities, ”declared Minister Nicole Léger.
“Early childhood centers and daycares are living environments for our young children and they play a vital role in their development, in addition to offering invaluable support to parents. They are also important places for the transmission of Aboriginal culture, ”said Minister Élizabeth Larouche.
In addition, in order to always better support Aboriginal families, Minister Nicole Léger today kicked off a new call for projects for the allocation of 300 additional reduced-contribution places. Remember that during the call for projects launched in February 2013 for the creation of 15,000 additional subsidized places across Quebec, 300 places were reserved for Aboriginal communities.
The Ministère de la Famille will send a letter explaining the details of the process to Aboriginal organizations, band councils and childcare or daycare permit holders in communities who may wish to submit a project. Projects must be submitted between June 26, 2013 and November 26, 2013. Those wishing to submit a project can download the relevant documents at www.mfa.gouv.qc.ca or call 1 888 264-7683, line d information reserved for this call for projects.
