Saint-Damase-de-L&#39;Islet– The Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions and Member of Parliament for Taschereau, Mrs. Agnès Maltais, is proud to announce today, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the Municipality of Saint -Damase-de-L&#39;Islet will receive financial assistance of $ 5,329,500 for major water infrastructure work. This assistance comes from the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
“The financial assistance announced today in Saint-Damase-de-L&#39;Islet testifies to our government&#39;s desire to provide the population with quality infrastructure for all. This major investment will make it possible to guarantee an essential service to citizens, who will be able to benefit from infrastructures that meet the standards in force. Thus, this achievement will contribute to better protection of the environment, with a view to sustainable development, ”declared Minister Agnès Maltais.
Overall, the Saint-Damase-de-L&#39;Islet project aims to set up a domestic sewer network paired with a wastewater treatment plant in order to serve around a hundred residences in the urbanized sector of the municipality. , or about 250 people. More specifically, the project provides for the installation of domestic sewer pipes along Route 204, Rue Bélanger, Rang 6 and Route Elgin, as well as the installation of two pumping stations with delivery pipes. . It also includes the construction of an aerated pond-type treatment plant including a four-cell basin, a service building to house the required equipment, a gravity outfall and various additional works.
These interventions will make it possible to meet the government objectives of the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks.
Completion of this project will necessitate a total eligible investment of $ 5,610,000 under sub-component 1.4 of the PIQM. The contribution of the Government of Quebec amounts to $ 5,329,500 and that of the Municipality of Saint-Damase-de-L&#39;Islet to $ 280,500.
The Government of Quebec&#39;s contribution to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
