Quebec - The Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today took advantage of her visit to the congress of the Association québécoise d &#39;establishments de santé et de services sociaux (AQESSS) to announce the official launch of government guidelines for general social services, services aimed at meeting the social and psychological needs of the population or directing it to the appropriate services.
“This is a great first. All health and social services centers (CSSS) will now be able to benefit from clear guidelines and a framework for the provision of general social services. This will ensure that all citizens of Quebec receive quality services that are more uniform from one region to another, ”declared Minister Véronique Hivon.
Published for the benefit of health and social services agencies (ASSS) and CSSSs, this document, entitled Orientations relating to standards of access, continuity, quality, effectiveness and efficiency for general social services, determines the range of general social services targeted for the population of all the territories of Quebec. These general social services include reception, analysis, orientation and referral, psychosocial telephone consultation 24 hours a day, 7 days a week (24/7), crisis intervention in the environment (24 / 7), social consultation, psychological consultation as well as the psychosocial component in the context of civil security.
“The publication of this tool is the result of a great deal of consultation and collaboration. I would therefore like to thank all the people who participated directly or indirectly in its development with the team of the Ministry, both within the agencies and CSSSs and partners, including the Order of Social Workers and Marriage Therapists. and families of Quebec, the Ordre des psychologues du Québec, the Ordre des psychoéducateurs et psychoéducatrices du Québec, the associations of institutions concerned, as well as the AQESSS, which played an important role in the consultation process with CSSS ”, concluded Minister Véronique Hivon.
The document Guidance on standards of access, continuity, quality, effectiveness and efficiency for general social services is available in the publications section of the website of the Ministry of Health and Social Services at: www .msss.gouv.qc.ca.
