Nicolet– The Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, is proud to announce the award of financial assistance totaling $ 16,500 to the Lien Maison de la famille ($ 5,000), to the Maison des Jeunes du Bas-Saint- François ($ 5,000), Entraide Bécancour ($ 3,000), La Relance Nicolet-Bécancour ($ 2,000) and the Fédération québécoise Nourri-Source ($ 1,500).
“We are pleased to support the work of five community organizations in Nicolet-Bécancour. Their work is important and there is no doubt that its effects are just as important for the entire community, ”said Martine Ouellet.
The Lien Maison de la famille offers a place of meeting and community life by favoring mutual aid, respect and solidarity between families. It supports competence in order to promote the development of the child&#39;s skills.
The Maison des jeunes du Bas-Saint-François offers a meeting place for young people aged 12 to 17. It promotes empowerment, creativity, democracy as well as the awareness of young people with regard to social problems. This financial assistance will help support its efforts against dropping out of school.
Entraide Bécancour helps people in difficulty who reside in the City of Bécancour. The organization offers a food distribution and thrift store service. He also runs a furniture store. Thanks to this contribution, the organization will carry out work that will reduce the energy bill of its building.
La Relance Nicolet-Bécancour is there to help people control their addiction so that they can regain their autonomy and return to the labor market. The money paid will allow the organization to renew its computer equipment.
The Fédération québécoise Nourri-Source is made up of regional organizations and groups supporting breastfeeding with all families in Quebec. Nourri-Source will thus be able to continue to help mothers move forward and achieve greater autonomy by supporting and encouraging them in their role as well as in their breastfeeding experience.
It should be noted that the financial assistance of $ 16,500 given to five organizations in Nicolet-Bécancour comes from the discretionary envelope of the Minister of Natural Resources. This announcement is part of the government&#39;s desire to improve equal opportunities for all.
