Quebec - The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, and the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, today underline the holding of the World Teachers&#39; Day, a Unesco initiative which aims to celebrate the essential role of teachers, whose mission is to offer quality training at all stages of the educational process.
“Like Unesco, the Quebec government considers it necessary to upgrade the teaching profession. The future of our society rests in part in the hands of teachers, who must awaken and above all maintain the desire to learn in their students. I have a lot of admiration for them. On this World Teachers&#39; Day, now is the perfect time for us to express our gratitude to them, ”said Minister Malavoy.
Because quality education and student success require a well-trained, supported and supported teaching staff, the government has implemented two new measures, namely the addition of 600 professional and support resources in schools as well as financial support to school boards for the integration of teaching staff at the start of their careers, both in general training for young people and in vocational training and adult education centers.
To create a prosperous and fair knowledge society for all Quebecers, we must support the development of people and their talent throughout life. The government has made a commitment to reinvest $ 1.8 billion by 2019 in our university system, which will add more than 1,000 professors and some 2,000 lecturers.
“Teachers play a decisive role in the academic, personal and professional success of young people and adults in Quebec. It seemed essential to me to take advantage of this symbolic day to salute their commitment. I invite the people of Quebec to do the same, ”said Mr. Duchesne.
Let us recall that World Teachers&#39; Day was proclaimed in 1994. It takes place this year on the theme A call to teachers, to recall the importance of their role in awakening the civic consciousness of their students and their education. openness to the world.
