Montreal - The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane De Courcy, announces the entry into force of new immigration rules and procedures in order to select candidates according to fields most sought-after training courses in the Quebec labor market and improve the application management process in order to maximize the contribution of immigrants to Quebec society and to further enhance the mastery of French.
“It is about rethinking our approach in order to select immigrants from all over the world who are able to respond more adequately to Québec&#39;s needs and contribute to its prosperity. We want people who choose Quebec to not only be able to live and work in French, but also to be able to find a job more easily, ”said Ms. De Courcy.
“The changes are the result of meetings held earlier this year with the Department&#39;s economic, institutional and community partners. They represent a new step that leads to strengthening government action to promote the integration of immigrants, ”added the Minister. &quot;We will not deprive ourselves of the contribution of talented people that Quebec needs, but we will ensure that the selected candidates have the level of proficiency in French necessary to make full use of their professional skills and guarantee their participation in life. active. &quot;
These new rules will ensure that applicants for immigration will henceforth have to demonstrate a better knowledge of French than before in order to obtain points on the selection grid. A new list of training areas will also be implemented from today, in order to better align the immigration system with the current needs of the labor market. &quot;These innovations will promote rapid professional integration and the full participation of immigrants in the sustainability of the French language and in the economic development of Quebec,&quot; said Minister Diane De Courcy.
The selected candidates will be able, from abroad, to increase their command of French, in particular thanks to the online French courses offered by the Ministry. These courses can be taken with the help of a tutor and include learning the cultural codes, history and common values of Quebec society, which contributes to the success of the integration, in French, of the immigrants. Applicants may also be referred to the Ministry&#39;s partners, scattered in 30 countries and with whom agreements have been signed.
New rules have also been adopted with respect to the process for receiving and processing selection certificate applications submitted by qualified workers, investors, entrepreneurs and self-employed workers. These rules will be in effect until March 31, 2014. The spinoff simulations carried out by the Department indicate that the changes made will increase by 20 percentage points the proportion of candidates who master French while ensuring maintain diversity in the selection of people. They will also make it possible to limit the number of applications to be received and, consequently, to reduce processing times and maintain an efficient and dynamic immigration system, able to meet the needs of Quebec society.
A web page presenting the changes was put online on July 8 on the Immigration-Québec site. It is accessible at the following address: www.immigration-quebec.gouv.qc.ca/regles-procedures-immigration.
