Abitibi-Témiscamingue– The Minister for Native Affairs and Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Est, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, began her tour this morning in four Native communities in the regional county municipality (MRC) of Témiscamingue, in the company of the deputy for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue, Mr. Gilles Chapadeau, and the prefect of the MRC, Mr. Arnaud Warolin. The objective of this tour is to discuss the specific concerns of each of the communities, to take the pulse of their realities, to consider solutions favoring their socio-economic development, and to consolidate the links between them and the government of Quebec.
“My presence in the Algonquin communities and the discussions that we will be having on several hot topics aim to ensure that we are able to better hear their concerns, in order to act in their interest. Whether in terms of autonomy, economic or social development, my objective is to maintain effective and harmonious collaboration with the Algonquin communities, ”declared Minister Larouche.
While he was a candidate in the 2012 general election, the current Member of Parliament for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue, Mr. Gilles Chapadeau, met with representatives of the communities to learn about their concerns. “Over the past few months, I have had the opportunity to interact with community leaders on a number of occasions and these exchanges reflect the need to develop more partnerships, together, nation to nation. The harmonious relations we have with these communities invite us to increase the number of opportunities for discussion in order to better understand and respond to their needs, ”said MP Gilles Chapadeau.
The four communities that will be met individually are Kebaowek (Eagle Village First Nation), Winneway (Long Point First Nation), Timiskaming First Nation (TFN) and Hunter&#39;s Point (Wolf Lake). Each has between 200 and 1,750 members, some living on reserve, and a number off reserve. According to the community, discussions will focus, among other things, on economic partnerships, the Indigenous Initiative Fund II, land use, land tenure and property rights.
“We will deal with issues that concern the Government of Quebec, the Témiscamingue region and the Algonquins. We wish to create links on a regional basis and to see solutions allowing an improvement of the quality of life in these communities. This is our mission, our duty and our possible satisfaction: to ensure that each community has all the tools in hand to flourish and develop healthily, ”concluded Ms. Larouche.
