L&#39;Isle-Verte - The Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today announced that psychosocial services will be available in L&#39;Isle-Verte as long as necessary, in order to support the relatives of those who died in the fire at the Résidence du Havre.
“A tragedy of such magnitude can only deeply affect those around the missing persons, as well as members of the entire local community. Psychosocial services were offered from the first hours of the tragedy, thanks to the intervention of teams from the Rivière-du-Loup Health and Social Services Center. These services are well in place and will be intensified with the help of health and social service centers in neighboring territories, if the situation requires it, ”she declared.
The psychosocial teams are currently deployed at the Moisson-d&#39;Art school, where the regional government coordination center is established. The population can also contact Info-Social 8-1-1 to obtain psychosocial support by telephone.
Recent events have also had an impact on pharmacy and CLSC services, which were offered in the burned-down building. Thanks to computers, no pharmaceutical file has been lost. The service has been maintained thanks to the collaboration of pharmacies in neighboring municipalities, pending the imminent opening of a temporary service point in L&#39;Isle-Verte itself. Thus, the CLSC will open at the beginning of the week at the community presbytery and the pharmacy will be located at the Pavillon de L&#39;Amitié located near the school.
A nurse remained on site to provide certain front-line services, with all CLSC services remaining accessible in Rivière-du-Loup. The very rapid reestablishment of a temporary service point in L&#39;Isle-Verte is planned in the coming days, thus ensuring the local availability of medical, nursing, sampling and psychosocial services.
“I would like to pay tribute to all the teams in the health and social services sector, who quickly mobilized to offer the best possible services to those affected. This includes, in particular, the personnel of pre-hospital emergency services, professionals from hospital centers as well as all personnel from health and social services centers in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region. We will continue to do everything we can to ensure that the community of L&#39;Isle-Verte can get through this ordeal by taking advantage of all the necessary support for as long as required, ”concluded Ms. Hivon.
