Sherbrooke– The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, inaugurated today, in the presence of the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for the Estrie region, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and the deputy for the riding of Sherbrooke, Mr. Serge Cardin, the swimming pool which was added to the swimming pool of the Sports Center of the University of Sherbrooke.
“These new facilities will allow the region to host the Canada Games and other national and international events. They will provide our young athletes with an environment conducive to achieving their aspirations. For us who work in education, recreation and sport, these athletes are models who lead the way for the youngest and make them want to move, ”said Minister Malavoy.
The nearly $ 17 million project involved renovating and expanding the Sports Center, including bringing it into line with Canada Games requirements. A 25-meter 8-lane swimming pool was built and the existing 50-meter pool was renovated. New service rooms complete the package. This investment by the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport represents $ 4.997 million and was made as part of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities.
“As Regional Minister and Minister of Health and Social Services, I can only be delighted with the holding of this sports meeting. More than ever, we must remind young people of the importance of being active in order to enjoy good health. Thanks to the investments made in sports infrastructure, young people in the region now have new facilities to practice their favorite sport in optimal conditions, ”declared Minister Hébert.
“Holding a major sporting event such as the Canada Games helps develop a sense of community pride, demonstrate local know-how and contribute to regional influence through the concrete commitment of athletes and volunteers. , coaches from Estrie. One thing is certain, it will be an honor for me to welcome our visitors, ”concluded MP Cardin.
