Quebec - The Minister of Families, Ms. Nicole Léger, announces the holding of a targeted call for projects in order to optimize the reduced-contribution educational childcare services offered in early childhood centers (CPEs) and daycares .
This targeted call for projects is part of the general call for projects announced last February by the Minister of Families for the creation of 15,000 additional reduced-contribution places to complete the network of educational childcare services in childhood. Thus, of these 15,000 places, a maximum of 1,000 places will be reserved for this targeted call for projects. These places will be available more quickly from fall 2013.
“As the call for projects launched today demonstrates, the agreements concluded with the childcare centers are bearing fruit. By allowing the creation of new places in reduced-contribution childcare services, these agreements will also be beneficial for many families across Quebec, ”declared the Minister of Families.
Under this targeted call for projects, childcare centers and daycares will be able to supplement existing groups of children in order to achieve the ratios provided for in the Regulation respecting educational childcare services in Quebec.
It should be remembered that the Ministère de la Famille recently concluded agreements with the Association québécoise des centers de la petitefance du Québec (AQCPE) and the Conseil québécois des services de garde educatifs à l&#39;Enfance (CQSGEE), regarding redevelopment measures. budget forecast for the 2013-2014 fiscal year. Under these agreements, in addition to certain modalities for budget recovery, the Department has agreed with these organizations to put in place specific means to ensure their sustainability and the optimization of their funding.
License holders will be invited over the next few days to submit an application to the Ministry of the Family. After their analysis by the regional advisory committees and their recommendations, the ministry will make the selected projects public in September 2013.
