Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu– The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Bank for Economic Development of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, accompanied by the Member of Parliament for Saint-Jean and Deputy Government Whip, Mr. Dave Turcotte, announced the launch of the Montérégie Business Transfer Center (CTE) and confirmed financial assistance of $ 198,000, spread over three years, to support its activities. &quot;The issues related to entrepreneurial succession are major for the Quebec economy,&quot; said Ms. Zakaïb. “The growth of our regions, including the Montérégie, is closely linked to the number and dynamism of entrepreneurs they are home to. They are the real creators of jobs and wealth, the guarantors of our prosperity. We must therefore be innovative and proactive in order to fill the shortage of entrepreneurs which is already emerging in Quebec and which is likely to increase in the coming years. The entrepreneurial strategy that we are pursuing, the Economic Development Bank that we are about to create and the Industrial Policy are all tools to help our companies meet this challenge. CTEs are also part of the solution and I am proud that the Montérégie finally has its own. &quot;
In concert with the economic development organizations of their territory, the CTE&#39;s mission is to inform, raise awareness, train and guide sellers and buyers in their process of transferring and taking over businesses. The objective of the CTEs is to promote the sustainability of the transferred companies.
&quot;The regions are particularly affected by issues related to the sustainability of businesses,&quot; said Mr. Turcotte. “The CTEs, including the one in Montérégie, were born out of the regions&#39; desire to work together and unite their efforts to meet the many challenges presented by the transfer of businesses. With the CTE, the Montérégie will benefit from support that will translate into significant economic benefits thanks to the maintenance in the region of prosperous businesses and the jobs they offer to the population. &quot;
Montérégie Économique acts as a sponsor for the region&#39;s CTE. This economic development organization promotes consultation, exchanges and networking between stakeholders in the entrepreneurial world, in particular those of the fifteen local development centers (CLD) of the Montérégie. The economic actors of the region are called upon to determine the orientations of the CTE and to develop a regional action plan for the transfer of businesses.
“Within the CTE de la Montérégie, we will work, with the regional stakeholders who contributed to its creation, to set up and promote a regional strategy in order, in particular, to make business leaders aware of the importance of plan their succession and equip the stakeholders who will support future buyers, ”said Sylvie Lacroix, President of Montérégie Économique. “With the support of the Government of Quebec, we are providing local entrepreneurs with the means to successfully pass the torch to buyers, while promoting the presence in the region of motivated and well-supported succession. &quot;
The Montérégie CTE is part of a network made up of nine CTEs spread across Quebec. The other CTEs are present in the following regions: Capitale-Nationale, Chaudière-Appalaches, Estrie, Lanaudière, Laurentides, Mauricie, Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean and Montreal.
