Quebec - The Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale region, Ms. Agnès Maltais, announces on behalf of the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors , Doctor Réjean Hébert, increasing the reception capacity of three family medicine units (UMF) in Quebec. They are the UMF Saint-François-d&#39;Assise, the UMF Maizerets and the UMF-GMF Laval, all three affiliated to the Université Laval. For each of them, the reception capacity could thus be increased, by July 2017, to 32 residents, in addition to trainees.
“Our government is committed to improving the accessibility of care and services by consolidating the first line and increasing the number of family physicians. This announcement is precisely in line with this objective, since this increase will increase the family medicine reception capacity of the Université Laval network while increasing the service offer to the population of the territory, ”declared Minister Hébert. .
“Our government is following through on its commitment with wise choices. In addition to contributing in a more marked way to the training of the next generation in medicine and the health sciences, which will benefit in the longer term the entire Quebec population, the increase in the reception capacity of this UMF is improving, here and now, access to high-quality local care and services, ”Minister Maltais said.
In terms of the operating budget, the amounts allocated amount, on an annual basis, to $ 510,000 for the UMF Saint-François d&#39;Assise, $ 225,000 for the UMF Maizerets and $ 330,000 for the &#39;UMF-GMF Laval. In addition, there are capital expenditures to refit and equip the UMF Maizerets and GMF Laval, these budgets reaching respectively $ 1,272,000 and $ 950,000.
Currently, about 45% of medical students go into family medicine, while 55% go into other specialties. The consolidation of these UMFs is part of the government&#39;s desire to increase the number of graduates in family medicine in order to reverse these proportions, and thus better meet the current and future health needs of Quebec society.
