Brussels - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, undertook an economic mission to Belgium on Thursday. The latter will continue until November 16 and will focus in particular on public policies promoting economic development as well as innovation.
“Our economic mission in Belgium aims to strengthen Quebec&#39;s ties with our Belgian partners,” declared Élaine Zakaïb. “We will have the opportunity to discuss our respective industrial policies, both of which focus on the creation of niches or centers of excellence. We will present the measures of Quebec&#39;s economic policy - Priority employment and Quebec&#39;s industrial policy, which create an environment favorable to private investment and innovation in Quebec. &quot;
The Minister will address several economic decision-makers, including Quebec companies established in Belgium, on the theme Investment and innovation in Quebec: new perspectives for Belgium and Europe. She will also attend a seminar on innovative neighborhoods and give a speech at the Week of Creativity (Creative Wallonia), which takes place until November 15 in the Walloon Region.
Élaine Zakaïb will also take advantage of her stay to meet with the Minister-President of the Flemish government, Mr. Kris Peeters, on the Quebec-Flanders Industrial Agreement Program and their respective industrial policies. She will also meet the Vice-President and Minister of the Economy of SMEs, Foreign Trade, New Technologies and Higher Education of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, Mr. Jean-Claude Marcourt. Their discussion will focus in particular on Walloon poles and industrial clusters and niches of excellence in Quebec.
In addition, Élaine Zakaïb will visit companies in the field of information and communications technologies, such as Amos and EVS Broadcast Equipment, which are engaged in partnerships with Quebec. Visits to places devoted to innovation and creativity, including the Liège Space Center, the ID Campus / NEST&#39;up laboratory and the Maker&#39;s Lab, are also planned.
&quot;Quebec is recognized for its creativity and its capacity to innovate, in particular thanks to the holding, in its metropolis, of the C2MTL event, where a delegation of entrepreneurs from Belgium was present last year&quot;, added Élaine Zakaïb. “Our participation in Creativity Week in Wallonia will therefore be an opportunity to learn about the initiatives of our Belgian counterparts in the area of innovation. &quot;
To find out more about Québec&#39;s economic policy - Priority employment, visit www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueeconomique.
