Quebec - The Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions, Ms. Agnès Maltais, today announced the allocation of an amount of $ 20 million over 6 years to the Commission de la capital nationale du Québec for the consolidation and maintenance of the New Barracks in Old Quebec. The National Capital Commission will thus become the owner of the heritage building in order to carry out asset maintenance and stabilization work on the building complex.
In parallel with the consolidation work, the Commission will determine a new vocation for the place. To do this, it will enlist the services of Mr. Émile Gilbert, architect specializing in heritage, in order to solicit stakeholders and partners to bring about public projects.
“This major investment is the first step in a larger project aimed at enhancing the New Barracks, giving them a new vocation and above all, allowing the population to finally have access to this jewel of our region. heritage, ”said Agnès Maltais.
Remember that on the eve of the last elections, the former government announced an investment on this site. &quot;However, when I took office, contrary to what had been said, only a request for additional funds from the Treasury Board was in the cards,&quot; added Agnès Maltais. “It is therefore with pride that I am announcing today this investment of $ 20 million drawn from the community infrastructure component of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan in order to bring a sustainable vocation to this extraordinary site. As it is now the rule since our arrival in the business, the source of the financing is clearly identified and this project will be carried out. &quot;
The New Barracks were built between 1749 and 1752 to house French troops sent as reinforcements to Quebec to protect the city from a possible British invasion. After the capture of Quebec, they were inhabited by the military for over 100 years. The Augustines of the Hôtel-Dieu de Québec acquired the Nouvelles-Casernes in 1965, which then became the property of the Center hospitalier universitaire (CHU) de Québec. Unoccupied for nearly 50 years, they now require major interventions.
On October 19, 2012, the Minister of Culture and Communications announced that the New Barracks of Quebec were classified as “cultural property” and henceforth entered in the Quebec Heritage Register. An agreement in principle was signed on March 25, 2013, confirming their transfer to the Commission de la capital nationale du Québec.
Created in 1995 by the National Assembly, the National Capital Commission of Quebec fulfills a threefold mission with regard to the capital: to contribute to its development and embellishment, to promote it, through a program varied discovery and commemoration activities, and advise the Government of Quebec on the enhancement of its status.
PDF URL link: http: //stream1.newswire.ca/media/2013/08/23/20130823_C7861_DOC_FR_30100.pdf
PDF URL link: http: //stream1.newswire.ca/media/2013/08/23/20130823_C7861_DOC_FR_30101.pdf
