Montreal - As the tabling of the Quebec and federal budgets approaches, the caucus of the members of the Parti Québécois de Montréal and the member of the Bloc Québécois from Repentigny, Monique Pauzé, accompanied by representatives of the Network for the assistance of single and homeless people of Montreal (RAPSIM), the Réseau SOLIDARITÉ Itinérance du Québec (RSIQ) and the organizations of the Home of Young Workers of Montreal (FJTTM), Logemen&#39;occupe, Dopamine, The Route and the NAHA Center, ask the Minister for Rehabilitation, Youth Protection, Public Health and Healthy Lifestyles, Lucie Charlebois, to release an emergency fund to help organizations affected by the budget cuts caused by the redefinition of the parameters of the Strategy Homelessness Partnerships (HPS) and take advantage of the presence of a new government in Ottawa to renegotiate the terms of the Canada-Quebec Agreement concerning the HPS.
The new 2014-2019 HPS agreement is synonymous with unrealistic challenges for organizations working with people who are homeless or at risk of becoming homeless. Whereas previously, it allowed the development of accommodation resources and financed the salaries of social workers, the new HPS devotes 65% of its budgets to an approach disconnected from the Quebec reality, that of “Housing First”. , which subsidizes private housing for chronically homeless people, abandoning community support and intervention work. On March 31, the fight against homelessness in Montreal and Quebec will experience a dramatic moment, when many organizations will see a significant portion of their funding disappear.
“Without emergency support by March 31, the FJTTM will have to close 8 rooms out of 19, and return 16 young people to the streets each year. We will also have to cut the salary of one in two speakers. This situation is terrible. We have been working for 25 years with young people who are referred to us by the DPJ and the health network! », Exclaimed Jacinthe McCabe, Executive Director of the FJTTM.
“We work with the poorest and most marginalized people in East Montreal. On March 31, we will lose 100% of our funding for social intervention. I do not know how we will pay the salary of the person who currently works with male drug addicts in our accommodation units. We need help and a new HPS agreement, ”explained Sébastien Pageon, director of the NAHA Center.
“We are living in an absurd situation! In 2013, the HPS helped us buy the building where we welcome dozens of people who inject drugs and at risk of homelessness every day, in addition to funding the work of our stakeholders. On March 31, 2016, we will no longer have any money for salaries. Where is the logic? We need a new generalist agreement, ”claimed the director of Dopamine, Martin Pagé.
In light of these findings, the members of the Parti Québécois de Montréal are asking Minister Lucie Charlebois to release an emergency fund to help organizations weakened by the new HPS agreement. “Everyone is realizing it at the moment: the HPS proposed by Stephen Harper in Quebec is unsuitable and hurts people in difficulty as well as the organizations that come to their aid. I ask the Minister to release funds to support groups that have been abandoned by the HPS, ”said Carole Poirier, MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve.
Jean-François Lisée, Member of Parliament for Rosemont, asks Lucie Charlebois to take advantage of the presence of a new government in Ottawa to renegotiate the HPS agreement. “The federal budget is coming. The minister must seize this opportunity. I ask him to quickly begin talks with the federal government so that those working with vulnerable people can finally have access to the tools and resources they need, ”he insisted.
Monique Pauzé invites the government of Justin Trudeau to agree to renegotiate the HPS agreement with Quebec. &quot;He must not remain insensitive to the terrible impacts that the new HPS, a legacy of the Harper government, has on the fight against homelessness in Quebec,&quot; she added.
François Roy, director of Logemen&#39;occupe, agrees. “A few days before the federal budget is tabled, the Trudeau government must commit to revising and renegotiating the parameters of the HPS agreement with Quebec. The community is unanimous: the tool we have in our hands is inadequate. Thousands of people are on the verge of losing the support they need, and dozens of organizations, the means to help those they have always supported. This is unacceptable. &quot;
“It is urgent that the government of Quebec release the funds necessary to maintain the interventions which were cut due to the reorientation of the federal assistance towards“ Housing First ”. Quebec must intervene so that Ottawa re-establishes a comprehensive approach in its support for the fight against homelessness, and this must include an increased envelope from its first budget, ”concluded Shawn Bourdages, member of the executive of the RAPSIM.
