Rivière-du-Loup– The Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Ms. Véronique Hivon, took advantage of her presence in Rivière-du-Loup, as part of a tour in the Bas-Saint region -Laurent, to inaugurate the new service point of the Physical Deficiency Rehabilitation Center (CRDP) L&#39;Interaction, an installation of the La Mitis Health and Social Services Center (CSSS). She was accompanied for the occasion by the Minister for Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé.
“For several years, the L&#39;Interaction Rehabilitation Center has been facing various space challenges. This new construction allows many improvements to be made in terms of the organization of services, which were previously spread over four separate sites. I am therefore very happy for people who have to live with a physical disability as well as for the teams that support them, since they will now be able to benefit from a more functional environment conducive to high-quality integrated services, in particular thanks to the addition of technical platforms ”, declared Minister Hivon.
In fact, the L&#39;Interaction rehabilitation center was grappling with problems of premises that were too small and poorly configured to the needs of its activities. In addition to welcoming a trauma team in 1997, the L&#39;Interaction rehabilitation center, which had occupied premises at the Pavillon Alphonse-Couturier of the CSSS de Rivière-du-Loup since 1992, has undergone an important phase in recent years. development and consolidation of its services. This situation had prompted him to rent other premises at the Kamouraska-Rivière-du-Loup School Board, as well as at the Center for Rehabilitation in Intellectual Disability (CRDI) in Rivière-du-Loup.
“In addition to simplifying interactions between the various stakeholders at the Rehabilitation Center, this project facilitates access to services for people with reduced mobility. These are all improvements that demonstrate our desire to support establishments in the health and social services network with functional, accessible and quality facilities, in order to support them ever more effectively in the accomplishment of their work. their important mission, ”added Minister Hivon.
&quot;As Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, I am pleased to note that the L&#39;Interaction Rehabilitation Center will welcome Louperivois and Louperivoises requiring physical rehabilitation services in one and the same place adapted to their needs. . I join my voice to that of my colleague Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection and I am delighted with the realization of this project, ”concluded Minister Pascal Bérubé.
Located at 48 rue de Chauffailles in Rivière-du-Loup, the new 1,800 m2 building was built at a cost of $ 4.5 million thanks to an investment of $ 1,625,000 from the Agence de la health and social services in Bas-Saint-Laurent and $ 2,875,000 from the establishment. Let us also underline the invaluable contribution of the CSSS de Rivière-du-Loup, which agreed to cede the ground to the CRDP so that the project can materialize.
