Joliette - The Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Minister responsible for the Lanaudière region and Member of Parliament for Joliette, Ms. Véronique Hivon, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, takes advantage of the event marking the end of work on the Carré St-Louis in Joliette to confirm financial assistance of $ 558,253 to two organizations, namely the Carrefour des organisms de Lanaudière ( $ 233,253) and Les Logements d&#39;Amélie ($ 325,000).
&quot;Community initiatives such as those found at Carré St-Louis promote the maintenance of the social fabric, an increase in the quality of life, especially among the most vulnerable people in our society, as well as more harmonious development. in our region. Today, despite the importance of the work carried out, it is not the concrete that we are celebrating but the twenty or so community organizations, the places of social vocation and the hundreds of people who work there every day to make a real difference in the lives of people here. That is why I am so proud of our government&#39;s support for these renovations. There is no doubt that these improvements will have positive spinoffs for the thousands of people served there, partner organizations and the entire community, ”said Minister Hivon.
Financial support to the Carrefour des organizations de Lanaudière enabled it to carry out the last phase of the renovation work on the exterior facing of the entire building, and more particularly on a facade whose stones presented a risk of collapse. Remember that this building was built in 1871 and acquired from a religious congregation by the Carrefour in 2005.
The total eligible cost of this project is $ 1,031,510. The Government of Quebec, within the framework of CEIP, contributed an amount of $ 200,000. It also grants a bonus of $ 33,253 to take into account the interest that the organization will have to pay during the period of payment of the assistance, thus bringing the total amount of financial assistance to $ 233,253. Several partners have also contributed to this project.
In addition, it should be noted that the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec granted additional financial assistance of some $ 325,000 to the community organization Les Logements d&#39;Amélie in order to enable it to carry out the work necessary to guarantee the sustainability of this complex. home.
With an investment envelope of $ 10 million, the CEIP aims to support social economy enterprises in the implementation of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition projects for commercial infrastructures. or industrial. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, to contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories and to promote the preservation and enhancement of the quality of the environment.
