Sorel-Tracy– The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced the allocation, through Investissement Québec, of a grant of 1.1 million euros. dollars to Laiterie Chalifoux Inc. for a modernization project valued at $ 13.7 million that will create 18 new jobs in addition to consolidating the 150 current jobs. The company will also be the first to benefit from the improvement made to the investment tax credit announced in the recent Quebec industrial policy.
The financial assistance will allow the company to expand its plant located in Sorel-Tracy and acquire modern production equipment, including a more efficient and environmentally friendly automated packaging line, which will allow on-site control of all stages of production, as well as an aseptic packaging line, which will allow long-shelf-life milk production to be preserved in Quebec. The project will thus create 18 jobs and consolidate the 150 current jobs.
“More than ever, our companies and factories must modernize in order to be able to grow, innovate and export more,” declared Élaine Zakaïb, who said she was very proud to bring this good news to her riding. “We are therefore pleased to support this important Laiterie Chalifoux project, which promotes Quebec expertise in the dairy products sector. This project is also in line with our 2013-2017 Quebec industrial policy, which aims to help our companies modernize to create a more competitive and greener industrial Quebec. &quot;
Founded in 1920, Laiterie Chalifoux inc. is a family business specializing in the manufacture of fluid milk, cream and different types of cheese. In particular, it produces the Riviera cheese brand. The company sets itself apart from the competition by the superior quality of its 100% milk products.
&quot;The support from the Quebec government will allow us to complete an ambitious technological modernization project that will significantly increase our competitiveness,&quot; said Laiterie Chalifoux inc. Vice-president, Alain Chalifoux.
&quot;Thanks to the addition of state-of-the-art equipment, in particular for the reverse osmosis technique, we will now be able to control, on site, all stages of production and thus avoid significant processing and transportation costs. We will also be able to keep the production of long-life milk in Quebec. &quot;
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
