Saint-Éphrem-de-Beauce– The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Bank for Economic Development of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced the allocation of a $ 3.5 million loan to Clermond Hamel, a one of the oldest businesses in Beauce, specializing in the production of construction timber. The loan, granted by Investissement Québec, concerns a major equipment acquisition project.
“La Beauce is a flagship of entrepreneurship in Quebec. It relies on many dynamic companies eager to give themselves the means to perform up to the most demanding expectations of the market ”, indicated Élaine Zakaïb. &quot;It is therefore with great enthusiasm that we support the project of the Clermond Hamel company, which has understood the importance of investing in modernization to remain competitive and continue to offer quality jobs to 90 workers in the region. The modernization and greening of our manufacturing companies is one of the three pillars of Québec&#39;s industrial policy. &quot;
&quot;I am happy that our government is supporting this flagship company which believes in the need and the relevance of modernizing its facilities to increase its productivity,&quot; said the Minister responsible for the Chaudière-Appalaches region, Ms. Agnès Maltais. . “The company, which today has in its ranks representatives of a fifth generation of still passionate entrepreneurs, is a magnificent example of successful family transmission. &quot;
Clermond Hamel, which started with a single mill in 1890, is today a diversified company that specializes in the manufacture of construction lumber, beams and lumber of standard dimensions in species of fir, spruce, red pine and hemlock. Based in Saint-Éphrem-de-Beauce, the company also has 5 dryers and a planing plant contributing to an annual production of nearly 75,000,000 feet of lumber.
&quot;Investissement Québec&#39;s collaboration has played a key role in the development and modernization of our company over the past few years,&quot; said Carmin Hamel, President and CEO of Clermond Hamel. “We are very pleased to have obtained government support for funding our most recent project, which consists primarily of acquiring curve sawing equipment and making improvements to existing equipment. Curved sawing will allow us to optimize the sawing of logs and thereby reduce the production of chips ”
“Our government makes a point of supporting businesses that create wealth and quality jobs in all regions of Quebec,” concluded Élaine Zakaïb. “In this regard, since September 2012, our government&#39;s interventions in the Chaudière-Appalaches region, through Investissement Québec and the Ministère des Finances et de l&#39;Économie, have enabled entrepreneurs to benefit from financial assistance of over $ 66 million, which facilitated total investments of over $ 269 million. Our actions have thus contributed to the creation or safeguarding of more than 1,200 jobs. &quot;
Thus, Investissement Québec authorized aid of more than $ 46.5 million for projects requiring investments of nearly $ 188.8 million and creating or consolidating 631 jobs. For its part, the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, within the framework of the Economic Development Fund, granted financial assistance totaling $ 14.1 million for the implementation of investment projects of $ 54.6 million. dollars creating or consolidating 306 jobs. In addition, through its regular programs, the Department has allocated $ 5.5 million for the implementation of investment projects of $ 25.7 million creating or consolidating 272 jobs.
Investissement Québec&#39;s mission is to promote the growth of investment in Québec, thereby contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The Company provides businesses with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity investments, to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, she is responsible for administering tax measures and prospecting for investments abroad.
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
