Scotstown - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced the allocation, by Investissement Québec, of loan guarantees totaling $ 940,000 for a business growth project Léo Désilets, master herbalist. The government, for its part, granted a $ 100,000 grant from the Support Program for the recovery and retention of strategic enterprises and regions in difficulty.
&quot;It is essential to provide entrepreneurs with all the necessary resources so that Quebec manufacturing companies can innovate, modernize and prosper,&quot; said Ms. Zakaïb. “This is the raison d&#39;être of Québec industrial policy. We must support innovative and efficient companies, like Léo Désilets, master herbalist. It is by investing in promising projects that our companies will succeed in making significant productivity gains and that they will remain competitive in a context of fierce competition. &quot;
The project, at a total cost of $ 2.25 million, created 3 new jobs, in addition to consolidating the 30 existing jobs. The financing offered includes the refinancing of an existing debt and directly supports the growth strategy of the company, which wishes to renew its facilities, in particular by expanding its current building and its cold warehouse.
Founded in 1974, the Léo Désilets master herbalist company specializes in the production and distribution of natural health products and cosmetics. It also manufactures therapeutic products and cosmetics for several private brands. On the strength of its reputation, it is experiencing marked growth in sales of its range of probiotics and cosmetics.
“In recent years, demand for our probiotic products has grown steadily,” explained Mr. Benoit Fortin, president of Léo Désilets, master herbalist. “It was now strategic to invest in new facilities and acquire state-of-the-art production equipment. In addition to considerably increasing the current bottling volume of our capsule products, this equipment will allow us to further increase our market share and set our sights on growth. We are very happy to have been able to count on the participation of Investissement Québec and the Ministry of Finance and the Economy for the realization of this project that creates jobs and added value for our clients. &quot;
Investissement Québec&#39;s mission is to promote the growth of investment in Québec, thereby contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. As a Crown corporation, it provides businesses with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity investment, to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, she is responsible for administering tax measures and prospecting for investments abroad.
