Quebec - The member for Matane and official opposition spokesperson for tourism, wildlife and fisheries, Pascal Bérubé, questioned Minister Serge Simard during the study of the appropriations of the Ministère des Ressources naturelles et de la Fauna yesterday afternoon. Among other things, he questioned him about the privatization of public land in the ZEC Wessonneau, in the Mauricie region, which was done without any consultation with the managers of the ZEC. In fact, more than 325 hectares of the ZEC territory have recently become the property of a private company similar to a hunting club.
“A private company would now offer big game hunting rights for the sum of $ 1,000, thus depriving users of the ZEC of fertile territory. It looks like we are going back to the days of private clubs of yesteryear, ”said the member for Matane. &quot;The Minister for Natural Resources and Wildlife must absolutely intervene so that this error does not become a precedent and that the controlled zones remain so,&quot; he continued.
The Parti Québécois set up controlled zones in 1978 in order to take over from private clubs. The management of these areas is entrusted to non-profit organizations. They see to the management and conservation of wildlife on Quebec territories. The idea of ZECs is based on the principles of wildlife conservation, accessibility to wildlife resources, user participation and self-financing of operations. &quot;We should not go back to the practices before 1978. Unfortunately, the minister lets us believe that this is what he wants&quot;, continued Pascal Bérubé.
“Minister Simard tells us that giving back the land to the ZEC Wessonneau is an unacceptable solution. Unacceptable to whom? Could the minister come to the defense of Quebec hunters and fishermen who are entitled to free access to public lands? “Asked the deputy.
“We also wonder what the Minister responsible for Mauricie, Julie Boulet, thinks of this situation taking place in her constituency ?, asked Pascal Bérubé. Will she intervene with her colleague so that the situation is regularized or will she close her eyes? », Concluded the deputy.
