Quebec - Proud to put an end to too long an episode of uncertainty in the history of this public park, the Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions, Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Mrs. Agnès Maltais, confirms the government decision to maintain the public vocation of the site and reiterates its commitment to develop this land of nearly 600,000 m2, i.e. the equivalent of half of the area of Old Quebec ,. The Société des establishments de plein air du Québec (Sépaq) and the Commission de la capital nationale du Québec become its owners. In addition, Sépaq is given the mandate to carry out a concerted process for its development.
“Since 2006, the population of Quebec has been in mourning for its Zoological Garden and its park. Today, as Minister, I am announcing that the necessary and essential conditions are met to ensure a viable solution to this exceptional site. This is why the government is mandating a renowned organization, Sépaq, to promote and ensure the sustainability of this recreational and tourism gem for the region and for all of Quebec, ”said Minister Maltais.
&quot;By entrusting Sépaq with the mandate to develop these lands, the government has chosen to preserve the public character of the site and is ensuring, thanks to the expertise of the Crown corporation, that its This value will be carried out with the greatest respect for government and environmental guidelines, in consultation with the regional community, ”Minister Blanchet said.
“Sépaq is entrusted with a mandate that is entirely in line with its mission of enhancing, developing and conserving public territories, tourist facilities and natural and cultural heritage, as well as its recreational and tourist niche. We are proud of the confidence that has been placed in us once again, ”said Raymond Desjardins, President and CEO of Sépaq.
“Already responsible for the magnificent Parc des Moulins, the National Capital Commission is pleased to be associated with Sépaq by participating in the committee for the enhancement of the former site of the zoological garden. Once again, the Commission wants to work together to implement a unifying project of a public nature, ”underlined the President and Director General of the Commission de la capital nationale du Québec, Ms. Françoise Mercure.
The Secretariat, attached to the Minister of the Executive Council, advises the government and the Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale, Ms. Agnès Maltais, on any question or measure having a significant impact on the region and on its economic, cultural, tourist and social development. .
The Secretariat acts in concert with its various governmental and regional partners, while financially supporting the realization of projects contributing to the growth of the Capitale-Nationale.
