Quebec - In the wake of the publication today of an opinion from the Superior Council of the French Language (CSLF), the deputy for Bourget and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois responsible for the Charter of the French language, Maka Kotto , and his colleague from Verchères, spokesperson for the French-speaking community in America, Stéphane Bergeron, denounce the inaction and inability of the Liberal government when it comes to French in Quebec. They invite the Minister responsible for the Protection and Promotion of the French Language, Hélène David, to finally get to work and honor the Liberal Party&#39;s commitments.
“Since the Liberal minister took office, files have piled up on her desk. Despite his party&#39;s commitments, particularly with regard to filling in the breach in the law with regard to the display of trademarks, nothing has changed. The government had also promised to review the francization process on construction sites, which are currently too long and unsuitable for temporary sites, but nothing has yet been done. The Minister should get down to it now, since an additional task has just been added to her desk: improving fluency in French to strengthen social cohesion and promote academic success, ”said Maka Kotto.
Stéphane Bergeron for his part was particularly surprised to read, this morning in Le Devoir, the words of the Minister responsible for the Canadian Francophonie, Jean-Marc Fournier, according to which &quot;the progress of French in Quebec is obvious, statistically demonstrated&quot;. “We cannot be more disconnected from reality. We have known for a long time - the 2011 census proved it - that the demographic weight of French is declining in Quebec. In addition, a study by the CSLF, made public in December 2014, confirms that the objective of Bill 101 - namely to make French the common language of all Quebecers in the public sphere - has not been achieved. Worse, we move away a little more every day, especially in Montreal. There is therefore an urgent need to act! &quot;, he added.
“What is the Liberal government&#39;s action plan for the French language? If we trust what Jean-Marc Fournier says, we will have to be patient, because he does not even recognize the problem. In the Parti Québécois, we refuse to give up on the protection and promotion of French in Quebec. Our government had acted in this direction by tabling Bill 14, but it could not be completed, in particular because of opposition from the Liberals and the CAQ. The efforts to protect our common public language must be vigorous and constant, and we call on the Liberals to get active on the issue, because time is running out, ”concluded Maka Kotto.
