The leader and vice-leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée and Véronique Hivon, as well as the candidates Catherine Fournier (Marie-Victorin), Maka Kotto (Bourget), Jennifer Drouin (Sainte ‑ Marie – Saint ‑ Jacques) and Marie -Aline Vadius (Laurier-Dorion), held a press briefing to present the details of the future Bill 202, which will be tabled in the first 101 days of a Lisée government. The Parti Québécois thus unveils a serious plan which constitutes the most important offensive in favor of French since the adoption of Bill 101 by Camille Laurin, more than 40 years ago.
IN SHORT
To strengthen French in Quebec, the Parti Québécois is proposing a law 202, which provides in particular:
“Behind the liberal denial and the dangerous proposals of the CAQ looms a slow but certain weakening of French, the heart of our identity. The data from the 2016 census are clear: the decline of French in Quebec is indisputable, in particular as regards the proportion of citizens for whom it is the main language at home. In addition, according to Statistics Canada, the number of businesses where French as a working language is giving way to full bilingualism has passed the 10% mark in Montreal and is growing rapidly. We must reverse this trend at all costs and give new impetus to French in Quebec, ”said Jean-François Lisée from the outset.
“In nearly 60% of cases, it is now impossible to get a job in Montreal - including shoveling snow! - if you do not demonstrate knowledge of English. It is an alarming portrait to which must be added the Liberal failure in terms of the francization of immigrants. And that, Quebeckers feel it well; in a survey published yesterday, 61% of francophone Quebecers believe that French has declined for 10 years. And 68% predict that this decline will increase over the next 10 years, ”continued Catherine Fournier.
Referring to a recent report by the Auditor General, the Parti Québécois makes a clear statement: the Liberals are not credible when it comes to immigration or francization. “For 15 years, the entry of several cohorts of immigrants who are totally ignorant of French - 58% in 2017 - and the staggering failure rates of francization courses - 90%! - contribute heavily to the decline of French. In addition, by giving their blessing to new, more lax rules, the Liberals have knowingly allowed a decline in French in signage, ”added Jennifer Drouin.
“There is an urgent need to act. However, it is certainly not the danger represented by the CAQ that will make it possible to relaunch French in Quebec. François Legault says he is concerned about our language, even though he would allow 40,000 people to enter Quebec without having the slightest knowledge of it. He also revealed the depth of his thoughts when he said that too much importance was given to French in the selection of immigration. The CAQ is undoubtedly the acceleration of the decline of French! “, Warned Marie-Aline Vadius.
“It is therefore up to the Parti Québécois to act forcefully to effect a recovery. This requires the return of a real national will at the helm of Quebec, embodied by the Parti Québécois. We will table a 202 language and immigration law within the first 101 days of our mandate. Overall, we must reaffirm that the official and common language in Quebec is French. And that it will stay that way, ”for his part insisted Maka Kotto.
Finally, the Parti Québécois is very clear: we need a “100% success” approach for new Quebecers. “It is important to ensure the real integration of newcomers into the labor market, in the regions and in the professions. It also takes a robust effort to roll back discrimination. The Liberals have accustomed us to public relations operations that have no real effect. And the Caquists never talk about it. The Parti Québécois will seriously tackle this issue, ”concluded Véronique Hivon.
For more information, click here.
