Québec, June 22, 2020 - The member for Matane-Matapédia, parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois and spokesperson for the French language, Pascal Bérubé, reiterated certain proposals already submitted by the Parti Québécois, inviting the government to s &#39;seize it so that the necessary debate can finally take place.
The Parti Québécois considers it appropriate to recall its proposals in the area of the French language:
“Although he has already said that he had no intention of reopening Bill 101 at all, no one would criticize the CAQ government if it decided to do an about-face on this issue. By highlighting the measures we are proposing, it would finally demonstrate the nationalism it claims to exercise. These proposals are ours, but we are happy to offer them to him! », Assured Pascal Bérubé.
It is in a sincere spirit of collaboration that the parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois speaks. It is, for him, a question which goes well beyond the partisan interest. “Every day it becomes more and more evident that a strengthening of Bill 101 is urgent and necessary; it suffices to see the accelerated anglicization on the island of Montreal and in Laval. Together, we must affirm loud and clear that in Quebec, French is the normal and usual language for work, education, communications, commerce and business. We must proudly assert our right to live in French, because that is what sets us apart in the first place. &quot;
The member for Matane-Matapedia remains hopeful that the CAQ will decide to act, even if the last few days have given the impression that it cares very little about our common language. “Bill 61 presented by the government is essentially business-like; no francophone CEGEP will benefit from it, while we have major plans for Dawson College, anglophone. This logic threatens the presence, vigor and sustainability of French in Quebec; we must change our approach at all costs! », He insisted.
Pascal Bérubé also reminded the government that on February 19, all parliamentarians - with the exception of the Liberals - supported a motion by the Parti Québécois mentioning the importance of affirming and strengthening the use of French in Quebec. “Now he has to live up to his commitment, stand up and walk the talk,” he said; we have waited long enough! &quot;
“For us, for the Parti Québécois, French is a fundamental issue. All year round, and even more as our national holiday approaches. Our language is the first component of our identity. It is through it that our culture, our traditions, our belonging to this territory and the colorful description we make of it are expressed. Our story was written in French; we have to make sure that it will be the same for our future, ”concluded Pascal Bérubé.
