Quebec - The Minister of Families, Ms. Nicole Léger, is pleased to announce that Lussier Insurance Firm is now certified according to the Work-Family Reconciliation standard (BNQ 9700-820). Moreover, this company has also obtained the highest level of certification in this area, level 4.
Founded in 1915, Lussier Insurance Firm is one of the four largest damage insurance brokerage firms in Quebec. This company&#39;s best practices in work-family balance (CTF) are now recognized and certified by the Bureau de normalization du Québec (BNQ).
“In Quebec, workers are looking for a balance in their lives, where family and professional responsibilities are harmonized with as much flexibility as possible. Companies have everything to gain by opening up to this reality, which is what we want to promote with the Work-Family Balance standard. I would like to congratulate the managers of Lussier Insurance Firm for having taken up this challenge with determination, and I invite other companies to put in place work-family balance measures and to take steps to obtain this certification created in Quebec. and unique in the world, ”said Minister Nicole Léger.
“Fostering work-family balance in the workplace is a way not only to make life easier for families, but also to attract and retain workers in our businesses. It is therefore a winning formula that contributes to the economic prosperity of Quebec, ”said the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank and Member of Parliament for Richelieu, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb.
Developed under the coordination of the BNQ, by a committee of representatives of employers, employees and the general interest and, in particular, representatives of the Ministère de la Famille, Emploi-Québec and the Ministère du Travail, the standard CTF specifies the requirements for good practices in this area, while respecting the reality of organizations and workers. It aims to integrate CTF into human resource management and can be applied to all types of organizations, public, private or otherwise, regardless of their size, the products or the services they provide.
Among the measures recognized, let us mention the following: leave for family reasons, unpaid leave, flexible hours, an offer for help or support for childcare. Companies are encouraged to promote CTF practices that meet the needs of their employees. The BNQ assesses the level of compliance of an organization&#39;s management practices with the requirements of the standard.
“The Bureau de normalization du Québec is delighted to award level 4 certification in work-family balance to Lussier Insurance Firm, a source of inspiration in its sector of activity. Businesses have everything to gain from implementing a work-family balance strategy. Adherence to the standard allows the employer to structure its CTF efforts, to ensure that it responds adequately to the new realities of its employees and to attract new talents ”, mentioned Mr. Jean Rousseau, Director. of the Bureau de normalization du Québec.
Organizations interested in the Work-Family Conciliation standard (BNQ 9700-820) and the certification process can contact the Bureau de normalization du Québec directly or visit the website www.bnq.qc.ca. The Department also offers a financial support program for workplaces in matters of CTF, the terms and details of which are presented on the website www.mfa.gouv.qc.ca.
