Québec, April 3, 2018 - Alain Therrien, the member for Sanguinet and official opposition spokesperson for issues affecting the Metropolitan Electric Network (REM), and the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesperson responsible for the Island of Montreal, Carole Poirier, denounce the irrelevance of the Sainte-Anne-de-Bellevue branch of the REM and ask the government to withdraw it in order to bet, instead, on real solutions to improve the mobility of people in the West Island.
IN SHORT
Waste that does not serve the interests of public transport users “The Sainte-Anne-de-Bellevue branch does not serve the interests of public transport users in the West Island; all it serves are the political interests of ministers Coiteux, Kelley and Leitão. This liberal decision inflates the cost billed to the ARTM by 15%! It is unjustifiable to invest Quebecers&#39; money in this section. The Caisse has very strict financial and commercial requirements for its partners - transport companies, for example. Why not have the same requirements for herself? Why did she accept this waste of more than a billion dollars? “Asked Alain Therrien.
In fact, the branch to Sainte-Anne-de-Bellevue increases the cost billed to the ARTM from 61 to 72 cents per passenger-km. In addition, this section represents 24% of the REM route, but only 12% of the projected ridership would use it. In comparison with the other branches of the REM, this would only provide 25% of daily trips on the South Shore section, and 34% of those on the Deux-Montagnes section.
“The BAPE spoke out against this section mainly because of insufficient demand and the failure to take into account the public transport needs of the West Island. Moreover, the extent of the destructuring of the Vaudreuil-Hudson line remains unknown to this day, but it is certain that the effect of the REM will be to weaken it, even to condemn it ”, for his part insisted Carole Poirier.
Indeed, according to the data submitted by CDPQ Infra to the BAPE hearings, on the fifty or so bus lines that serve the West Island, CDPQ Infra proposes to abolish 17, including 8 express, and to create 14 new feeder services in the West Island. Several other routes would be modified or created to bring users to the REM stations.
The Parti Québécois is asking the government to stop drawing political lines on the backs of public transit users in the West Island. Instead of the REM, it offers the Grand Déblocage, which notably includes effective and attractive solutions for the West:
Daily ridership in 2031 (% of total REM ridership)
Antenna length (% of total length of the REM)
