Quebec - The leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the Parti Québécois spokesperson for finances and revenue, Nicolas Marceau, the spokesperson for the economy, energy and natural resources, Alain Therrien, as well as the spokesperson for employment, vocational training, literacy and youth, Dave Turcotte, deplore the loss of 3,200 jobs in Quebec in January.
“The year 2016 has started very badly for Quebec. After the sale of Rona, one of our flagships, accepted and even applauded by Philippe Couillard, we learn that Quebec lost 3,200 jobs in January. The Liberal government, much too focused on austerity, should take note of the consequences of its laissez-faire in terms of the economy: the increase in job losses since coming to power, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
The fall in employment is therefore continuing in Quebec, whereas 3,500 jobs have been lost over the last 9 months, that is since April 2015. In comparison, during the same period, the rest of Canada created 111,300 jobs. . “It is sad to see that the Liberal government accepts this situation, that it watches the train go by without reacting. The Quebec economy is held back by liberal austerity and incompetence; As a result, the job losses add up. The slowdown is also being felt in terms of growth, which is practically zero, ”said Nicolas Marceau.
Since the arrival of Philippe Couillard&#39;s government, employment has stagnated. Every day, it moves further away from its promise to create 250,000 jobs. “The Liberal Party duped Quebecers during the election campaign. Its economic plan boils down to magical thinking. Worse, with Philippe Couillard&#39;s senseless decision to cancel the Anticosti project, it scares off investors in addition to making all Quebecers lose money, ”added Alain Therrien.
“Quebec, its regions and its families are suffering from this government&#39;s lack of vision and inertia. All over the country, jobs are being lost. The Liberals can no longer simply wait for iron prices to rise, it does not work and, in any case, the metals sector will not provide a job for all Quebecers who are looking for one! When will the government finally table a real economic policy to stimulate job creation in all regions of Quebec and for all sectors of activity? », Concluded Dave Turcotte.
