Montreal - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, has announced financial assistance of $ 50 million to the Société de la Place des Arts for various projects to upgrade the most important performing arts presentation complex in Quebec. The Minister made the announcement during a press briefing following his visit to the Place des Arts: yesterday, today, tomorrow exhibition, presented on the occasion of the institution&#39;s 50th anniversary.
&quot;The financial assistance announced today will help maintain quality assets and consolidate Place des Arts in its role as a cultural complex of international caliber for current and future generations of artists, cultural organizations and resident companies. and spectators. A door open to the greatest artists and a place for the blossoming of talent, Place des Arts can undoubtedly be an object of legitimate pride for Quebec society, ”declared Minister Maka Kotto.
The investments announced target several projects to maintain assets and reduce the maintenance deficit of Place des Arts infrastructure and equipment. Among these is the upgrading of the building, hall, foyers and equipment of Salle Wilfrid-Pelletier, the founding site, in 1963, of Place des Arts, this heritage building and the largest performance hall. in Quebec. Another part of the work relates more particularly to the repair of the waterproofing system and the redevelopment of the Esplanade at Place des Arts, a unique public square and festival anchor point in the heart of the Quartier des spectacles in Montreal.
The Department&#39;s contribution is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan, made public in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 2 billion for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make informed choices.
