Québec, August 24, 2017 - The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the spokesperson for secularism, Agnès Maltais, believe that the question of the place of the full veil in society, recently raised by the mayor of Quebec, is legitimate and deserves a clear answer.
“Unlike other parties, the Parti Québécois believes that the issue of the face covered in public space and demonstrations is not a taboo. We must name it and discuss it calmly, while respecting each other&#39;s positions. These are issues of identification, security, civility and symbols of women&#39;s rights. From the outset, we note that the responses provided by the Minister of Justice maintain confusion over the scope of the religious accommodations that Bill 62 will allow, ”said Jean-François Lisée first.
IN SHORT
The leader of the official opposition continues by calling for a break in the study of Bill 62, on the religious neutrality of the state. “We must take the time to hear from foreign experts on the reasons for their legislation and the results they make, to enlighten legislators and the public on these issues. &quot;
Indeed, several European countries have already banned, to varying degrees, the full face veil in public spaces. “If we were in power right now, we would mandate a committee of experts to take stock of foreign experiences and enforcement issues. We could then provide a Quebec answer to this question, in particular by taking into account our northern climate. We are therefore asking the government to act in this direction, ”added Agnès Maltais.
“The concerns of Quebecers are serious and our fellow citizens deserve better than to be taught moral lessons by a government prepared to put them on trial. If it persists, the Couillard government will further widen the gap between the political class and the will of Quebecers, ”concluded the leader of the official opposition.
Examples of the ban on the full-face veil around the world
Netherlands: On November 29, 2016, Dutch MPs passed a bill banning the wearing of the full Islamic veil in certain public places, such as schools, hospitals and public transport. However, the law does not target the street. Violators are liable to a fine of up to 405 euros.
Norway: In June 2017, a bill was introduced to ban full-face veils and balaclavas in education, from kindergarten to university.
Germany: Since April 2017, the full-face veil has been banned in the public service, but not in the public space. Citizens also have the obligation to remove their veil to identify themselves when necessary. In addition, six Länder (Baden-Württemberg, Bremen, Bavaria, Lower Saxony, North Rhine-Westphalia and Saarland) have passed a law prohibiting teachers from wearing conspicuous signs of religious affiliation. The Länder of Berlin and Hesse have extended this ban to all public officials.
Morocco: Since January 10, 2017, it is forbidden to manufacture or sell burqas.
France: Since the entry into force of the Law prohibiting the concealment of the face in public space, on April 11, 2011, &quot;[n] ul may not, in public space, wear an outfit intended to conceal his face&quot; ( article 1). The fine can reach 150 euros.
This law was challenged before the European Court of Human Rights, but the latter concluded that states have room for maneuver on these issues and that “the contested ban may therefore be regarded as proportionate to the aim pursued, to to know the preservation of &quot;living together&quot; ”.
Belgium: Entered into force on July 23, 2011, a law prohibits the full veil in all public spaces, including the street. Violators are liable to seven days in prison or a fine of 137.50 euros.
In July 2017, this law was validated by the European Court of Human Rights. The latter judged that the ban was a &quot;necessary measure&quot; in a democratic society to &quot;guarantee the conditions for living together in society&quot;.
Switzerland: Some Swiss cantons (including that of Ticino) already ban the full-face veil everywhere in public space, but a federal initiative in this direction was defeated in March 2017. A popular initiative to hold a referendum on the issue is however in progress. Classes.
West Africa: On December 17, 2015, the 15 Member States of the Economic Community of West African States (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, Côte d&#39;Ivoire, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone and Togo) have agreed to ban the full Islamic veil on their territory.
Cameroon: In response to Boko Haram attacks, Cameroon banned the full-face veil in the north of its territory, before extending it to the entire east and its coast in July 2015.
Bulgaria: On September 30, 2016, the country passed a law prohibiting the wearing of the full-face veil in public, except for health or professional reasons. Violators are liable to a fine of 1,500 leva (over $ 1,000 Canadian) and suspension of their social benefits.
Austria: Adopted in June 2017, the ban on full face veils in public spaces will come into force on October 1. A fine of 150 euros for people caught in default is provided for.
