Saint-Joachim– The Premier of Quebec and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix – Côte-de-Beaupré, Pauline Marois, today announced an agreement in principle of $ 958,000 for the restoration project of La Grande Ferme, a listed heritage building under the Cultural Heritage Act.
“I am delighted with this happy ending. La Grande Ferme is of heritage interest for both its historical and architectural value. In addition, this site conceals fascinating archaeological riches which inform us about our collective heritage. Its role in the community is of great importance, and the government wishes to preserve this jewel of the Côte-de-Beaupré which contributes to Quebec&#39;s identity, ”declared Premier Marois.
A technical audit was carried out in 2011 in order to determine the work to be carried out. The agreement in principle will make it possible to produce additional technical studies in order to properly supervise the interventions and ensure that their implementation will comply with heritage restoration practices.
Cladding masonry walls and covering the roof are part of large-scale maintenance interventions. Among the urgent works, let us note those of consolidation of the structure of the floors and consolidation of one of the walls. Other interventions will allow the restoration of the windows, the upgrading of the emergency staircase, the restoration of the gallery and the consolidation of the remains of the first church of Saint-Joachim, located on the site of La Grande Ferme.
La Grande Ferme was replaced in 1979 by an interpretation center. Indeed, the Heritage Initiation Center - La Grande Ferme&#39;s mission is to help the population discover the richness of Quebec&#39;s heritage. The restoration and upgrading work will enable the center to continue its educational mission.
“I would like to underline the exceptional work of the Heritage Initiation Center - La Grande Ferme, a museum institution which annually brings thousands of young people to discover Quebec&#39;s heritage,” concluded the Premier.
