Plessisville - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, has confirmed the payment of financial assistance totaling $ 1.62 million to two companies in Center-du-Quebec, Amex Bois Franc and BMG Environment. The financial support, granted through Investissement Québec, supports the realization of investment projects totaling more than $ 3.66 million and aimed at improved productivity.
&quot;Economic growth as well as maintaining and creating jobs in all regions are priorities for our government,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “As part of Quebec&#39;s industrial policy, we want to revive the manufacturing sector by acting on the main determinants of productivity, the only way to make businesses more competitive. Amex Bois Franc and BMG Environnement have understood this well. Their projects, which both aim to increase their productivity, will generate significant economic spinoffs for the Center-du-Québec region and for Quebec. &quot;
Founded in 1995, Amex Bois Franc operates in the primary wood processing sector. The project announced today, estimated at nearly $ 2.8 million, aims to acquire new equipment and kilns, in addition to building two new warehouses. The Quebec government, through Investissement Quebec, allocates loans totaling $ 1.26 million.
&quot;The support from the Quebec government will help us meet the growing demand for our products,&quot; said Pascal Vigneault, Director of Finance for Amex Bois Franc. “These investments in equipment and building construction will not only increase our production capacity, but also increase our productivity. As in many mature sectors, the key to remaining competitive is to ensure that we always produce with state-of-the-art equipment, in an optimal environment. &quot;
Founded in 1995, BMG Environnement designs and manufactures equipment, such as rotary screens and separators for fibers and containers, for the treatment of recyclable materials.
The company&#39;s project aims to develop and implement a new concept of recyclable material separator in several sorting centers in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
These centers will have a treatment capacity of 10,000 tonnes per day and will enable the separation and recovery of recyclable materials from municipal waste collection. The Quebec government is paying a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 360,000 to the company for this initiative valued at $ 900,000.
&quot;Our project calls for reinventing our ways of doing things, because the treatment of recyclable materials in Brazil and elsewhere in the world differs greatly from one country to another&quot;, raised the vice-president of BMG Environment, Mr. Luc Houde. . “The support from the Quebec government will help us break into this very promising market, in addition to contributing to the development of sustainable development in Rio de Janeiro. &quot;
&quot;We are redoubling our efforts to ensure that our manufacturing companies continue to start, grow, export and innovate in order to remain leaders and offer quality jobs in all our regions,&quot; concluded Élaine Zakaïb. .
About Investissement Québec Investissement Québec&#39;s mission is to promote the growth of investment in Québec, thereby contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions.
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
To find out more about the Economic Policy - Priority Employment, visit www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueeconomique.
