New York - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée, began her New York mission today.
At the invitation of the Foreign Policy Association, the Premier delivered a speech presenting the economic orientations and priorities of the Parti Québécois government. In front of an audience of nearly 300 people mainly from the business and finance world, she highlighted Quebec&#39;s many strengths as well as its vision for the future for the relationship between Quebec and its main American economic partner.
“The historic ties that unite Quebec and New York have always been fruitful, we want to go even further and further develop economic exchanges between us. I came to tell New Yorkers that Quebec is determined to roll up its sleeves and build a 21st century economy, open, strong and dynamic, ”declared the Premier.
In the morning, Ms. Marois and Mr. Lisée participated in the official opening of the first office of the Expansion Quebec network, a new support service offered to Quebec exporting companies, developed in partnership with Entreprise Rhône-Alpes International (ERAI). The Expansion Québec network will provide businesses with access to 14 business offices that will be opened abroad over the next four years. Quebec companies will also have access to the 27 ERAI offices around the world.
“Expansion Québec is part of an approach taken by the Québec government which aims to strengthen the permanent physical presence of Québec companies in foreign markets and thus accelerate their growth. It is through such initiatives that Quebec will ultimately be able to count on SMEs that are export champions and that will contribute to Quebec&#39;s prosperity, ”added the Premier.
The Premier later attended the Ballets Jazz de Montreal 40th anniversary party in New York City at the Joyce Theater. It should be noted that the series of shows for the 40th anniversary of the Ballets Jazz de Montréal had to be postponed due to Hurricane Sandy.
Remember that New York State is Quebec&#39;s largest trading partner in the United States. In 2011, the total value of trade was over C $ 8 billion. With nearly 6 billion Canadian dollars, exports to New York State represent 14% of all Quebec exports to the United States and nearly 10% of its total world exports. Trade and investment, energy, the environment and security are among the sectors of common interest between Quebec and New York State. In addition, New York City is home to one of the largest financial centers on the planet, where several Quebec bond issues are traded.
