Montreal – On this National Day of Indigenous Peoples, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, the Minister for Indigenous Affairs, Élizabeth Larouche, as well as the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy , Sylvain Gaudreault, met with the President of the Makivik Corporation, Jobie Tukkiapik, and the President of the Kativik Regional Government (KRG), Maggie Emudluk, in Montreal. The Premier took the opportunity to announce several measures intended for the Inuit of Nunavik.
“During this meeting, we discussed several priority issues for the Inuit nation and the vision of the populations of the 14 villages of Nunavik regarding northern development. We want to continue this nation-to-nation dialogue to move forward together towards the development of the North for all. The concrete measures that we are announcing today aim to respond to certain priorities of the Inuit nation, ”declared Ms. Marois.
The Premier and the President of the Makivik Corporation first signed Complementary Agreement No. 23, which amends the James Bay and Northern Québec Agreement to include the selection of Category I and Category I lands. II for the northern village of Ivujivik. Thus, the community will be able to count on some 5,000 km2 of land for its development.
Ms. Marois also announced the renewal of financial assistance of $ 5 million to the KRG to mitigate the effects of the high cost of living on the communities living in Nunavik, a territory characterized by remoteness, the absence of land links with the South and a harsh climate. It was also agreed during the meeting that the two parties will work on identifying effective and lasting solutions to this concern.
In addition, the Premier confirmed the granting of an annual budget of $ 1.4 million to the KRG to support the operations of Tursujuq National Park, the largest national park in Quebec and east of Continental North America.
For his part, the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Sylvain Gaudreault, announced the addition of an amount of $ 20,213,782 to mitigate the negative effects of climate change. in Nunavik, particularly with regard to municipal infrastructure in the village of Salluit.
Finally, the Government of Quebec delegates to the KRG the management of the “economic development” and “community infrastructure” components of the Native Initiatives Fund II. This fund, which reports to the Secrétariat aux affaires autochtones, includes an envelope specially intended for the Inuit nation. The two components total an amount of $ 28 million.
“Through these targeted actions, the government is demonstrating its willingness to take concrete action for the well-being of the Inuit population. We would like to support it in its objective of acquiring greater management autonomy and in that of exploiting all the possibilities open to it in terms of socioeconomic development, ”said Élizabeth Larouche.
