Saint-Bruno-de-Montarville– The Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, participate in the inauguration of the new Bombardier Transportation Prototyping Center. This project received financial support of $ 1.77 million from the Government of Quebec, an investment that also covers the construction of a new railway test track located in La Pocatière. In all, nearly 200 jobs will be created in Quebec thanks to this investment estimated at more than $ 19 million.
This design center is intended for prototyping and engineering testing for the design of new rail cars built by Bombardier Transportation in North America. It is located in Saint-Bruno-de-Montarville, near the head office of Bombardier Transport North America. It brings together in Quebec the North American activities of conception, design, prototyping, research and development of Bombardier Transport. In addition to the 200 jobs created, it consolidates 350 high-level jobs in engineering and research and development, and helps increase Bombardier Transportation&#39;s level of competitiveness in the North American market.
“This new center will allow Bombardier Transportation to maintain its competitive position in the North American market. It is essential for my government to support promising projects that help foster innovation to meet the challenges of globalization, ”said Prime Minister Pauline Marois.
“The main lever for development, productivity and economic diversification is innovation. Our government is therefore proud to support companies that innovate, because by innovating, we stand out and we create wealth, ”said Minister Pierre Duchesne.
Bombardier Transportation, the world&#39;s largest rolling stock manufacturer, is one of two divisions of Quebec-based Bombardier Inc. In North America, the company manufactures passenger rail cars in La Pocatière, Quebec, Thunder Bay, Ontario, Plattsburgh, United States, and Sahagun, Mexico. Bombardier Transportation has a global workforce of more than 36,000, of which some 900 work in the Montreal region and nearly 600 in La Pocatière.
&quot;The Prototyping Center will make it possible to derive the maximum synergy from expertise and promote greater commitment from our customers, suppliers and partners in research and development of cutting-edge technologies that can be integrated into our manufacturing processes&quot;, explained the president of Bombardier Transport North America, Mr. Raymond Bachant.
This financial support of $ 1.77 million from the Government of Quebec aims, among other things, to support the establishment and increase of private research activities in Quebec, to increase the pool of companies operating R&amp;D centers in Quebec and to create jobs with high added value.
