Quebec City, September 28, 2017– The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesperson for health, access to care and home support, Diane Lamarre, the spokesperson for the elderly , Harold LeBel, as well as social services, Dave Turcotte, once again denounced the reduction in services operated by the Liberal government in terms of home support. This is evidenced by the growing number of complaints and cases of mistreatment of seniors or people living with a disability, as reported in the Ombudsperson&#39;s most recent report.
IN SHORT
“The Ombudsperson is deflating the liberal balloon on the end of toxic austerity. Let us remember that the Liberals chose to reduce aid and support for the most vulnerable people, while they have again increased the remuneration of physicians and they are accumulating surpluses. Shame on the Prime Minister and his government for posting this record today, but they have expressed no regrets. It is deplorable, ”declared the leader of the official opposition.
“A lady with Alzheimer&#39;s had her services cut by 8 hours a week. Alzheimer&#39;s disease, however, is not reversible; needs increase, they do not decrease over time! This is one of the most glaring examples raised by the Ombudsperson. Serious cases of abuse have also been discovered. There is a race to the bottom, a reduction in services. Is this the transformation of Quebec promised by the Prime Minister? », Asked Diane Lamarre.
“The cases of mistreatment of the elderly in residential centers are unacceptable. The resources must be there, of course, but a broader reflection is necessary, since these situations are likely to multiply. In fact, in just 13 years, one in four Quebecers will be 65 or over, ”said Harold LeBel.
The spokesperson also underlines that it is paradoxical that this news falls at the very moment when the Minister responsible for Seniors is holding discreetly - by invitation! - a consultation on the Aging and Living Together policy. &quot;The issues of the aging of the population and the living conditions of the elderly deserve immediate action and a real public debate, as several groups and the 15,000 signatories of a petition filed last week are calling for,&quot; he said. added.
“Equally unacceptable is the marked increase in the number of complaints about people living with physical or intellectual disabilities. The cases raised seriously undermine the dignity of these people. Concrete actions must be taken to support them and their families, ”added Dave Turcotte.
No progress
The minister and even the Prime Minister tirelessly repeat that 700,000 Quebeckers were registered with a family doctor under their government. But, in its report, the Québec Ombudsman reveals the truth about the access point to a family doctor. “Patients are often undervalued; their erroneous priority rating means that they are stagnant on a waiting list, when their state of health requires urgent care. Even when their rating is &quot;A&quot;, which is the most urgent, the Québec Ombudsman reports that in at least one region of Quebec, a patient must wait no less than 3 years to be taken care of. In short, not only has the Minister posted a catastrophic record for the current year but, in addition, he fails miserably to respect the previous recommendations of the Ombudsperson, ”further deplored Diane Lamarre.
Strong plan for home support
Remember that the Parti Québécois team presented, on September 13, the second part of its solid health plan, focusing on home support. Our objectives are clear: to allow seniors or people living with a physical disability, mental or degenerative illness to stay at home, while adequately supporting family caregivers, and involve health professionals, social economy businesses and community organizations.
To do this, we plan to put in the necessary resources: at least $ 100 million additional per year for 5 years, or $ 500 million more in total.
