Lévis- The Premier of Quebec and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix-Côte-de-Beaupré, Ms. Pauline Marois, is pleased to confirm today that the City of Lévis will benefit from joint financial assistance of $ 12.6 million for the completion of the Lévis ferry sector revitalization and redevelopment project. This joint federal-provincial investment will be made under the Building Canada-Quebec Fund, Major Projects component.
“The signing of this agreement is an important step in the realization of this highly anticipated project by the population of Lévis and the municipal authorities. By supporting the revitalization and redevelopment of the ferry sector in Lévis, the Government of Quebec is demonstrating its commitment to providing quality public infrastructure for all. This is a fine example of a project that contributes to economic and social development, particularly for the city of Lévis and the Chaudière-Appalaches region. Our government is working with the municipalities of Quebec to develop our cities and regions and thus build a prosperous Quebec for all, ”declared Ms. Marois.
Remember that this project aims to carry out the first phase of redevelopment and revitalization of the Lévis ferry, in particular the redevelopment of the areas of the Paquet and Esplanade platforms, as well as the transformation of the station into a pavilion. reception and an interpretation center for local and tourist customers. Thanks to this redevelopment, the park and green space vocation will be privileged. There will be development of boardwalks, footpaths, cycle paths and parking areas will be reviewed from a multimodal perspective in order to provide more space for active transportation, such as cycling and walking.
These interventions will transform this urban sector into a unified and dynamic place. Ultimately, this project will also promote the reappropriation of the shores of the St. Lawrence River by the local and tourist population through recreational activities accessible to all.
At the end of the Major Projects component of the Canada-Quebec Building Fund, the total cost of this project is $ 19 million. The Government of Canada&#39;s contribution may go up to one-third of eligible costs, for a maximum amount of $ 6.33 million. The Government of Quebec will provide the same amount, namely $ 6.33 million. To these amounts is added a contribution of $ 6.34 million from the City of Lévis.
The Government of Quebec&#39;s contribution will be paid under the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, which now has a budget of $ 44.18 billion for the period 2011-2016.
These investments are part of the commitment of the governments of Canada and Quebec to help foster job creation and stimulate the economy to build thriving communities and a more prosperous Canada.
The federal government&#39;s contribution will come from the Major Projects component of the Building Canada Fund-Quebec, which aims to finance public infrastructure with a national or regional impact.
For more information on the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, visit the website www.infrastructures.gouv.qc.ca/plan-infrastructure/index.asp
