Quebec - Quebec Premier Pauline Marois will attend the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, January 23-26. She will promote investments in Quebec to decision-makers in the political, economic and financial sectors, in addition to presenting major government orientations, particularly in the area of economic development.
“Quebec has undeniable assets to ensure its economic growth in the current global context of uncertainty. A prosperous society capable of innovation, Quebec offers a highly favorable environment for investment and business development. We must build on these strengths and the Davos Forum is an essential meeting place to convey this message to decision-makers and economic partners in Quebec, ”declared the Premier.
The theme of this 43rd annual meeting is Resilient Dynamism. The Premier is invited by the Forum to participate in a workshop on responsible mining development. Mining represents a major part of the economy of Northern Quebec and of Quebec as a whole. From the perspective of northern development in Quebec, in particular, which offers strong mining potential, this workshop will discuss issues related to the responsible development of mining resources.
The Premier of Quebec is also one of the leaders invited to discuss the best public and private practices put forward to promote gender equality. Discussions will focus, among other things, on ways to further reduce the economic gender imbalance that persists in many societies.
In addition to the economic meetings on the program, talks of a political nature will allow the Premier to exchange views with key interlocutors in Quebec on several issues, including the fight against climate change and the draft Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the Canada and the European Union, as well as in bilateral cooperation.
The Government of Quebec has participated for more than 25 years in the annual meeting in Davos in order to promote its vision on major issues and develop its business relationships. In addition to heads of state and government and leaders of large companies, the Forum relies on the participation of several experts and representatives of international organizations and civil society.
Following her participation in the Forum, the Prime Minister will carry out a mission to the United Kingdom from January 27 to 29. She will be accompanied by the Minister responsible for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Alexandre Cloutier.
In London, she will present government priorities and promote Quebec to British political and business circles, notably during a forum at the Canada – United Kingdom Chamber of Commerce. Note that the United Kingdom is Quebec&#39;s leading economic partner in Europe.
Her visit to Edinburgh, the capital of Scotland and an important cultural center, will allow the Prime Minister to exchange views with political, economic and cultural players in the context where Quebec wishes to strengthen its cooperation ties with Scotland.
