Quebec - Quebec Premier Pauline Marois congratulates screenwriter and director Xavier Dolan on the success of his feature film Tom at the Farm at the 70th Venice Film Festival. In addition to winning the international critic&#39;s award, he saw his work selected in the official competition for the Golden Lion. Ms. Marois also wishes to underline the warm welcome received by the film Gerontophiliade Bruce LaBruce, presented at the opening of the Venice Days section.
“Being recognized at the Mostra elevates Xavier Dolan among the world&#39;s great filmmakers. All nations dream of having a young director with such artistic maturity. The public&#39;s reaction to this festival confirms that he was able to transpose this story of Michel Marc Bouchard admirably well from the stage to the big screen, ”declared the Prime Minister, Pauline Marois.
“Xavier Dolan has just written one of the most beautiful pages that any designer dreams of writing in his career. What&#39;s more, what is most impressive is to see so much talent emerge from this young man of 24 years ... All of Quebec can be proud of him! ”, Indicated the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto.
Yesterday evening in Venice, Tom at the farm was crowned with the International Critics&#39; Prize. Xavier Dolan also achieved a real tour de force by seeing his film be selected in the official competition for the Golden Lion. A long ovation of more than ten minutes followed the screening of Tom at the farm on September 2, a screening which took place in the presence of the director and the performers. Xavier Dolan, 24, directed and produced his film, in addition to having played the main role, alongside Pierre-Yves Cardinal, Lise Roy and Evelyne Brochu. The feature film is inspired by a play by Michel Marc Bouchard, and its theatrical release in Quebec is scheduled for this fall.
Bruce LaBruce is a nonconformist Toronto artist, writer, screenwriter, producer, photographer and director who has created more than a dozen films, some of which have been screened at festivals such as Berlin and Locarno. His most recent, Gerontophilia, is a majority Quebec co-production of 1976 Productions, by producer Nicolas Comeau. Screened at the opening of the 10th edition of Venice Days, a section on the sidelines of the competition, Gerontophiliamet stars the young Quebec actor Pier-Gabriel Lajoie. The film surprised Venice, also receiving a standing ovation.
The two feature films continue their journey this week, this time at the Toronto International Film Festival.
