G aspé– The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Minister for the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Gaétan Lelièvre, today unveiled the Strategy for government intervention for the development of the Gaspésie - Îles-de-la-Madeleine region. The result of an exercise carried out with the socioeconomic actors of this region, the Intervention Strategy is the result of consultations carried out in the region with regional partners and the ministries concerned.
“Our government&#39;s objective was to deliver an intervention plan to support the region&#39;s economic development by highlighting its multiple resources. It was important for us to act in harmony with the priorities of the population and respecting the fundamental principles of sustainable development. These are issues that are close to my heart, and that is why I have chosen to personally assume the presidency of the Ministerial Committee of Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine which developed this Strategy ”, declared the Minister. Prime Minister.
Workforce challenges will be at the heart of government intervention. If it appears impossible to completely break the seasonality that characterizes certain sectors, the government must support the region in order to reduce its magnitude. It is therefore essential to pursue the development of innovative sectors for which seasonality is not an issue, namely the wind industry and information and communications technologies.
In order to develop the exceptional resources of Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine, the Strategy will be based as much on the traditional sectors of the region&#39;s economy as on innovative sectors. Many projects, sites and ideas to be explored are planned within the framework of the Strategy, in particular major wind power development projects.
The government wishes to support initiatives promoting the development of the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region. “The objective of the Government Intervention Strategy is simple: to develop regional resources, maintain the exceptional quality of life that prevails in the territory, promote prosperity; in short, to promote the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine! », Indicated Minister Lelièvre, vice-president of the ministerial committee. Different mechanisms will be put in place to ensure that local, regional and government efforts converge towards concrete results. The government is proposing a five-year strategy to the region, the evolutionary approach of which will make it possible to support regional initiatives in a continuous and adapted manner.
