Gatineau– The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and the Minister of Public Security and Minister responsible for the Outaouais region, Stéphane Bergeron, made a major announcement aimed at allowing more women to give birth in the Outaouais.
These additional investments of $ 14.4 million demonstrate the desire of the Government of Quebec to strengthen the care and services offered in the Outaouais. Over the past 18 months, the government has in fact taken several steps to achieve this objective: it first tackled interregional inequity in the funding of health care, it created family medicine groups, and it has invested in home care and regional network facilities.
“Providing local care to the population of the Outaouais is an issue that is very close to our hearts. After recently announcing investments aimed at repatriating pediatric and ophthalmic care to the region, I am proud to announce today that we are launching a vast project that will increase the number of childbirths in the Outaouais, that whether in a hospital or a birth center, ”said the Prime Minister.
The 3rd floor of the Gatineau Hospital will be completely reconfigured, which will allow the installation of a modern unit of 32 obstetrics rooms called “TARP” (labor-delivery-recovery-postpartum). It is a very friendly formula for mothers, fathers, babies and families, since it allows to preserve the intimacy of the family and to favor the development of the bond of family attachment. A cesarean section will also be set up, thus avoiding moving patients to the operating room. The number of neonatal beds, authorized in January to 14, could possibly be increased to 16, as needs evolve. The new premises will also include two rooms for parents of newborns treated in neonatology, as well as reception and rest areas.
The GARE clinic (high-risk pregnancy) and the gyneco-obstetrics clinic will be grouped together on the 7th floor, thus promoting the optimization of outpatient services in this area. In addition, we will take advantage of this major project to carry out various works related, for example, to infection prevention, fire safety or earthquake protection.
According to Minister Réjean Hébert, “this project has the great merit of being based on a global vision of obstetrics, neonatology and pediatrics. The Outaouais will thus be at the forefront in these fields of practice, which will help, on the one hand, to better serve families in the region and, on the other hand, to support medical recruitment ”.
“Bringing services closer to the people is a priority for our government, and today&#39;s announcement clearly demonstrates the seriousness of our commitment in this regard. The concrete actions we are taking aim to meet a need and wish of the population to have access to quality care and services as close as possible to their homes, right here in the Outaouais. This is another excellent news for the region in terms of health care, ”added the Minister of Public Security and Minister responsible for the Outaouais region, Stéphane Bergeron.
The Outaouais Birth Center, which is currently cramped given the increased volume of activity since 1994, will move to a new building built near the CLSC de Gatineau. In addition, a point of service will be added on the territory of the Collines health and social services center, thus allowing better deployment of midwives in various sectors of the region.
It would thus be possible to double within a few years the number of births entrusted to midwives in the Outaouais, whether in birthing centers, at home or in hospitals, in order to meet the demand for &#39;an ever-growing number of women.
The projects confirmed today by Ms. Marois and Dr. Hébert will be jointly funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services ($ 8,316,000) and by the Outaouais Health and Social Services Agency (5 $ 386,000). A contribution of $ 750,000 will also be provided by the Gatineau Health Foundation. The budget for specialized medical equipment and furniture will be confirmed later, as is always the case in this type of project.
All these sums are in addition to the investments announced last December and January, namely $ 1,729,000 in the field of neonatology and $ 2,566,000 in the field of ophthalmology.
“Our government is very sensitive to the specific situation of Gatineau and the Outaouais, resulting in particular from the proximity of the services available in Ottawa and in Eastern Ontario. Regional and local players have worked very hard to define effective and viable solutions, and we are proud to support them in a tangible way in the development of a robust and balanced regional healthcare offer ”, concluded the Prime Minister.
