Rimouski– The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister for Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, Pascal Bérubé, and the Member of Parliament for Rimouski, Irvin Pelletier, announced an investment of $ 630,000 to the Center for Research on Marine Biotechnologies (CRBM) for carrying out its scientific research and development activities.
“The Quebec marine biotechnology sector represents significant growth potential, not only for the Bas-Saint-Laurent, but also for all of Quebec. Within this niche of maritime excellence, the CRBM is a leading ally. It has seen its number of partners drop from 6 to 17, and its research involves a growing number of external researchers. My government is therefore proud to support it in carrying out its mission, ”declared the Premier.
“The announced financial assistance supports the booming biotechnology sector. The 32% increase in the number of CRBM clients in three years - from 50 in 2009 to 66 in 2012 - bears witness to this. The CRBM is a renowned institution in its field, and it is important for our government to support its activities. It also contributes to the training of future researchers who will be able to demonstrate innovation and who will make Quebec shine. This is great news! “, Said Pascal Berubé.
“This financial assistance will allow the CRBM to carry out activities in highly technological niches. For example, we can mention the valorization of marine co-products, macroalgae as well as micro-organisms and micro-algae aimed at the development of high added value products, such as biopharmaceutical ingredients, nutraceuticals and bioproducts, including biofuels ” , added Irvin Pelletier.
In addition to contributing to training, the CRBM ensures links between university institutions and private companies. This positioning between academic research and industry is directly linked to the orientations of the National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI), launched last October.
The financial assistance granted to the CRBM by the government comes from the Research Support Program, Part 1: Support for research projects or for strategic research organizations and groups.
The PNRI is part of the four strategic initiatives of the Economic Policy Priority Employment, launched last fall by the Prime Minister. This policy is the result of numerous consultations held with stakeholders from all sectors concerned by research and innovation: businesses, educational establishments, the State and society. With an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion over five years, it will help advance Québec in the knowledge and innovation society.
For more information on the PNRI, visit http://www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca/PNRI/.
