Lac-Mégantic– During an official ceremony held today, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, warmly thanked the people who, from the first hours following the Lac-Mégantic tragedy, came to the aid of the population . “You have provided extraordinary support to victims and disaster victims. You have shown enormous dedication in conditions that are as exceptional as they are trying. Most of you knew the victims. They were among your parents, your friends, your relatives. Today, all of Quebec join me in paying tribute to your courage during this ordeal, ”declared the Premier.
The people honored were mainly part of the emergency teams, namely members of the police and fire departments of Lac-Mégantic and neighboring towns. In addition, during the ceremony, Mayor Colette Roy-Laroche received a mark of recognition for her contribution, as did many employees of the City of Lac-Mégantic. Members of the personnel of the ministries arrested during the first hours following the tragedy, namely the Ministry of Public Security, the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, as well as the Ministry of Health and Social Services, and a few civilians were also honored.
On the sidelines of the ceremony, Pauline Marois met representatives of the families of the victims. She also unveiled the model of a commemorative plaque that will be given to the municipality.
“On July 6, 2013, all of Quebec woke up in consternation. We remain deeply marked by it. Five months later, we salute your capacity for resilience. This plaque will be offered to you as a symbol of our deep compassion and our support in your process of mourning and reconstruction. We will be with you until the city of Lac-Mégantic is rebuilt, ”concluded the Premier.
For the occasion, Ms. Marois was accompanied by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron, the Minister of Public Security, Stéphane Bergeron, the Minister of Health and Services Social Affairs and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister responsible for Social Services and Youth Protection, Véronique Hivon.
