Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Minister-President of the French Community of Belgium and Minister-President of the Walloon Region, Rudy Demotte, today signed in Quebec a joint declaration aimed at strengthening exchanges between Quebec and Wallonia-Brussels.
“For 40 years, sharing a language has fostered the establishment of lasting and diversified links between Quebecers and French-speaking people in Belgium. So much so that the French Community of Belgium and the Walloon Region are today among our most important partners in terms of institutional cooperation. With this declaration, we wish to further deepen our relations on the political, linguistic, scientific and economic levels ”, declared the Prime Minister.
The two heads of government thus identify new cooperation priorities. They call in particular for the intensification of faculty and student mobility, the development of new collaborations between Walloon competitiveness clusters and Quebec clusters of excellence, as well as the implementation of joint actions in the area of international development. , especially on the African continent.
This declaration was signed at the end of the official visit to Quebec by Minister-President Demotte. On this occasion, he met with the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée, the Minister of &#39;Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Pierre Duchesne, and the Minister of Families, Nicole Léger.
The Minister-President visited companies in the aeronautics sector, in addition to participating in the annual meeting of Aéro Montréal in the company of Minister Marceau. A collaboration agreement between the Aéro Montréal and Skywin Wallonie industrial clusters has contributed, since 2007, to strengthening the links between Quebec and Walloon companies in the aeronautical sector, one of the most important in terms of economic exchanges.
Mr. Demotte also visited scientific facilities at the University of Montreal. This institution is part, with the Free University of Brussels and the University of Geneva, of a group of French-speaking universities of excellence, the G-3, which aims to increase the quality of research and training activities as well as as their international influence.
In the company of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Marie Malavoy, the Minister-President took part in an activity that enabled young Quebecers and Walloons to discuss the impact of their experience with the Office Québec Wallonie Bruxelles pour la jeunesse (OQWBJ). About 700 of these young people participate annually in OQWBJ programs, particularly in professional development and mentoring.
“Our collaborations today echo important issues of the new millennium, including identity, research, innovation and creativity, student mobility and the internationalization of our activities. I hope that the commitments made today will contribute to the development of relations between our societies, ”concluded the Prime Minister.
Cooperation with the three French-speaking entities of Belgium, namely the Walloon Region, the French Community of Belgium and the Brussels-Capital Region, is the most important after that with France. Some 70 cooperation projects, in the priority sectors of the environment, information technologies and aeronautics, are currently being carried out through the support of the Permanent Joint Commission Quebec / Wallonia-Brussels.
