La Malbaie - Quebec Premier Pauline Marois today confirmed the renewal of the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement for Charlevoix. This agreement aims to involve the partners in the achievement of regional priorities for the development of the tourism offer in order to maximize the contribution of this industry to the regional economy. By 2015, an amount of nearly $ 2 million will be invested to achieve this objective.
“Tourism is an increasingly competitive sector on a global scale. It is therefore imperative to strengthen Charlevoix&#39;s power of attraction and improve its offer in this area. Promoting synergy and networking between partners, this agreement represents a lever aimed at supporting structuring projects that take into account regional priorities and the distinctive character of Charlevoix. We must therefore unite our efforts and share our expertise in order to propel our region even further, ”stressed the Prime Minister.
According to the terms of the agreement, government assistance granted until 2015 breaks down as follows: $ 600,000 will come from Tourisme Québec, an amount of $ 400,000 will be allocated by the Bureau de la Capitale-Nationale, while the Ministry of Culture and Communications will pay the sum of $ 30,000. For its part, Tourisme Charlevoix will devote $ 600,000 to it, the Regional Conference of Elected Representatives (CRÉ) of the Capitale-Nationale commits to paying the sum of $ 206,000, while the local development centers (CLD) of Charlevoix and de Charlevoix Est will each spend $ 75,000.
“As the instigator of the first tourism agreement concluded in Charlevoix in 2003, the CRÉ is counting more than ever on a strong tourism industry in order to continue the economic development of the region. In doing so, it hopes to contribute to reducing the significant gaps that persist between the different territories in terms of economic activity and employment, and thus facilitate the achievement of an optimal quality of life for the entire population ” , declared the president of the regional conference of elected officials of the Capitale-Nationale, Yves Germain.
“In a tourist territory like that of the MRC de Charlevoix, a tourism partnership agreement is very important to ensure the creation of structuring jobs and the strength of the local economy,” said the president of the CLD de Charlevoix, Claudette Simard. .
“The tourism industry is an important economic driver for our region; The Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement supports the development of the tourism offer and, by the same token, improves our economic situation, ”said the president of the Charlevoix East CLD, Jean-Pierre Gagnon.
“Tourisme Charlevoix is delighted with the renewal of this agreement. In addition to allowing players to benefit from the financial resources necessary to innovate and consolidate multiple projects, it allows Tourisme Charlevoix to fully play its role with the industry. It also contributes to the growth as well as to the economic and tourism development of Charlevoix, ”concluded the president of Tourisme Charlevoix and president of the management committee of the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement, Éric Desgagnés.
The results of the previous agreement show that a total amount of $ 1,314,464 was paid to 35 regional projects, representing tourism investments estimated at $ 6,829,668. Financial support was granted, among other things, for the restoration of the building that houses the Forge Riverin in La Malbaie, as well as for the development of reception and service infrastructures of the Port-au-Persil pole of the Le Saumon tourist park. de la Rivière Malbaie, and for the Christmas market equipment.
