Montreal - Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, places students at the heart of her commitments in education. “Our goal is clear: to ensure that by 2020, two out of three students graduate on time and that 80% of students graduate before the age of 20, as the best guarantee for finding a job. paying job is to have a diploma, ”said the premier.
For the occasion, Ms. Marois was surrounded by a solid team of candidates bringing together several fields of expertise and a diversity of talents: Léo Bureau Blouin (Laval -des- Rapides), Diane De Courcy (Crémazie), Martine Desjardins (Groulx ), Véronique Fournier (Saint-Henri – Sainte-Anne) and Lorraine Pintal (Verdun).
“Ensuring that all students have a chance to succeed is an ambition that all Quebecers must share. To achieve this, the student must be at the center of our efforts. We want to put in place a very first national policy to fight against dropping out of school. This is the first time that a party has proposed such an ambitious policy, a real global vision so that we can, together, counter this scourge. Quebec would thus become one of the nations with the best graduation rate in the world. This is a national priority, which will allow us to create sustainable jobs. This is what we are committed to, ”said Pauline Marois.
This future policy will be organized around five axes:
We will continue to set up 4-year-old kindergartens in disadvantaged areas, at the same time as the deployment of the network of reduced-contribution childcare services, which will promote the early detection of children who may be behind schedule.
We will make the school an attractive, stimulating and welcoming environment for students, ensuring that they evolve in a healthy and safe environment. We are also planning initiatives to promote culture at school. We will be inspired in particular by the model of the School City of East Angus.
In order to allow everyone to succeed, we want to better support students with disabilities, social maladjustments or learning difficulties. In this regard, we will continue to deploy 600 professionals in our schools.
We need to support the mobilization of actors from all regions. We also want to strengthen the cohesion of the various partners in the school environment, the business world and the community. There are already several initiatives in some regions that are yielding impressive results and we want to build on them.
Promoting vocational training, that is to say helping young people to obtain a rewarding diploma or qualification, is another way of getting them to hang on to school. In this regard, we will continue the investments announced for vocational training centers under the Economic Policy Priority Employment.
At the same time, the Parti Québécois intends to adopt a complementary policy to that on dropping out of school, namely a national policy for adult education and continuing education. This will have two objectives: to advance literacy and promote labor mobility. The government of the Parti Québécois is the source of the first policy in this area. Unfortunately, the action plan, which expired in 2007, was never renewed by the Liberal government.
“In closing, I would like to stress the importance of valuing the work of our teachers. They are the ones who are on the front line, day after day, to support, encourage and pass on their knowledge to our students. The teaching profession presents great challenges for those who practice it. I therefore want to take this opportunity to make a personal commitment: to promote the teaching profession by ensuring that teachers are recognized as essential partners in the success of our students, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
Watch the press conference.
