Visiting the prestigious platform of the Conseil des relations internationales de Montréal (CORIM), the leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the vice ‑ chef and spokesperson for family and justice, Véronique Hivon , presented their plan, their vision for Quebec to become and remain one of the most successful nations in the world: to make everyone&#39;s success a collective project.
IN SHORT
“Véronique and I, and all the members of our team, want to offer Quebecers the opportunity to make an essential choice during the upcoming election. A choice that will mark our collective life in the coming years and yield results for the decades to come: focusing on education, training, and the cultural, social, human and economic enrichment of Quebecers themselves ”, first declared Jean ‑ François Lisée.
Véronique Hivon, for her part, insists on the importance of social mobility. “Every young girl, every young boy, needs to know that the future is not frozen in time. That studies, work, determination really matter. That he or she has a real chance to make his dreams come true, regardless of his or her social or economic starting point. &quot;
In the eyes of the leader of the official opposition, only a strong state can allow such a thing. “Our political opponents propose to engage us in a cycle of tax cuts. Not us. Because a strong, flexible and efficient State is a sine qua non for guaranteeing the availability and quality of services, and avoiding an explosion of inequalities, ”he said.
Protect the services offered to young people
On behalf of the next Parti Québécois government, Véronique Hivon made a commitment: to adopt a “shield” law against the cuts that affect the protection, development and success of young people. “This is a strong, unprecedented gesture. We are going to protect, in legislation, the budgets for educational childcare services, education from elementary to post-secondary level and youth protection. And an independent third party, such as the Auditor General, will be responsible for ensuring that it is respected by all successive governments. “Cutbacks” will never rhyme with “education” again. This is tangible proof that we want to make education the nation&#39;s permanent priority, ”she said.
Fight against illiteracy and illiteracy
Building on this momentum, Jean-François Lisée made a second commitment: launching the Quebec Literacy Decade. &quot;It will be necessary to mobilize the experts and the extraordinary current network for the fight against illiteracy, to concretely engage companies, workers&#39; associations, media partners, up to tens of thousands of teachers and retired professionals!&quot; And, above all, we will have to convince this Quebecer out of five who manages to navigate society without reading or writing to come out of his shell, to take the challenge of knowledge. This great project is first and foremost human, but it is also economic, cultural and democratic, ”he insisted.
“Of all the strategies to increase wealth, the one we are unveiling today, and to which we will add components over the next few months, is all-encompassing: enriching Quebecers themselves culturally, socially, humanly, economically. Enable citizens, all citizens, to find the means for their development. It is both the means and the objective. It is both the path and the destination, ”concluded Jean ‑ François Lisée.
