Quebec City, January 25, 2017 - While there is a lot of talk about mental health in the public sphere and National Suicide Prevention Week is fast approaching, Diane Lamarre, Parti Québécois health spokesperson, accessibility to care and home support, notes that the Liberal government is neglecting investments in this area. It demands that the Couillard government devote more resources to it.
“With the arrival of the Liberal government, mental health took four hits. First, in the fall of 2015, the Minister of Health announced a mental health action plan of $ 70 million over 5 years. We expected, of course, $ 14 million per year for 5 years… but that is not what happened. There was no money for 2016 or 2017. In fact, there will be no money for this plan until the 2018 general election. Without money, it is more difficult to have money. actions that improve services, among other things with regard to supervised housing, yet provided for in the action plan, ”denounced Diane Lamarre.
“The underfunding of mental health services has other concrete consequences. Almost 30% of people needing a first intervention finally have access to care after more than 30 days, therefore outside the acceptable timeframe. In the Laurentians, the average access time for a user is 45 days. In Abitibi-Témiscamingue, it is 40 days and, in Outaouais, 50 days. And the longer people wait, the more likely they are to sink into the disease. Ultimately, it costs society more ”, then explained the MP.
In addition, the fact of emptying the CLSCs in favor of private clinics was another serious mistake of the Liberal government. “By forcing the transfer of social workers and other professionals from CLSCs to family medicine groups, the Liberal government is privatizing psychosocial care. We have moved from community and preventive medicine to curative medicine. We are also concerned that the clientele who used the services of the CLSCs may not be the same as those of the FMGs, ”continued the spokesperson.
The latest blow to mental health is the minister&#39;s dire record as an employer. “According to a recent survey conducted by the Alliance of Professional and Technical Personnel in Health and Social Services, the APTS, among its members, 60% of them indicated that they were in a situation of high or very high psychological distress. . Not only is the minister neglecting the mental health of Quebecers, he is also neglecting that of his own employees. It is difficult to make a system more efficient in this context, ”concluded Diane Lamarre.
