Quebec - This afternoon at a press conference held at the Baie-Comeau river station, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, Minister for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for the riding of Matane-Matapédia, in the presence of Mr. Marjolain Dufour, Member of Parliament for René-Lévesque, responsible for the Côte-Nord region and Chief Government Whip, on behalf of Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs , Regions and Land Occupancy, and Mr. Georges Farrah, President and CEO of the Société des traversiers du Québec (STQ), had the privilege of unveiling the name of the future ferry crossing Matane-Baie -Comeau-Godbout currently under construction: leF.-A.-Gauthier, in honor of Mr. Félix-Adrien Gauthier. This important merchant, entrepreneur and mayor of Matane (from 1960 to 1963) founded with a few investors the navigation company Traverse Matane-Godbout ltée in 1959. Mr. Gauthier was the initiator and promoter of this vital project for the regions of the Gaspésie and Côte-Nord.
Mr. Bérubé also disclosed the name of one of the two passenger lounges, the “Salon Capitaine-Henri-Piuze”. A native of Matane, this captain is considered one of the founders of the navigation company Traverse Matane-Godbout ltée. “Since its creation, the ferry has continued to renew itself and adapt to the many needs of its customers. Without a doubt, the arrival of the imposing NM F.-A.-Gauthier will exert an undeniable appeal that will give new impetus to the regional tourism industry. »He stressed.
For his part, Mr. Marjolain Dufour had the honor of revealing the name of the second passenger lounge, the “Salon Capitaine-Joseph-Hovington”. Originally from the North Shore, Mr. Hovington was the first captain to make regular crossings between Matane and the North Shore, from 1938 to 1961. Mr. Dufour specified: “Captain Hovington demonstrated, by his tenacity and his know-how, that a maritime link between the North Shore and the Gaspé Peninsula was viable and desirable. It was daring to exploit this interrelated service so far in the St. Lawrence Estuary. &quot;
“I am delighted with the choice of names for the new ship and the passenger lounges. Well anchored in the history of Quebec, these personalities have played an important role in the economic and maritime life of the regions served by the Matane-Baie-Comeau-Godbout ferry &quot;, for his part, mentioned Mr. Farrah.
Ms. Lorraine Richard, Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Transport for the maritime transport component and Member of Parliament for Duplessis, for her part declared: “I am very happy with the names that have been chosen, they rightly honor the men who have built this bond. essential between our two regions. I would remind you that this ferry remains the only one in service all year round between the Gaspé and the North Shore ”.
It was after a competition, held from March 18 to May 21, 2013, that a jury made up of former STQ presidents chose the name of the future vessel from among more than 700 proposals. Due to the high quality of the proposals received, the jury decided that the two passenger lounges would be named after people who have distinguished themselves in the history of the Gaspé or the North Shore.
During the press conference, Mr. Bérubé presented a prize of $ 500 to the big winner for the name of Mr. Félix-Adrien Gauthier, Ms. Lucille Rioux Gauthier from Matane, represented for the occasion by Mr. Michel Gauthier Patry. The latter will become the godmother of the ship during her official baptism. Mr. Dufour, for his part, presented a prize of $ 250 to Mr. Yves Perron of Sept-Îles, the winner for the name of Mr. Henri Piuze. The winner for the name of Mr. Joseph Hovington, Ms. Paulette Hovington of Baie-des-Sables will receive a prize of $ 250.
