Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, today officially launched the National Policy on Rurality 2014-2024 in the Legislative Council Chamber of the National Assembly. She was accompanied for the occasion by the Minister for the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie – Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Gaétan Lelièvre, and the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy and Minister of Transport, Sylvain Gaudreault.
“It is with great pride that I take part in the launch of this policy, which is fully consistent with all the measures provided for in one of the four pillars of our government action, namely that of solidarity, including he objective is to make Quebec a more egalitarian and prosperous society. By presenting this policy, with a budget of half a billion dollars, my government is reaffirming its commitment to rural areas and its intention to contribute to their prosperity. The National Policy on Rurality will make it possible to build a Quebec that is richer, more united and more proud, a strong Quebec in each of its territories, ”declared the Premier.
With a budget of $ 470 million over 10 years, the 2014-2024 National Rurality Policy provides for increased resources to support rural communities in their development efforts. Among these means, let us note:
The government also reiterates its full confidence in Solidarité Rurale du Québec and grants it financial support of $ 8.5 million over ten years so that the organization can undertake a renewed mandate as an advisory body in matters of rurality.
“The result of many discussions and consultations, this policy is based on a distinctive element, namely the capacity of rural areas to work on an intersectoral basis. This innovative approach to development aims to rally the actors of the various sectors of activity around a common vision and to ensure the complementarity of their actions in order to optimize the positive effects and avoid costly duplication. This new way of doing things is decisive for the occupation of the territory and rurality in Quebec, which is why we owe it to ourselves to consider it the best way to take for the future of our communities, ”stated Minister Lelièvre.
This new commitment was materialized by the signing of a joint declaration in favor of rurality by the Prime Minister, the Minister for the Regions, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy and representatives of the partners. of rurality, namely the Association of Local Development Centers of Quebec, the Quebec Federation of Municipalities, Rural Solidarity of Quebec and the Union of Quebec Municipalities.
“It is a real citizens&#39; policy with decentralized measures that we are launching today. A policy that will allow each community to devote itself to carrying out promising initiatives that reflect its reality and its specificities. Ultimately, by relying on the MRC as the pivot of rural development, the National Policy on Rurality illustrates the government&#39;s desire to move towards greater decentralization and will ensure the prosperity and sustainability of rural Quebec ”, concluded Minister Gaudreault.
The policy launched today is in line with the government orientations on which the “Solidarity” pillar is based, one of the four pillars of government action, along with integrity, prosperity and identity. These guidelines, made public on October 30 by Prime Minister Pauline Marois, will guide the government&#39;s action in implementing measures aimed at improving the well-being of the most vulnerable individuals and families. The government thus wants to give new impetus to solidarity, a value inseparable from collective wealth.
Consult the official documents on the website of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy. React on the Parti Québécois blog to the post by Pauline Marois.
