Montreal - As part of the Great Meetings on School Perseverance, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, today kicked off the development of the first national policy on fight against dropping out of school.
“We want to transform each child&#39;s taste for learning into a taste for success. By entrusting me with the development of this first national policy, the Premier wanted Quebec to set itself ambitious but realistic objectives to counter school dropout. By 2020, we want to ensure that two out of three students graduate on time, that 80% of students graduate before the age of 20, and that Quebec becomes one of the nations with the best. best graduation rate in the world, ”said Minister Malavoy.
The Minister set out three main guiding principles that will guide the development of the new policy.
Marie Malavoy today kicked off the development of the first national policy to fight against early school leaving. // (c) Mathieu Leblanc
Quebec must give itself a global vision to counter dropping out of school. It becomes imperative to encompass the various initiatives that are taking place both in the school environment and in civil society in order to bring them together around a common collective project. We must all move in the same direction to ensure that our actions are articulated in a coherent way around measures defined by all the actors concerned.
To counter dropping out of school, the Quebec government intends to step up mobilization more than ever. Dropping out is not only a school problem, but a social problem, and it is in society and through its members that it can be solved. Hence the importance of reinforcing the cohesion of actors in the school network, the community, the working environment and parents around common values and principles aimed at countering dropping out.
“Beyond the statistics, there is a young person whose name, address and, often even, the difficulties he has to face. When his perseverance is put to the test, it is our duty to hold his hand and especially not to let go. One of the guiding principles that will guide our fight against dropping out of school will be personalized support at the national level to help each student to exploit their full potential. No student will leave the school benches without a visit, calls and appropriate follow-up, ”continued the Minister.
“I know that this national policy on dropping out of school was expected. This is the first time that a government has proposed such an ambitious policy, a real global vision so that we can counter this scourge together, &quot;concluded Minister Malavoy. React on the Parti Québécois blog!&quot; , think big! », A post from Pauline Marois
