Quebec - The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane De Courcy, today tabled the Quebec Immigration Plan for 2014 at the National Assembly . It also announced an investment for the next three years of $ 57 million, including $ 13.5 million in additional funding for the francization of immigrants. The amounts allocated will make it possible to increase and diversify the francization services offered to immigrants, abroad and in Quebec. This flagship measure of the Québec strong in immigration action plan is one of 24 measures aimed at maximizing the contribution of immigration to Québec&#39;s economic, cultural and social development.
The government&#39;s objective is to admit between 49,500 and 52,500 immigrants in 2014 and between 48,500 and 51,500 in 2015, of which at least 65% are economic class immigrants. “I would remind you that the plan I am tabling today is part of the 2012-2015 multi-year plan established by the previous government. The latter aimed at a gradual stabilization of immigration levels with a target of 50,000 admissions at the end of the period 2012-2015, but in fact, the target set for 2012 was exceeded with more than 55,000 immigrants and volumes. have so far remained high, ”said the Minister.
“I believe,” she added, “that it is essential to slightly reduce immigration levels and increase the budget devoted to the integration and francization of immigrants. This should allow the government to achieve a balance, in the short term, between the number of admissions and the integration support offered to ensure that people who choose Quebec can achieve their life project there. &quot;
The Minister also indicated that in order to maintain an efficient and efficient immigration system, she intends to modernize the Immigration Act which was adopted in 1968. This will notably allow the development of a new system based on the &quot;declaration of interest&quot;. . This innovative method will make it possible to continuously choose the candidates who best meet the needs of Quebec, and more particularly the needs of employers and regions. Also, as a result, we will be able to eliminate the long waits that applicants for immigration all too often have to endure.
The Minister also wishes to soon review the policy statement on immigration, introduced more than 20 years ago, and to consult the population of Quebec to establish the orientations and levels of immigration for the next multi-year planning.
The 2014 Quebec Immigration Plan has as a corollary the action plan A Quebec strong in its immigration. While immigration planning for 2014 aims to select an immigration capable of meeting the economic and demographic needs of Quebec and contributing to the sustainability of French, the common language, &quot;the measures and investments announced in francization and integration show the government&#39;s firm intention to allow all newcomers to live and work in French everywhere in Quebec, ”said Minister Diane De Courcy.
The implementation of the action plan A Quebec strong in immigration, certain measures of which have been started in recent months, will last until 2016. This plan, drawn up at the end of a tour of the Minister in the 17 regions of Quebec, is structured around six axes:
For more information on the action plan, visit the Department&#39;s website at www.micc.gouv.qc.ca/unquebecfort.
