Montreal - As part of the Forum de la famille québécoise, which is taking place today in Montreal, the Minister of Families, Ms. Nicole Léger, underlined the importance of the additional financial support granted to family community organizations and to the stops - community day care centers announced last October 30 by the Premier, Ms. Pauline Marois. On this occasion, the Premier made public the policy and initiative document Solidarity: a wealth for Quebec. This presents the innovative vision of solidarity at the heart of government action over the next three years and the structuring measures that will be put in place, stemming from the solidarity pillar.
“The measures that will be put in place in the area of solidarity bear witness to our desire to ensure the well-being of families and to give each and everyone the opportunity to contribute to the development of the community. They are part of the inclusive vision of solidarity that the government will put at the heart of all its actions, ”said Minister Nicole Léger.
Among the measures announced in the area of solidarity, let us mention the following.
Family community organizations play an essential role in the life of families and communities. Their approach is unique and responds to needs very close to the daily life of families. They also allow parents to develop their parenting skills, strengthen the parent-child relationship and come out of isolation. The Department financially supports 283 family community organizations (OCFs) which, in turn, provide significant support to more than 100,000 Quebec families annually.
To further support the action of these organizations with parents and children, the annual funding of OCFs, which is currently $ 19.4 million, will be increased by $ 5 million, an increase of 25%. This support will make it possible in particular to make a financial catch-up for certain OCFs and to increase by 2% the subsidy to support the overall mission of all the OCFs.
Community drop-in centers offer parents a temporary daycare service so that they can participate in francization or social or professional integration activities. Through the Financial Support Program for Community Day Nurseries, the Ministère de la Famille is currently providing overall assistance of $ 3.85 million annually to support the community daycare activities of 248 community organizations.
Over the next three years, additional financial support of $ 2.86 million will increase the number of hours of attendance per subsidized child by 3%, welcome 20 new organizations that offer these services to parents and index the program budget by 2% annually.
“Family community organizations and community day care centers are important partners in our action in favor of children and families in Quebec. The additional financial support that will be granted to them will allow them to pursue their basic mission, ”said Minister Nicole Léger.
