Quebec - The Member of Parliament for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, welcomes the unanimous adoption of the motion he tabled, recognizing that Native residential schools were a tool of cultural genocide against Indigenous nations of Quebec and asking the governments of Quebec and Canada to implement the recommendations of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada.
“Everyone agrees, residential schools are one of the darkest pages in Canadian history. As early as 1870, these schools were set up to eliminate the role of native parents in the intellectual, cultural and spiritual development of their children. This policy aimed to destroy the culture, the way of life, the traditions, the language and the indigenous families ”, declared Pierre Karl Péladeau.
Recently, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada released its report, the result of seven years of work. “The Government of Quebec and all governments in Canada must act on it, so that we are all aware of this part of history, and so that the Aboriginal nations can look to the future. I salute the gesture made by elected officials today; it is a step in that direction. The government of Quebec must also pursue its policy aimed at maintaining harmonious relations and partnerships with the First Nations and the Inuit nation, ”continued the leader of the official opposition.
The motion passed unanimously reads as follows:
“That the National Assembly recognize that the Native residential schools were a tool of cultural genocide against the Native nations of Quebec.
That the National Assembly ask the government of Quebec and the government of Canada to implement the recommendations of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada.
That the National Assembly reiterate that Québec&#39;s action, with regard to the Aboriginal nations, is still based on the 15 principles adopted by the National Assembly in 1985, which recognize the rights of the First Nations and the Inuit nation, and lay the foundations for relations between our nations. &quot;
