Quebec - “By unanimously adopting a formal and official motion, the National Assembly rejects the provisions of Bill C-10 which go against the values and interests of Quebec. The Conservative government and Quebec members in the House of Commons must therefore understand that Bill C-10 does not pass. In this case, they must respect the will of Quebec ”.
This was stated by the member for Joliette and official opposition critic for justice, Véronique Hivon, who had a motion adopted in the National Assembly.
This motion states:
“Our Quebec model of justice for adolescents is an effective model. As a result, we have one of the lowest crime rates in America. Why should something that is working well be undone? Asks Véronique Hivon, happy that the Liberal government is breaking its silence and finally decides to formally oppose the provisions of Bill C-10, which will have considerable negative impacts.
She noted that it took a two-hour debate and a vote to finally know publicly the position and attitude that the Liberal government intended to take on this important federal bill. “It was worrying to say the least that he hadn&#39;t heard of his position. Quebecers have the right to know whether their government is defending their values and their interests. In any event, I am delighted that the National Assembly speaks with one voice on this issue, which is fundamental for the future of our justice system and of our society as a whole, ”notes the spokesperson for the official opposition.
In addition, the member for Joliette invites the government of Quebec to continue the work and to respond vigorously to the federal Minister of Public Security, Vic Toews, who suggested that Quebec cut its budgets in education, in social assistance. and in social services to offset the exorbitant costs that these new measures will entail for Quebec. It is also asking the Quebec government to make public its estimate of the costs that could be caused by Conservative ambitions.
“There is not only a major social cost to this bill, but a considerable financial impact which, according to estimates, exceeds half a billion for Quebec. It is imperative that Quebec make this assessment so that Quebecers realize to what extent the Conservatives have drastically different priorities from the Quebec people, ”concluded Véronique Hivon.
