Quebec - The MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and Parti Québécois spokesperson for international relations, Carole Poirier, is delighted that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion she tabled to express Quebec&#39;s solidarity against Haitians living in an irregular situation in the Dominican Republic.
“Since Wednesday, June 17, 2015, date of the expiry of the National Plan for the regularization of foreigners in the Dominican Republic, thousands of Haitians - who are in an irregular situation in the Dominican Republic or who were born there to Haitian parents - have seen their citizenship aspirations automatically revoked. They therefore find themselves stateless. Large numbers have reached the border crossings between Haiti and the Dominican Republic. If some have decided to return voluntarily to Haiti, others, much more numerous, have been arrested, deported and led militarily to the borders, ”said the member in the House.
Carole Poirier added that &quot;several cases of deportation, often violent, have been reported and alerted the international community, in particular the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, which denounced the situation and called on the Dominican Republic to&quot; ensure that people whose citizenship was called into question by a decision of the country&#39;s Constitutional Court in 2013 not be deported &quot;. These deported people live in extremely difficult conditions, and it is our duty to denounce the situation ”.
The motion tabled by the Member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve reads as follows:
“That the National Assembly express its deep concern at the decision of the authorities of the Dominican Republic to denaturalize a massive number of people, mainly of Haitian origin, and to want to carry out expulsions which could give rise to fear of a humanitarian tragedy;
That the National Assembly join its voice to that of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and that of the mayor of Montreal, who have publicly denounced this decision;
That the National Assembly ask the Minister of International Relations to bring the cause to the federal government, so that it takes the necessary steps towards the authorities of the Dominican Republic;
Finally, that it express its full and entire solidarity with the people who are suffering the effects of this policy, as well as with the Haitian community of Quebec, deeply concerned about the situation in the Dominican Republic. &quot;
Carole Poirier also wished to thank the delegation of Quebecers, from several regions, who came to the National Assembly to attend the tabling of the motion. &quot;I thank them for their dedication and I offer them my support in their fight for the recognition and respect of the rights of their colleagues in Haiti and the Dominican Republic,&quot; she concluded.
