Here is the last speech given by Pauline Marois as leader of the Parti Québécois.
Speech given at the national conference of presidents in Drummondville.
The pronounced version is authentic.
Dear activists, Dear activists,
Me too, I am very happy to see you again!
Over the past few weeks, you can imagine, I have taken the time to devote myself to what is most important in each of our lives: spending time with our loved ones, with family; chat with our children; have fun with our grandchildren, for those who are fortunate enough to be grandparents.
It feels good to the soul and reminds us why we want to change the world. Why we want to build a country that will allow all those we love to flourish, to be masters of their destiny.
I won&#39;t hide it from you, I really enjoyed this moment of hindsight. It was essential to me. I had promised myself to make an orderly transition, I had to let things settle down.
It is today that I am leaving the leadership of the Parti Québécois.
I&#39;m telling you right now, I won&#39;t be a stepfather. I will of course be attentive, always available, attentive, but discreet. It&#39;s your turn now.
Today, I first want to pay you a sincere tribute. Without your constant commitment, without your fervor, your activism, without your generosity, the Parti Québécois would never have been able to do all it has accomplished so far. You are the soul of a great party, the heart of an institution of which you can be proud.
Imagine what Quebec would be like without the Parti Québécois. Our culture, our language, our territory, our economy, our families: in all areas, we have enabled Quebec to progress.
Throughout our history, we have acted with force and firmness to strengthen Quebec, to allow it to move forward. And do you know what has motivated the Parti Québécois to do the same since its founding?
It&#39;s because we share a certain idea of Quebec, this conviction that we are a great and beautiful people. This is what prompted us to have such ambitious ideas. The conviction that Quebec has everything it takes to be a country!
We still have so much to do ... My dear friends, Quebec needs the Parti Québécois, I am convinced. And the Parti Québécois, it needs you. He needs each of his activists, each of his activists!
Seeing you still so engaged and mobilized today, I know that we are on the right side of history. I know this when I think back to all the candidates we recruited for the election campaign. When I see the enthusiasm, strength and experience of our parliamentary team, brilliantly led by Stéphane Bédard. There is, in this party, all the talents and all the determination necessary to win, to win, to persevere.
Yes, we are on the right side of the story, when I see Martine and Léo. When I see that two great leaders of unprecedented mobilization are with us and that they share our dreams!
They are still there. They remind us that two years ago, in the spring, the youth of Quebec clearly expressed their desire to build a society in their image.
Today&#39;s politicians do not have the right to block the avenues of the future, to close the paths of their freedom ... It is not for us to choose what young people will do tomorrow. It is not up to polling firms, it is not up to columnists or editorial writers to put words in the mouths of young people, to classify them by categories. The future of Quebec will be up to young people to decide what it will be!
As far as we are concerned, we are sovereignists. And, yes, the success of our option depends in large part on our ability to convince young people to choose it. If we want to achieve our goal, if we want to achieve it while respecting the people of Quebec and the generations we want to mobilize, we will have to hear their concerns.
With you, I have so often chanted “we want a country”. This is our ideal. The ideal of young people is rather to live in an ideal country.
To be understood, to be heard, it will be necessary to demonstrate that the values that are dear to us constitute the response to the concerns of Quebecers. That they will allow each citizen to develop their full potential. To participate fully in the great movements and great moments of history.
It will be up to you to find the words and take the actions that will allow the Parti Québécois to regain the initiative. It will be up to you to find what can still unite Quebecers. It&#39;s up to you now to change the world.
When I made the choice of political action, that was my ambition. Today, humbly, very humbly, I hope to have contributed a little bit ...
It was not always easy ... We had to go up step by step. By dint of crossing glass ceilings, we accumulate a few scars in the process ...
Others had done it before me, leading the way and experiencing the shock of being the first. Also, with these pioneers in mind, allow me to address each of the women in this room and, through them, to all Quebec women. Particularly, to the youngest of them ...
Ladies, go ahead!
Each of you who will rush, who will rise, it will be a reward and a satisfaction for all those who will have preceded you. Now it&#39;s your turn, girls!
And to those of you who would hesitate, I want to say that I have no regrets. I regret absolutely nothing. Every criticism, fair or unfair, every moment of doubt, every blow, that&#39;s not what counts at the end of the road.
Today, what I think about is all that political action has allowed me to achieve. When I started out, I dreamed of an exemplary country, a generous country. A Quebec that would give everyone the chance, but, above all, everyone to find their place.
I am proud of everything we have done to develop the social economy. I am proud to have given our toddlers a better start, by offering them quality child care. I am proud to have helped so many women return to the workforce!
That&#39;s why I got involved in politics.
My dear friends, we have come a long way, together, for over thirty years. You did me the honor of choosing me as chef in 2007. I am still moved when I think of the trust you have given me. I am especially moved by all that we have achieved.
Always driven by our sovereignist ambition, the one that makes us dream for Quebec. We have been very proactive, maybe even hyperactive. I think that in eighteen months, we left a legacy in Quebec of a value inversely proportional to the lifespan of our government.
We had prepared ourselves to assume power. When I became leader of the Parti Québécois, I indicated that I wanted to bring social democracy up to date. I wanted us to keep citizens at the heart of our concerns to create more wealth. May prosperity be the bearer of generosity.
And, in this regard, we have delivered the goods. First of all, we restored social peace and protected accessibility to studies by improving financial assistance!
With our solidarity approach, we have helped the less fortunate in our society, we have helped those who help them and we have prepared for the future. We improved social assistance and we also introduced policies to fight homelessness and domestic violence.
We have also implemented a vision for the future of Quebec by redirecting new health investments towards home care. We followed up on a courageous reflection that led to the adoption, this week, of the law on end-of-life care !!!
Never has a government done so much in such a short time.
From an economic standpoint, we have shown ourselves to be faithful to the approach that the Parti Québécois has always put forward. We have designed visionary policies to promote innovation and help our job creators to surpass themselves.
Help to modernize our businesses; support for projects with high growth potential; a strategy to encourage research and innovation; a plan to increase our exports; and, above all, an innovative project, full of possibilities: the electrification of transport!
In short, we have thought about and acted to bring Quebec into the economy of the future. A human, creative, green economy.
I think the new government would benefit from building on the foundations we have laid. Moreover, after having said the opposite in the campaign, the Liberals finally admitted it in their budget last Wednesday: last year, 47,800 jobs were created in Quebec!
The modern and social democratic approach of the Parti Québécois, it gave and it will continue to give results!
I hope that we will continue to accept our adherence to the Quebec model. In addition to independence, it is the color that we bring into the Quebec political landscape.
We believe in a government which acts in the economy, but which wishes to support rather than replace entrepreneurs. We believe in generous social policies, in a compassionate approach, not only to take care of our world, but to allow it to flourish fully. We believe in protecting our environment and that this concern can be a source of enrichment and success for all of us.
Yes, there is a path between the laissez-faire put forward by some parties and the magic wand proposed by others. This is the stance taken for the Quebec economy, social dialogue and innovation carried by the Parti Québécois!
When I became a chef, I also said that I wanted to put the defense of Quebec culture back at the center of our speech. I am talking about culture in its broadest sense. As the sum of all manifestations of the identity of our people.
I&#39;m talking about the work of our creators; our language and the accent with which we speak it; values that we want to establish as the basis of our living together.
In supporting the arts and creation, we have delivered the goods. We protected the Culture budget and announced numerous investments.
In terms of language and the defense of our values, I would have liked to go further. Also, I would like to remind you that these questions are not resolved. This mission of protecting French will forever remain inseparable from the reality of Quebec. It is part of our essence.
Likewise, Quebec is far from being the only society in the world to question how to live better together. Questions closely linked to modernity.
It is because we want to build an open, more welcoming Quebec, a close mixed-race country, that we must organize our way of living pluralism. Also, the values of equality between women and men, secularism and state neutrality must be constantly reaffirmed and enshrined in our laws and our institutions. Those who resolve this issue will be of great service to Quebec, as well as to all the women and men who live there, since their birth or because they have chosen it!
Finally, there is another question which is also important for our identity and our collective future. A concern which has always been at the center of my political commitment, but which will have assumed, during my time as Prime Minister, an importance that I could not have suspected. An issue which is intrinsically linked to the history of our party and to the heritage of our founder. It is about protecting our democracy and the institutions that support it.
Our democracy is the expression of our collective will, our ability to lead ourselves and to exist as a nation. George-Émile Lapalme, one of the fathers of the Quiet Revolution, said that it was, with the French language, our way of reaching the universal.
Our institutions, they had been damaged, we will remember ... Also, if history should retain only one thing, I would like it to be all the work we have done to strengthen them.
Let us remember the courageous actions we took to put an end to collusion, to waste. We did this by reforming the awarding of public contracts and the financing of political parties.
Above all, we sent a very powerful message. We have given the necessary resources and independence to the police forces and the Charbonneau commission to do their work. Under our government, integrity has advanced, corruption has receded!
This work to strengthen our democracy, it nevertheless inspires me some thoughts about the destiny of Quebec and the future of our country project. I believe that in the current context, the protection of this democracy so dear to us must be a constant concern, a priority issue. You just have to look at the planetary context in which we operate.
In Europe, some already sovereign nations are limited in their collective freedom by their level of indebtedness. The frustrations that this generates among the peoples lead to the emergence of political movements that we have many reasons to fear. Quebec is not immune to this kind of situation.
If responsible and moderate political actors fail to find solutions to our collective problems, if they are deaf to the legitimate aspirations of large parts of our population, more and more of our fellow citizens will be tempted to take refuge in the margins.
This is the most urgent concern that activists of the Parti Québécois must have: to keep the possibilities open.
In fact, it is not only you who are challenged by this question. All sovereignists, all thinkers, innovators, creators, intellectuals, all forces for change in Quebec must resume dialogue, stop working in chapel and seek answers to these questions.
How should Quebec behave in the face of a federal state that is increasingly foreign to us? A government with which Quebeckers no longer identify, which no longer interests them, but which they have not yet chosen to abandon?
How can we ensure that generations continue to talk to each other in a context where simply maintaining fairness will be a challenge?
How can we maintain our solidarity and our national cohesion, when divisions threaten to settle between communities, between urban Quebec and rural Quebec?
What do Quebecers want? What projects are still able to unite us? And, above all, how do you make them happen?
How to keep change possible in Quebec?
I allow myself an answer, the only one that comes to mind. Me, I think it still goes through independence!
A sovereignty which must be based on new bases, on new motivations. Or, perhaps rather, a country project that needs to get back to basics, to its foundations.
We have talked too much about the sovereignty of the State of Quebec and not enough about that of the people of Quebec.
For a long time, we have presented freedom as the culmination of the sovereignty project. However, it is perhaps more freedom that will lead us to the country. This democracy that we want to build, this ability to decide for ourselves and for ourselves that we want to obtain, is the path to independence. We must put the idea of freedom back at the heart of our political action!
Dear activists, dear activists, I trust you. I have seen how far we have come together. I can&#39;t wait to see what you will accomplish in the future.
What I have come to tell you today is that I will never give up. I will never give up on YOU. I will always be by your side, as I said to all Quebecers, when I leave Quebec.
I will always be this young woman who wants to change the world. And I will always fight for freedom. For the freedom of young people in Quebec to build a better future. For the freedom of the most disadvantaged to change their destiny. For the freedom of creators to express themselves and realize their ideas. For the freedom of our people to defend their language, to assert their values. For the freedom of Quebeckers to decide for themselves and for themselves. For the freedom to build a country of which we will be proud!
Thank you! Thank you for everything you have given me! Thank you for everything you have left to give to Quebec.
I love you!
Watch Pauline Marois&#39; speech.
