Quebec - While the Commissioner for Health and Welfare (CSBE) has just tabled his final report, Diane Lamarre, Member of Parliament for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, deplores the poor record of Minister Barrette, and insists on the relevance of keeping the CSBE.
In its report, the organization exposes alarming figures. “In several countries, including France, Norway, New Zealand, the United States and many others, more than 90% of adults are seen in less than 5 hours in the emergency room. Closer to home, in Ontario and Alberta, this figure is 85%, while in Quebec, it is only 65%, the worst performance recorded by the Commissioner. What is the Minister waiting for to act, in particular by making use of the IPS in the emergency, by making better use of existing resources - GMF, CLSC - to improve access in the evenings and weekends? Even the Commissioner says it: superclinics are not the solution, ”said Diane Lamarre.
“Comparison with other provinces also tells us that despite a higher ratio of doctors and nurses per capita, access is worse here than elsewhere. We learn in the report that nearly half of emergency room visits, or 45%, exceed the normal time limit, which is equivalent to 13 million hours lost while waiting. Not only do we not provide the necessary services, but it is expensive: in total, more than $ 300 million is wasted on absenteeism, 500,000 working days lost. The minister must take note of his bad report and act now to ensure that patients have access to care when they need it, ”added the spokesperson.
“Once again, it is Quebeckers who suffer because the minister is looking for his own power instead of looking for how to better serve citizens. The abolition of the CSBE, when it reveals such relevant things to us, shows that the minister is ready to suppress one of the rare organizations that gives us objective information on the health system. This is further proof of its desire to muzzle all criticism, to the detriment of patients in Quebec, ”concluded Diane Lamarre.
