Quebec - The Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, and the President and CEO of the Association of Food Retailers of Quebec, Mr. Florent Gravel, have today launched the contest Les Aliments du Québec in my basket!
Comprised of two components, the first intended for consumers and the second for retailers and suppliers, the aim of the contest is to promote the purchase of local products certified by Aliments du Québec. “I am proud to be associated with this original competition which highlights the know-how and creativity of our biofood industry in promoting Quebec foods. It is thanks to initiatives such as this that we will increase the proportion of Quebecers&#39; diets that are satisfied thanks to foods from Quebec, which is one of the objectives pursued through our Health Policy. food sovereignty ”, underlined the Minister.
It should be noted that a good number of the 156 participants in the 2012 competition reported highly positive spinoffs, up to 300%, on their sales of products certified by Aliments du Québec during the course of the activity in the stores. This shows that displaying the origin of products is a paying option.
“In a context where 70% of food purchases are made at the supermarket, the large chains undoubtedly represent exceptional showcases for Quebec products. It should be remembered that these are also available at retailers who operate small and medium-sized establishments. That&#39;s why we chose to create a category especially for them this year. We invite Quebecers to pay particular attention to the origin of the products they buy, no matter where they shop, ”indicated Mr. Florent Gravel.
“With this competition, retailers are giving our products extraordinary visibility. I invite Quebeckers to take this opportunity to discover local foods and get into the habit of putting them on their grocery list, ”said François Gendron. A treasure hunt to discover Quebec foods
From June 18 to September 16, 2013, consumers are invited to take part in a real treasure hunt featuring many products certified by Aliments du Québec. To participate, consumers will have to identify three foods certified by Aliments du Québec, then go to www.concoursalimentsduquebec.com and have the chance to win up to $ 500 in foods from Quebec each week. At the end of the contest, one big winner will win a cruise to the Magdalen Islands, valued at approximately $ 5,000.
From July 25 to September 18, food retailers and their suppliers are invited to deploy in-store a joint initiative to market a product certified by the Aliments du Québec organization. It will be possible to discover all the projects undertaken in this area at the following address: www.concoursalimentsduquebec.com.
Since 1955, the Association of Food Retailers of Quebec has been the only organization that represents all of Quebec&#39;s proprietary grocery retailers. It is run by retailers and it serves retailers. The Association&#39;s mission is to defend and represent the interests of some 8,000 food retailers, regardless of their brand and the type of store they operate.
Aliments du Québec is a non-profit organization that aims to contribute, through promotional and awareness-raising activities, to increasing the market share of Québec agrifood products on the domestic market. It manages two certifications that guarantee the Quebec origin of the products, namely Aliments du Québec and Aliments Prepared in Quebec.
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, regularly consult the blog (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or the website (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA) of the Ministère de l&#39;Agriculture, des Fisheries and Food It is also possible to follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
