Montreal– Paul St-Pierre Plamondon, special advisor to the leader of the Parti Québécois for renewal, Jean-François Lisée, officially launched the consultations for the “Dare to rethink the PQ” project at the GAB Café, a collaborative work company, on Sunday, November 13 2016.
Surrounded by some twenty citizens from several regions of Quebec who will be responsible for reaching out to Quebecers, Paul St-Pierre Plamondon launched this message: “The people who are accompanying me today are not all PQ. and do not come from the same background, but they have in common a shared desire: to rethink the Parti Québécois so that it once again becomes the voice of the next generation, of diversity and of the builders of Quebec. &quot;All under the age of 40, the ambassadors of&quot; Dare to rethink the PQ &quot;have undertaken to organize themselves meetings with their network to reflect on a new Parti Québécois. “I&#39;m not a PQ, I even voted for Quebec solidaire in the last election, but I heard Paul&#39;s call. The Liberals cannot stay in power indefinitely. I decided to be part of the solution and rethink the PQ. »Explains Julie Daubois, entrepreneur and project manager, one of the project&#39;s ambassadors. Gabriel Dancause, entrepreneur and owner of the GAB Café, takes a positive view of what is currently happening at the Parti Québécois: “It&#39;s bubbling! It is now possible to undertake at the PQ, to think differently and to dare to ask important questions. The idea of addressing citizens who do not always share our opinion is a guarantee of success for this consultation ”.
Paul St-Pierre Plamondon also presented the details of the consultation by unveiling the logo and the website of “Dare to rethink the PQ”: “All Quebecers will be able to register for this consultation via our website osezrepenserlepq.quebec et m &#39; invite to their region so that we can rethink the PQ together. By the time I write my report in April, I will have heard from thousands of citizens who will have given their ideas in person, on social networks or on our site ”. Mr. St-Pierre Plamondon specifies that for a majority of Quebecers the observation is clear: the Liberal government is toxic. The Parti Québécois must therefore present itself as the only possible alternative. “The only way to drive out the Liberals in 2018 is to put ourselves in solution mode and listen to Quebeckers, all Quebeckers,” he says. Marie Imalta Pierre-Lys, chemist and resident of St-Hubert, insists on the importance of a plural representation of Quebec: “Adopted Quebecers must seize this opportunity and frankly say what they think of the Parti Québécois. It is a great opportunity to strengthen the dialogue with diversity to form a coalition within the PQ and a Quebec that resembles us. &quot;
&quot;Dare to rethink the PQ&quot; will stop in Montreal, Laval and the Laurentians in the coming days as part of its consultations. “The agenda is already full. It is a demonstration of the enthusiasm for what is currently happening in the Parti Québécois, ”concluded Paul St-Pierre Plamondon.
The ambassadors of &quot;Dare to rethink the PQ&quot;:
Clément Laberge, Quebec entrepreneur and web consultant; Gabriel Dancause, entrepreneur and owner of GAB Café, collaborative work company; Héléna Bureau, consultant, manager and pharmacist; Julie Daubois, project manager and entrepreneur; Marianne Girard, entrepreneur and owner of L&#39;Éco-Boutique un Monde à Vie; Marie-France Perrault, commercial litigation lawyer; Angela Hanna Goulene, 2D animation and digital arts professional; Catherine Fournier, economist and Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Marie-Victorin; Marie Imalta Pierre-Lys, chemist; Louis Lyonnais, economist and lawyer; Claudel Pétrin Desrosiers, international public health cooperative; Alexandre Poulin, master&#39;s student in political science at the University of Quebec in Montreal and independence activist; Alexis Lauzier, undergraduate student in economics at the University of Sherbrooke and former student leader; Emrick Couture Picard, baccalaureate student diploma in Applied Political Studies at the University of Sherbrooke; Julien Bédard, bachelor in applied political studies at the University of Sherbrooke; Rodolphe Parent, undergraduate student in economics and political science at the University of Montreal and activist for civil rights ; Tarik A. Moundir, political science student at the University of Quebec at Montreal; Virginie Chaloux, literature student at the University of Montreal and blogger at Huffington Post Quebec; Alejandro De Souza, student at Cégep Vanier. &quot;Dare to rethink the PQ ”is a citizen consultation in which Quebeckers are invited to reflect on a renewal of the Parti Québécois and to identify ideas that will allow it to once again become the voice of the next generation, of diversity and of the builders of Quebec. Led by Paul St-Pierre Plamondon, special advisor to the leader of the Parti Québécois, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, “Dare to rethink the PQ” will lead to recommendations that will bring about concrete changes with a view to reviewing the ways of doing things, the discourse and the ideas to the Parti Québécois.
For more details: dare to rethinklePQ.quebec
