Quebec - Today marks the start of the 14th Fishing Festival, which will be held from June 7 to 9, 2013. For this occasion, the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, invites all citizens to take part in the activities being held across Quebec during this weekend.
“Sport fishing in Quebec is an activity accessible to all, which allows you to take advantage of the exceptional richness of our territory. The objective of the Fête de la Pêche is to ensure succession in the practice of this activity. Since the license usually required is not necessary during the three days of this annual celebration, this weekend is the perfect opportunity to learn about fishing with the family or, for fishermen, to pass on their passion for fishing. sport to those around them, ”said Minister Blanchet.
Several accessible bodies of water in Quebec allow you to enjoy this weekend of fishing without a license. It is enough to respect the regulations in force! The day of Friday will be devoted to young people from schools who will follow the “Grass Fishing” training. Equally festive, the Saturday and Sunday activities will give you the opportunity to have fun and enjoy pleasant moments, while fishing. The complete list of activities offered in each region can be found on the following website: www.fetedelapeche.gouv.qc.ca.
A competition is also organized as part of the Fishing Festival. All the information you need to register can be found at www..fetedelapeche.gouv.qc.ca. By participating, you have the chance to win one of the 18 prizes offered, including a 14-foot Sportspal brand Transom canoe offered free of charge by the Latulippe store, outdoor activities and fishing equipment.
For the third year in a row, the young people of the youth center Point de mire have accepted the role of spokesperson for this great family celebration. In 2011 and 2012, the many fishermen we met in several regions of Quebec were won over by the expertise of these young fishing enthusiasts. Again this year, they will be present on various fishing sites throughout the weekend to offer fly tying workshops, fly casting demonstrations and, of course, to communicate their passion for fishing. . Follow them on pagefacebook.com/fetedelapeche.
The Fête de la Pêche benefits from the contribution of many wildlife partners, both nationally and regionally. For this event, the MDDEFP also receives support from the Expert Hunting, Fishing and Camping Show, which offers several hundred fishing rods that are distributed throughout Quebec.
