Quebec - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce the creation of Véloce II, a financial assistance program for cycling and pedestrian infrastructures.
Mr. Gaudreault also took advantage of his visit to the Tourism, Bike and Route verte Colloquium to announce that a sum of $ 7 million will be granted for the year 2013-2014. In addition to allowing the completion of the Route verte and ensuring its sustainability, this 3-year program aims to support municipalities in their desire to set up transport infrastructures that promote travel. active.
“Cycling and walking are healthy, economical and ecological practices for getting around. Thanks to the collaboration of the municipalities, we will be able to offer the population even more alternatives to the automobile. I can only be delighted, since the Véloce II program fits perfectly into the objectives of the cycling policy of the Ministry of Transport and intensifies the establishment of infrastructures promoting active travel in urban areas ”, declared Minister Gaudreault.
The assistance program includes 4 components, the total funding of which will reach $ 7 million in the first year:
Part 1- Development of active transport in urban areas Part 2- Development of the Route verte and its branches Part 3- Conservation of active transport infrastructure Part 4- Maintenance of the Route verte
Véloce II replaces all the programs administered until recently by the Ministère des Transports in the area of cycling infrastructure: the financial assistance program for the development of the Route verte; the Government Assistance Program for Alternative Modes of Transportation to the Automobile; the Véloce Program (2012 edition) and the Route verte financial assistance program. It should be noted that all subsidies paid under Véloce II, regardless of the component, correspond to a maximum of 50% of eligible expenses.
“The merger of the old programs will make it easier for our municipal partners to plan their actions in favor of the development of active transportation in Quebec. Véloce II will make it possible to set up new cycling infrastructures, but also to improve the current network, in order to ensure its continuity and bring it to an even higher level of quality and safety, ”concluded Mr. Gaudreault.
For the current year, eligible organizations have until November 26, 2013 to submit a project. All the documentation is available at www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca, in the Partners section, under the Municipalities, Assistance programs, Cycling tabs.
