Montreal - The official opposition spokesperson for health, access to care and home support, Diane Lamarre, as well as the member for Joliette, Véronique Hivon, ask the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, quickly confirm the construction of the new Lavérendière public laundry in Lanaudière, and thus respect the commitment it made in this regard in March 2016, that is to say to keep the services in the public fold.
IN SHORT
“It&#39;s been over a year since the Minister announced that the Lavérendière public laundry project would go ahead, after launching a call for tenders and submitting the results to an independent firm for analysis. The conclusions were unequivocal: public projects have proven to be less expensive than those in the private sector. Why are things taking so long to get going in Lanaudière? What is blocking? », Asked the deputies, during a joint press briefing with representatives of the Confederation of National Trade Unions (CSN).
“We fear that Minister Barrette is looking for a pretext to reverse his decision and privatize the service. The Minister recently indicated that subsequent analyzes have been requested. He would have in his hands a study commissioned by a private supplier who obviously has a financial interest in seeing the Lavérendière project fail, ”said Véronique Hivon, specifying in passing that the Lavérendière project is self-financed.
“Let&#39;s not forget the 50 workers and their families who are swimming in the fog! They live with a sword of Damocles over their heads, not knowing what will happen to their jobs. Their future is at stake! This saga never ends, and I share their deep concern. The government must stop looking for red herrings and respect its commitment, which was based on an objective analysis of the situation, ”the member for Joliette also insisted.
“Laundry services are crucial for healthcare facilities. Hospital clothing, lingerie and all other fabrics in circulation must be cleaned and disinfected to the highest quality standards. We vigorously call on Minister Barrette to ensure that the situation unblocks and that we can finally move forward with the project, in the interest of the entire population, ”concluded Diane Lamarre.
