January 6, 2017 - It is today that the leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, and the member for Verchères and responsible for the initiative, Stéphane Bergeron, presented the visual, the slogan, the themes and the co spokesperson for L&#39;Autre 150e, a project intended to present all the facets of the history behind the anniversary of the Canadian federation.
MM. Lisée and Bergeron are also pleased to announce that the chemist, committed activist and “Dare to rethink the PQ” ambassador Marie Imalta Pierre Lys, as well as the singer-songwriter Rod le Stod, have agreed to act as co-door - speech of the initiative. They wish to promote the story in a free, humorous and uninhibited way.
Historian Gilles Laporte presented each of the eight themes that will bring together the 150 events chosen by L&#39;Autre 150e. &quot;The Confederation of 1867 ... the worm in the apple&quot;, &quot;The coups de force du Canada&quot;, &quot;A federal regime which does not keep its promises&quot;, &quot;The Canadian Francophonie abused&quot;, &quot;Quebec resists, Quebec innovates&quot; , &quot;Canada, handicap to the prosperity of Quebec&quot;, &quot;No lessons to be learned! ”And“ 150 years of Quebec bashing ”are all themes that will be developed throughout the year.
“I wanted us to tell the story behind the anniversary, to tackle all facets of Canada&#39;s 150th anniversary. When you read a book, you have to read all the pages, otherwise the story is incomplete, or even truncated! I am happy that L&#39;Autre 150e has taken off in a participatory manner. Indeed, more than 500 citizens voted for the visual and the slogan they preferred. We would like even more people to appropriate L&#39;Autre 150e and participate through social networks, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
“Our goal is for L&#39;Autre 150e to bring history back to life. Let the initiative move, to visit key places in our history. In short, we want her to live! In this sense, the appointments of Marie Imalta Pierre Lys and Rod le Stod will really allow us to present history differently. Through videos, live Facebook events, holding press conferences in the field, we will go further than the candy pink version of Ottawa. The continuation of things promises to be fascinating, ”continued Stéphane Bergeron.
“I am a committed artist, through my texts, through my music. The Other 150th allows me to revisit the history of Canada and bring out more shady parts. It is a pleasure to join forces with the entire L&#39;Autre 150e team to make this project a success, ”said Rod le Stod.
“As a young sovereignist activist, I find it important to participate in the transmission of our history, of ALL of our history, to new generations and to Quebecers from diverse backgrounds. When we know our history, we are in a better position to make the best collective decisions for our future and, for me, it is clear that Quebec must give its version of the facts! », Concluded Marie Imalta Pierre Lys
