Montreal - On the occasion of the unveiling of the federal budget, the Oui Québec would like to point out that the austerity policies we are currently experiencing are not only the result of the accounting vision of the current government of Quebec. They also have their origins in the austerity policies of the federal government. It has been working, and has been for several years, to reduce federal transfers to the provinces and it is imposing measures that reduce Quebec&#39;s tax base. It is therefore necessary to point the finger at the other source of austerity policies, a vision that is shared by the entire Quebec independence movement, including the independence parties.
A dysfunctional diet
In November 2014, the Canadian Minister of Finance estimated the anticipated surplus for 2015-2016 at $ 1.9 billion, before the drop in the price of oil. For the next four years, growing surpluses were estimated ranging from $ 4.3 billion to $ 13.1 billion for 2019-2020. Quebec&#39;s share in these surpluses (20%) is roughly equivalent to the structural deficit of the Quebec budget. As between 2001 and 2008, the Canadian government saw its revenues increase faster than its expenses. In Quebec, it is the other way around. The Canadian tax system and Ottawa&#39;s unilateral decisions will increasingly increase the already intolerable pressure on Quebec&#39;s finances.
Expensive pre-election giveaways
While in Quebec, the social net of the most disadvantaged is being cut, several measures in the 2015-16 Canadian budget will result in a growing shortfall by governments for the benefit of the richest taxpayers. In raising the limit eligible for the TFSA, the lack of? win for governments is absorbed? two-thirds by Ottawa and one-third by the provinces. From $ 1.3 billion this year, the losses of the two levels of government will amount to $ 25 billion in a few years, including $ 1.6 billion per year less in the Quebec budget. Taxpayer income splitting will only benefit 15% of families in Canada, but will reduce government revenues by approximately $ 2.2 billion in 2015.
Health and education transfers
A dramatic example of these communicating vessels between the two budgets: the financing of health and education spending. Ottawa maintains enormous budgetary leeway there, which it reduces as it sees fit, destabilizing Quebec&#39;s finances for the next few years. In 2011, Ottawa decided to unilaterally reduce the growth of the Canada Health Transfer (CHT) a? from 2017-2018 to at most 3%, while since 2004, the average growth has been 6%. This decision will deprive Que? Bec of nearly $ 10 billion over the next ten years for the benefit of Canadian priorities, notably oil and weapons.
The same is true of this other unilateral decision from Ottawa, capping at 3% the annual indexation of the Canada Social Transfer (CST) for the years to come. The return to the level of the 90s, would bring 875 million to Quebec, to straighten the finances of universities without increasing tuition fees and even by reducing them.
It is certain that our nation will not be able to resume its development without a radical transformation of the Canadian tax system. This path being blocked, the majority of the Canadian population and the main Canadian parties opposing it, the only way forward for Quebec is to achieve its independence in order to bring together its two halves of the budget according to its priorities.
