Québec - The MNA for Joliette and official opposition spokesperson for culture, communications and higher education, Véronique Hivon, as well as the MNA for Sanguinet and spokesperson for the Conseil du trésor, Alain Therrien, strongly denounce the contracts granted by the Minister of Higher Education, Yves Bolduc, on the one hand, and the Ministry of Culture, on the other hand, to external consultants. The deputies demand their cancellation.
“To apply the recommendations of the Demers report on college education, why did you decide to hire three consultants, including their coordinator, Nicole Rouillier, at a cost of over $ 300,000? The Ministry of Higher Education has 517 full-time employees, and 608 in total. Its payroll is $ 37 million for the year 2014-2015. Was it really impossible to bring in professionals already employed by the government? Added to these questions is the fact that Nicole Rouillier is an assiduous donor to the Liberal Party, ”said Véronique Hivon.
“These two contracts mean, neither more nor less, that we circumvent Bill 15, tabled by the President of the Conseil du trésor. The Permanent Program Review Commission, chaired by Lucienne Robillard, must find where to make further cuts. Since its inception, it has published a report that everyone has rejected, with decisions already made. In addition to costing us 3.8 million, we learn that a contract of $ 55,000 was given to Jean-François Garneau, a former candidate for the Liberal Party, to find places where to cut the ministry. of Culture, ”added Alain Therrien.
“The contracts must be canceled. Are we trying to make the public believe that the Conseil du trésor and the departments concerned do not have the expertise to do the job? Martin Coiteux must tell Quebecers why austerity does not apply to those close to the PLQ, ”continued the member for Sanguinet.
Austerity with liberal geometry
“We see that the austerity of the Liberal government is selective. Minister Bolduc is proving for the umpteenth time that he does not have the judgment necessary to be responsible for the Quebec education system. Everyone understood that, except one person: the Premier of Quebec, ”concluded Véronique Hivon.
