Quebec - The MNA for Joliette and official opposition critic for higher education, Véronique Hivon, denounces the fact that the Liberal government is withdrawing its financial support from BLD Publications, in particular those responsible for the popular science magazine Les Débrouillards, as well as to the Science-Presse Agency.
“Do we have the means in Quebec not to interest young people in science? After the dismal episode of school libraries, this is another example of the government&#39;s lack of vision in the area of knowledge development. Popularization of science enables thousands of young people across Quebec to develop their taste for science. These young people continue their journey and their studies, and can become scientists who, in a multitude of fields, advance knowledge and society, ”stated Véronique Hivon.
The MP also points out that the amount of cuts imposed on BLD Publications, i.e. $ 175,000 per year, is less than the bonus received by the Minister of Higher Education, Yves Bolduc, a bonus that he did not have elsewhere. still not fully reimbursed. “This amount is also lower than the $ 278,000 spent by Minister Jean D&#39;Amour for the redevelopment of his constituency office. Where are the priorities of this government? Without Les Débrouillards, how many future scientists will we lose? How are we going to be able to interest all young people, especially those from disadvantaged backgrounds, in cultivating their scientific spirit, with the aim of opening new doors for them to achieve their dreams? », Added Véronique Hivon.
Still no news from the National Research and Innovation Policy &quot;The scientific and research community has expressed a lot of concerns about the future of the National Research and Innovation Policy, tabled by the government of the Parti Québécois. What does liberal austerity still have in store for research and higher education, while the cuts in universities are piling up? Unfortunately, the Liberal government, in addition to having divided the responsibilities relating to this policy between two departments, which will greatly hamper its deployment, seems to attach no importance to it. The community, which currently has more than 5,000 researchers mobilized by the petition initiated by ACFAS, must be reassured, ”concluded the MP for Joliette.
