Québec– Jean-François Lisée, the member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, and the member for Taillon and spokesperson for in terms of health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, denounce the cuts of $ 23.7 million in public health that will be imposed on the regions as of April 1.
“Regardless of the savings they may represent for the government in the short term, these cuts will inevitably have serious consequences in the medium and long term for the health of our population and for the finances of Quebec. The regional public health directorates will probably have to cut their services, because more than 30% of their budgets will be cut, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
Remember that last September, when Bill 10 was tabled, the Minister announced his intention to cut $ 20 million in public health; we now learn that he once again puts the ax to a program that is essential and cuts an additional 3.7 million. It is unjustifiable.
&quot;Public health is, among other things, prevention, vaccination, surveillance of infectious diseases, such as Ebola, smoking prevention, breast cancer screening, or the support provided to the community of Lac- Mégantic after the tragedy of July 2013. These examples show us that we are not cutting structures, as we would like us to believe, but rather in the heart of actions that have a positive effect on our daily lives. These cuts are another bad health choice the government has made. Already underfunded in Quebec, public health is far from being an expense; it is more of an investment. The current government, led by doctors, should promote it and not amputate it, ”added Diane Lamarre.
For every dollar invested in prevention and public health, the return is undoubtedly greater than the investment. For example, a dollar invested in tobacco control brings in $ 20. “Where is the logic that guides the choices of this government? Why cut investments that bring in so much? Ask the deputies.
