Quebec - In the presence of Ms. Suzanne Carrière and Ms. Fabienne Audette, respectively President and Executive Director of Suicide Action Montreal, the Parti Québécois spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean -François Lisée, today denounced the cuts imposed in suicide prevention.
“Before liberal austerity, Suicide Action Montreal trained more than 350 health network workers each year. As of April 1, this figure will drop to zero. This is all the more unacceptable given that in his report, the auditor appointed for the Center jeunesse de Laval said the following:
&quot;The problem of suicide is an example. There was a collective and political will to recognize the problem. [...] Concrete interventions were also put in place to match the various degrees of risk, the interveners were trained, the vigilance and monitoring have been maintained over time with the very tangible consequence that despite the risk still very present with these vulnerable young people, the CISSS de Laval has not experienced any suicide in its accommodation resources since the advent of these practices.&quot;
In addition, while the number of calls received to 1 866 APPELLE continues to grow, budgets to support this essential activity are stagnating, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
“Now is not the time to slow down the deployment of suicide prevention measures, it is rather time to consolidate and add measures, especially in Montreal. In addition, the National Institute of Public Health of Quebec recently confirmed an optimistic statistic, according to which in Montreal, from 2012 to 2013, the number of suicides decreased, from 205 to 176. We must therefore continue the work begun ” , added Ms. Carrière and Ms. Audette.
“The last mental health action plan did not include anything concrete for suicide prevention centers. This is without counting the 23.7 million that were cut last year in prevention and public health in all regions of Quebec. In its last budget, the government did not make suicide prevention a real priority; it must immediately reinvest the amounts allocated to training and prevention, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
