Quebec -The law to limit oil and gas activities which was adopted yesterday gives a nice gift to the shale gas industry. “This bill was initially aimed at permanently banning all oil and gas activity in the St.Lawrence Estuary as well as in the river and on the islands therein, with which we were completely committed. &#39;agreement. However, the Minister of Natural Resources, Nathalie Normandeau, took the opportunity to introduce an article which extends by three years the duration of all gas and oil exploration permits in land in Quebec, including those issued for research. shale gas. In our opinion, this article has no relation to the initial objective of the bill, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault, MP for Jonquière and official opposition critic for energy, and Scott McKay, MP for L&#39;Assomption and official opposition critic for mines.
&quot;On the one hand, the Minister tells us that she is extending the duration of these permits since their holders will no longer be able to carry out their mandatory exploratory work, in particular drilling and hydraulic fracturing, during the strategic environmental assessment on shale gas. . On the other hand, she tells us that this work will be allowed on condition that it is authorized by the strategic environmental assessment committee. However, the bill is completely silent on the latter aspect, which is troubling to say the least, ”added Scott McKay.
“Minister Normandeau must get on board: either she allows drilling and hydraulic fracturing, or she doesn&#39;t. While a gas company like Questerre bluntly asserts that the Quebec government is in no way hindering its exploration work, the bill extends the term of its permits by three years! It is really the height! Once again, the introduction of this article shows that the Minister defends first and foremost private interests in the shale gas issue, ”stressed Sylvain Gaudreault.
Members tried to make the minister listen to reason, but she categorically refused to withdraw this problematic clause, which has no place in this bill. “Instead of giving gifts to the gas industry, the minister should listen to the people who are calling loud and clear for a real moratorium on shale gas,” concluded the deputies.
