Québec, March 5, 2021 - The deputy for Bonaventure and the Parti Québécois spokesperson for forests, Sylvain Roy, fears that the lax government in its management of public forests will lead to a new rebellion on the part of the United States. use this situation to justify their taxes on Quebec lumber. He also urges the Ministère des Forêts, de la Faune et des Parcs (MFFP) to regain the internal expertise and consistency necessary for the prosperity and sustainability of the Quebec forest industry.
IN SHORT
“What we learned yesterday is very worrying: the Ministry of Forests does not know what is happening on its own territory, territory which belongs - it should be remembered - to all Quebecers. The Americans, who are watching this, could be tempted to use this laxity to attack Quebec&#39;s forestry economy again, ”worries Sylvain Roy.
For several years, the Parti Québécois has denounced the problems of predictability and planning in public forests and demanded concrete changes. “Prime Minister François Legault had promised a reform of the forestry regime. After two and a half years of waiting, it is clear that the CAQ is not able to honor its commitment. Everything that lies around gets dirty, and we see that the Caquist failure is detrimental to the development of the regions of Quebec, ”observed the spokesperson.
Sylvain Roy makes a link with another flagship government promise that has still not materialized: that of transferring 5,000 civil servant jobs to the regions. “As soon as it came to power, the CAQ should have put in place a timetable to meet its commitment. That would have prevented the situation from deteriorating to the point where we are today. The expertise must be found in the field, in the regions, not in towers in Quebec! », Indignant the deputy for Bonaventure.
Reconcile uses
In 2017, Sylvain Roy had made a tour of wildlife and forestry actors in Quebec. At the time, stakeholders were already talking about chronic problems in forests. “In the regions, the Ministère des Forêts, de la Faune et des Parcs is incapable of promoting sectors that generate jobs and significant economic benefits. It is not complicated, however: the forest, the fauna, the maple syrup production, we must make them work together. It&#39;s possible. But to do this, we need political will, which is clearly not the case with the MFFP, ”concludes the deputy.
– 30 –
SOURCE :
Anne-Sophie Desprez
Communications Coordinator
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois
418 271-0485
Anne-Sophie.Desprez@assnat.qc.ca
