Quebec, October 11, 2017 - The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the parliamentary leader, Pascal Bérubé, deplored the lack of listening and consideration of the will for change expressed by the population of the Prime Minister Philippe Couillard. Because, despite another reshuffle, which he presents as a new beginning, Quebeckers know it: the Liberals&#39; action will not change, 92% of the government&#39;s budget remaining in the same hands.
IN SHORT
“He has already done this to us several times: the change in support actors made by the Prime Minister today will not change the most important actions of this government, since the main actors remain. Indeed, Health, Finance and Education keep the same minister. In fact, 92% of the government budget remains in the same hands. Liberal austerity will continue, and the Barrette reforms will not be corrected; on the contrary, their failure is now supported by Philippe Couillard. The Prime Minister only increased the number of his ministers; we see nothing in this reshuffle for patients, families, regions, or seniors in Quebec. The solid change is the one that the Parti Québécois government will bring in fall 2018, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
“Robert Poëti was fired by the Prime Minister. Today he returns. Philippe Couillard therefore admits his error, but what exactly does he admit? That he shouldn&#39;t have fired him? That it did wrong to want to sweep ethical issues under the rug? What place will Robert Poëti, Minister without portfolio? It is too late, however, to try to restore the ethical veneer of this government, and Quebeckers know it, ”added the Leader of the Official Opposition.
The PLCAQ
“The Liberal government has completed its CAQ-ADQ shift. The main players - Gaétan Barrette, Sébastien Proulx, Dominique Anglade - all come from this vein. We already knew it, since the Minister of Health had confirmed it: the Liberals are applying the CAQ program. One year of cosmetic transformations will not change the effects of liberal austerity inspired by the CAQ, nor the tragedies that it entails, ”added the leader of the official opposition.
New challenges
The official opposition was also keen to make some recommendations to the new ministers:
