Quebec - The member for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, and the member for Rousseau and finance critic, Nicolas Marceau, call on the Liberal government to act quickly, i.e. by the start of the parliamentary session, and to table a credible economic policy, promoting economic development and job creation.
“The economic situation in Quebec has deteriorated since the Liberal Party came to power. All labor market indicators are red; 27,400 jobs have been lost since the end of March. Liberal choices mean job losses for Quebecers and worsening the state of the economy. Philippe Couillard must act now by tabling a clear plan for development and support for job creation, ”declared Stéphane Bédard.
The member for Rousseau would like to point out that the government has cut corners in the economic development policies tabled by the Parti Québécois government. “The Liberals spent 18 months complaining about the state of the economy. Since they have been in power, the situation is worse than expected. Laurentian Bank, former employer of the Minister of Finance, Carlos Leitão, has revised downwards its economic growth forecasts for 2015. The liberal effect does not exist; it is time for the government to admit it and act to redress the bar, ”he said.
When will we see a vision for Quebec&#39;s economic development?
Nicolas Marceau also deplores that the spending and revenue targets for the first two months of the fiscal year have not been reached at all by the government. The figures tell us that spending is increasing by 3.2%, compared to the budget target of 1.8%. In fact, for April and May, expenses are $ 169 million higher than forecast and the shortfall in revenue reaches $ 63 million, for a total impasse, compared to the budget, of $ 232 million.
“What we see, looking at the numbers, is that the management of the government, in April and May, is synonymous with less income and more spending. The deficit, after only two months, is $ 1 billion! Added the spokesperson.
“It is time for this government to have a real vision for economic development. All we know is that the Minister of Finance is jeopardizing the Quebec model. What will this imply for our families, our workers, our regions, for the most disadvantaged? This government must begin today to think about a way of injecting fuel into the economy in order to relaunch growth, stimulate job creation and support our regions and our families, ”concluded the head of the opposition.
For more information
