Quebec - Nicole Léger, the member for Pointe-aux-Trembles and official opposition spokesperson for elementary and secondary education and school perseverance, asks the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Yves Bolduc, to stop his diversionary maneuvers to make people forget the blind cuts he is imposing on Quebec schools.
&quot;The idea of evaluating teachers is nothing less than a smokescreen to distract public attention from the massive cuts, current and future, that will affect student services and parents&#39; portfolios. of Quebec. The minister is trying in all kinds of ways not to talk about real business or his bonus of $ 215,000, which he must reimburse in full, ”said Nicole Léger.
The member recalls that for the past few weeks, the Liberal government has not stopped launching disjointed ideas and that it has had to make many setbacks, especially on the subject of books, the abolition of CEGEPs and university tuition fees. . This new maneuver is just one more step in this series of missteps.
“Quebec deserves better than a minister who throws sophisticated ideas on the corner of a table. It is clear that the government has no overall vision for education. Yves Bolduc proves once again that he does not have the makings of a good Minister of Education, ”added the spokesperson.
Support teachers
Regarding the evaluation of teachers, Nicole Léger underlines the great disparities between schools from one region to another, or even from one city to another. How do you assess a teacher working in a disadvantaged environment compared to another who works in a more privileged environment? How do we assess teachers with more struggling students in their class?
“Teachers must be supported and accompanied, especially in the context where many leave during their first five years of practice. In addition, the upcoming cuts do not reassure teachers and families in Quebec. It is not by throwing balloons that Minister Bolduc will improve things, ”concluded Nicole Léger.
