Quebec - As the new school year begins, the leader of the official opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, and the member for Lac-Saint-Jean and the Parti Québécois spokesperson for education, research and school perseverance, Alexandre Cloutier, are asking for the umpteenth time the Liberal government to put education back as a national priority.
“The revolving door installed in the office of liberal education ministers since 2014 has seriously hurt the network, which is struggling to breathe due to the avalanche of cuts it has been undergoing for several years. Today, human chains surround several schools; it shows to what extent people are mobilized against the cuts in our schools. For the future, they absolutely must stop, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
Illegal schools
“Several files drag on in the Cabinet of the Minister of Education, including that of illegal schools. While the Liberals passively watch the ministers of education follow one another, entire cohorts are sacrificed in these schools which do not respect Quebec&#39;s educational programs, hundreds of students leave without a diploma. The ministers recognize that they lack tools, but refuse to introduce a bill to give them! Nothing has been done since 2014. However, failing to act on the issue of illegal schools amounts to endorsing them. Is this the real position of the Liberal government? “, For his part raised Alexandre Cloutier.
Undocumented students
“The file of undocumented students is another one that sleeps on the minister&#39;s desk. Hundreds, maybe even thousands of students will not be attending school this year because their immigration status is not confirmed, for one reason or another. While Ontario and British Columbia have resolved the problem, the government of Philippe Couillard persists in denying access to our schools to these children, mortgaging their future, ”continued the member for Lac-Saint- Jeans.
False reinvestment in infrastructure
“While many files lie on his desk, Minister Proulx travels across Quebec to repeat and recycle his old ads. In August, for example, he announced sums for infrastructure; however, we already knew them, they appeared in the budget of last March. Worse still, when we analyze the figures, we see that the amounts announced do not even compensate for the cuts in previous years. The Liberal recipe is simple: cut for two years, put some money back on the table, and pretend it is a reinvestment. Rather than focusing on false announcements, Minister Proulx should try to convince his Prime Minister that a real reinvestment in our schools is essential, ”concluded the leader of the official opposition.
