Quebec, March 25, 2021 - After reading Quebec&#39;s 2021-2022 budget, the member for René ‑ Lévesque, parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois and finance critic, Martin Ouellet, deplores a backward-looking budget for years 1990, which does not take into account the necessary green shift or the reality of many Quebecers who are still suffering from the COVID-19 crisis.
IN SHORT
The government presented a backward-looking, concrete-focused budget that completely misses the window that presents itself to Quebec to take a true green turn. The government seems to forget the effects of the health and social crisis that Quebec is currently experiencing and is totally ignoring the need for investment in the social component; it is a lack of sensitivity and humanity. With this budget, the CAQ is once again missing the boat of economic nationalism to revive the Quebec economy. The government is depriving itself of many new sources of revenue that could have helped revive Québec&#39;s economy and to ensure the maintenance of quality public services.
An economic vision of the last century
For those who expected a budget reflecting the necessary transition to the economy of the 21st century, this is not the case. Worse, the government is investing more in concrete and is missing the turn towards a new green economy. Our biggest trading partner, the United States, has just announced investments of $ 2 trillion to green its economy. Meanwhile, in Quebec, we continue to ignore the reality of climate change.
“Coming out of a health crisis, the CAQ government is proposing a budget focused on infrastructure development, accelerating investments by 60% over the next 4 years in the PQI. This budget is the proper continuation of Bill 66, adopted last fall, ”commented Mr. Ouellet. He also recalled that to meet the challenges related to the just and green transition, the Parti Québécois proposed to invest a billion dollars through the Generations Fund, in order to help our businesses and our workers to better experience this transformation of the economy.
Reducing social inequalities: the budget blind spot
“It seems that the government is completely forgetting the consequences of the pandemic on the daily lives of the most vulnerable Quebecers. At the end of the health crisis and the biggest recession in the last hundred years, we would have expected massive investments to reduce growing social inequalities ”, also mentioned Martin Ouellet.
Despite their essential work on the front lines and the chronic underfunding from which they suffer, community organizations get nothing but crumbs. “It&#39;s like a slap in the face; While $ 460 million was needed to increase funding for the mission, in order to meet the needs of the most vulnerable Quebecers, the government chose to increase funding by only $ 50 million over 5 years for organizations working in health, and only $ 27 million this year for independent community action organizations. Let us also take aid to women victims of domestic violence: while Quebec deplored its seventh femicide this week, the $ 70 million expected immediately for shelters are not even there! We are only talking about a meager $ 10 million per year, ”denounced the member for René ‑ Lévesque.
As for the housing crisis - widely exposed over the past year, and even more dramatically with the increase in homelessness - it will still be a reality in the coming years. For its third budget, the CAQ announces that it will build 5,500 housing units in 5 years, whereas this is the number of housing units that should be built each year. What is more, these accommodations, she had for the most part already promised.
Finally, parents (generally women) who are waiting for a place in a childcare center to return to work will have to continue to wait. While there is currently a shortage of 3,000 educators, the measures to cope with this shortage are insufficient, and there is no measure in this budget to create the 51,000 missing places. The government is even going as far as reducing investments by $ 20 million to support the opening of new childcare centers.
A facade of economic nationalism
In terms of economic nationalism, the CAQ is still missing the boat. The success of our economic recovery had to pass through the adoption of a real national purchasing policy in Quebec and by changes to the tendering process, which currently only considers the lowest price criterion.
“The government continues to refuse to use the state to revive the Quebec economy. While we could impose purchase thresholds of 60%, or even 70% in several areas - for example personal protective equipment, state supplies, the supply of Quebec food in our public bodies or equipment in major public transit projects - the government chooses to forgo an important lever that would favor Quebec businesses. Meanwhile, our neighbors do not hesitate to benefit their local businesses, ”insisted Martin Ouellet.
&quot;In addition,&quot; he continued, &quot;the government still does not impose environmental performance criteria, in particular the impact of GHGs, in calls for tenders. Not only is this decision harmful for the environment, it is also harmful for the many Quebec companies that promote green technologies. How do you want companies that are working for the green shift to develop when you do not even take this variable into consideration when it comes time to award contracts? &quot;
Many sources of income escaped
Although it welcomes the decision to collect the QST on imported tangible goods, the Parti Québécois notes that the government continues, on the one hand, to deprive Quebec of several sources of revenue, in particular through the taxation of GAFAM (146 M $), the taxation of embezzled profits ($ 154 million) and the abolition of health placement agencies ($ 270 million). On the other hand, he persists in believing that he will make gains in Canada by continually entering in the budget the sums of $ 6 billion that the federal government owes us for health transfers. “Even the Minister of Finance himself does not believe it. It is curious, therefore, that this money continues to be budgeted. It&#39;s as if the CAQ lived in an imaginary country, ”summarized Martin Ouellet.
– 30 –
SOURCE :
Laura Chouinard-Thuly
Press Officer
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois
514 880-9594
Laura.Chouinard-Thuly@assnat.qc.ca
