The candidate in Rousseau and the Parti Québécois spokesperson for finances, Nicolas Marceau, as well as the candidates Jean-Martin Aussant (Pointe-aux-Trembles) and Dieudonné Ella Oyono (Saint-Henri-Sainte-Anne), note that the financial framework of the CAQ does not hold water. “It&#39;s a sham, a real farce, even a fraud. The CAQ&#39;s calculations and assumptions just don&#39;t work. François Legault claims that the experts from the Ministry of Finance, Desjardins and the big banks are wrong, while he is right! It is not serious, ”declared Nicolas Marceau from the outset.
Indeed, to finance his many electoral promises, François Legault invents income based on outlandish assumptions. “François Legault demonstrates once again that the CAQ is incapable of presenting a solid financial framework. He starts by inventing 0.5% higher economic growth, which is not based on any concrete assumptions, to make $ 700 million appear with a wave of a magic wand. In total, it is a sum of $ 2.7 billion that François Legault takes out of his hat, ”continued Jean-Martin Aussant.
The CAQ&#39;s financial framework is also based on imagined savings - $ 210M in IT management, $ 381M through attrition, $ 590M in procurement, $ 300M by program evaluation, and $ 350M by increasing dividends from Crown corporations. However, the CAQ never explained how it intended to collect these sums. “These billions of dollars constitute the hay spit that closes the financial framework of the CAQ. François Legault does not say which programs he will cut, which employees he will fire, which contracts will suddenly be cheaper. It does not explain either how it will increase the dividend of Crown corporations, when the only way to achieve these sums is to increase the Hydro ‑ Québec bill for families and inflate the price of wine. and spirits at the SAQ, ”added Mr. Aussant.
In addition, it should be noted that the CAQ has retreated on the issue of physician remuneration. “Barely a few weeks ago, François Legault proclaimed loud and clear that he would seek $ 1 billion in the pockets of doctors. Since then, he seems to have gone to bed in front of their lobby, now absolutely keen to tie in with the working conditions of Ontario doctors, who are currently negotiating increases. In the Parti Québécois, we are firm in our resolution to freeze the remuneration envelope for doctors, ”reiterated Dieudonné Ella Oyono.
Finally, François Legault swept under the carpet the need to ensure the maintenance of services. “The pre-election report, approved by the Auditor General, confirms that to avoid cuts, $ 868 million will have to be invested in services, starting next year. Ignoring this reality, François Legault confirms that with the CAQ, it will be the return of cuts in services. But, of course, he won&#39;t talk about it… ”, Nicolas Marceau concluded.
