Québec– The MNA for Vachon and official opposition critic for transport, maritime strategy and transport electrification, Martine Ouellet, and the MNA for Jonquière and spokesperson for sustainable development and environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, are disappointed with the attitude of the Canadian National (CN) in several cases, in particular that of the so-called “Cordonnier” salmon pit, located in Sainte-Florence, along the Matapedia river: last April , CN filled it with more than 6,000 tonnes of unwashed stone, without authorization from the Quebec Ministry of the Environment, and without notifying the Corporation de gestion des rivières Matapédia and Patapédia.
“CN&#39;s attitude is unacceptable. This mistake will have long-term consequences for the region&#39;s salmon and tourism industry. At the time when the Belledune oil port project is on the table, this event only reinforces our opposition, considering that daily, some 240 oil tank cars would cross Quebec via the Matapedia valley. Quebecers&#39; confidence in rail companies and Transport Canada is at its lowest, and CN&#39;s attitude is definitely doing nothing to help, ”said Martine Ouellet.
“There are many irregularities in the Cordonnier pit case. Not only did CN not do any wildlife inventory before the work, but it also acted at the worst time of the year, during the month when the eggs were hatching. To defend itself, the company invokes the urgency, while it has been more than two years that it analyzes the file. We ask the Department of the Environment to crack down and impose an exemplary fine on CN for this fault, which will have serious consequences. Compensation must also be granted to the regional industry to compensate for the losses linked to the incident, ”continued Sylvain Gaudreault.
Quebec Bridge
In the Quebec Bridge file, CN continues to slip away. When it was privatized in 1995, the company made a commitment to maintain its infrastructure, and it now refuses to paint the Quebec Bridge. It should be remembered that CN made profits of around $ 3.1 billion in 2014, an increase of 21% compared to 2013.
“CN would do well to adopt a better corporate attitude. Quebec laws and regulations must be respected, ”concluded Martine Ouellet.
