Thetford Mines - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announces a grant of $ 407,800 for the upgrading of the Thetford region archives center. The Director General of the MRC des Appalaches, Marie-Ève Mercier, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Archives Center, Pascal Binet, and the Director General of the Cégep de Thetford, François Dornier, participate in this event.
“For more than twenty-five years, the Archives Center has amassed a unique and irreplaceable documentary wealth on the history of the region covering the entire territory of the MRC des Appalaches. This place of memory plays a major role in the cultural vitality of the region and represents a documentary resource of prime importance. Archives allow a community to understand its history, to tell it and to reflect on it, ”said Minister Maka Kotto.
The upgrading project aims to ensure that the Archives Center has the necessary infrastructure for the conservation, dissemination and enhancement of the archival heritage of the MRC des Appalaches region. Major change, the conservation spaces will be improved by the installation of mobile shelves and a temperature and humidity control system to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Bibliothèque et Archives nationales du Québec (BAnQ ) in matters of preservation of archives and accessibility to the population. Founded in 1985, the Archives Center has been accredited by BAnQ since 1990.
The total cost of the project to which the ministry is contributing is $ 453,130. The participation of the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications, under its Capital Assistance program, represents $ 407,800, or 90% of the total cost. The Archives Center and the Cégep de Thetford complete the financial package.
The Government of Quebec&#39;s contribution is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan, made public in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 2 billion for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make informed choices.
