Québec, July 31, 2014 - Official opposition spokesperson responsible for the Charter of the French language and Member of Parliament for Bourget, Maka Kotto, is celebrating the 40th anniversary of the adoption of the first Act respecting the official language (law 22) to recall the importance of the defense and promotion of the French language, as well as the need to modernize the legislative tools in force in order to continue the work begun in 1974.
“This anniversary highlights how far we have come to make the French language our true common language. It also allows us to take stock of the past four decades and to see, beyond any doubt, that the game is not won. We must make the promotion and protection of French a constant struggle, because in this matter, our worst enemy is the wait-and-see attitude, ”said Maka Kotto.
Let us recall that Bill 22 was the first milestone in a real affirmation of the French language as the only language of communication, education and business in Quebec. It was followed, three years later, by the adoption of the Charter of the French language (Bill 101) by the government of René Lévesque. Despite these significant legislative advances at the time, the linguistic situation has since changed and our tools for protecting and promoting the language must be updated.
&quot;The Minister of Culture and Communications and Minister responsible for the Protection and Promotion of the French language, Hélène David, must act and continue the efforts to modernize the Charter deployed by the government of Pauline Marois,&quot; insisted the deputy. of Bourget. The context has changed greatly over the past 40 years and we will not achieve our objectives of protecting, enhancing and promoting the French language if we do not have the necessary tools to do so. &quot;
In parliamentary committee, Minister David unfortunately showed no desire to implement a reform of the Charter of the French language, which is nevertheless necessary to affirm the right to live and work in French, to improve the presence of the French language. French in the workplace, particularly in SMEs, as well as to promote the francization rate of immigrants.
“Forty years after the birth of the law that made it our official language, it is clear that French is still under strong pressure. How will we ensure the survival of our language if the government does not recognize the need to adapt the measures we have put in place to protect it? The Minister must do more than simply mark the anniversaries of a brighter past for the Liberal Party of Quebec, she must make history and, in turn, take the strong action that is needed ”, concluded Maka Kotto.
