Sherbrooke– The Deputy Premier of Quebec, Mr. François Gendron, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, as well as the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for the region of Estrie, Mr. Réjean Hébert, took part today in the opening ceremony of the 24th Games of Canada. The Minister for Tourism, Pascal Bérubé, also joined the event. This great celebration of sporting excellence and youth is taking place this year in Sherbrooke from August 2 to 17.
On the occasion of this very first summer edition of the Canada Games organized in Quebec, the event will welcome some 3,400 athletes who will compete in 20 sports. The 13 provinces and territories will be represented, including the Quebec delegation, which has 345 athletes.
Addressing the young people taking part in the event, the Deputy Prime Minister declared: “Quebec has been hosting the Canada Games for 30 years. Since then, new generations of athletes have emerged. They set new records and left their mark on the sporting landscape. It is now your turn to deploy your talent, to go after yourselves and to move a little further in the realization of your dreams of excellence. &quot;
Created in 1967, the Canada Games are organized every two years, alternating between winter and summer. Under the direction of the Canada Games Council, this event is Canada&#39;s largest multisport competition.
“A sporting event like the Canada Games offers an exceptional showcase for sport and physical activity. I therefore hope that the performances achieved by the athletes who participate will give everyone, whatever their age and physical condition, the desire to move! », Said Minister Malavoy.
As Minister responsible for the Estrie region, the Minister of Health and Social Services, Mr. Réjean Hébert, underlined the quality of the organization and the invaluable work of the volunteers: “I would like to thank all the volunteers. volunteers who play an essential role in the organization and holding of an event of this magnitude in our beautiful region. These Games will be in the image of our region, that is to say dynamic and accessible, ”he declared.
“The presentation of the Canada Games is a wonderful calling card for the region. I am sure our visitors will leave here with great memories they will want to share. We couldn&#39;t find better ambassadors! », Continued Minister Bérubé.
Remember that the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport is supporting the organization of the Canada Games to the tune of $ 13 million through the Fund for the development of sport and physical activity, of which an amount $ 8 million for the organization and staging of the 2013 Games, and nearly $ 5 million for upgrading sports infrastructure. The event also received financial support of $ 250,000 from Tourisme Québec as part of the Tourism Industry Development Program - Financial assistance for festivals and tourist events.
You can follow the progress of the Canada Games on a daily basis at www.sherbrooke2013.ca.
