Mackinac Island, Michigan - The Regional Summit of Member Governments of the Great Lakes Board of Governors, held in Mackinac Island, Michigan, concluded today after three days of meetings. Representing the government of Quebec, the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, welcomed the decisions taken in several files relating to water management, to the control of invasive alien species, to maritime transport and to the development of the economic area of the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence River region.
The economic space represented by the eight American states bordering the Great Lakes, Ontario and Quebec, constitutes a common market of more than 100 million inhabitants and corresponds to the fourth largest economy in the world. The Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence also form a unique ecosystem that contains nearly 20% of the planet&#39;s freshwater reserves. This reality explains the strong consensus among participants regarding their commitment to sustainable development as an engine of economic growth.
“We share with our American neighbors not only a geography, but also a history, and above all, a future. Our participation in forums like this is of great value, as it fosters consensus on regional solutions and actions in the face of common challenges. As a maritime gateway to the Great Lakes, Quebec has been an associate member of the Great Lakes Board of Governors since 1997 and is a major partner that has advanced many important issues since its accession, ”declared the Minister.
The issues related to the economy and the environment were at the heart of the discussions. At the end of the work, the governments of the region adopted several resolutions.
The Great Lakes-St. Lawrence River Seaway generates more than 227,000 jobs in Canada and the United States, as well as revenues of $ 34.6 billion. It constitutes an exceptional link, to which a dense network of rail and road links has been added over the years. In order to improve the maritime system of the Great Lakes and the St.Lawrence River, the governors and the Premiers notably committed to launch a regional collaborative initiative and to form a working group to ensure its implementation. .
In terms of economic development, governors and prime ministers also agreed on the importance of establishing common rules so that projects funded by the US federal government recognize the integrated nature of the Canadian and US economies. They agreed to work together to facilitate access to public procurement on a reciprocal basis. The resolution adopted in this regard is a first for the region: it will have a positive impact on the overall competitiveness of our value chains and could open up new outlets for Quebec businesses. Finally, it will equip the governments of the region in their search for solutions in terms of infrastructure repair and financing.
In terms of the environment, it should be noted that the issue of aquatic invasive species - a major issue in the region - is now the subject of a mobilizing regional consensus. Participants agreed on the importance of preventing the introduction of new species into the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence basin and limiting the spread of those already established in order to protect the environment, the economy and society.
As part of the Summit, governors and prime ministers released the list of the most undesirable species, including Asian carps. Note that around 100 exotic aquatic species are already present in the St. Lawrence River, compared to more than 180 in the Great Lakes.
For Quebec, the establishment of common detection and monitoring networks is essential. “Without the sharing of information and expertise between the provinces and states of the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River, we will not be able to stem this very worrying problem. Invasive alien aquatic species are sometimes fierce predators of native species, often causing irreversible damage to ecosystems and biodiversity in addition to harming the economy, especially sport fishing. I am very happy that the heads of government unanimously agreed on concrete actions to combat and prevent this scourge, ”declared Minister Blanchet.
The Minister also participated in the meeting of governors and prime ministers who are members of the Great Lakes and St.Lawrence River Regional Water Resources Council, which manages the Great Lakes Basin Sustainable Water Resources Agreement. Lakes and the St. Lawrence River. It should be remembered that this historic agreement recognizes that the waters of the Great Lakes basin and the St. Lawrence River are interconnected and that they require close collaboration between states and provinces in order to protect this precious collective resource. The Minister reported on the actions taken by Quebec with regard to the implementation of the Agreement. The Regulation respecting water withdrawals and their protection, which aims to establish a new authorization regime for water withdrawals in Quebec, is currently the subject of a public consultation. Its adoption will complete Quebec&#39;s regulatory obligations with regard to the Agreement.
Such a meeting allows Quebec to have access to several high-level interlocutors. Thus, the Minister was able to meet with the Premier of Ontario, Ms. Kathleen Wynne, and with 4 governors, namely Mr. Pat Quinn from Illinois, Mr. Mike Pence from Indiana, Mr. Rick Snyder from Michigan and Mr. Scott Walker from Wisconsin. The Minister also met with decision makers from the governments of New York State, Pennsylvania, Minnesota, as well as Ohio Lieutenant Governor Mary Taylor.
“A summit like the one at Mackinac Island is a privileged opportunity to strengthen ties between partner states with whom we share many priority sectoral issues. We have made significant economic and environmental progress, which will have a significant and concrete impact on the St. Lawrence River and the local populations. I am also very happy with the cordial exchanges I had with the leaders of several American states, with whom I discussed the easing of regulatory constraints on trade and the development of the carbon market, ”concluded the Minister.
