Saint-Siméon-de-Bonaventure - Meeting in the investiture assembly in the presence of the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, and several members of the party, the members of the Parti Québécois from the riding of Bonaventure appointed Sylvain Roy to nominate them. represent as the party&#39;s candidate for the by-election to be held on December 5.
“On December 5, the citizens of Bonaventure will have two choices. Jean Charest&#39;s Liberal Party mired in scandals and decked out with allegations of corruption. A party that cares about its friends rather than the people of Gaspé. A party that still refuses to hold a real public commission of inquiry into the construction industry. Instead, I invite them to choose their own party, to vote for the Parti Québécois. A party of integrity which proposes real changes for Quebec and the Gaspé. A party that has always been concerned about the development of the Gaspé. By voting for me, they will be assured of being able to count on a member whose first priority will be the defense of their interests. On December 5, I invite the voters of Bonaventure to side with the Gaspé, ”declared Parti Québécois candidate Sylvain Roy.
“We offer the citizens of the riding of Bonaventure an exceptional candidate. Sylvain Roy is irreproachable, his flawless integrity is recognized. He is a true visionary who will be able to fight to advance and develop the Gaspé. The citizens of Bonaventure can choose integrity, transparency and competence by voting for Sylvain Roy, ”declared Parti Québécois leader Pauline Marois.
The leader of the Parti Québécois took the opportunity to reaffirm her commitment to chair a revival committee for the Gaspé. “My will is clear. Under a Parti Québécois government, as Premier of Quebec, I myself will chair a committee to revive the Gaspé. Leadership for the development of the region must be at the first political level ”.
Aged 47 and from Pointe-à-la-Garde, Sylvain Roy is the father of two boys aged 16 and 19. He currently lives in Escuminac on a farmhouse by the sea where he operates with his wife a small business for tourism and recreation. After his university studies in 1994, he decided to come back to live in Baie-des-Chaleurs, despite a promising career as a university researcher. He becomes a forestry worker and discovers a living environment that teaches perseverance, humility and pragmatism. A doctoral student in sociology, he teaches at the Cégep de la Gaspésie et des Îles in Carleton-sur-Mer. Since 2009, he has been a municipal councilor for the municipality of Escuminac.
“It is a two for one that is offered to the voters of the riding of Bonaventure. On December 5, they will be able to choose a real deputy in Quebec and send a clear message to Jean Charest against corruption and liberal arrogance, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
