While the candidates of the Liberal Party of Quebec (PLQ) and the Coalition Avenir Québec (CAQ) withdrew, because they were deemed unfit to represent the voters, the leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, and the candidate of the Parti Québécois , Normand Beauregard, wished to reiterate their commitment to the population of Louis-Hébert.
“Since the announcement of Normand Beauregard&#39;s candidacy for the Parti Québécois, we have been able to introduce Louis-Hébert&#39;s voters to a man of integrity, competent and close to the concerns of his fellow citizens, whom he has worked with for 30 years. We have a major candidate for Louis-Hébert and the Capitale ‑ Nationale region. We now learn that the liberal Éric Tétrault and the caquist Normand Sauvageau are withdrawing, due to revelations concerning their past behavior. It is up to the PLQ and the CAQ to explain why they were not able to find candidates deserving the respect of the voters, when they had six months to do so. The designation of these candidates, then their withdrawal, all this must be seen by the voters of Louis-Hébert as a serious lack of respect towards them, ”argued Jean-François Lisée.
Normand Beauregard intends to pursue the Parti Québécois game plan with a view to winning the by-election on October 2. “Today, in addition to meeting the citizens of Louis-Hébert, I officially opened my electoral office alongside the leader of the Parti Québécois, members of our political party and more than a hundred activists. Everyone is pumped to talk to voters, present them our priorities and listen to their concerns. My goal, as of October 3, is to devote 100% of my time to serving the citizens of Louis-Hébert, without distraction and with all my integrity. I hope that the errors of the PLQ and the CAQ will not fuel cynicism and that voters will go to the polls on October 2 to choose someone in their image to represent them, ”he declared.
The Parti Québécois intends to continue campaigning on the major issues facing Louis-Hébert; in addition to integrity, it will be about families, the environment, transport and the economy. With a candidate of integrity who represents the real succession for the constituency.
