Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, said this Sunday, August 18 that she was ready to call the by-election in the riding of Viau to allow the leader of the Liberal Party of Quebec to enter the Assembly national as quickly as possible. She also pledged that the Parti Québécois not present a candidate in order to facilitate the election of Philippe Couillard. The Council of Ministers could be seized of this question as early as this week if Mr. Couillard agrees to stand as a candidate.
“The Leader of the Opposition has said in recent days that he is thinking about which riding he will choose. I think it is his duty and his responsibility that he quickly enter the National Assembly. Thus, I undertake to quickly call the by-election in the riding of Viau and not to present a candidate from the Parti Québécois there, ”announced the Prime Minister.
Remember that the riding of Viau has been vacant since the resignation of Emmanuel Dubourg, the latter having expressed the wish to represent the Liberal Party of Canada in the riding of Bourassa, free since the departure of Denis Coderre.
Mr. Couillard has been leader of the Liberal Party of Quebec since March 17, 2013, a little over 5 months. When she was elected leader of the Parti Québécois on June 26, 2007, Ms. Marois seized the first opportunity offered to her to be present in the National Assembly, in a context where Jean Charest formed a minority government. She was thus elected in the riding of Charlevoix on September 24, 2007.
The Prime Minister also said: “I appeal to the Leader of the Opposition&#39;s sense of state. In a minority government context, the opposition has an important responsibility when it comes to passing laws. &quot;
If the by-election in the constituency of Viau were called following the next Council of Ministers which will take place this Thursday, August 22, in Quebec, the poll could be held on September 30. If this is his wish, Mr. Couillard could then choose to run in another riding at the time of the general election.
