Carleton-sur-Mer - Parti Québécois leader Pauline Marois announces that she will launch a vast plan to revive the forestry industry once in power. This is what she said this morning during a press conference in the riding of Bonaventure in the company of the Parti Québécois candidate, Sylvain Roy, and the deputy for Roberval and forestry spokesperson, Denis Trottier. .
“The forestry industry has been in crisis in Quebec since 2005. More than 20,000 jobs have been lost and more than 200 factories have closed their doors. The Gaspé is no exception. In Quebec, the Liberal government has never delivered the goods. Jean Charest even declared in 2008 that forestry workers should go to the mines to retrain. It is time for a political party to take the forestry industry and the fate of families who live from the forest seriously, ”said Pauline Marois.
“In the Parti Québécois, we are not giving up. We are convinced that the forestry industry has a future. The forest remains one of our greatest riches, said Denis Trottier, recalling that the Parti Québécois had tabled a bill to promote the use of wood which was rejected out of hand by the government of Jean. Charest. When we are in power, we will pass it ”.
The forest industry recovery plan proposed by the Parti Québécois contains the following actions:
The adoption of a real wood charter which will promote the use of 2nd and 3rd processing wood materials; The creation of a forestry share capital plan to encourage the financial participation of workers and Quebecers in general in the revival of forestry companies; A program to promote and support knowledge of the forest, forest culture, training and trades related to the forest and the forest industry; Support for the use of wood as a second generation biofuel; The launch of a vast silvicultural development project aimed at doubling the value and production of forests in 25 years; Support and modernization programs for the forest industry according to their ecological character. “The Liberal government has literally abandoned forestry workers since 2005 and the Liberal candidate in Bonaventure promises continuity !, exclaimed Sylvain Roy. At the Parti Québécois, we promise to break with continuity and really take care of this industry and the families for whom the forest is the livelihood ”.
Sylvain Roy was once a forestry worker and knows this reality very well. “The people of Bonaventure must tell the government that they no longer accept Liberal indifference to the forestry crisis. On December 5, voters here will have the opportunity to send a clear message to the government of Jean Charest by electing a member of the Parti Québécois ”.
