Paspébiac -The member for Charlevoix and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, proposes to repatriate the employment insurance program to Quebec. This is what she announced today as she took part in a press briefing with the Parti Québécois candidate in Bonaventure, Sylvain Roy, the MP for Marie-Victorin, Bernard Drainville, and the MP for Saint-Jean, Dave Turcotte, on the Banc-de-Pêche-de-Paspébiac historic site.
“This is a fundamental social program that affects millions of Quebecers, including many in the Gaspé where the unemployment rate is 12.4%. Each employee and almost all employers in Quebec pay employment insurance premiums. It is high time to repatriate it to Quebec to make it a decent, modern and efficient program that truly meets our needs, ”said Pauline Marois.
A few main principles should guide the establishment of a Quebec employment insurance plan, according to Pauline Marois. “It should first be a real insurance for employees. It should be a solution to the shortage of skilled labor. Employers will have to come out on top and finally, the Quebec plan should aim to reduce the contribution rates of employers and employees in the long term ”.
“In the current federal system, many workers pay premiums without being insured. There are seasonal workers, young people and a disproportionate number of women who are being left behind right now. Employers, who pay premiums, are also penalized. Employment insurance will therefore have to become again what it should always have been: insurance, ”explained the leader of the Parti Québécois.
The Quebec program must also be part of the solution to the problem of the shortage of specialized labor. “If we took a census of all the jobs without workers and all of the workers without a job, we could probably conclude that in theory, Quebec is a society of full employment. Obviously, in practice it is different. With a Quebec employment insurance program, we will be able to encourage more of our workers to take specialized training in demand from employers. This will have the triple advantage of helping workers, employers and the Quebec economy, ”she added.
The administrative costs of the current program are very high. Just for Quebec, these are $ 485 million in operating costs. By coupling the operating services of Emploi-Québec with those of the employment insurance program, we will be able to save millions of dollars which will be used to pay benefits or reduce premiums.
“What we are proposing today is a unifying future project for workers and employers who will come out on top. This is a vision in which Quebec will gain by making its own decisions, ”added the leader of the Parti Québécois, inviting representatives of all political parties both in Quebec City and in Ottawa to unite around this issue. a winning idea for Quebec and to call with one voice for the repatriation of the employment insurance plan.
“The Harper government does not miss an opportunity to repeat that its government does not interfere in the jurisdictions of the provinces and that it does not believe in the virtues of social programs. He should therefore be happy to get rid of the management of the employment insurance program, ”concluded Pauline Marois, showing herself confident in being able to provide Quebec with a vital tool for its economic and social development.
