Quebec - According to the member for Verchères and official opposition spokesperson for Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, the current federal election campaign once again shows the sluggishness of Philippe Couillard when it comes to defend the interests of Quebeckers. Yesterday, the Prime Minister made, according to him, his only intervention of the campaign by sending, lip service, a few timid requests to the federal parties.
“Philippe Couillard once again shows his apathy when the time comes to defend Quebec against Canada. Instead of showing itself to be combative, it is satisfied to formulate some requests, clearly insufficient, while specifying that it will not intervene any more on the subject. For many particularly sensitive issues, the Prime Minister did not even bother to demand the slightest commitment from the federal parties; we only have to think of the necessary financial compensation for the destruction of data in the firearms registry, respect for Quebec&#39;s jurisdiction in securities regulation, full maintenance of supply management or the reinstatement of the labor-sponsored funds tax credit. This is not the attitude of a premier of Quebec worthy of his office, ”declared Stéphane Bergeron.
The Prime Minister candidly said he hoped the federal parties would deign to respond to his modest demands by the October 19 election ... &quot;Otherwise, what?&quot; If the federal parties ignore him or answer him outright no, what will Philippe Couillard do? It is a pernicious message that he has just sent in a thinly veiled fashion to the federal parties: you can afford to ignore Quebec without too many consequences. And, as everyone in Canada knows that they will unconditionally accept just about anything to avoid any questioning of the federal system, I would say that Quebec is in a bad way! », Continued the member for Verchères.
The finding is unanimous, and even the very provincialist Philippe Couillard must have recognized it: between Quebec and Ottawa, there is no dialogue. Our demands are invariably ignored, Canada&#39;s priorities always being outside Quebec. “Faced with this reality, the Parti Québécois proposes a solution, the solution: independence. But Philippe Couillard, what does he propose? », Concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
