Quebec - Taking advantage of the presence of the candidate and candidates of the Parti Québécois in the caucus of members of the political party, the leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, reminded that they have concrete solutions to propose to improve health care and services.
“The Liberal government has cut nearly $ 1 billion in health care, which has had concrete impacts on patients, seniors and vulnerable people in all regions of Quebec. Then, while it reduced spending as much as possible, the government allowed an unacceptable slippage in the remuneration of physicians to such an extent that their salaries exceeded the Canadian average. In fact, $ 3 billion has been granted to these 20,000 people who are among the most well-off in Quebec. This sum should have been invested in patient services, services which have been severely cut due to liberal austerity policies. It is high time to reverse the trend, to freeze the remuneration of physicians in order to reinvest the sums released in health care and services. Our candidates advocate concrete solutions to reverse this movement; they plead for a network close to the people, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
In Arthabaska, for example, the files of the CLSC de l&#39;Érable and the Hôtel-Dieu d&#39;Arthabaska are of particular concern to the candidate Jacques Daigle. “For me, it is essential to restore an adequate supply of care at the CLSC de L&#39;Érable. As for the urgency of the Hôtel-Dieu d&#39;Arthabaska, we must not stop at electoral promises; we must make sure that the first shovelful of the earth is made before 2018, ”he insisted.
In Marie-Victorin, candidate Catherine Fournier reiterated her commitment to the establishment of a clinic for super-nurses in the Saint-Robert district, in Longueuil. “We must increase access and proximity to health care. Super nurses can provide a host of care and help ease the emergency at Charles-Le Moyne and Pierre-Boucher hospitals. A super-nursing clinic in the Saint-Robert district means more health services for all families and seniors in Longueuil, ”she summarized.
Marc Bourcier, candidate in Saint-Jérôme, proposes to improve the use of existing infrastructures in order to relieve the emergency at the Saint-Jérôme Regional Hospital. “By transforming the Youville accommodation center into an emergency overflow unit, and by adding super nurses, we can quickly help reduce emergency waiting times. Here is an effective and quickly applicable solution to help the Jérômians ”, he estimates.
Finally, for Richard Langlais, candidate in Verdun, the solution involves better access to health care. “We must improve access to local health care, especially for the 5,000 residents of Nuns&#39; Island who have just lost their family doctor. In Verdun, it is also necessary to carry out the expansion of the Verdun Hospital; thus, patients will have access to care and the Liberals will not be able to run an umpteenth election campaign on the subject in 2018. ”
