Quebec - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the Member of Parliament for Taschereau and spokesperson responsible for the Capitale-Nationale region, Agnès Maltais, accompanied Normand Beauregard during the announcement of his candidacy for the nomination of the Parti Québécois for the upcoming by-election in Louis ‑ Hébert. The investiture assembly will take place on September 20 in Saint-Augustin-de-Desmaures.
“Normand Beauregard has lived in the riding of Louis-Hébert for 30 years. He has dedicated his life to the environment and sustainable development; this makes him the ideal candidate against those, pro-pipeline, of the PLQ and the CAQ. In fact, here in Louis-Hébert, the Liberal Party and the CAQ, it&#39;s all the same. The PLQ candidate was approached by François Legault, and both parties are in favor of Energy East, which would pass right here, in the heart of the constituency. People here have a choice: they can support Normand Beauregard, who is against Energy East and in favor of sustainable development, or the federalist parties, who are for the pipeline, ”said Jean ‑ François Lisée.
Normand Beauregard worked for nearly 20 years in the Quebec public service, notably as coordinator of Quebec&#39;s energy policy. His experience in the apparatus of the Quebec state is combined with a knowledge of the constituency that he will know how to use for the benefit of the citizens of Louis-Hébert. “By choosing the Parti Québécois, the people of Louis-Hébert can send a strong message to the Liberal government. By supporting my candidacy, voters are choosing the intelligent development of our transportation network, sustainable development for our territory, our shores, and the influence of our economy, ”he declared.
The upcoming election campaign will be an opportunity for the Parti Québécois to assert its priorities for Louis ‑ Hébert. All significant themes - including the Quebec identity, public services, protection of the territory or the improvement of the transport network - will be discussed. “We saw it recently: the issues of defending the Quebec identity, secularism and the French language continue to preoccupy Quebecers. While the Liberals stubbornly refuse to debate it calmly, the Caquists themselves offer simplistic solutions. The Parti Québécois&#39; approach is the one that best reflects the will of Quebeckers, and we will bring that voice to the by-election, ”added Jean-François Lisée.
Agnès Maltais is also very enthusiastic about this candidacy. “A team player like Normand, who also knows the workings of the state well and has always been close to his community, that&#39;s a definite asset. Not only for the people of Louis-Hébert, but also for the entire Capitale ‑ Nationale region. The entire Parti Québécois team will be at his side to support him and meet the constituents of the constituency over the coming weeks, ”she concluded.
For more information on Normand Beauregard, visit lenormandbeauregard.org.
