Montreal - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, announced, at the Palais des congrès de Montréal, the team that will participate in the final of the Droit de Cité program, next June. This series of 30 programs produced by CIBL in collaboration with the Barreau du Québec was broadcast every Friday from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. One hour per week, the show offered two groups of university students with opposing ideas to come and debate in front of a jury and the public about social issues.
“Oratory debate as proposed by Droit de Cité is part of the great democratic tradition of our society. This type of exercise allows students to discuss, clarify and refine their positions while respecting and considering those of others. Whatever subject is discussed, public debate is always necessary. In this sense, the Droit de Cité program contributes to making the community aware of the democratic values of discussion and openness, ”said Minister Duchesne.
The first round of debates allowed 32 teams to be heard, ie more than 65 students. Subsequently, 16 teams advanced to the round of 16, 8 to the quarter-final, 4 to the semi-final and two to the final. It will be broadcast live from the Congrès du Barreau du Québec on June 30, in front of more than 150 people.
The Right of the City formula is simple. The program opens with the host who reveals the topic of discussion for the day, sets out the related editorial, then presents the jury, the organizations involved and the stakeholders in the debate. Afterwards, the groups of students begin their oratorical game. They have twelve minutes to present their arguments in the form of an adversarial debate, with the moderation of the moderator.
At the end of the debate, the public is invited to choose by vote the best debaters (pleadings and indictments). Following the radio exercise, the content of the discussions is posted on the forum of the public affairs journal of the Legal Clinic Juripop, Facts and Causes, as well as on the blog dedicated to the show in the Journal de Montreal.
Four public figures have followed one another to lead these social debates: Mathieu Bock-Côté, sociologist and columnist, Jocelyne Cazin, journalist, commentator and host, Pierre Maisonneuve, journalist and host, and Gilles Payer, radio host.
“The formula we have adopted is stimulating, positive and open to everyone&#39;s benefit. The objective is first of all to mobilize the university student community, with the participation of the legal, political, social and economic circles. Everything takes place in a space of multiplatform and public debate, where multiple differences of opinion, vision and philosophy meet through a medium that we all know: radio ”, mentioned the founder and director. General of Juripop, Mr. Marc-Antoine Cloutier, who in partnership with the Barreau du Québec and CIBL produces the Droit de Cité program.
