Montreal - The member for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Martin Lemay, announces today to the citizens of his riding that he will not be a candidate in the next general election. This decision is the result of a reflection that began a few months ago. Martin Lemay reiterates all his support and solidarity with his leader Pauline Marois, the deputies and members of the Parti Québécois. In the future, he intends to continue his involvement in the promotion and advancement of the independence of Quebec in another way.
Until the election, Martin Lemay will continue to exercise his duties as a Member of Parliament as he has done for nearly six years. Here is the statement he made:
_ “There are several ways of being interested in public affairs. Being in active politics for over twenty years was one of them. It is not the only one. After a long reflection, I am therefore announcing that I will not be a candidate for the Parti Québécois in the next general election. I will, however, continue to follow our political debates with interest, because, whatever one thinks, this area of collective action remains the privileged place to debate ideas. I intend to continue to participate, but I will do it in a different way. I may succumb to the temptation of writing.
I would like to say that it was an honor for me to represent the citizens of Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, a unique riding in Quebec. I thank the population for the confidence they have shown in me over the past six years. I also thank the activists of the Parti Québécois who, despite the many upheavals, have shown exemplary loyalty. I salute my fellow Members who have demonstrated both competence and attachment to Quebec. Finally, I thank Pauline Marois for the confidence she had in me. She was able to count on mine. It is gratifying that strength of character and determination are now recognized as essential qualities in politics.
Thanks to the generosity of all these people, I was therefore able to participate in one of the greatest human adventures: the struggle for the independence of my people.
In leaving active political life, I have only one regret: not having known how to alert public opinion to the fate reserved for the birthplace of Honoré Mercier, the greatest Prime Minister in our history. This regrettable situation speaks volumes about our inability to remember and recognize the contribution of those who made our people great. Great peoples know and take responsibility for their history. In Quebec, I have to admit that we are far from the mark. A few years ago, the professor and sociologist Fernand Dumont asked the most important question of our time: &quot;how a capacity for creation would come to a people if it is convinced in advance that what it has previously accomplished is without value?&quot; In the next few years, I will try to answer them.
So I am leaving active politics, I said, recalling this wise advice from this fabulous politician who was Mercier and who was a constant source of inspiration for me. As early as 1863, then a journalist, Mercier formulated for the first time what will remain the raison d&#39;être of his political commitment: &quot;in the name of the country and its interests, the resentments of the past and the jealousies of the present must disappear; &#39;unite.&quot; This call for the unity of nationalist and independence forces resonates until today. This unity is necessary more than ever before the real risk of disappearing and, unlike the situation of our ancestors, it is not so much English that threatens us as our own reflexes showing a badly assumed history. A few years before Mercier, our first national historian, François-Xavier Garneau, wrote that the destiny of French Canadians will be &quot;to fight without ceasing&quot;. Surrender to our historic responsibilities is therefore not an option.
