Saint-Jean-de-Matha– The deputy for Berthier and parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, André Villeneuve, said he was happy and relieved to learn that his name and that of his company are removed from the list produced before the Commission of Inquiry into the Awarding and Management of Public Contracts in the Construction Industry. Recall that on September 27, investigator Eric Vecchio of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) presented the commission with a list of names of companies whose vehicles had been seen in front of the Cosenza social club, an alleged haunt of the Mafia. Montreal. The name of Mr. Villeneuve&#39;s company, Plancher Mirage André Villeneuve inc., Appeared on the incriminating list.
Since then, Mr. Villeneuve has declared on several occasions and vehemently that he has not had any relationship with anyone to his knowledge linked to the Mafia. Seeking to understand how and why the name of his company was cited during the work of the Charbonneau commission, he, through the lawyer representing the Parti Québécois, filed a request for the commission to demonstrate the evidence. which she had, in particular the year, the month, the day, the hour and the number of the plate of the vehicle of her company identified by the RCMP during Operation Colosseum which took place between 2002 and 2006.
However, it turns out that after examining the evidence submitted, the commission concludes that the numbers were reversed in the registration of the license plate number. Here is the statement made to the commission, on this subject, on January 31, 2013, by Me Sonia LeBel, chief prosecutor of the commission:
“On September 27, 2012, commission investigator Eric Vecchio mentioned in his public testimony before the commission the name, among others, of the company Plancher Mirage André Villeneuve inc., Whose presence of a vehicle was reportedly observed. on a parking lot located near the Consenza social club by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police as part of the Colisée project.
However, after an investigation by the commission, we are now able to confirm that the name of this company Plancher Mirage André Villeneuve inc. should not have been the subject of evidence before the commission, the plate identified by the RCMP not being that of a vehicle of this company. I must explain to you that this error stems from an inversion in the plate numbers, which led to the identification of the company in question.
So, naturally, I am going to ask your permission to withdraw from the evidence of the commission this name, the name of Plancher Mirage André Villeneuve inc., As well as any reference to this company. &quot;
&quot;This is a response which clears any doubt as to the suspicions calling into question my integrity which had been raised by the Charbonneau commission and which, unfortunately, were widely disseminated, casting doubt on public opinion , my honesty as a citizen and as a politician. However, we must also understand that the damage caused by the dissemination of this faulty information was significant, both by the perplexity and the loss of confidence in me that it may have aroused among citizens of my constituency, colleagues , relationships and acquaintances, than by the stress caused by such a situation of incomprehension, expectation, uncertainty, pain and questioning that we, my family, my friends and I, had to endure during the four months, ”said Mr. Villeneuve.
&quot;The Charbonneau commission, by its mission and the credibility it must have in public opinion, therefore recognizes that there has been proof of information which has turned out to be erroneous as far as I am concerned and which is present today&quot; hui this declaration fully restoring my reputation. I hope that all the media which have had to deal with the question, for the sake of the truth, take up this statement by giving it at least as much weight as when my name was falsely associated with dishonest and illicit activities ”, a concluded the deputy for Berthier.
NB In order to speak directly to the citizens of his constituency, the deputy for Berthier, André Villeneuve, will give interviews to the local media and to 103.5 FM radio. He will not grant any further interviews.
