Saint-Eustache - On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the MNA for Deux-Montagnes, Daniel Goyer, announces financial assistance of $ 272,500 to the City of Saint-Eustache to restore the Globensky manor. This historic building now houses the House of Culture and Heritage as well as various temporary exhibitions. This announcement was made with the mayor of Saint-Eustache, Mr. Pierre Charron.
“Several investments have been made over the years to preserve and enhance the Globensky Mansion. The financial assistance announced today aims to continue the restoration of this heritage building which is of great historical and architectural value. By maintaining the integrity of the site, we also wish to ensure the sustainability of its cultural vocation for the benefit of the surrounding population, ”Minister Maka Kotto said.
“The involvement of the City of Saint-Eustache in the preservation of its built heritage is exemplary. The maintenance and restoration of the Globensky mansion at different stages speaks volumes. The Government of Quebec is proud to participate in the restoration of this heritage jewel which is close to the hearts of the people of the region, ”said MNA Daniel Goyer.
“We are really very happy with this major financial support from the Government of Quebec which, through this concrete assistance, demonstrates its concern for the preservation of Quebec&#39;s heritage. The financial assistance, combined with our efforts, will allow us to undertake essential work, which will restore the solidity, luster and presence of this emblematic building of Vieux-Saint-Eustache, of inestimable heritage value ”, underlined Mayor Pierre Charron .
The Globensky estate is a large bourgeois property which was developed in the second half of the 19th century. The estate is located in the heart of the village core of the former seigneury of Rivière-du-Chêne, in the town of Saint-Eustache. It was listed in 1961 and this protection includes the manor which is a witness to the end of the seigneurial regime and the vast landscaped grounds which are surrounded by a low stone wall. In addition to the $ 272,500 grant from the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications and from the Quebec Cultural Heritage Fund, the City of Saint-Eustache is dedicating $ 302,669 to the restoration work announced today. These are aimed more particularly at the restoration of two exterior walls of the building, comprising a stone wall and woodwork, as well as that of the stone wall surrounding the estate.
