Quebec - The member for Sanguinet, Mr. Alain Therrien, is pleased to point out, on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that considerable investments have been granted to the various organizations of the MRC de Roussillon.
In the context of road congestion mitigation measures, certain provisions announced in 2011 were renewed in 2013, including:
Snow removal costs for the park-and-ride parking in Saint-Constant, in the amount of $ 1,800, will also be subsidized in 2013. In addition, the expansion work on the park-and-ride parking in Châteauguay will be in their second phase in 2013.
Also in the context of reducing road congestion, two new measures will appear in the territory of the MRC de Roussillon, including the addition of 160 spaces at the La Prairie park-and-ride parking lot, for an investment of $ 220,000, as well as the addition of a feeder service by bus to Candiac station, representing costs of $ 55,000.
“Our government encourages and supports the development of public transit, which makes it possible to optimize the use of the road network while increasing the fluidity of travel, reducing the level of congestion and reducing pollution attributable to the consumption of hydrocarbons. »Declared MP Therrien.
As part of the government assistance program for public transport of persons (PAGTCP), operating subsidy component, $ 3,760,740 has been injected again this year into organizations in the territory of the MRC de Roussillon, including:
The operating subsidy component of the PAGTCP aims to support the assumption of responsibility for public transport by municipalities located outside large urban centers and improve services in terms of frequency and service as well as &#39;&#39; offer greater diversity to private carriers called upon to act as service providers to municipalities. at
Investments totaling $ 795,000 also appear in the 2013 five-year fixed assets program and may be paid to the various CITs of the Roussillon MRC, in the context of the PAGTCP, the fixed assets subsidy component. This component of the assistance program aims to promote the maintenance, improvement and development of efficient service networks. Financial assistance is paid for the realization of infrastructure projects, the acquisition of buses and rolling stock (metro and commuter train) and various public transport equipment.
Subsidies for the improvement of services, with a budget envelope of $ 6,229,394, as part of the government assistance program for the improvement of public transport services, are also available. The Department can then reimburse 50% of the costs related to the increase in services, up to a maximum amount established according to the forecast data submitted by each of the organizations.
Finally, more than $ 3M is available in 2013 for CIT Le Richelain, Sud-Ouest and Haut-Saint-Laurent for capital projects, as part of the Société&#39;s public transit capital assistance program. financing of local infrastructures in Quebec (SOFIL). Within the framework of this program, organizations have a closed budget envelope distributed according to their attendance. SOFIL&#39;s sources of funding come, on the one hand, from the transfer of part of the federal excise tax on gasoline and, on the other hand, from a participation of the Government of Quebec equivalent to the contribution. required of the municipal sector.
&quot;By participating in the financing of public transit, we are investing in sustainable development and the mobility of people, a social, environmental and economic issue that is at the heart of our government&#39;s mission,&quot; added Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
