Chandler– The MNA for Bonaventure, Mr. Sylvain Roy, today inaugurated on behalf of the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, the new satellite hemodialysis unit at the Center hospitalier de Chandler , an installation of the Rocher-Percé Health and Social Services Center (CSSS).
“Considering the growing number of people in the region who need this service, this inauguration is of particular importance. And for good reason! This is in fact the very first hemodialysis service in Gaspésie-Îles-de-la Madeleine, and it will ensure that patients no longer have to leave family and friends to go and receive these services elsewhere ”, declared MP Sylvain Roy.
In operation since November 18, the new hemodialysis unit currently receives and treats seven patients, but will eventually be able to receive up to 24. It should be noted that in addition to benefiting from the services of the team in place, the patients of the unit can also count on the team of specialized services of the Rimouski Regional Hospital thanks to telenephrology.
“When we know that many of our fellow citizens have literally had to move to receive their care in another region, with all the emotional and financial inconvenience involved, we understand the importance of today&#39;s inauguration. I am delighted with today&#39;s announcement, which demonstrates our government&#39;s desire to offer quality services in all regions of Quebec and which allows our fellow citizens to receive care close to their place of residence. », Concluded Mr. Roy.
The implementation of this hemodialysis unit at the CSSS du Rocher-Percé was made possible thanks to an investment of $ 1,226,000, covering the costs of installation and equipment as well as training costs. In fact, it should be noted that the four nurses assigned to the hemodialysis unit, as well as the multidisciplinary team serving dialysis patients, made up of pharmacists, nutritionists, social workers and biomedical engineering technicians, were able to perfect their knowledge at CSSS de Rimouski-Neigette. This team has over 1,700 hours of training to ensure the highest quality hemodialysis services to the people of the region.
