Sherbrooke– The deputy for Sherbrooke, Mr. Serge Cardin, today inaugurated, on behalf of the Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Ms. Véronique Hivon, new administrative premises at the Youth Center of the Estrie.
“More than 60 youth center employees will benefit from this new work environment that is more modern and better suited to their needs. Whether they are in the field or providing clinical, rehabilitation or administrative support, the youth center teams carry out daily work of great importance with vulnerable young people and their families. I take this opportunity to thank them for their commitment and for all the difference they make in the lives of these young people, ”said Mr. Cardin.
The repair and upgrading work that has been carried out concerns the three pavilions of the Queen-Victoria building of the youth center, which also has two other service points where clinical and rehabilitation services are offered. The three pavilions of the Queen Victoria Building were built between 1863 and 1963 and house the administrative sectors and the head office of the youth center.
First, the Elisabeth pavilion was completely rebuilt. The second phase, which is still ongoing, involves the renovation of the Queen and Central pavilions. Improvements have been made in particular to the accessibility of the premises and to the air conditioning equipment in order to have better control of the air quality, and work on the electrical and heating systems is also planned.
“The teams at the Estrie youth center have always shown great dynamism and motivation in accomplishing their mission, and I am delighted to know that they will be able to continue their efforts in a new environment, with the constant objective always better support young people in difficulty and their families, ”added Mr. Cardin.
A total of $ 2,110,000 is planned for the entire project, or $ 1,241,000 for the first phase and $ 869,000 for the second, which will be completed by the end of 2014.
