Saint-Anicet– The member for Beauharnois and vice-president of the Committee on the Economy and Labor, Mr. Guy Leclair, is proud to announce on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, that the Municipality of Saint-Anicet will benefit from government assistance for the construction of a new municipal garage. This assistance is granted under the new sub-component 5.1 of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM), which is devoted to municipal and community infrastructure projects.
“I am very happy to announce today the government&#39;s participation in the implementation of this important municipal infrastructure project in the Montérégie region. The construction of a new municipal garage in Saint-Anicet will allow the municipality to ensure the health and safety of its employees as well as the adequate maintenance of road services, in the best interest of the community ”, declared the deputy Guy Leclair.
“The selection of RECIM projects perfectly reflects my government&#39;s desire to put integrity at the heart of its decisions. The projects chosen respect the standards in force and take into account the objectives of occupation and vitality of the territories for the benefit of all Quebecers ”, indicated Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
A new municipal garage in Saint-Anicet Located in the same building as the administrative offices of town hall, the current garage is too small to park all municipal trucks and no longer meets current standards. In fact, it no longer meets the needs of the municipality due to its obsolescence and the cramped nature of the premises.
The Saint-Anicet project therefore aims to build a new municipal garage that will allow the municipality to acquire a safer, more functional place that complies with the standards in force, thus meeting the needs of employees and citizens, for many years to come. Ultimately, the new infrastructure will only be used for trucks and will allow the municipality to recover the space left vacant in the current building for storage. The completion of this project will benefit approximately 2,540 people.
Completion of this project will necessitate a total eligible investment of $ 1,788,091, under sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM. The contribution of the Government of Quebec amounts to $ 1,162,259 and that of the Municipality of Saint-Anicet to $ 625,832.
With a budget envelope of approximately $ 60 million over five years, sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM allows municipalities in Quebec to carry out construction projects, upgrading, rehabilitation or repair of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offer and the quality of life of citizens in addition to compensating for the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
