Quebec, September 27, 2017 - Like several Quebec citizens who expressed their concern at a press conference this morning, the Parti Québécois is calling for the outright withdrawal of the hydrocarbon regulations and their complete rewriting. Moreover, the official opposition spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Sylvain Rochon, and for the environment and the fight against climate change, Sylvain Gaudreault, denounce the fraud of the Liberal government and the CAQ. “The PLQ tries to make us believe that it is taking a green turn. But, like the CAQ, his actions show that he does not care about the risks to the climate, the environment and public health, ”they declared.
IN SHORT
Sylvain Rochon insists: the Parti Québécois will oppose the idea that the territory of Quebec, thanks to the support of the PLQ and the CAQ, be fully open to the oil and gas industry. &quot;Didn&#39;t the PLQ and the CAQ learn any lessons from the shale gas saga in the St. Lawrence Valley?&quot; Have they not grasped that social acceptability and the reduction of our ecological footprint are unavoidable? Why do they insist on wanting to fracture Quebec? He wondered.
As for Sylvain Gaudreault, he stressed that a Parti Québécois government will have only one principle in mind: defending the interests of the population. “If the PLQ and CAQ want to accommodate the oil and gas companies, the Parti Québécois makes another choice. The population opposes hydraulic fracturing as well as any other similar chemical process in the soil. It is rightly concerned about the multiple risks posed by the hydrocarbon industry for drinking water, the climate and public health, ”he said.
In the eyes of the deputies, the PLQ and the CAQ are far from meeting the expectations of Quebecers. “The citizens have bypassed the old economy of the 20th century; they are calling for an energy revolution that would create jobs throughout Quebec. They want us to transform our economy, innovate and export Quebec know-how, ”the spokespersons continued.
The green economy, energy transformation as well as climate and environmental protection are part of the political baggage of the Parti Québécois. &quot;These issues will guide our proposals for the 2018 general election,&quot; concluded the deputies.
