Quebec - Premier of Quebec Pauline Marois participated in the ceremony marking the 65th anniversary of the flag of Quebec. Accompanied by the Minister of Justice and Minister responsible for the application of the Act respecting the flag and emblems of Quebec, Bertrand St-Arnaud, the Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltais, dignitaries as well as a hundred students from four high schools in the Quebec region, Ms. Marois praised the symbol of Quebec identity.
It was at 3 p.m. sharp at the Parliament Building that the Prime Minister attended the official Salute to the Flag ceremony, as tradition dictates. In addition, she gave a short speech to the students of the Cité high school, the Joseph-François-Perrault school, the Cardinal-Roy school and the Jean-de-Brébeuf school. “Today, all over Quebec, young and old alike are coming together to celebrate this anniversary. The story of fleurdelisé is a story of the heart; it is the story of all Quebeckers. Be proud of it! Learn and carry on the Salute to the Flag formula, for it is our most powerful hallmark. It reflects our identity and it is the affirmation of our common roots. He will also be the privileged witness of your future and the future that you will build for Quebec, ”she declared.
All over Quebec, municipalities have been invited to mark the event. In collaboration with the Mouvement national des Québécoises et Québécois, school boards as well as elementary and secondary schools were asked to take part in the festivities by organizing educational activities.
On January 21, 1948, at 3 p.m., the fleur-de-lis flag was hoisted for the first time at the top of the central tower of the Parliament Building, replacing the British flag, the Union Jack. That day, by decree, Quebec granted it the status of official flag. The application of the Quebec Flag and Emblems Act is the responsibility of the Department of Justice. For more information, the public is invited to consult the flag&#39;s website at the following address: www.d Drapeau.gouv.qc.ca.
