Saint-Stanislas-de-Champlain - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Bank for Economic Development of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, accompanied by the MP for Champlain, Ms. Noëlla Champagne, announced the award, as part of the Economic diversification fund for the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions, loans totaling $ 830,536 to three manufacturing companies, namely ADF Diesel Saint-Stanislas inc. ($ 650,000), Rosaire Tessier et Fils inc. ($ 110,000) and Service Mécanique Industrielle ($ 70,536) for their expansion and modernization projects. In addition, ADF Diesel obtained a loan of $ 850,000 from Investissement Québec, intended to increase its production capacity in order to continue its growth.
“The manufacturing sector is a major spearhead of our economy and we are contributing to the development of the competitive businesses that make it up through numerous investments,” declared Élaine Zakaïb. “The Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie benefited from the creation of a $ 200 million diversification fund last fall, for the reasons we know, and this fund is starting to bear fruit. The three companies, whose initiatives I am proud to highlight today, have thus been able to initiate the necessary shift towards automation, which is at the heart of Québec&#39;s industrial policy. As part of this policy, we are implementing some twenty measures aimed at manufacturing companies in all regions, to help them modernize and green their activities, innovate, grow and become the flagships of tomorrow. . &quot;
“In Quebec and particularly in our beautiful and large region, we have dynamic and visionary companies that are contributing to the growth of our manufacturing industry, in all sectors of activity,” added Noëlla Champagne. “These three companies are among those who know how to meet challenges and who actively participate in the diversification and growth of our regional and Quebec economy. They consolidate the industrial vocation of the Mauricie while diversifying it and thus create structuring and quality jobs. &quot;
Founded in 1986, the company ADF Diesel Saint-Stanislas is a manufacturing center for machining and assembly of diesel engines which employs 53 people. Its expansion project, estimated at more than $ 3 million, will create 20 new jobs. It aims to increase the automation of its production of engine blocks and injection pumps by acquiring programmable machining equipment. It also consists of creating an injection room with advanced technologies and setting up a Quebec training center to standardize its activities.
“Thanks to this important automation and expansion project, we will become the official diesel engine manufacturing center of Groupe Fournier Diesel inc. », Underlined the controller of ADF Diesel Saint-Stanislas, Mr. Mario Desmarais. “The creation of our training center will also allow us to facilitate integration and contribute to the development of our employees as well as to increase our expertise in this dynamic sector. &quot;
Founded in 1964, Rosaire Tessier et Fils is a company that designs, manufactures and distributes wooden bed base bases. The company has a factory and a warehouse in Saint-Narcisse and provides employment for 15 people. His project, which totals more than $ 500,000, involves the acquisition of the building and equipment of the Dégerco Inc. company, located in Saint-Narcisse. It is also targeting the purchase of a second automated nailer with cart.
&quot;The support from the Government of Quebec is invaluable assistance which will allow us to increase our production by adding automated equipment,&quot; said the president of Rosaire Tessier et Fils, Mr. Claude Tessier. “Thanks to this project, which combines automation with our know-how, we will be able to meet the demands of customers involving large volumes and obtain contracts, both here and in the North American markets. &quot;
Founded in 1998, Service Mécanique Industrielle de Trois-Rivières, which employs 13 people, specializes in the machining, welding and bending of metal parts. Its expansion project, estimated at $ 352,680, aims to acquire specialized machining equipment, consolidate its presence in the current market for machining small parts and develop a new market for machined parts. medium-sized.
&quot;This expansion project will be used to modernize our equipment in order to increase our competitiveness,&quot; said the President and CEO of Service Mécanique Industrielle, Mr. Richard Dubé. “Financial assistance from the Government of Quebec will ensure the completion of this large-scale project, which will improve the work environment for our employees while increasing our expertise. We will thus be able to offer our customers increasingly complex and specialized products. &quot;
To date, the Diversification Fund has made investments in 8 companies, totaling $ 40,139,687 and creating or consolidating 1,179 jobs.
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
For more information on the fund, the table and the plan relating to the economic diversification of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie.
