Montreal - The Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, and the Member of Parliament for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Mrs. Carole Poirier, on behalf of the Minister of Affairs Municipalities, Regions and Land Occupancy and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announce the allocation of financial assistance of $ 45 million to the City of Montreal for the realization of three major infrastructure projects on the Space for Life website.
The investment will allow the construction of a glass pavilion at the Botanical Garden, the expansion of the Insectarium and the redevelopment of ecosystems at the Biodôme. An architectural competition is launched to find daring concepts allowing visitors to live memorable immersive experiences. With a view to reviving and enhancing the metropolitan region and building on the celebrations of Montreal&#39;s 375th anniversary in 2017, these are structuring projects that will constitute significant government legacies to the metropolis.
“2017 is a historic opportunity - as Expo 67 was - to build the Montreal of tomorrow. Rightly the pride of Montrealers, Espace pour la vie is a precious collective facility that helps revitalize Greater Montreal. Through investments like the one we are announcing today, our government wants to leave the city a lasting legacy and promote recognition of Montreal, Quebec&#39;s economic engine, as a modern and international metropolis, ”said Minister Lisée.
The most important museum complex in the natural sciences in Canada and first place in the world dedicated to humans and nature, the Espace pour la Viere groups together the Biodome, the Insectarium, the Botanical Garden and the Planetarium. More specifically, the first project aims to build a glass pavilion with daring and organic architecture in the heart of the Botanical Garden, which will be the scene of horticultural events of international caliber. The second project provides for a metamorphosis of the Insectarium, which is based on the construction of new wings which will house, in particular, a large butterfly aviary fitted out for the winter as well as new exhibition and animation rooms. Finally, the Biodome will be completely redesigned, and new infrastructures will be built to provide access to its vault.
“It is with pride that our government supports these three flagship projects of Space for Life, an exceptional place which now acts as a strategic pole of attraction for the development of the eastern part of the city. Today&#39;s announcement shows that Montreal leaders are currently working hard to further stimulate Montreal&#39;s development, ”added MP Carole Poirier.
