Saint-Étienne and Beauharnois - As part of a tour of Quebec which begins today in Montérégie, the Minister for the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, accompanied by the Member of Parliament for Beauharnois, Mr. Guy Leclair, confirmed the granting of more than $ 13 million to rural MRCs in the Montérégie region for the implementation of the National Policy on Rurality. Following a commitment by the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, to improve rural pacts, the National Rurality Policy was renewed for a period of 10 years with an envelope of $ 470 million. Created in 2001 by the Parti Québécois, the National Policy on Rurality provides unprecedented support to rural areas and regions of Quebec.
“The assistance announced today will allow those who have the development of their community at heart to give new impetus to the most inspiring and promising projects in their community. Long matured, this policy is based on the capacity of rural areas to mobilize and work on an intersectoral basis: an innovative and decisive approach for land use and rural life in Quebec. This new national policy on rurality will allow the implementation of major projects in the regions of Quebec, ”said Minister Lelièvre.
A sum of $ 4.5 million will be allocated from 2014-2015 to the MRCs of the Montérégie to finance rural pacts and rural development agent positions in the region. The Minister also confirmed an additional commitment of around $ 8.8 million, for a maximum of $ 750,000 per MRC over ten years, to the achievement of &quot;pacts plus&quot; in the rural territory of the region. Major novelties of the new policy, the “pacts plus” aim to support the realization of major intersectoral projects with promising future at the level of the MRC. The intersectoral approach should henceforth characterize the management of the rural pact as well as that of the &quot;pact plus&quot; since it is by rallying around a common vision and ensuring the complementarity of their actions that the actors of rural development will be able to optimize. the repercussions on their environment.
Pivots of the national policy on rurality, rural pacts are contracts entered into between the government and the RCMs to finance projects in rural areas. As for rural development agents, they are real agents of change for rural communities. Note that the Montérégie region currently has 15 rural development agents.
“I am delighted with the large sums announced today to support the realization of projects that will undoubtedly help build stronger and more dynamic communities in Montérégie. Our government is thus sending a clear signal of its desire to support rural Quebec. The Parti Québécois shows that it is the true party of the regions, ”said MP Leclair.
