Montreal– The members of the Parti Québécois caucus for Montreal, Jean-François Lisée, Carole Poirier, Nicole Léger and Maka Kotto, as well as the member for Rousseau, Nicolas Marceau, and the member for the Bloc Québécois for La Pointe-de-l &#39; Île, Mario Beaulieu, today demonstrated the harmful effects that two years of Couillard government had on the metropolis. &quot;Since the Liberals came to power in 2014, the metropolis has been in poorer economic and social health,&quot; said the chairman of the Parti Québécois Montreal caucus, Jean-François Lisée.
Foreign investments
The year 2013, when the Parti Québécois government was in power, was a record year for foreign investment in Montreal. “Our government has made the necessary efforts to attract investment. We had priorities and the will, and this resulted in $ 1.3 billion of foreign investment in Montreal in 2013, ”recalled Nicolas Marceau, Parti Québécois spokesperson for finances and revenue. “In 2014, these investments fell to $ 867 million. The Liberals have no economic policy; we can see the effects of these downward figures, ”he added.
Francization assistance
“French is retreating in Montreal and what is the Liberal government doing? It cuts the Workforce Skills Development and Recognition Fund, dedicated to helping francization, ”continued Maka Kotto. The budget for this fund has in fact increased from $ 8.5 million in 2013-2014 to $ 4 million for 2015-2016 and 2016-2017. &quot;How does the government hope to integrate newcomers if it cuts in their training? Obviously, it hinders their integration into employment, ”said Mr. Kotto.
Dwelling
The cuts to social and community housing on the Island of Montreal are also major. “The fact that we have gone from 1,150 units built in 2013-2014 to 550 in 2015-2016 on the Island of Montreal, while the needs are not diminishing, shows the true face of the Liberal government: heartless. Why once again cut support for the most disadvantaged? More people will not find affordable housing in the future, ”said MP for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and Parti Québécois housing spokesperson, Carole Poirier.
Education
&quot;The Liberal cuts have meant that there is a shortfall of $ 209 million in school boards on the island of Montreal,&quot; denounced Nicole Léger, MP for Pointe-aux-Trembles. The Parti Québécois calculated that if the Liberals had kept their election promise to increase education spending by 3.5% per year, there would be $ 209 million more this year in Montreal&#39;s five school boards. &quot;These are all services to students who need them that are not given,&quot; lamented the member.
Blue metro line
Mario Beaulieu, for his part, notes the failure of the Couillard government to convince Justin Trudeau in the matter of financing the extension of the blue line of the Montreal metro. “The extension of the blue line is the priority in public transport on the Island of Montreal. Obviously, the premier of Quebec failed to convince Justin Trudeau; funding does not appear in the federal budget. The federal government is not listening to Montreal&#39;s needs, and Philippe Couillard is unable to change anything, ”he denounced.
Liberals must act
Jean-François Lisée finally remarks that “what is skyrocketing in Montreal is unemployment. The number of unemployed rose from 97,200 in April 2014 to 116,700 in February 2016. During the same period, the unemployment rate jumped from 9.4% to 11.0% ”, a- he illustrated.
In short, Mr. Lisée and his colleagues Carole Poirier, Maka Kotto, Nicole Léger and Nicolas Marceau, as well as Mario Beaulieu, are asking the government of Quebec to act for the metropolis, other than through cuts. “The cuts must stop, people have suffered enough. And we dare to hope, for Montreal&#39;s prosperity, that foreign investment will have increased significantly in 2015, ”concluded the Member for Rosemont.
Watch the press briefing by the members of the Montreal caucus.
