Quebec - The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, urges the federal government to make a financial commitment in order to to help owners of houses damaged by pyrrhotite. In a letter addressed to the federal Minister of Employment and Social Development and Minister responsible for the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC), Mr. Jason Kenney, Minister Sylvain Gaudreault reiterates Quebec&#39;s request that the federal government recognizes the problem of pyrrhotite and contributes financially to the compensation of victims.
“Despite repeated requests, the federal government refuses to heed the cry for help from the many citizens affected by the plague of pyrrhotite. The situation is very worrying and affects hundreds of households in Quebec. And that number could increase significantly as more cases are confirmed. Ottawa can no longer ignore the tragedies that are being experienced by these people and must act, as it did for the victims of pyrite in the 2000s, ”declared Minister Gaudreault.
As early as 2010, one year before the establishment of the program for residences damaged by pyrrhotite, the SHQ had initiated steps with the CMHC so that it assumes 25% of the costs of the program. Since then, many discussions have taken place between the SHQ and CMHC on this subject, and although CMHC confirms that the file is still under study, no clear answer regarding the federal government&#39;s participation has been given to this day.
Minister Sylvain Gaudreault recalled that on May 22, the National Assembly of Quebec unanimously adopted a motion to urge the federal government to participate in the compensation of victims of pyrrhotite. &quot;This file is a priority for our government and we have no intention of giving up,&quot; added Minister Gaudreault.
It should be noted that due to the growing scale of needs and the accelerated pace of commitments, the SHQ had to use the entire envelope of $ 15 million devoted to the program set up by the Government of Quebec in 2011. “I I am very sensitive to the experiences of those affected by this deplorable situation and that is why I am working tirelessly, together with the elected officials of the Mauricie caucus, to find a solution quickly, ”Minister Gaudreault concluded.
