Quebec - The member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, Jean-François Lisée, notes that the Couillard government has disappointed the expectations of all those who work with the homeless and the underprivileged in Quebec by rejecting modest but consensual proposals that would have improved their lot this year.
Indeed, denying a motion voted by the members of the Liberal Party a year ago - which called for an increase in aid -, the Liberal budget plan cancels an increase of 54 million in the sums paid to the 4,000 Quebec community organizations. $ 600,000 earmarked for homeless women, the million earmarked for homeless Aboriginals and the $ 4 million earmarked for other victims of homelessness.
&quot;The Parti Québécois government had the political will to release, out of an expenditure budget of 82 billion, the 80 million or so needed to reduce homelessness and support the most vulnerable Quebecers,&quot; said Jean-François Lisée. It is sad to note that the Couillard government does not have this political will. &quot;
The liberal budget plan rules out the National Homelessness Policy, which was unanimously welcomed in February, and ignores several years of concerted action and priority setting. It only retains the construction of 500 housing units dedicated to homeless people. Although this measure is welcomed by the member for Rosemont, he notes that unfortunately, it remains insufficient, the government having withdrawn 250 housing units from the objective set by the Parti Québécois.
Community organizations work among the population in several sectors of activity: health and social services, education, fight against poverty, defense of rights, housing and family, among others.
&quot;The Couillard government is announcing a&quot; stopper &quot;on spending, continued the deputy. Unfortunately, this is a counterproductive switchgear, as the small amounts saved today in prevention will translate into much greater spending in managing the increase in homelessness and poverty. &quot;
The National Policy to Combat Homelessness, presented last February by the Parti Québécois government, contains several guidelines for an ambitious and sustainable vision to prevent and combat homelessness. The Leitão budget tries to muddy the waters by mentioning an investment of 8 million, when these are sums already announced in the four-year-old liberal action plan which does not in any way meet the objectives identified by all stakeholders in the Policy.
