L&#39;Ange-Gardien - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announces the allocation of financial assistance of $ 47,200 for the restoration of the Maison Laberge, a listed heritage building located in L&#39;Ange-Gardien .
“Heritage and architecture allow us to stop in time in order to admire the art and know-how of the past. These cultural goods bear witness to the passing eras and play a landmark role in our history. It is essential to maintain them and preserve them for future generations, ”says Maka Kotto.
The financial contribution will make it possible to carry out restoration work on this tercentenary building protected under the Cultural Heritage Act. The exterior cladding, composed of a lime mortar plaster applied to the stone, as well as the traditional wooden windows and doors will be restored, while respecting the heritage character of the building.
Financial support of $ 47,200 from the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications comes from the Quebec Cultural Heritage Fund and represents 40% of the eligible costs for carrying out the work. The Maison Laberge project meets the fund&#39;s objective for the restoration and conservation of cultural property protected under the Cultural Heritage Act.
The Laberge house, built in 1674, is of heritage interest for its historical, architectural and ethnological values. This house, which was also inhabited by 12 generations of the Laberge family, evokes the first centers of colonization in New France. Its location at the top of a hill overlooking the St.Lawrence River, its architecture representative of a rural house of French inspiration and its dairy testifying to a rural know-how that has now disappeared make Maison Laberge a cultural asset. notable in Quebec. Additional information about Maison Laberge is available on the Quebec Cultural Heritage Directory (RPCQ) website, at http://www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca
New tools for disseminating cultural heritage have been added to the RPCQ, making it possible to discover all of its richness and diversity, by making it accessible to all. In fact, part of the content of the RPCQ can now be found on the Government of Quebec&#39;s open data portal, atwww.donnees.gouv.qc.ca, as well as on the social network Pinterest, in the form of virtual exhibitions, at www.www.donnees.gouv.qc.ca. pinterest.com/rpcq.
Online training is also available at www.formation-patrimoine.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. Composed of video capsules and learning activities, it presents the basic concepts of the Cultural Heritage Act and explains the roles and responsibilities of each to promote the knowledge, protection, enhancement and transmission of Cultural Heritage.
