Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announced, on the occasion of the opening of the Festival TransAmériques, the allocation of close government financial assistance of one million dollars for the 7th edition of the event, which will be held until June 8.
“In addition to inviting us to get to know the aesthetic and avant-garde trends, the Festival TransAmériques offers Quebec&#39;s creative companies a springboard to foreign markets thanks to the presence of artists, journalists and broadcasters from from all over the world. Dance and theater are cultural leaders in Quebec. Their contribution to Quebec society is undeniable and precious, ”declared the Premier.
“The scope of this festival allows the public to appreciate daring and original works that combine dance and theater, in addition to being able to interact directly with the creators. The exceptional works presented there are called to cross borders. The presence of international broadcasters and programmers increases their potential for circulation outside Quebec, ”Minister Maka Kotto pointed out.
“By mixing disciplines and artistic trends, and bringing together creators from here and elsewhere on the Montreal scene, this internationally renowned festival acts as a launching pad for several Quebec companies. It allows us to export and promote the creativity that characterizes the artistic talents of our region. The contribution of this festival to the development of the dance and theater sectors is considerable, ”said the Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Jean-François Lisée, unfortunately absent during this announcement.
Financial assistance from the Government of Quebec comes from various programs: that of National and International Events of the Conseil des arts et des lettres du Québec ($ 831,500 for the 2013 edition), that of the Initiative and Outreach Fund of the metropolis, administered by the Secretariat for the Metropolitan Region ($ 120,000), and that of Project Assistance from the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications ($ 42,000).
