Mont-Tremblant– The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister for Tourism, Pascal Bérubé, and the Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport and government official for the Laurentides region , Sylvain Pagé, today announced financial assistance of $ 800,000 over two years for the holding of five IRONMAN competitions in Mont-Tremblant.
The Premier took the opportunity to congratulate the organizing committee of these competitions for obtaining the IRONMAN 70.3 World Championship, which will be held in 2014. “The choice of the city of Mont-Tremblant to hold this event of international scope demonstrates our great ability to organize high-level competitions and meet ambitious challenges. This is recognition for the Laurentians region of the status of an international sports destination. We are proud to support IRONMAN, which generates tourism revenues estimated at nearly $ 15 million, ”she said.
“I would like to highlight the work of the organizers; they succeeded in creating a unique IRONMAN circuit, which stood out from the first year. Obtaining such a prestigious distinction as the International Sporting Event of the Year Award from the Canadian Sport Tourism Alliance is proof of this. The organization also received, on April 30, the Maurice Prize for the International Event as part of Sports Québec&#39;s 40th gala. These new events are once again proving to be an unprecedented showcase for the influence of our destination beyond our borders, ”added Minister Bérubé.
It should be noted that the IRONMAN 70.3 World Championship, scheduled for September 2014, is in addition to the two other regular stages (IRONMAN 70.3 and IRONMAN) which will take place in June and August over the next two years. This championship brings together the competitors who qualified during the 17 IRONMAN races, organized by the World Triathlon Corporation. The IRONMAN 70.3 competitions are races consisting of a series of 1.9 km of swimming, 90 km of cycling and a 21.1 km half-marathon.
“Thanks to IRONMAN competitions, the city of Mont-Tremblant has acquired infrastructures adapted to this type of competition, for the benefit of the population of the Laurentians as well as athletes from here and elsewhere. I am convinced that with the holding of major sporting events like these, more Quebeckers will develop a taste for physical activity, which is perfectly in line with the vision of our Prime Minister, who hopes that from here 10 years, the Quebec nation has become one of the fittest in the world, ”concluded MP Sylvain Pagé.
It should be noted that the financial assistance granted comes from the Tourism Industry Development Program of Tourisme Québec. It should also be remembered that financial assistance of $ 5.8 million from the Government of Quebec was granted in 2012 for the upgrading of several roads, the acquisition of specialized equipment as well as for traffic management during sports competitions. .
(c) Ministry of the Executive Council: (source)
