Montreal - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Jean-François Lisée, and the Minister responsible for Tourism, Pascal Bérubé , announced the allocation of government financial assistance of $ 1,960,000 for the next edition of the MONTREAL COMPLÈTEMENT CiRQUE festival, which will be held from July 3 to 14.
“MONTRÉAL COMPLÈTEMENT CIRQUE highlights the immense talent of circus artists, whether they come from Quebec or abroad. This event encourages the dissemination of different art forms that merge with the world of the circus - for the greater good of our cultural metropolis that is Montreal. This daring festival can boast of participating in the diversity of Quebec&#39;s cultural offer thanks to a program that is constantly renewing itself and that succeeds in surprising every time, ”said Minister Kotto.
“Quebec is internationally recognized for its unique expertise in the art of the circus. The talent of our artists, our creators and our entrepreneurs is the strength of this industry, which is well established in the metropolis and which shines beyond borders. MONTRÉAL COMPLÈTEMENT CiRQUE is a reflection of this success, and the event has the merit of extending access to this entertainment to a wide audience. This contributes to Montreal&#39;s positioning as a world destination of choice in this regard, ”said Minister Lisée.
“The Government of Quebec is proud to participate in the success of MONTRÉAL COMPLÈTEMENT CiRQUE, an event that contributes to making Quebec a creative and lively tourist destination. This event, which has only three editions to its credit, is already recognized as an unmissable event for all craftsmen and all lovers of the circus arts ”, underlined Minister Bérubé.
The financial contribution from the Government of Quebec breaks down as follows: $ 1,100,000 comes from the Ministry of Culture and Communications, $ 600,000 from the Secrétariat à la région métropolitaine and $ 260,000 from Tourisme Québec, or $ 130,000 for the realization of the event and additional assistance of $ 130,000 for the development of an innovative and distinctive project.
