Quebec– The member for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of municipal affairs and decentralization, accompanied by the member for Rimouski, Harold LeBel, and the member for René-Lévesque, Martin Ouellet, questioned this morning the Minister of Municipal Affairs and Land Occupancy, Martin Coiteux, on the negotiations between Quebec and Ottawa on the issue of infrastructure and the impact on the vitality of the regions of Quebec.
“Along with that of Newfoundland, the Government of Quebec is the only one that has not come to an agreement with the federal government on the Building Canada Fund issue. This failure of the Couillard government deprives Quebec of $ 1.7 billion in investments so that our municipalities can acquire modern infrastructures and give a boost to the economy of our regions, ”declared the Member for Jonquière.
“Moreover, Minister Coiteux was not only unable to put forward a date but, in addition, the Liberal ministers contradict themselves on a position which is nevertheless historic in Quebec: the sums coming from the federal government and falling within our fields of jurisdiction must be transferred en bloc, ”continued Sylvain Gaudreault.
Indeed, as Stéphane Bergeron, spokesperson for the Parti Québécois for Quebec-Canada relations and Member of Parliament for Verchères reminds us, “last week, Minister Fournier seemed clear in the House on the fact that the Liberal government would not back down. on the traditional demands of Quebec and that federal money should be paid in block to Quebec so that we can define our priorities. However, it seems that Minister Coiteux took care not to reiterate this position during the interpellation. This apparent decline of the Couillard government is worrying for the future ”.
Regions
“What we feared since the formation of the last Council of Ministers was confirmed this morning: the new Minister of Municipal Affairs has no idea of the reality of the various regions of Quebec. When I asked him about the impact of liberal cuts in our regions, he tried to create a diversion by invoking the global economic context. I literally got no concrete answer. This is nothing reassuring for the future of our regions, ”concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
