Quebec - The Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation, Bernard Drainville, presented today with the Member for Laval-des-Rapides and Parliamentary Assistant to the Premier (youth section), Léo Bureau-Blouin, the Bill 13, which will allow young people to vote in their post-secondary institutions.
This bill provides for the establishment of polling stations in post-secondary educational institutions during general elections in order to allow out-of-riding voting for students who attend these institutions. Thus, students who temporarily live in an electoral division other than that of their domicile will be able to vote at the secondary office of the returning officer and their vote will be counted in their electoral division.
“What we want is to help increase voter turnout. Greater electoral participation serves our democracy and Quebec. By tabling Bill 13, we are making a gesture that will promote the vote of young people and encourage them to take an active part in Quebec politics, ”said the Minister.
“This bill is part of the government&#39;s desire to bring youth policy closer together. This is another action taken in order to re-establish the bridges between the generations, ”added Léo Bureau-Blouin for his part.
According to studies, the electoral participation of young Quebecers aged 18-24 has increased from 64% in 1985 to 36% in 2008. A situation that the government considers alarming because it undermines democracy and citizen participation. &quot;It has been shown that a young person who votes for the first time is more inclined to vote in subsequent elections,&quot; said Bureau-Blouin.
“By doing everything we can to encourage young people to vote, we are sending them a very clear signal: speak up and be heard! The elections are a special moment, the most important meeting of our democracy. They have a significant impact on our present and our future. It is through elections that we make our collective choices, ”said the Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation.
“With this bill, the government is meeting another of its commitments. We are continuing our work for greater democratic integrity and greater citizen participation, ”he concluded by inviting all parties to collaborate in the adoption of the bill.
