Quebec - Gaétan Lelièvre, the member for Gaspé and official opposition spokesperson for regional development, and the member for Rimouski, Harold LeBel, denounce the decisions of the Liberal government which deprive the regions of their tools and their development resources. Moreover, the government did not even deign to meet the representatives of Rural Solidarity, visiting the National Assembly today.
Rural Solidarity is another victim of Liberal cuts, the government having decided to cut a large part of its funding. “The regions cannot do without the skills and commitment of people working in local development centers and organizations such as Solidarité Rurale. In all regions of Quebec, developers, leaders, even former Liberal MPs feel abandoned by this government, which lacks vision for the regions. We are the only ones to care about regional economic development and to respect its actors. In addition, to this lack of vision are added denigration and contempt; the government did not even see fit to meet the people who took the trouble to come and discuss it! », Lamented Gaétan Lelièvre.
Under the mask of austerity, centralization
For his part, Harold LeBel underlines that all the local and regional consultation established for several years has been undermined by the Liberal government. “Under the mask of austerity, an unprecedented centralization of resources and regional development is taking place. By cutting the funding of Rural Solidarity, the Liberal government wishes to silence those who, day after day, carry the voice of the regions, those who boost rurality, those who develop our villages and who ensure a prosperous future for families who choose to live. in the region. In the eyes of the Minister of the Economy, Jacques Daoust, the local development centers cost too much in terms of paper; so he cut them off. This clearly expresses the liberal contempt for the volunteers who work there and for the developers of the regions, ”he added.
The member for Gaspé also wonders about the fate of the government for the National Policy on Rurality (PNR), renewed by the Parti Québécois government. “We toured Quebec to consult the communities on the renewal of the PNR, and the result was favorably received by all stakeholders. Does the government intend to pursue the actions and efforts provided for in the Policy? », Concluded Gaétan Lelièvre.
The deputies invite those wishing to join the mobilization to visit the Web platform: www.TouchePasAMesRegions.ca.
