Montreal - Jean-François Lisée, Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and Minister responsible for Tourism, Pascal Bérubé , are pleased to announce the allocation of financial assistance of $ 111,000 to the POP Montreal International Music Festival, which will take place from September 25 to 29, 2013.
“Pioneering new independent artistic forms, the POP Montreal Festival allows many up-and-coming artists to take the stage. The performances of these daring musicians contribute to enriching the emerging music scene of the metropolis. Reflecting the great inventiveness shown by its organizers, the unique programming of this festival makes it a unique event that shines beyond our borders ”, specified Minister Lisée.
“Thanks to its original and eclectic programming, the POP Montreal International Music Festival has established itself over the years in the sphere of Montreal festivals. By offering the public a daring mix of various forms of artistic expression, POP Montreal is one of the cultural events that make our metropolis one of the most connected in the world, ”said Minister Kotto.
“POP Montreal leaves plenty of room for discovering new talents. This festival remains essential to the expression of artistic creativity. It presents internationally renowned artists to a loyal and enthusiastic audience. Visitors from here and elsewhere will be charmed by the uniqueness of the event, but also by the many attractions that characterize the metropolis. I am proud to support festivals that enrich both the quality of the tourist offer and Quebec culture, ”said Minister Bérubé.
The funding comes from the Métropole Initiative and Outreach Fund of the Secrétariat à la région métropolitaine ($ 36,000), the Variety Broadcasting Assistance Program of the Society for the Development of Cultural Enterprises ($ 30,000) and the Tourism Industry Development Program under the Financial Assistance for Festivals and Tourism Events from Tourisme Québec ($ 45,000).
