Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, welcome the report tabled today by the Task Force on cultural philanthropy.
“First of all, I would like to thank the members of the working group for what they have accomplished. Our culture is an essential element of the Quebec identity which must be preserved and encouraged. Through its proposals, the Working Group on Cultural Philanthropy contributes to the evolution of the support that we offer, as a society, to our artists and our creators. My government has always been an unwavering ally of the cultural sector, and we intend to continue in this direction, ”declared the Premier.
Minister Marceau pointed out that among the tools that exist to encourage donations to cultural organizations, there is an advantageous tax system. “The judicious use of fiscal measures can bring about long-term structural and positive changes for Quebec culture. We already offer the most generous incentives in Canada to encourage private giving. I am happy to see that the report contains proposals on taxation. &quot;
Minister Kotto, for his part, stressed the importance of the work of the working group for the future of culture in Quebec. “The cultural environment is changing, and our ways of supporting our artists must adapt to new realities. I am convinced that the recommendations presented in the task force report will help us find ways to stimulate cultural philanthropy in order to improve the situation of our cultural organizations and ensure their long-term funding. &quot;
The Prime Minister said that the working group&#39;s proposals will be analyzed in the coming weeks. “While considering the State&#39;s ability to pay, I intend to follow up quickly on the work that led to the tabling of this report,” she concluded.
Remember that the establishment of the Working Group on Cultural Philanthropy was announced at the 2012 Rendez-vous - Montreal, Cultural Metropolis, last November. The Premier followed up on this commitment in January 2013.
The task force&#39;s mandate was to identify the causes of the delay observed in Quebec in terms of cultural donations, to suggest possible solutions to promote private donations as well as access to assistance measures for cultural organizations, and suggest tools to develop a new generation of patrons.
The Cultural Philanthropy Working Group was made up of:
The report Vivement, pour une culture philanthropique au Québec is available on the websites of the Ministère des Finances et de l&#39;Économie, at www.finances.gouv.qc.ca, and of the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications, atwww.mcc.gouv. qc.ca.
