Montreal - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announces the allocation of $ 6M to Montreal in Histories, for the Cité Mémoire project, which will allow Montrealers and visitors to discover, explore and to celebrate the history of the metropolis. Multimedia projections, among others, will be presented on blind walls, on trees or on the ground along an outdoor course in Old Montreal.
“The ambitious Cité Mémoire technological project, which will be deployed in the heritage site of Montreal, will be a major event in the celebrations of its 375th anniversary. The fame and achievements of the associated artists Michel Lemieux and Victor Pilon, responsible for developing this installation, are already a pledge of the cultural, tourist and economic success of this project, ”said Maka Kotto.
The financial participation of the Ministry of Culture and Communications (MCC) will be taken from its budgets in the Agreement on cultural development of Montreal. A partner in this agreement, the City of Montreal supports the ministerial decision, especially since it itself granted a $ 5 million grant to the same project last September, the payment of which is spread over four years, until in 2016.
Aware that the realization of this project poses many technical and technological challenges, particularly in the context of the heritage site of Montreal, the MCC will support the promoter to ensure that the facilities will be integrated in harmony with the environment of Old Montreal. .
The Cité Mémoire project has four implementation phases. The Government of Quebec has supported the organization Montréal en Histoires since its inception. The $ 6M investment announced today will allow Phases 3 and 4 to be carried out relating to the production, implementation, launch and operation of the project. It also confirms the commitment made by Ms. Pauline Marois, Premier of Quebec, during the 2012 Rendez-vous - Montreal, cultural metropolis, to participate in the celebrations of Montreal&#39;s 375th anniversary in 2017, by focusing in particular on the implementation of the Cité Mémoire project. .
