Quebec - The Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade (MRIFCE), Mr. Jean-François Lisée, and the Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, Accompanied by the President of the Quebec Association of International Cooperation Organizations (AQOCI), Mr. Denis Labelle, today announced the creation of a joint committee with the mandate to reflect on what a Quebec International Solidarity Agency should be. (AQSI).
The orientations adopted by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) in recent years have contributed to the decision to set up this working group. “CIDA has become closely integrated with the Canadian government&#39;s economic development strategy. The values which have traditionally guided Canadian international development policies, and which were shared by Quebec, have gradually been transformed. The notion of international solidarity appears increasingly marginalized there, ”indicated Minister Lisée. “We want our action in international cooperation to reflect our values and our priorities. This committee will assess how the creation of a Quebec international solidarity agency would allow us to get closer to this objective, ”added Minister Lisée.
The Quebec community of international solidarity is faced with an increasingly difficult situation. This is why the president of AQOCI, Denis Labelle, is delighted with the establishment of this joint committee: “Solidarity is a fundamental value in Quebec. For decades, organizations of solidarity and international cooperation in Quebec have developed unique expertise and promising partnerships with civil society organizations in developing countries. An AQSI would allow Quebec to increase its commitment while continuing to favor a mode of intervention based on respect and equity. &quot;
An AQSI would allow Quebec to carry out its own development initiatives by promoting the Quebec cooperation approach which is based, among other things, on the principles of respect and genuine partnership. “One of the objectives of the working committee is to examine the possibility of recovering our fair share of official development assistance so that Quebec becomes the prime contractor for its action in international cooperation. This is exactly the kind of gesture that we will take within the framework of sovereignist governance, whenever the interests of Quebec require it, ”added Minister Cloutier.
It is natural that MRIFCE and AQOCI have chosen to collaborate for the realization of this project. The Government of Quebec and AQOCI have maintained a partnership relationship for over thirty years. The AQOCI is a leading player in stimulating reflection and raising awareness among Quebecers about issues related to international cooperation. Many Quebec players in the area of international solidarity will also be consulted as part of the work of this committee, whose report is expected at the end of 2013.
