Quebec - The member for Sanguinet and official opposition critic for work and pensions, Alain Therrien, believes that the Couillard government is breaking the consensus established by the Parti Québécois government on pension plans.
“We must protect the purchasing power of the men and women who built Quebec at all costs. The government must stop leaving doubt about the 50-50 split of past deficits. The Minister must undertake not to touch the pension of retirees from Quebec. The project tabled by the Parti Québécois government provided that the basic pension granted to retirees could not be reduced, ”said Alain Therrien.
Four major orientations led to the development of the bill presented on February 20 by the Parti Québécois government: intergenerational equity, the protection of retiree pensions, the truth about costs and respect for the ability to pay taxpayers.
“We have to stop making our retirees worry. The government must undertake to do everything in its power to promote negotiations on the issue of municipal pension plan deficits. He must be responsible and undertake not to create an imbalance in the relations between the parties by granting the power to decree, ”continued the deputy.
The Liberal government has an obligation of result in this file. The report of the expert committee on the future of the Quebec retirement system, chaired by Alban D&#39;Amours, covered the issue of retirement plans, while identifying the problems to be solved. The Parti Québécois government quickly began discussions with the various stakeholders in order to reach a concerted solution. This solution materialized in the bill tabled.
“We will carefully analyze the bill to be tabled shortly by the Liberal government. The Parti Québécois will ensure the protection of municipal workers and retirees as well as that of Quebec taxpayers. We will also ensure the presence of the concept of economic transparency, essential for sound negotiations in such an important matter, ”concluded Alain Therrien.
Watch the press conference.
