Gaspé– The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the MNA for Gaspé, Minister for the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie – Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Gaétan Lelièvre, today announced that the Center de santé et de services sociaux (CSSS) de La Côte-de-Gaspé is authorized to continue its project aimed at modernizing the emergency room, the operating theater and the intensive care unit at the Hôtel Dieu de Gaspé Hospital . A little over $ 14 million has been allocated to the Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) for the realization of this project, which will thus be fully funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services.
“Gaspésie – Îles-de-la-Madeleine is a priority for our government, as we demonstrated this morning by unveiling the strategic plan for the region. Here is another concrete example. This project responds to glaring needs. Like all the other projects that our government has chosen to prioritize and include in the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, this one will materialize for the benefit of local people and the entire Quebec community, thus fulfilling the criteria that we we are given and the commitment we have made to exclusively make responsible choices within the framework of this program, ”declared the Premier.
The CSSS de La Côte-de-Gaspé project consists more precisely of the modernization of an emergency unit with six consultation rooms and six stretchers, including a shock stretcher, and an intensive care unit nearby. of urgency. It is also planning the construction of an operating theater which will include two modern operating theaters, as well as an out-of-theater intervention unit. Finally, 15 stretchers will be used for day medicine and day surgery, and medical device reprocessing areas will also be updated.
“I am very happy with today&#39;s announcement, both for its social and economic influence. The people of the region will thus have access to better organized and, consequently, more efficient and accessible health care and services. In addition, the completion of a project of this scope also generates significant economic benefits, which is excellent news for the Gaspé ”, for his part said the Minister for the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspé region. –Îles-de-la-Madeleine, Gaétan Lelièvre.
“The plan to reorganize the services of the La Côte-de-Gaspé health and social services center has been going on for several years now. I am therefore proud that our government is allowing it to move forward today. I would like to congratulate the establishment for the work carried out so far and I wish it the best of luck in the realization of this important project which will result in higher quality care and services for the population it serves ” , declared the Minister of Health and Social Services, Réjean Hébert, unfortunately absent during this announcement.
The contribution of the Ministry of Health and Social Services to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan, made public in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of nearly $ 19.4 billion for the Health and Social Services component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and, thus, to make informed choices.
