Macamic– On tour in the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Ouest, Minister responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, Minister of &#39;Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and Deputy Premier Francois Gendron announced a grant of $ 670,000 for the relocation of the Macamic library and an agreement in principle of $ 543,668 for the addition of an interpretation and administration center at the Rang-II-d&#39;Authier school.
“These investments in reading, heritage and museology bear witness to the government&#39;s determination to contribute to the cultural development of all regions of Quebec. Abitibi-Témiscamingue undoubtedly enjoys a strong and diverse cultural life. The fact of engaging in the enhancement of the local cultural heritage and the improvement of access to places of knowledge and quality interpretation is a tangible demonstration of our desire to consolidate this cultural vitality for future generations ” , said Minister Kotto.
“I am delighted with these projects which, I am convinced, will encourage frequentation of the culture and the practice of reading in Abitibi-Témiscamingue. Communities where knowledge and heritage are valued have this coefficient of pride which gives wings to the women and men who participate in the development of our regions. I salute the commitment of the population and elected officials who share our vision of a creative and cultural Quebec, ”added Minister Gendron.
The ministers first announced a grant of $ 670,000 to the Town of Macamic for the construction of a library. Housed for 34 years in the Joachim-Tremblay recreation center, the library will be relocated to the heart of the urban core, on the still existing foundations of a burnt down building. The area will triple from 69.5 m2 to 249 m2. The more modern, accessible and functional premises will allow a more diversified offer and will help to retain users and attract new ones.
The total cost of the project is $ 1,042,331 and is divided between the Ministry of Culture and Communications, the Town of Macamic, the Desjardins Community Development Fund, the local Lions Club and the Macamic Development Corporation.
The ministers then announced that an agreement in principle of $ 543,668 had been reached with the Heritage Committee of the School of Rang II d&#39;Authier for the addition, set back from the school, of a center interpretation and administration.
A heritage building protected since 1982, the Rang-II-d&#39;Authier school is a museum institution recognized and supported by the Ministry of Culture and Communications, whose mission is to discover school life in the Quebec countryside of yesteryear. .
This construction will make it possible to preserve the authenticity of this classified heritage property, to offer a richer and more diversified program of activities and to significantly increase the attractiveness of the site. For example, educational material as well as books and old objects currently in storage can finally be exhibited, and all the rooms will be accessible to visitors, while to date some have only been used for administration.
