Sept-Îles - The Minister of Public Security, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, accompanied by the MP for Duplessis, Ms. Lorraine Richard, today confirmed that the construction project for the new Detention Center in Sept-Îles has been approved by the Council of Ministers and that the calls for tenders will be launched this autumn.
“The construction of the new Sept-Îles detention facility is a major project that has been awaited for several years. It will provide a better environment for the staff of this establishment and will better meet the needs and requirements of a modern detention facility, particularly in terms of security. By injecting $ 90.9 million to directly support the economy of Sept-Îles and the region, the government will stimulate job creation, from which the population of the Côte-Nord can only benefit, ”the Minister announced. Minister Bergeron.
The new Sept-Îles detention facility will accommodate 55 offenders. It will offer 28 more places than the current establishment, housed in the basement of the courthouse. This new construction will, among other things, ensure regional autonomy in terms of prison infrastructure and facilitate the offer of social reintegration programs. The first public call for tenders will be launched in October and the start of work is scheduled for winter 2014, for delivery of the project in fall 2015.
&quot;The 150 or so jobs created during the construction work as well as the 50 new permanent positions that will be filled when the new Sept-Îles detention facility opens will help boost our region&#39;s economy,&quot; added the Minister. MP Richard.
The specific needs of the Aboriginal clientele who will be imprisoned there have also been taken into account in this project, in particular by providing for special arrangements for the Aboriginal people.
The contribution of the Ministère de la Sécurité publique to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) which will ultimately entail, for the entire government, investments of $ 92.3 billion, of which more than $ 1 billion for public security institutions. This plan will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
