Quebec - As part of the guidelines and initiatives document Solidarity: a wealth for Quebec, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, announced the implementation of ambitious and structuring initiatives requiring an additional investment of 320 M $ by 2017.
These measures will make it possible to act on three levels: support for single people, support for caregivers and preparation for the future.
Thus, measures to act with people have been announced in order to improve their living conditions, facilitate their participation in the labor market, promote their social inclusion and support families and children:
Improving financial assistance for unattached individuals receiving social assistance
Single people receiving social assistance are the poorest people in our society, especially those without housing assistance. The constant rise in the cost of rents weakens their situation. To cover their housing-related expenses, their social assistance benefits will increase by $ 20 per month as of February 1, 2014. The increase will continue over three years to reach $ 50 per month on January 1, 2017. This improvement will benefit nearly of 60,000 providers, and represents an investment of $ 71.4 million by 2017.
Deployment of the action plan A Quebec strong in its immigration
This action plan will act on several fronts, namely better selection of candidates, more francization and support for employers and regions to facilitate integration. This action plan relaunches the promotion of francization services and increases the offer of full-time courses in order to increase fluency in French and promote professional integration. Its total budget is $ 57 million by 2017, including an additional $ 13 million in francization.
Supervision of working conditions for domestic workers
A bill will be drafted to ensure greater protection for domestic workers and correct the inequalities they experience. The bill is consistent with the highest international standards in terms of decent working conditions for these workers.
Supervision of temporary employment agencies
Over the next few months, the government will supervise temporary employment agencies to ensure greater protection for those working there. These measures aim, in particular, to give a guarantee of the legality of the tax practices of companies, to protect the wages paid to the employees and to increase the transparency of the sector.
The launch of a societal campaign against prejudices against the poor and vulnerable
Poverty and the use of social assistance are stigmas that can hamper efforts to break the cycle of poverty. In order to continue the fight against poverty, the government will launch a societal campaign to counter these prejudices.
Improving support for integration into daycare services for disabled children
Aid has already been paid to childcare services with the aim of covering support for around 250 disabled children with significant needs. The improvement will double the number of accompanied disabled children, increase the number of hours of support offered to each child and increase the hourly rate of financial assistance. This represents an investment of $ 6 million by 2017.
Improvement of community drop-in daycare services
Community drop-in centers offer parents a temporary daycare service so that they can participate in francization or social or professional integration activities. An investment of $ 2.86 million by 2017 will allow 20 new organizations to offer these services to parents and increase the number of hours of attendance per child by 3%.
Support for the deployment of community educational interventions for healthy eating
Organizations will be supported to offer different models of education for healthy eating to families in disadvantaged areas, which represents an investment of $ 8 million over the next three years.
In addition, measures intended to support those who help have been presented in order to support the action of community organizations and social economy enterprises while improving their operating conditions:
Increased government funding for the mission of community organizations
Community organizations are essential partners in achieving local solidarity. To help them, the government will increase their funding by $ 54 million per year for the next three years, which corresponds to $ 162 million by 2017. This will improve support for organizations working in particular in health and social services, in education, family, employability and housing in order to increase services to the population.
The launch of consultations on the government action plan for community and volunteer action
Consultations on the new action plan will take place in fall 2013. It will focus on citizen engagement, strengthen the capacity of community organizations to act and ensure the consistency and consistency of government interventions.
The implementation of a program for the acquisition and renovation of collective buildings
This program will provide support to community organizations for their collective building acquisition or renovation projects, which will enable them to consolidate their mission and reduce their operating costs. This support of $ 10.2 million by 2017 will improve their material conditions and the services offered to the population.
Improving working conditions in the community through better access to social benefits
The working conditions of community organizations are sometimes unattractive, which can make it harder to maintain the best resources and thus affect services to the population. To support these organizations, the government is proposing three measures:
The government has also planned several measures to prepare for the future, which will be unveiled in the coming months.
See also the press release issued at the same time: The Government of Quebec presents its third pillar - Solidarity: a wealth for Quebec
Visit the Parti Québécois blog and read Pauline Marois&#39; post: &quot;Solidarity: a wealth for Quebec&quot;
For more details on the document of orientations and initiatives Solidarity: a wealth for Quebec as well as on the measures, it is possible to consult the site Internetwww.mess.gouv.qc.ca.
