Montreal - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Jean-François Lisée, and the Minister responsible for Tourism, Pascal Bérubé , announced the allocation of government financial assistance of $ 555,000 for the 2013 World Film Festival, which will take place in Montreal, from August 22 to September 2.
For its 37th edition, the festival will screen more than 400 films from the four corners of the globe. The local film industry and guests from all over the world will take part in this annual celebration of cinema in the Quebec metropolis. Animation activities and meetings are also on the program.
“The World Film Festival offers, year after year, a program that lives up to its international reputation. This competitive festival presents works of quality and of great cultural diversity, which rally a large audience made up of both experienced film buffs and fans of the seventh art. Festival-goers will have the opportunity to see many films from world cinematography, which they would never have had the chance to discover otherwise, ”Minister Kotto said.
“Whether it is by holding major events of the genre or by the large number of international shoots on its territory, the metropolitan region is defined as a capital of the seventh art. Montreal is recognized for the creativity that inhabits it and benefits, in particular thanks to the World Film Festival, from exceptional influence, ”added Minister Lisée.
“The Government of Quebec is pleased to participate in the success of the World Film Festival. Many festival-goers will converge on Montreal in the coming days to immerse themselves in the culture and talent of foreign filmmakers. This event contributes to positioning Quebec as a unique and diversified tourist destination, ”declared Minister Bérubé.
The contribution from the Government of Quebec is distributed as follows: $ 225,000 comes from the Assistance to Film Festivals component of the Promotion and Distribution Assistance Program of the Société de développement des entreprises culturelles, $ 165,000 from the Fonds d &#39; initiative and outreach of the metropolis, administered by the Secrétariat à la région métropolitaine, and $ 165,000 from the Tourism Industry Development Program - Financial assistance for festivals and tourism events from Tourisme Québec.
