Quebec - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, wish to recall that the Government of Quebec does not will not cut the amounts that will be granted to municipalities as QST reimbursements. On the contrary, there will be an increase in QST refunds for municipalities, because the total amount will increase from $ 472 million in 2013 to $ 482 million in 2014. The percentage of QST reimbursements paid by municipalities will remain the same. in 2014 than in 2013.
The changes to the accounting rules that will apply to the rebate of the QST have become necessary due to the QST-GST harmonization agreement that was signed with the federal government in March 2012. As of 2014, the rebate regime of the QST that will apply in Quebec will be similar to the GST rebate regime. Concretely, the municipalities will be reimbursed according to the sums actually paid, and not according to an amount fixed from a pre-established formula, as is currently the case.
“Several municipalities will thus be the winners, since we are now moving to payment by invoice. In particular, this means that municipalities that invest heavily in their infrastructure will receive their fair share of reimbursement, ”said Minister Marceau.
The old regime allowed municipalities to use QST refunds related to capital expenditures to finance other expenses, while incorporating all of the QST paid into the investment loan, without taking into account the refund. . This approach made it possible to increase the liquidity of municipalities by increasing their indebtedness, and it does not appear desirable to perpetuate this practice.
The effect on liquidity resulting from this adjustment in accounting practice represents only 0.7% of the budget of Quebec municipalities. To adapt to this change, municipalities will not have to increase citizens&#39; taxes. In fact, they will be able to use their usual management tools, such as tightening spending or using their unallocated surpluses, which represent approximately $ 1.3 billion.
“In addition, to help municipalities adapt to the new accounting rules, our government will soon be proposing measures to support them for a period of four years. These transitional measures will allow them to gradually stop borrowing to pay for certain current expenses, ”added Minister Gaudreault.
