Quebec - The MNA for Terrebonne and Parti Québécois spokesperson for the environment and the fight against climate change, Mathieu Traversy, as well as the MNA for Vachon and spokesperson for transport electrification, Martine Ouellet, are disappointed with the Liberal government&#39;s admission that it will not meet its target of 100,000 electric vehicles in 2020.
As shown in a document, tabled during the announcement of the bill on a zero-emission standard, the Minister of the Environment confirms that in 2020, some 83,252 electric vehicles will be driven in Quebec following the adoption of the zero emission standard. “This is 17% below the objective announced by the 2015-2020 Transport Electrification Action Plan. The Liberal government therefore confirms that it is not taking the necessary means to achieve its objectives, ”the spokespersons declared.
The member for Terrebonne also notes that the zero emission law will not really be implemented until 2018. &quot;With this timeline so far away, we understand why the government will miss its target of 100,000 electric vehicles in 2020,&quot; he added. he indicates.
Mathieu Traversy insists: in the absence of an immediate turn in the transport sector, the leading emitter of greenhouse gases, Quebec will not be able to reach its target of reducing its emissions by 20%. by 2020 compared to 1990 levels. &quot;Without a strong zero emission law, the government is definitely heading for another failure,&quot; he said.
Despite everything, the Parti Québécois reiterates its support for the principle of a zero emission law, which was the first Quebec political party to table, in April 2015, such a bill in order to improve the supply of electric vehicles on the Quebec market, with a view to reducing GHG emissions. Today, however, spokespersons are concerned that Bill 104, in addition to having several major flaws, does not contain any specific commitment.
Indeed, according to Martine Ouellet, Bill 104 lacks an essential data, namely the minimum number of plug-in vehicles. “This is a major flaw! The Minister of the Environment makes no commitment as to the minimum number of plug-in vehicles. Rather, the Minister reserves the discretion to regulate this fundamental aspect, without public consultation. Why is he refusing to include a commitment in his bill? She asked.
In addition, the member for Vachon said she was worried about the absence of another major commitment, namely the level of royalties that will have to be paid by car manufacturers if the minimum number of plug-in vehicles is not reached. “The seriousness of the zero emission law will depend in large part on its ability to set royalties up to the target. Here again, the Minister does not make any commitment and reserves the right to set the height and terms of the amounts by regulation. He must make his intentions known now, ”added the spokesperson.
