Quebec - The Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron, and the President of the Treasury Board and Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region, Stéphane Bédard, are pleased to announce that the Government of Quebec will collaborate in the establishment of an agri-food research fund dedicated to northern agriculture dedicated to Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean. Financial assistance of $ 300,000 will be provided for this purpose.
“Northern agricultural conditions present certain challenges that are specific to the territory and the concept of nordicity represents an opportunity for differentiation in the markets for companies. To achieve this, research and innovation are essential elements for ensuring the productivity and competitiveness of businesses. The Marois government is delighted to contribute to this mobilization effort of such magnitude to support the development of the agrifood sector in Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, ”said Minister François Gendron.
The creation of this Fund is the result of a specific regionalization agreement, coordinated by the Regional Conference of Elected Officials of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, the four regional county municipalities in the region, the City of Saguenay, the Union agricultural producers as well as the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
This partnership will make it possible to finance research and innovation in relation to northern areas and the agrifood industry in order to develop the agricultural potential of the region. The Fund&#39;s board of directors, made up in particular of elected municipal officials, producers and representatives of the Ministry, will determine the priorities in terms of research and innovation and will issue a call for projects, to which all research centers in Quebec will be able to participate.
“The networking between researchers and entrepreneurs in northern agriculture will be profitable, because it will allow us to go further in ingenuity, if we trust the creative talent present in Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean. The contribution of all the partners is aimed at the development of local products in the region and their influence among consumers. This unique and inspiring approach is timely and fits perfectly with our government&#39;s objective of food sovereignty, ”concluded Stéphane Bédard.
