Quebec - The member for Drummond and official opposition spokesperson for language and immigration, Yves-François Blanchet, protests against the laissez-faire policy and the complacent indifference of the Liberal government and the Minister responsible for the application of the Charter of the French language, Christine St-Pierre.
“Cases of Charter violations are increasing everywhere in Montreal and Laval. This phenomenon is spreading all around the metropolis and in the regions. Seventy-six violations were noted in matters of commercial signage only in the riding of Minister St-Pierre. His answer? The companies are not all in a situation of illegality… At a given moment, it is! Quebecers have a right to expect the Minister to act intelligently! », Declared Yves-François Blanchet.
Language of work in the public sector: an alarming study
This situation occurs at the same time as a brand new study by the Institute for Research in Contemporary Economics (IRÉC) for the Institute for Research on French in America (IRFA) shows that there are 13.9% of public jobs. in Quebec, whose working language is mainly English, whereas Anglo-Quebecers represent 8.7% of the working-age population, a difference of 5.2%. This represents $ 2.2 billion in payroll surplus. If we add the employees who say they use English regularly at work, in the public sector in Quebec, it is 31% of them who work in English most often or on a regular basis in the health network, while that this proportion rises to 40% in general government.
“These data are alarming, except for the Liberals. Which state in the world is so actively contributing to ensuring that its national language is so much in competition with another within its public service? There is no question of touching the language rights of Anglophones in health, education or public services, but this $ 2.2 billion in funding has the opposite effect of what it should be used for: francize the civil service of the only state in America whose only official language is French, ”said Yves-François Blanchet, who considers this study to be crucial and intends to ensure that the government acts accordingly.
“The government and the minister responsible for Bill 101 are participating in the anglicization of Montreal. They are, in fact, its passive accomplices. This passivity and laissez-faire, intentional or complacent, have become the very mark of the language policy of Jean Charest and Christine St-Pierre. It is no wonder that the movements are increasing and people are taking to the streets. The minister is right: the problem is not a lack of resources. It is a lack of will, ”concluded the member for Drummond.
