Quebec - The Parti Québécois accuses the Liberal government of deliberately delaying the development of child care spaces and asks the Minister of Families, Yolande James, to remove the administrative pitfalls so that the plans for $ 7 spaces are finally realized.
“Minister Yolande James affirms that the Liberal government was in a hurry to develop the places at $ 7 promised in 2008. How can she explain today that there are still 4100 places which are not created? Her defense of the Auditor General&#39;s devastating report to say that the government wanted to act quickly does not hold up, ”said the member for Iberville and official opposition spokesperson for families, Marie Bouillé.
In recent weeks, the MP has met with several leaders of early childhood centers (CPEs) who have complained about the increasing bureaucratic pitfalls. “The government is giving the general impression that it does not want projects to be carried out in the short term by imposing new restrictions. What is Minister James&#39; intention to knowingly delay the development of these places? Asks the spokesperson.
She gives as an example a situation, in her constituency, where the Ministry of the Family forced a childcare center to negotiate land with the school board. In the absence of an agreement and in the inability for the municipality of Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu to offer land, the ministry forced the childcare center to move its project to the neighboring municipality which was able to offer a land gracefully. In this case, we literally flouted the needs of the community, according to the criteria defined by the ministry, ”protested Marie Bouillé.
For her, the Liberal government will certainly not be able to go wild by asserting that it will have created spaces during its mandate. “The 2008 call for projects was botched, favoring the liberal family before the families of Quebec. Of the 18,000 places promised, 4,100 were not realized. They then promised 15,000 new places. None of them will be created before 2013, it is written in black and white in the Bachand budget of last March ”, underlined the deputy.
She recalls that Minister James already has several projects totaling 3,500 places that favorably met the criteria of the ministry, but that the former Minister of Families, Michèle Courchesne, rejected out of hand for partisan interests.
The Parti Québécois is also worried about the process that is announced for the 15,000 places. “If Minister James does not resolve to review the mechanisms in her ministry, families in Quebec will wait years before hoping to have a place for their child. It has the obligation to remove the administrative pitfalls or to say why it seeks to put a spade in the wheels of the promoters who want to relieve the parents waiting for a place ”, concluded Marie Bouillé.
