Quebec - Sylvain Simard, the member for Richelieu and official opposition spokesperson for the Conseil du trésor, the public service and government services, is satisfied with the amendments presented yesterday afternoon by the president of the Conseil du trésor, Michelle Courchesne. These amendments materialize a formal request from the official opposition to maintain Recyc-Québec and the Pay Equity Commission, two entities covered by Bill 130. “As soon as they were announced, we hounded the Minister in order to to know his real motivations. However, faced with the strength of our arguments and the strong contestation of the groups concerned, it had to realize that society gained absolutely nothing by abolishing them, ”declared Sylvain Simard.
The member for Richelieu would like to point out that the official opposition is not calling into question the necessary revision of government structures and organizations. “A systematic review is necessary; however, in the present case, the Liberal government proceeded with the most complete improvisation. It is also his trademark in his management of the State, ”he added.
As soon as the announcement of the abolition of Recyc-Québec, the Liberal government found itself completely isolated and no one understood the reasons that motivated it to ax an organization that not only works well, but has financial surpluses. ! “I am pleased to note that the government has finally given in to our arguments. Recyc-Quebec plays a major role in the management of residual materials and sustainable development in Quebec. It is so true that the government recently entrusted it with new programs, when it was preparing to abolish it! », Said the MP for Vachon and official opposition spokesperson for the environment, sustainable development, parks and water, Martine Ouellet.
For her part, the MNA for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for the status of women, Louise Beaudoin, is delighted that the government has also listened to reason by withdrawing from the bill the articles concerning the Equity Commission. salary. “From the start, we have said loud and clear that the government&#39;s decision to abolish the commission, barely a year after the change in the Pay Equity Act, was totally insane and threatened the rights of women. pay equity. All this could have been avoided if the government had not acted with the greatest improvisation and if it had taken the trouble to consult women&#39;s groups before making this decision, ”said Louise Beaudoin.
The Parti Québécois is still trying to convince Minister Courchesne not to proceed with the merger of the three research granting funds, as provided for in Bill 130. For several weeks, it has wanted to make the government understand that this is a matter of of a bad decision.
“One day, the government praised the three grant funds and said that it is a model envied by all; the next day, he decides to change the model under the pretext of saving money. It makes no sense. All the partners in the research community are telling the minister not to touch what is working well. This is all the more true since the objectives sought by the government can very well be achieved without the merger. There is still time for the government to give up, ”concluded the member for Kamouraska-Témiscouata and official opposition critic for research, technology and innovation, André Simard.
