Rimouski– The Minister for the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, confirmed, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation of financial assistance of $ 12,000, from the Entrepreneurship Assistance Program (PAEN), for the holding of the Entrepreneurship Forum, which is taking place today in Rimouski.
This event, organized by the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in collaboration with Emploi-Québec, the Bas-Saint-Laurent Entrepreneurship Action Table, the Bas-Saint-Laurent Local Development Center (CLD) Laurent as well as various socio-economic partners, brings together some 240 participants who will attend workshops and conferences on the development of entrepreneurship and the importance of entrepreneurial succession in the region.
“Entrepreneurship is an essential pillar of economic growth in all regions,” said Gaétan Lelièvre. &quot;We are therefore proud to support the holding of this forum, which aims to strengthen the concertation of all stakeholders in socioeconomic and educational circles around common objectives to support the development of entrepreneurship in the Bas-region. Saint Laurent. &quot;
&quot;More than ever, we must give the regions the means to ensure their long-term growth, and this growth depends in particular on entrepreneurship,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “This forum mobilizes economic stakeholders around this important issue for Quebec. It is also an opportunity for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Entrepreneurship Action Table to unveil its 2013-2015 action plan, which will allow the realization of promising projects for the region and encourage the influence of a culture. entrepreneurial Quebec. &quot;
The Bas-Saint-Laurent Entrepreneurship Action Table brings together eight business leaders and seven representatives of socio-economic organizations in the region. Its main mandate is to develop and carry out a regional action plan that will promote consultation between all economic players in the development of entrepreneurship in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region.
&quot;The Entrepreneurship Forum allowed us to discuss the measures of our 2013-2015 action plan, which presents some fifty structuring projects for our region,&quot; said the president of the Entrepreneurship Action Table. from Bas-Saint-Laurent, Mr. Bernard Bélanger. “We are also counting on the collaboration of all our partners to ensure its success and to promote synergy, particularly between schools and businesses, which will allow the retention of our young people and the development of entrepreneurship in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region. &quot;
To learn more about the Bas-Saint-Laurent Entrepreneurship Action Table and its regional action plan, visit www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/pages-regionales/bas-saint-laurent/tables- action-in-entrepreneurship-tae.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
