Rimouski– On behalf of the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, the Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Minister responsible for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, announces investments of $ 5.13M for the improvement of the infrastructures of the Société des establishments de plein air du Québec (Sépaq) in the national parks of Bic and Lac-Témiscouata as well as in the wildlife reserves of Rimouski and from Matane.
“We are investing with the aim of improving accessibility to these areas, continuing to bring public service infrastructure up to standard and ensuring the sustainability of the built heritage. In doing so, our government is creating, in the very short term, jobs that will accelerate Québec&#39;s economic growth, ”said Minister Bérubé.
For his part, the Member for Rimouski, Mr. Irvin Pelletier, also welcomed the announcement: “Parc national du Bic and Réserve faunique de Rimouski are jewels of our natural heritage. Their infrastructures offer the region high-quality facilities to welcome tourists and provide them with the bases of a memorable experience. &quot;
&quot;I am particularly satisfied to confirm these investments in collaboration with my colleague, Minister of Tourism, because the Sépaq facilities are both a remarkable tourist product and a set of conservation and educational sites with great environmental value&quot;, underlined for his part Minister Blanchet.
Parc national du Bic will receive a sum of $ 700,000 to bring its campsite up to standard, with some 200 sites spread over the three sectors of the park. In addition, the park has many buildings on its territory that are of heritage value. These buildings, for public use, will also benefit from this investment for their restoration. In the area of Parc national du Lac-Témiscouata, the most recent of the national parks in southern Quebec, $ 1.65 million will be devoted to improving the road network that will allow the development of a new sector, to the south-east of Quebec. Lake Touladi.
In the Rimouski wildlife reserve, whose marketing promotes the next generation of hunting and fishing, $ 1.58 million will be allocated to improve its road network. A sum will also be taken from this envelope for the upgrading of infrastructure dedicated to the reserve&#39;s customers, in particular its chalets.
In addition, an amount of $ 1.2 million will be granted for the repair of roads, bridges and trails, for the upgrading of infrastructure related to fishing and for the sustainability of the built heritage of the Matane wildlife reserve. , which offers one of the highest moose hunting successes in the wildlife reserve network.
Note that the Auberge de montagne des Chic-Chocs also benefited from a government investment in the order of $ 725,000 as part of the second phase of the Chic-Chocs development announced by Minister Lelièvre on November 23. latest.
All of these investments are part of the Quebec government&#39;s economic policy, entitled Priority employment, unveiled by the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, on October 7.
It should be remembered that this economic policy targets, in its first component, four flagship measures to stimulate job creation now, including the acceleration of government investments for the renovation and modernization of public infrastructure, including those of Sépaq.
The second part of the Priority Jobs economic policy aims in particular to stimulate the vigor of successful businesses, such as the tourism industry in Quebec, in order to compete on the international scene. In this component, structural investments will allow Sépaq to participate, over the next three years, in the tourism strategy within the framework of the enhancement of the St. Lawrence River and the development of winter tourism.
Overall, the investments associated with the various components of the Priorité emploi policy in Sépaq establishments in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region will create 35 jobs, 23 of which are direct jobs. Across Quebec, these investments will create 702 jobs, including 384 direct jobs, and will bring $ 10 million in tax and parafiscal revenues to the state coffers by 2016. “These investments confirm Sépaq&#39;s role as a lever for economic development in the regions of Quebec, ”emphasizes Sépaq President and CEO Raymond Desjardins.
