Quebec - Taking advantage of his presence at the conference &quot;The neglected people of the margin&quot; of the organization GLBT Quebec, the Minister of Justice, Attorney General and Minister responsible for the fight against homophobia, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud , announced the granting of additional financial assistance of $ 465,000 to 23 community organizations that defend the rights of or assist lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual and transgender (LGBT) people. This assistance is in addition to that already allocated by the Ministries of Employment and Social Solidarity and of Health and Social Services.
“This financial support demonstrates the importance that the Quebec government attaches to the actions of community organizations that respond to the realities and needs of LGBT people in the field. The remarkable work of these organizations, which is in addition to the interventions of the Government of Quebec, is necessary to effectively fight against homophobia. Together, we are helping to build a Quebec open to difference, a Quebec for all! », Declared Minister Bertrand Saint-Arnaud.
Consolidating support for community action is one of the priorities of the Government of Quebec in the fight against homophobia. This additional government assistance will provide these organizations with greater financial stability and thus strengthen community intervention in the field.
This additional financial assistance is in addition to that of $ 430,000 paid in 2012-2013 to enhance the mission assistance of organizations engaged in the fight against homophobia.
It should be remembered that, for the past year, the government&#39;s commitment to the fight against homophobia has notably resulted in an increase in financial support to more than twenty organizations promoting and defending human rights. people of sexual minorities; through a national media awareness campaign; and by the tabling, last April, of Bill 35, An Act to amend the Civil Code in matters of civil status, inheritance and publication of rights, which proposes to remove certain obstacles which transsexual and transgender people must face. face within the government apparatus.
In addition, on October 22, the Quebec government launched a $ 330,000 call for projects to support the action of LGBT community groups. This financial assistance will be granted for the realization of projects aimed at countering homophobic and transphobic violence and intimidation in all their forms. It will also support the holding of cultural activities that significantly contribute to the fight against homophobia.
