Quebec - On the occasion of the International Youth Day, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, reiterates the importance that the government attaches to young people. Inaugurated on August 12, 2000 by the United Nations, International Youth Day has since been an opportunity to become aware of the contribution of young people to the development of societies.
“Young Quebeckers constitute an essential force for the present and the future of our nation. On this International Youth Day, it is important for me to pay tribute to all these young students, workers, entrepreneurs and parents who form our next generation and to thank them for their contribution to Quebec society, ”said the Premier. responsible for youth files.
In the current demographic context, the government is more aware than ever of the important contribution of young people. “By 2030, the proportion of people aged 65 and over will increase from 15% to 25% in Quebec. This radical transformation of our society will have important consequences. We must now prepare our succession so that it has all the necessary tools to meet the challenges that this reality imposes, ”explained Ms. Marois.
In this regard, on May 23, the Premier entrusted Léo Bureau-Blouin, her parliamentary assistant (youth section) and Member of Parliament for Laval-des-Rapides, with the mandate of leading the Destination 2030 consultation tour. This regional tour aims to probe the concerns of young people from all regions of Quebec in order to renew the Quebec Youth Policy. Organized by the Secrétariat à la jeunesse, in collaboration with the regional youth forums and their Table de concertation, the tour allows young people to express themselves and take part in government decisions on youth matters.
The young people and stakeholders met are also invited to contribute to the interactive site www.destination2030.gouv.qc.ca. In addition to providing useful information, this site allows all citizens to participate in the discussion and influence government thinking. The Destination 2030 tour, which has already made it possible to meet more than 1,200 people in 8 administrative regions of Quebec, will resume its activities on August 19 in Abitibi-Témiscamingue and will run until October. Elected officials will thus have the opportunity to hear the point of view of young people from all over Quebec in order to propose a youth policy that reflects their image.
The Youth Secretariat&#39;s mandate is to advise the government on youth matters and to assist the Premier in exercising her responsibilities in this regard. It coordinates and monitors government action in this area.
