Québec, June 27, 2014 - Sylvain Gaudreault, the member for Jonquière and official opposition spokesperson for sustainable development and the environment, and the member for Marie? Victorin and spokesperson for energy and of Natural Resources, Bernard Drainville, welcome the government&#39;s decision to hold a Public Hearings Office on the Environment (BAPE) for the entire route of the TransCanada pipeline in Quebec, including the development of the oil port of Cacouna. Thanks to the action of the Parti Québécois, the government is starting to stand up to Ottawa&#39;s unilateral energy initiatives.
On June 13, however, the Liberals refused to debate a motion calling for a BAPE on the entire project. Faced with the insistence of the Parti Québécois, ministers David Heurtel and Pierre Arcand finally confirmed its holding during the study of the budget appropriations. Minister Heurtel said he wanted &quot;the project to be analyzed and studied in depth, the project is Cacouna and the pipe&quot;. His colleague said for his part: &quot;no problem, I have no difficulty with that&quot;.
“However, questions remain. I asked Minister Heurtel to assume his responsibilities and demand that the company complete its environmental impact study, taking into account the issues raised by the construction of the pipeline throughout Quebec. The Minister remained vague on the question, ”declared Sylvain Gaudreault.
Not a simple highway for oil from Western Canada, Bernard Drainville, for his part, believes that Quebec should not become a highway for oil from the tar sands of Western Canada, without having the assurance of significant spinoffs.
“The spinoffs mentioned so far are fairly minimal. When we look at the risk represented by the passage of 1.1 million barrels of bituminous oil every day, is Quebec benefiting from it? Minister Arcand replied with a yes, with conditions. What are these conditions? Asked the deputy for Marie? Victorin.
The National Energy Board&#39;s decision on the TransCanada project is expected in the fall of 2015. The government must therefore ensure that it hears all the communities and stakeholders concerned in time so that Quebec can assert its decision. balance of power with the federal body.
“We hope that the BAPE provides all the answers so that Quebec can make the best decision in the environmental, social and economic interest of Quebecers. We will continue to be vigilant, ”concluded the deputies.
