Quebec - As part of the march organized by the Network for the Support of Individuals and Itinerants of Montreal (RAPSIM), held this morning, the member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services and for the Métropole, Jean-François Lisée, asks the federal government to renew the Strategy for Partnerships to Fight Homelessness (HPS) while respecting Québec guidelines in this area.
“Just like RAPSIM and the community, we consider that the federal government&#39;s intentions are completely at odds with Quebec&#39;s orientations in the fight against homelessness. Concretely, if the new federal plan were to be implemented, dozens of community organizations could see their funding withdrawn. This is unacceptable, we cannot sit idly by while waiting for Ottawa to decide on the measures we should take to fight homelessness in our region! Ottawa&#39;s refusal to respect our approach proves that there is one government too many in our lives, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
The member asks Minister Lucie Charlebois to defend Quebec&#39;s interests vis-à-vis the federal government and to conclude a comprehensive agreement that respects our orientations in the fight against homelessness, as quickly as possible. It must quickly table the action plan stemming from the national policy against homelessness of the Parti Québécois government. Jean-Francois Lisée also asks the Minister to release the $ 6 million that had been provided for this purpose.
“We must stand together to defend the interests of Quebec in this matter, and especially the interests of the most vulnerable people in our society. When it comes to roaming, there is no single recipe. The expertise developed in Quebec shows us that a variety of approaches, developed according to the needs of individuals and the community, is the winning solution, ”said the member for the Parti Québécois.
Remember that a motion on this subject was adopted unanimously on April 30, 2013. It reads as follows:
“[That the National Assembly] demand that the federal government renew the Homelessness Partnering Strategy under the current model, that is, while respecting Quebec&#39;s orientations in the fight against homelessness. &quot;
