Quebec– The Member for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Fisheries section), Ms. Jeannine Richard, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, announces financial assistance of $ 133,200 to the Federation of semi-offshore fishermen of Quebec.
This financial assistance is allocated within the framework of the Financial support program for collective initiatives in the commercial fisheries and aquaculture sector. “The program, which supports the regrouping of actors in the sector within strong and representative national associations, is a confirmation of the role of privileged actors that the government recognizes in them. Its implementation meets the objectives of the Food Sovereignty Policy, which aims above all to develop a prosperous biofood sector ”, indicated Mr. Gendron.
Thanks to this financial assistance from the Department, the Federation ensures the representation of its members on the national scene, in particular by defending the interests of Quebec fishermen with Fisheries and Oceans Canada during advisory committee meetings. The Federation is also engaged in the promotion of various associative files aimed at reducing the operating costs of fishing companies and the sustainable exploitation of the resource.
Remember that the Federation of Mid-Shore Fishermen of Quebec represents the vast majority of mid-shore fishermen in Quebec. It brings together the Association of Captains Owners of the Gaspé, the Association of Gaspé crabbers, the Association of Fishermen of the MRC de Pabok and the Regroupement des Pêche Professors des Îles-de-la-Madeleine. In total, nearly 125 mid-shore snow crab, northern shrimp and groundfish fishermen are members of this association.
&quot;I salute the Federation&#39;s efforts in finding common solutions to important issues in this fishery, which provides considerable economic benefits in the maritime regions of Quebec,&quot; said Ms. Richard.
The action of the Federation of semi-offshore fishermen of Quebec, which contributes to the representation of the sector and to the dialogue between the actors of the commercial fishing industry, is in line with the priorities of the Action Plan 2013- 2018 for the development of the fisheries and aquaculture industry.
You can consult the action plan of the Ministère de l&#39;Agriculture, des Pêcheries et de l&#39;Alimentation concerning commercial fisheries and aquaculture in Quebec at www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/pechesaquaculture. It is also possible to watch the video of the Minister dealing with this subject at http://youtu.be/88bKnIc6DTY.
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, we invite you to regularly consult the blog (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) and the section of the website (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food dedicated to it, or to follow the Ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
