Quebec - Quebec Premier Pauline Marois announced today that the Quebec government is moving forward with several of the proposals made by the Task Force on Cultural Philanthropy, which submitted its report on June 11 .
“Culture is one of the pillars of Quebec and of our identity. We owe it to ourselves, as a people, to do all we can to ensure its development. The working group&#39;s proposals will enable us to increase the place of patronage and private donations in the funding of our cultural organizations. It is not a question of replacing public funding for culture with private funding, but of giving our creators additional resources with the support of citizens ”, declared the Prime Minister.
Ms. Marois announced that two new tax credits have been introduced. One of them will be used to encourage the first major cultural donations with an additional 25% tax credit for a first donation of $ 5,000 to $ 25,000. The other, a 30% tax credit for major donations of $ 250,000 or more made over a period of up to 10 years, will be aimed at attracting major donors.
The Prime Minister also announced an improvement in the rules of the Mécénat Placements Culture program.
“This program is our main tool for stimulating donations and increasing the impact of philanthropy among cultural organizations. As of October 1, 2013, Mécénat Placements Culture will offer a matching short-term cashable grant to organizations that fundraise in order to meet their immediate financial needs. In addition, the program will offer a matching grant for campaigns aimed at financing tours outside Quebec, ”said Pauline Marois.
In addition, to ensure stable and predictable support for philanthropy and promote the long-term commitment of patrons to the cultural community, the Prime Minister announced the creation, in 2014-2015, of the Avenir Mécénat Culture fund. This fund will make it possible to perpetuate the Mécénat Placements Culture program.
“We believe that sponsorship goes through education and cultural awareness. This is why various measures are put in place to promote the visibility of art and the presence of artists in urban areas. Thus, the amount giving entitlement to tax assistance for the donation of a public work of art is increased by 25%, and by 50% if this donation is intended for an educational institution. In addition, we are increasing by 25% the amount of the donation of a building fitted out to accommodate artists&#39; studios or cultural organizations, ”declared Ms. Marois.
Finally, the Prime Minister specified that she was going to mandate the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, the Ministry of Culture and Communications and the Ministry of Education, Leisure and Sport to analyze all the others. measures proposed in the report of the working group. The selected measures will be implemented in the coming months.
“I am convinced that the actions my government is taking today will have major repercussions on cultural sponsorship and on the participation of Quebecers in the funding of our cultural organizations. Together, we can all help support our culture, ”concluded the Premier.
The 2013-6 Information Bulletin, released today, describes in detail the terms of application of the tax measures that will be put in place to take into account the recommendations made by the Working Group on Cultural Philanthropy in order to stimulate donations in favor of culture. This document can be consulted on the website of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy at www.finances.gouv.qc.ca.
