Quebec - The member for Terrebonne and official opposition spokesperson for sustainable development, the environment and the fight against climate change, Mathieu Traversy, reacts to the announcement by the Minister of the Environment, David Heurtel, which says it wants, by 2030, to reduce Quebec&#39;s GHG emissions by 37.5% compared to 1990 rates.
“How could we believe in the will of the government, when it followed the Canadian Energy Strategy? By choosing to facilitate the opening up of oil from the tar sands of Alberta, it is exactly as if it were condoning an increase in GHG emissions, ”mentioned Mathieu Traversy, adding that the Parti Québécois, for its part, advocated Quebec&#39;s withdrawal from the Canadian Energy Strategy, and the development of an oil freeing policy.
“What credibility do the Liberals have when it comes to the environment? Because of them, Quebec has not reached the target of the Kyoto Protocol. We were aiming for an average reduction of 6% in emissions between 2008 and 2012, but these only decreased by 4.2%. The result would have been even worse if the Liberal government had gone ahead, as it planned, with its projects for a natural gas power station in Suroît, LNG ports of Rabaska and Gros-Cacouna, or exploitation. shale gas, ”underlined Mathieu Traversy.
Quebec must assert its environmental sovereignty
The Parti Québécois considers that Canada is a drag for Quebec in the fight against climate change; sovereignty would allow Quebeckers to have the last word in this area, particularly with regard to the transportation of oil on its territory. “Since taking office, the Liberal government has abdicated its environmental power in favor of the federal government, which has aims contrary to ours. If we want to preserve the quality of our environment, we absolutely must become masters at home in this matter. Quebec must be in control of its energy, focus on energy efficiency and support renewable energy sectors, among others. This is the reason why we tabled Bill 390, which affirms the primacy of Quebec jurisdiction in environmental matters, ”concluded Mathieu Traversy.
