Quebec - The Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions, Ms. Agnès Maltais, the Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Maka Kotto, and the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, are pleased to announce the allocation of financial assistance of $ 542,000 to support the Fêtes de la Nouvelle-France SAQ.
Under the theme “To our heroines! », The Fêtes de la Nouvelle-France SAQ will mark this year the 350th anniversary of the first contingent of the Filles du Roy, who landed in New France in 1663. Many activities surrounding these celebrations will be offered to festival-goers to give them a rich experience. in history and culture.
“For this 17th edition, the public is invited to learn more about these heroic, courageous and adventurous women who have played an important role in the history of Quebec. In addition, by contributing to the vitality and dynamism of our region, the Fêtes de la Nouvelle-France rank among the most important events of our Capitale-Nationale, year after year. I would like to thank the organizing committee for making this great celebration a real success, ”said Minister Maltais.
“Once again this year, people will have the opportunity to live an unparalleled experience by visiting the Marché des saveurs, where Quebec foods will give them the opportunity to make extraordinary discoveries. I therefore invite all Quebecers, as well as people from outside, to come and discover the extraordinary diversity of top-quality foods available here, in Quebec, but also the unique know-how of agricultural producers and processors. food and fishermen back home. It is an event not to be missed! Said Minister Gendron.
“The Fêtes de la Nouvelle-France SAQ have been part of the cultural landscape of our national capital for over fifteen years. They celebrate our collective identity by highlighting, in passing, the French origins of the founders of our nation in America, thus allowing the public to dive into this milestone in our common history. It is a unique event, which enriches the cultural offer of the region and of Quebec as a whole, ”added Minister Kotto.
“The Fêtes de la Nouvelle-France SAQ make a major contribution to the region&#39;s tourist appeal. During the five days of the festivities, the streets of Quebec are animated by several demonstrations and animations. All over the city, people put on their best costumes, which every year brings joy to young and old. This dynamic and unifying event makes Quebec City a must-see destination, ”Minister Bérubé concluded.
The contribution of the Government of Quebec is distributed as follows: the Secrétariat à la Capitale-Nationale grants an amount of $ 257,000; the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food contributes $ 40,000; a sum of $ 110,000 comes from the Ministry of Culture and Communications; $ 135,000 comes from the Tourism Industry Development Program - Financial assistance for festivals and events, from Tourisme Québec, or $ 125,000 for the realization of the event and additional assistance of $ 10,000 for the development of an innovative and distinctive project.
