Quebec - The Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions, Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Mrs. Agnès Maltais, Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, and the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Mrs. Marie Malavoy, are proud to announce a government contribution of $ 106,500 for the holding of the 55th Quebec International Pee-Wee Hockey Tournament.
This minor hockey tournament, one of the most important of its kind in the world, will be held from February 12 to 23, at the Colisée Pepsi. Since 1960, this winter rendezvous has aroused the enthusiasm of more than 2,000 young hockey players from all over the world, driven by the same thirst for excellence and an unfailing team spirit.
“There is no denying interest in our national sport and represents a privileged opportunity to see young people from here and elsewhere who dream of becoming professional hockey players at work. In addition to generating major economic spinoffs for the region, this sporting and family event reinforces Québec&#39;s reputation as an exceptional place to host international sporting events, ”said Minister Maltais.
“The Quebec International Pee-Wee Hockey Tournament is a major competition that helps promote our national capital on the international scene and make it one of the world&#39;s main winter destinations. Hockey is undoubtedly a sport that mobilizes crowds and diversifies our tourist offer by allowing visitors to live an authentic experience of the Quebec winter, ”said Minister Bérubé.
“Here comes an important meeting for hockey fans! Still as popular year after year, the Quebec International Pee-Wee Hockey Tournament features young people passionate about their sport who want to demonstrate their talent, but above all, to enjoy the pleasure of moving and playing together. Inspired by the exploits of their idols, these hockey players will certainly be able to wow spectators. I therefore invite the latter to come and encourage them! », Added Minister Malavoy.
The financial contribution breaks down as follows: $ 50,000 from the Secrétariat à la Capitale-Nationale, $ 50,000 from Tourisme Québec, as part of the Tourism Industry Development Program - Financial Assistance to Festivals and Tourism Events component, and 6 $ 500 from the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport, as part of the Support Program for Sporting Events.
