Quebec - Reacting to a headline in the daily Le Devoir, the member for Drummond and official opposition critic for language, immigration and cultural communities, Yves-François Blanchet, said he was amazed to learn that the Quebec government restrict access to French courses for new immigrants while insisting on the need to know English. “The solution is not to anglicize immigrants, but to francize the workplaces,” he said.
“This decision by Minister Kathleen Weil is too much an affront to the right to work in French in Quebec. It is no longer a question of drift, but of dangerous negligence. By offering English lessons and limiting access to French lessons for part-time training, the Charest government is helping to anglicize immigrants, ”denounced Yves-François Blanchet.
The Parti Québécois fully shares the concerns of community stakeholders and departmental employees who believe that the message sent by Minister Weil is that in Quebec, the language of integration is the immigrant&#39;s choice. “In Montreal, too many companies post in English, too many managers are unilingual Anglophones, access to CEGEP in English is free. Neither more nor less, it is suggested that the real language of success is English and that French is pushed to the suburbs and for less good jobs. That is the work of the Liberal government, ”said the member for Drummond.
“The minister cannot ignore what is happening in her own ministry. She is responsible for it, and it is her own employees who denounce her. Someone somewhere told him to tolerate anglicization. As if that was not enough, we now urge him to favor it. Access to francization courses must be maintained; the Minister must also ensure that all people recruited from abroad participate in training in order to master French and her colleague Christine St-Pierre must ensure that Bill 101 is respected in the workplaces ”, continued Yves-François Blanchet.
The Parti Québécois believes it necessary that workers, immigrants or not, who are offered English courses, justify it by proof of employment at the end of the training and a valid explanation of the requirement of English to occupy this job.
“The coherent and harmonious integration of the people who choose to live among us, in Quebec, is our first duty towards them. This obviously involves teaching French and the right to a decent job in French. At the Parti Québécois, we consider it necessary to rewrite and apply Bill 101, to extend its scope to businesses with 11 to 50 employees as well as to CEGEPs, while ensuring the harmonious francization of all immigrants, ”concluded Yves. -François Blanchet.
