Québec– Martine Ouellet, MP for Vachon and official opposition critic for transport, transportation electrification and maritime strategy, Stéphane, MP for Verchères and spokesperson for Canadian intergovernmental affairs Bergeron, and the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Metropolis, Jean-François Lisée, seriously doubt the ability of the Couillard government to defend the interests of Quebecers in the toll issue on the new Champlain Bridge.
The day before yesterday, Radio-Canada obtained the study by Steer Davies Gleave, kept secret by Ottawa, which tells us that the toll will have a catastrophic impact on the congestion of other bridges. In fact, we can read that in 2021, with a toll equivalent to the rate for Highway 25, nearly a quarter of vehicles would leave the Champlain Bridge in favor of another lane. During rush hour, the Victoria Bridge could thus reach 135% of its maximum capacity and the Jacques-Cartier Bridge, 175%.
Today, the Parliamentary Budget Officer also released a report on the effects of the toll on the new Champlain Bridge. The latter concludes that a toll would mainly affect low-income families who, for their part, would be willing to take a detour to avoid the toll. Indeed, for a toll of $ 2.50, it is about 25% of citizens whose annual income is $ 30,000 who would make the detour, against less than 5% for those whose salary exceeds $ 50,000.
“When the federal government announces surpluses, it imposes a disguised tax on Quebecers. Worse yet, this tax will affect the poorest. Meanwhile, Minister Poëti is repeating the arguments used by Ottawa, ”said Martine Ouellet.
“On the one hand, the minister tells us that he is against the toll. On the other hand, it is the federal government&#39;s accomplice in hiding studies from Quebecers. If our Minister of Transport does not even take the trouble to defend the interests of Quebeckers in the matter of the Champlain Bridge toll, who will? », Added Stéphane Bergeron.
“Ottawa offers us a nightmare on Montreal&#39;s roads, even though we know that chronic congestion currently costs the city&#39;s economy between one and three billion dollars a year. We can hardly imagine the additional cost that the made in Ottawa congestion will entail, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
