Québec– Sylvain Gaudreault, MP for Jonquière and official opposition spokesperson for sustainable development and the environment, Bernard Drainville, MP for Marie-Victorin and spokesperson for energy and natural resources , and the MNA for Vachon and spokesperson for transport electrification, Martine Ouellet, deplore the fact that the Quebec government is slow to take the lead in the fight against climate change, stressing that it has a duty to to echo the 25,000 people who marched in the streets of Quebec on Saturday.
On the eve of the Quebec Climate Change Summit, the Parti Québécois is therefore asking the government to table its greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction target, in view of the Paris Conference in December, which will cover the period 2020. -2030. States had until March 31 to unveil their intentions relating to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. As of April 9, 2015, 34 countries - including the 28 in the European Union, the United States and Russia - had done so. “Where is Quebec? The Minister of the Environment, David Heurtel, seems to be waiting for Canada, a dunce in the fight against climate change, to decide one day to act on the issue and take a position. Canada has clearly given up on playing a positive role in international negotiations. Consequently, it is up to Quebec to show the way, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
The Quebec government will be at an impasse if it does not integrate its future post-2020 target into a long-term oil liberation strategy. Remember that the energy sector represents 71% of GHG emissions. “We must consider the environmental cost of the different energy sources, and better manage decisions related to land use planning, transport infrastructure and building construction standards. The government must take concrete action to lead Quebec towards an oil-free economy, ”said Bernard Drainville.
Within the energy sector, transport is by far the main emitter of GHGs: it is responsible for 45% of emissions. “In just a year and a half in power, the Parti Québécois tabled a transportation electrification strategy and a national sustainable mobility strategy, two ambitious initiatives to make Quebec a leader in the environmental field. Since April 2014, obsessed with austerity, the Liberal government has literally abandoned these strategies. This lack of vision will harm Quebec&#39;s reputation as a leader in the fight against climate change, ”added Martine Ouellet.
Finally, the member for Jonquière once again asks Minister David Heurtel to call on Bill 390, aimed at establishing the primacy of Quebec&#39;s environmental jurisdiction. &quot;It is essential that Quebec regain leadership in the fight against climate change without waiting for Canada, but it must also ensure that its territory does not become a highway for the export of tar sands from Canada&quot; , concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
