Quebec - As it had promised to do, the government of Pauline Marois tabled today a major overhaul of the Charter of the French language in order to strengthen the status of the French language in Quebec. This project concerns the use of French at work, at school and in companies and it includes measures to ensure the successful integration, in French, of immigrants.
“At the start of its mandate, my government made a commitment to adopt a new Charter of the French language. We are keeping our promise today by tabling a unifying bill that strengthens French, said Quebec Premier Pauline Marois. It enshrines the right to live and work in French in the Charter of human rights and freedoms, in addition to inscribing in its preamble that French is the official language of Quebec and that it constitutes an essential element of its cohesion. social. &quot;
Since the creation of the Charter of the French language 35 years ago, Quebec has undergone profound changes. “The Charter had to be modernized to take these changes into account,” said Diane De Courcy, Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French language. In a context where the presence of English is intensifying in the Quebec environment, not only on the island of Montreal, but also in the suburbs and in the regions, it is our duty to ensure the vitality and sustainability French. &quot;
The great adventure of French Quebec is built on centuries of perseverance, decades of progress and then years of trampling, recalled the Minister. In her address to the National Assembly, she invited her fellow deputies not to &quot;let the Charter of the French language sleep for 35 years&quot;. To follow the development of French in Quebec, it will work on the development of monitoring tools that will include reliable, objective and recognized indicators.
“Over the next few months, if my colleagues in the National Assembly support me in this regard, Quebeckers will be invited to a traveling parliamentary committee, because language is everyone&#39;s business. I want to take action to improve the integration of immigrants and give new impetus to the French language in Quebec. I am convinced that many advances can and must be made now to achieve our most unifying objectives: to make Quebec a place where everyone can live, succeed and flourish in French, ”concluded Ms. De Courcy.
For more information on this bill: spl.gouv.qc.ca/projetdeloi
Consult other press releases issued by the government
Modification of the Charter of the French language: French as a common language at work
Modification of the Charter of the French language: enriching the teaching of French for all
