Montreal - The caucus of members of the Parti Québécois de Montréal, as well as the member of the Bloc Québécois for La Pointe-de-l&#39;Île, Mario Beaulieu, called on the Liberal government on several projects that seem to be at a standstill in the East from Montreal. “Since the Liberals came to power in 2014, everything has slowed down in the East. 2016 must be the year of relaunching structuring projects for this sector of our metropolis, ”said Jean-François Lisée, Member of Parliament for Rosemont and Chairman of the Parti Québécois de Montréal caucus.
Unsanitary housing
In September 2015, a devastating report from the Director of Public Health (DSP) of Montreal on the sanitary conditions of the city&#39;s real estate stock revealed that the problems of unhealthiness in Montreal affect 38% of rental apartments. “Five months have passed and there is no sense of urgency among the Liberals. They must act in the next budget. There is a necessary reinvestment to be implemented, not only in housing, but also in schools and for soil decontamination, ”insisted Carole Poirier, Member of Parliament for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in this area. dwelling. “The risks to public health are real, especially for our children,” she continued.
Blue metro line
The file for the extension of the blue line of the Montreal metro to Anjou seems to be paralyzed. “Since the surface metro project was buried by the findings of an AMT report last year, the government has not given any sign of life. People had hope, but Philippe Couillard&#39;s Liberals have forgotten them and are leaving a large part of the population of East Montreal in the void. Currently the buses are full. Congestion and wasted time are hurting the economy. East of Montreal obviously suffers the consequences, ”denounced Nicole Léger, MP for Pointe-aux-Trembles, and Mario Beaulieu. “In 2016, the extension will have to be confirmed; we expect that the sums will be allocated to the project and that it will be included in the Quebec Infrastructure Plan for the next budget, ”they added.
Roof of the Olympic Stadium
For his part, Maka Kotto deplores the government&#39;s reluctance to resolve the issue of the roof of the Olympic Stadium. “On November 3, the former Minister of Tourism received the second phase of the study from the Régie des installations olympiques, the RIO, on the replacement of the roof. For the sake of transparency, it would be fashionable for the new minister to unveil this study. Montrealers and Quebeckers have the right to know what the RIO recommends for the roof of the Stadium, ”declared the member for Bourget. The latter asks the government to act quickly in the interest of eastern Montreal and Quebec. “The economy of East Montreal needs an infrastructure like the Olympic Stadium, but it still has to be available. The government must stop waiting. &quot;
Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital
During the election campaign in 2014, the Liberal Party committed to modernizing the Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital, an essential project for the 670,000 citizens served by this establishment built in the 1950s. &#39;was provided for in the first two Liberal budgets for this purpose. “The government has made great promises. The people of the East have been waiting for this modernization for several years. Ultimately, it took at least ten years for this project to come to fruition. In the next budget, the sums must be released; 2016 is the year of truth for the Liberals, ”argued Jean-François Lisée.
In short, the members of the Parti Québécois de Montréal, Jean-François Lisée, Carole Poirier, Maka Kotto and Nicole Léger, as well as Mario Beaulieu are asking the government to relaunch these important projects for the economy of East Montreal. “We are giving the government a chance to prove to us that it has not abandoned the East. It must prove it in the next budget, it is urgent! The ministers from the east of Montreal, Lise Thériault, David Heurtel and Rita de Santis, as well as the person in charge of the metropolis, Martin Coiteux, must act promptly and concretely for the east of Montreal ”, they concluded.
