Quebec - The Minister responsible for Government Administration and Chairman of the Treasury Board, Stéphane Bédard, today presented the consequences to which companies are exposed if they are refused an authorization to contract by the Autorité des marchés financiers (Autorité ), under Law 1, as well as the rehabilitation procedures in which they must take.
Under Law 1 on Integrity in Public Contracts, a company that fails to obtain authorization from the Authority becomes ineligible to obtain new public contracts, of whatever nature, by a ministry, public body, Crown corporation or municipality. It will have to file a new request and obtain the green light after a period determined by the Authority.
“We want to do business with companies that respect the law and demonstrate ethics in their contracting practices. We will be intractable on this level. Honesty must be rewarded. It is a question of fairness and sound management of public funds, ”said Minister Bédard. Current contracts
With regard to current contracts, the Conseil du trésor may, however, allow a business to complete a contract, by subjecting it, if required, at its own expense, to strict monitoring and support measures.
Each case will be assessed by the Conseil du trésor on the basis of the public interest. In particular, it will take into account:
In the event that a business is authorized to terminate a contract, among the possible conditions, the Conseil du trésor may require that the business be under the supervision of an external auditor appointed by the Authority. This auditor could then carry out oversight at three levels, namely at the level of governance, ethics and accounting of the offending company. In addition, at any time, the Authority could request new verifications from the Permanent Anti-Corruption Unit (UPAC) concerning the company in question.
However, the government does not wish to deprive the population of public infrastructure, many of which are essential, including hospitals and transport links. He does not want to penalize honest workers employed by companies at fault, nor push them into bankruptcy to the detriment of Quebec&#39;s economic health. He therefore maintains a firm, balanced and responsible position so that everyone complies with the law.
The faulty companies will therefore be called upon to carry out and complete real rehabilitation procedures leading to changes in culture and practices, in order to possibly submit a new authorization request to the Authority. Among the possible rehabilitation measures are:
“Each file will be analyzed based on the public interest. Also, rehabilitation efforts will be decisive. Simply moving a few players or signing a check will not be enough. It&#39;s not about makeup or buying indulgences. We send a clear signal to the companies at fault: clean up. For the good of businesses as well as that of the people of Quebec, ”concluded Minister Bédard.
