Quebec - “After nine years in power, the Charest government is showing the wear and tear of the end of the regime. Nothing works anymore. Public confidence in the Prime Minister is broken. Dissatisfaction with the government has never been higher. The Prime Minister and the Liberal Party cling to power. We are in a dead end and the only way to make a difference is to call a general election and change the government. &quot;
This is what the leader of the official opposition and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, said as she addressed the National Assembly in the context of the motion of censure that she tabled today. hui.
The government&#39;s record is dire. Not only has Jean Charest shown that he was incapable of managing the student crisis that he himself created, but the other files where the Prime Minister failed are also very numerous. The economy is running out of steam; health expectation increases; our natural resources are sold at a discount; Quebec&#39;s interests are flouted by Ottawa and corruption has invaded our institutions and shaken the confidence of the population.
In terms of the economy, the Liberal record is not much better. The numbers are relentless. In 2011, Quebec lost 51,000 jobs. In 2010, Quebec&#39;s trade deficit reached $ 25 billion. Every day, $ 69 million leaves Quebec to create wealth and jobs abroad. The government has no strategy to counter this catastrophic state of our trade balance.
“Jean Charest&#39;s only policy for nine years has been to indebt Quebec. The Prime Minister is currently responsible for 33% of all accumulated debt, one-third of all debt. It cannot even boast of having better spending control than previous governments. From 1994 to 2003, state spending increased by 21% while under the liberal regime spending will have grown by 43% since 2003, ”she denounced.
“When it comes to defending the interests of Quebec, the Liberal leader today finds himself in a unique position in the history of Quebec. Jean Charest is the only Prime Minister to have given up on any request to modify the status of Quebec. For the first time in history, the Prime Minister has given up by asking nothing more of Ottawa. The result is that Quebec will never have been in such a weak position vis-à-vis Ottawa, ”she added, recalling that the Minister of Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs even recently declared that Ottawa had forgotten us.
“The management of the student conflict is a real disaster. For 80 days now, Quebec has been sinking into a student crisis caused from nothing by the Prime Minister himself by drastically increasing tuition fees. The government refused to engage in dialogue. He refused to suspend the increase and refused the appointment of a mediator. Then the Prime Minister displayed his contempt for students by making questionable jokes. Regardless of his function and his responsibilities, he added fuel to the fire, ”she explained, adding that the Prime Minister is indifferent to the consequences of this conflict and seeks only to divide Quebecers. .
“The Prime Minister has presided over an unprecedented ethical drift by his own government. By lowering ethical standards, by demanding funding quotas from his ministers, by agreeing to receive a secret salary, the Prime Minister has sent out a signal of laxity. And the gaps have multiplied. It took nearly three years, more than a hundred questions to the National Assembly, motions, petitions and demonstrations for the Prime Minister to finally deign to launch a public inquiry into the construction industry, ”he added. she recalled.
“We can&#39;t go on like this anymore. The only solution is to change the government. We have to get Quebec back on track and to get there we have to get up, stand up, proudly. We must change direction. Let Quebecers decide. Quebeckers want to change government and want to change direction. The Liberal government has had its day. The Liberal leader has had his day. The public must now be given the opportunity to make their choices. Let democracy speak, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
