Quebec - The Minister responsible for the Capitale? Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions, Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the Minister for Tourism , Mr. Pascal Bérubé, are pleased to announce the allocation of financial assistance of $ 90,000 to support the Quebec City Festival of Lights, which will be held from December 21 to 31.
Kicking off the start of the winter season, the Festival des Lumières de Québec offers, in the evening, a light trail joining Place D&#39;Youville and the Grande Allée, as well as original lighting. The Government of Quebec is proud to support this event which will help create a magical atmosphere during the holiday season.
“I am delighted with the holding of this colorful festival. This is an additional attraction that will both increase our attractiveness and highlight the festive character of our region. There is no doubt that people will marvel at the beauty and richness of our architectural heritage ”, underlined Minister Maltais.
“The Festival des Lumières de Québec helps to position the capital as a must-see winter destination. In the middle of the holiday season, the streets of Quebec will shine with a thousand lights and will be animated by an incomparable magical atmosphere. We invite the entire population of Quebec City and people visiting the region to come and soak up the magical spirit of the holiday season, in the enchanting setting of our capital, ”Minister Bérubé said.
The contribution from the Government of Quebec is distributed as follows: $ 65,000 comes from the Secrétariat à la Capitale-Nationale and $ 25,000 comes from the Tourism Industry Development Program - Financial assistance for festivals and tourist events, from Tourism Quebec.
The Secretariat, attached to the Minister of the Executive Council, advises the government and the minister responsible for the region, Ms. Agnès Maltais, on any question or measure having a significant impact on the region and its social, cultural, tourist and economic development. The Secretariat acts in concert with its various governmental and regional partners, while financially supporting the realization of projects contributing to the growth of the Capitale-Nationale.
