Sorel-Tracy– The Minister of Public Security, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, along with the Member for Richelieu and Minister responsible for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced that the construction of the A new detention facility in Sorel-Tracy will begin this fall and, to this end, a 30-year partnership agreement has been signed with the Horizon Justice Sorel-Tracy (HJST) consortium.
&quot;I am proud of the efforts made by the many people who are working hard to carry out this project, which will finally be able to materialize, thus making it possible to boost the region&#39;s economy, to better meet the needs and functional requirements in this area. safety, in addition to offering a better working environment for the staff of the Sorel-Tracy detention center, ”said Minister Bergeron.
The new Sorel-Tracy Detention Facility aims to replace the current establishment, which is obsolete, with a new building that will accommodate 300 offenders, thereby offering 211 additional places. The financing, management, construction and maintenance of the building will be provided by HJST for a period of 30 years, which represents an investment of around $ 265.7 million. The ministry will remain solely responsible for the offenders entrusted to it.
“As you know, I have followed the development of this file very closely, which represents a major issue for the City of Sorel-Tracy and for the economic development of the entire region. The 300 jobs generated by this project during the works will create wealth not only in the short term, but also in the long term with more than 155 new permanent jobs, ”added Minister Zakaïb.
The contribution of the Ministère de la Sécurité publique to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI), which will ultimately entail, for the entire government, investments of $ 92.3 billion, of which more than 1 billion $ for public security institutions. This plan will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
