Québec– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec region and Member of Parliament for Johnson, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, on behalf of the Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to announce that financial assistance of $ 15,000 has been granted to the Agence de géomatique du Center-du-Québec for the prevention of erosion of agricultural land. This aid comes from the Support for the development of agriculture and agrifood in the regions program, which aims to support regional projects contributing to the adaptation and development of agriculture and agri-food.
&quot;I am always pleased to support organizations which, like the Center-du-Québec Geomatics Agency, carry out projects to improve the working methods of agricultural producers in the regions,&quot; said Mr. François. Gendron.
“Such support from the Government of Quebec for an organization in Center-du-Quebec fills me with pride. This assistance will allow agricultural advisers in particular to better prepare their interventions in the field and to meet agricultural producers in order to offer them agri-environmental solutions adapted to their soil erosion problems ”, indicated Mr. Yves-François. Blanchet
&quot;Projects like this make it possible to encourage producers to adopt production methods in harmony with the environment and promote the sustainable development of our agriculture, objectives perfectly in line with the Food Sovereignty Policy unveiled last May,&quot; added the Minister. Minister Gendron.
With investments of $ 2.3 billion and annual food demand of nearly $ 34 billion generating 475,000 jobs, the biofood industry is a powerful engine of the Quebec economy. To find out more about the Food Sovereignty Policy, visit the dedicated blog www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or browse the www.Mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA section of the Ministère&#39;s website. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at twitter.com / mapaquebec.
