Montreal - The Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, and the Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Maka Kotto, announce the allocation of government financial assistance of $ 977,500 for the holding of MONTRÉAL EN LUMIÈRE, which will take place from February 20 to March 2, 2014.
Over the winters, MONTRÉAL EN LUMIÈRE has established itself as one of the most important winter festivals in the world, attracting an increasingly diverse audience. For its 15th edition, the metropolis will make way for light, arts and entertainment and gastronomy, not to mention its traditional Nuit blanche à Montréal, to close the festival. In addition to artistic performances and original creations, the gastronomic component of MONTRÉAL EN LUMIÈRE will honor, this year, the flavors of Montreal, Haiti and San Francisco.
“We are proud to support this festival, which helps to position Quebec as a winter tourist destination of choice, both nationally and internationally. This gathering strengthens the reputation of the Quebec population characterized by its dynamism, originality and warm welcome. Come see and taste the urban winter, ”said Minister Bérubé.
“Out of the ordinary, this great urban festival honors the diversity and the quality of the talents of our artists and our great Montreal chefs. This is an ideal opportunity to celebrate winter in the city and to discover the charms of the metropolis which, thanks to the work and dynamism of its promoters, stands out internationally as a high-caliber cultural destination ”, underlined the Minister Lisée.
For his part, Mr. Maka Kotto added: “In the heart of February, Montreal comes alive and cheerful as in summer. Congratulations to the organizers who bring warmth and color to the streets of our metropolis! Another example of the extraordinary cultural dynamism of Montreal ”.
Tourisme Québec has granted $ 500,000 under the Financial Assistance to Festivals and Tourism Events component of its tourism industry development program. To this contribution are added $ 427,500 from the Metropolis Initiative and Outreach Fund of the Metropolitan Region Secretariat and $ 50,000 from the Variety Broadcasting Assistance Program of the Société de développement des entreprises culturelles.
