“Parc national d&#39;Opémican will become the second park to be created since the current government came to power. This clearly demonstrates our desire to promote each region of Quebec and support their economic and social development. This future park will allow us to protect the environment and create wealth in the region. We are going to make this park a unifying project and an object of pride, for the population of the region and for all of Quebec, ”declared the Premier.
The creation of Parc national d&#39;Opémican will make it possible to protect and enhance a territory covering an area of approximately 250 km2, bordered to the west by Lake Témiscamingue and to the east by Lake Kipawa. This territory is at the intersection of the deciduous forest and the boreal forest, and contains diverse habitats that are home to many species of fauna and flora typical of the Témiscamese landscape. The historic Opémican site, a true natural stopover on Lake Témiscamingue, will be restored and its historic buildings, including the Auberge Jodoin, one of the oldest buildings in Abitibi-Témiscamingue, will also be able to be showcased.
“Quebec has great hopes for its formidable, but fragile, biodiversity, and the realization of these passes through mechanisms of protection, awareness and enhancement. However, the key is undoubtedly the development of our network of protected areas in all its forms. The people of Témiscamingue will soon be able to enjoy a new park of great beauty and great relevance, and all of Quebec will be able to boast of taking responsibility for a planet that is often damaged. It is in this spirit that we aim to protect at least 12% of Quebec&#39;s territory, ”said Minister Blanchet.
“This magnificent region of lakes and rivers has everything to appeal to tourists. The eventual arrival of 40,000 visitors per year is likely to generate economic spinoffs in the order of $ 7.5 million in the region. This means the creation of around thirty regular or seasonal jobs in the region and a real boost for tourism and the regional economy, ”concluded MP Chapadeau.
The report of the public consultation relating to the creation of Parc national d&#39;Opémican is available at www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca/parcs/opemican.
