Terrebonne– The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, and the Minister responsible for Social Services and Youth Protection and Minister responsible for Lanaudière region, Véronique Hivon, today announced that the Center de santé et de services sociaux du Sud de Lanaudière will be authorized to carry out the initial business case for its project to add 146 nursing beds. acute care at the Pierre-Le Gardeur Hospital. This project, the costs of which are estimated at over $ 150 million, will be fully funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services, under the forthcoming Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI). Ms. Marois also confirmed an investment of $ 1.2 million to enable the establishment to carry out the studies necessary to develop the initial business case.
Several scenarios are being considered to increase the reception capacity of the Pierre-Le Gardeur Hospital, but it is following the completion of the initial business case, which is expected by spring 2014, that a real estate solutions may be selected and will allow the costs and the project schedule to be specified.
“When I was Minister of Health, I gave the green light to the construction of the Pierre-Le Gardeur Hospital. This is one of the accomplishments of which I am very proud. This establishment has become an institution at the cutting edge of technology and it is a success in terms of management and development. Under the PQI, our government is making responsible choices by selecting the most promising projects for the socio-economic development of Quebec. The constant increase in demand for services in the region makes improving the reception capacity of the Pierre-Le Gardeur Hospital a priority choice, ”declared the Premier.
Many factors explain the increase in demand for services from the establishment. In particular, the Lanaudière region has experienced the highest demographic growth in Quebec, and the phenomenon of population aging is also more marked there than in the other regions. As Minister Hébert explained, “the addition of these short-term beds will also allow the repatriation of the Lanaudière clientele who are currently being treated in Montreal. The region will thus be able to attract the professionals necessary to provide the citizens of the region with quality care, without them having to cross to the island of Montreal ”.
“This investment demonstrates our confidence in the Pierre-Le Gardeur Hospital and its team, who play a major role here in Lanaudière. Our government is resolutely committed to supporting our health and social services establishments. We therefore want to offer the population of large centers, as well as those in the regions, adequate and functional infrastructures, which guarantee high-quality care and services, ”concluded Minister Hivon.
