Quebec - Today, at the National Assembly of Quebec, the Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Régie des rentes du Québec, Ms. Agnès Maltais, presented the project An Act respecting the restructuring of municipal defined benefit pension plans and other amendments to such plans. This bill takes into account the four major government orientations announced in the action plan released in December 2013, namely intergenerational equity, the ability of taxpayers to pay, the protection of retiree pensions and the principle of the truth of costs.
“As promised, we quickly tabled a bill that will make it possible, by favoring the route of negotiation, to resolve the complex problem of the financial situation of pension plans in the municipal sector. We are also respecting the commitments made at the municipal sector forum held on January 21, ”said the Minister responsible for the Régie des rentes du Québec, Ms. Agnès Maltais. “We take our responsibilities in the name of the general interest. We innovate by proposing courageous, realistic and adapted solutions, in order to quickly restore the financial health of municipal pension plans and ensure their sustainability, ”she added.
The bill provides for the possibility of exceptionally reverting to past commitments, limits this possibility to a period of 18 months, and protects the basic pension of retirees. Other provisions of the bill make the 50-50 cost sharing of the plans for the future mandatory, the abolition of the additional benefit and the establishment of a provision in the event of a hard blow. In addition, employer contribution holidays will no longer be allowed, and any enhancement to a pension plan will have to be fully funded.
The actual negotiation period will begin on July 1, 2014 and will last for a maximum of six months. In the event of an impasse, the process provides for compulsory conciliation for a period of six months followed, if necessary, by the intervention of the Commission des relations du travail, which will render a final and binding decision.
“With this bill, we are taking a strong action by giving the players concerned the tools that will enable them to ensure the sustainability of pension plans and to contain the burden that their funding represents for taxpayers. I am particularly proud that we have worked together with the common objective of finding solutions to this important issue, in the interest, once again, of all Quebecers ”, declared the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault.
The bill provides that restructuring will be mandatory for defined benefit pension plans of municipal bodies with a capitalization rate of less than 85% as of December 31, 2013. Pension plans that allow a subsidy for early retirement before age 55 will also have to be renegotiated. The aim is to ensure that the duration and the contribution rate take account of the increase in life expectancy.
This bill is the government&#39;s proposal in response to the situation of the municipal sector. The study in parliamentary committee will make it possible to hear the point of view of the parties and to improve it. The holding of the working forums last January revealed that the problems and needs were not the same for the municipal, university and private sectors. Thus, other measures specific to the university and private sectors will be proposed in the coming months.
