Quebec - The Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions, Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the Minister for Tourism , Mr. Pascal Bérubé, are pleased to announce the allocation of financial assistance of 350,000 dollars, to support the presentation of the Grand Feux Loto-Québec.
For the second edition of this renewed formula, which will take place from August 3 to 21, the master pyrotechnicians have prepared six thematic pyromusical performances that will brilliantly accompany each of the major events animating the Capitale-Nationale region during the summer season.
Presented on Saturdays and Wednesdays, the free shows will celebrate the Québec Opera Festival, the Fêtes de la Nouvelle-France SAQ, the Jazz Festival etcetera Lévis, the Paris en scène exhibition, in collaboration with the Musée de la civilization. de Québec, Wendake in the spotlight and the Québec City International Military Music Festival.
“There is no doubt that this new concept will arouse enthusiasm and charm the population and visitors. In addition, by choosing the St. Lawrence River as the launching area for these fires, both shores will be able to benefit from this festive and unifying spectacle. I therefore invite you to participate in large numbers in this unique pyromusical experience which will undoubtedly amaze you ”, underlined Minister Maltais.
“I would like to congratulate the members of the organizing committee of the Grands Feux Loto-Québec, who have reinvented the pyrotechnic show formula in order to make it a most festive event, and who have demonstrated the importance of working in partnership to promote enhancing the region as a whole and making the tourist offer even more attractive, ”Minister Bérubé said.
The contribution from the Government of Quebec is distributed as follows: $ 250,000 comes from the Tourism Industry Development Program - financial assistance for festivals and tourist events, from Tourisme Québec, and $ 100,000 comes from the Secrétariat à la Capitale -National.
