Quebec - The MP for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, as well as the MP for Verchères and spokesperson for Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, denounced the passivity of the Prime Minister, who refused to attempt once again to obtain data from the federal firearms registry concerning Quebec from Stephen Harper.
“Quebecers partially funded the federal firearms registry; it is unacceptable that they pay again to collect data that has already been collected. We call on the Liberal government to put pressure, if it is not too late, on Stephen Harper. It is deplorable that Premier Couillard refused to do so today. Why is he doing this? Is it out of fear of being told no? », Asked Stéphane Bédard.
“Cooperative federalism does not work; we have new proof of that with this Supreme Court decision. The dissenting judges also said they could not ignore the federal legislature&#39;s stated intention to harm the other order of government. The Court also says that beyond legality, it is a political question; if it wishes, Ottawa can still return the data to Quebec, ”he added.
The National Assembly reaffirms the Quebec consensus
Stéphane Bergeron is delighted that the National Assembly has reaffirmed the Quebec consensus denouncing the federal intention to destroy the data in the register. He calls on the Liberal government to walk the talk, and on Prime Minister Stephen Harper to back down.
“The attitude of Prime Minister Philippe Couillard lacks consistency; contrary to the Supreme Court ruling, which stipulates that it is first of all a political question, he takes refuge behind the outcome of the legal procedure so as not to undertake this final step with his federal counterpart, then he rises in the National Assembly to support a motion urging him to do so. What explains his waltz? Hesitation? His duty, as Premier of Quebec, is however to defend our best interests loud and clear, which is reflected in the Quebec consensus; in the case of the firearms registry, the National Assembly has just reaffirmed it, ”concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
The unanimously adopted motion reads as follows:
“That the National Assembly denounce the federal government&#39;s intention to destroy the data in the firearms registry, against the will of Quebec;
That it recall that this register was partially financed by the taxes of Quebecers;
That it ask Prime Minister Stephen Harper to go back on his decision and order the immediate transfer of the data to the Government of Quebec, so that it can set up its own registry. &quot;
