Tadoussac - Visiting the Festival de la chanson de Tadoussac on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of this event, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, took the opportunity to announce financial assistance of $ 120,000 to the organization. of the festival, in particular to acquire more specialized and better adapted stage equipment.
“For thirty years now, song enthusiasts have vibrated to the sounds and melodies of this major event in the region. Rightly called &quot;the biggest of small festivals&quot;, this celebration of French-language song has spread its reputation to the four corners of Quebec. As a multidisciplinary broadcaster, the Festival de la chanson de Tadoussac will now have access to a set of stage equipment that will certainly help it improve the regional cultural offer, ”declared Minister Maka Kotto.
&quot;The Festival de la chanson de Tadoussac, a village at the confluence of the regions of Charlevoix, Bas-Saint-Laurent and Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean and gateway to the North Shore, kicks off during the tourist season in eastern Quebec. This event, a must for the tourism industry, is important for the region&#39;s economy since it generates spinoffs of over two million dollars each year, ”added MP Marjolain Dufour.
The grant from the Ministry of Culture and Communications (MCC) of $ 120,000 was paid under the Capital Assistance program. As a specialized broadcaster, the Festival de la chanson de Tadoussac receives annual financial assistance from the Société de développement des entreprises culturelles. It is also supported in operations by MCC through an annual grant of $ 25,000.
MCC&#39;s contribution to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan, made public in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 2 billion for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make informed choices.
