Quebec - While the government of Stephen Harper has just announced its new international education strategy, the government of Quebec denounces this Ottawa intrusion into education, an exclusive jurisdiction of Quebec.
Education, from elementary school to university, is a field of jurisdiction that falls exclusively under the jurisdiction of the provinces. For reasons of efficiency and constitutional order, Quebec intends to remain master of its priorities and orientations in terms of student mobility and international relations in higher education.
The federal strategy has two components: an amount of $ 10 million over two years devoted to branding Canada internationally and the granting of $ 13 million over two years for mobility grants intended for Quebec students and foreigners. The strategy also sets itself the target of doubling the number of foreign students in Canada by 2022. However, Quebec already has its own programs in this area and considers this duplication unnecessary.
In this perspective, the Quebec government intends to withdraw from the programs resulting from the strategy in addition to asking for full financial compensation.
The government of Quebec could make better use of these sums by improving, in particular:
“Quebec must be able to invest according to its educational needs and priorities, not according to the interests of the Government of Canada. This is why Quebec must receive this money through a transfer rather than in the form of various programs established by Ottawa ”, underlined the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre. Duchesne.
The federal government does not take into account the specific reality of Quebec. We are still in the presence of a Canadian strategy that does not take into account the specificity of Quebec. Attracting foreign students to a French-speaking nation involves a different strategy from that of an English-speaking nation. The application of the Gérin-Lajoie doctrine, the Constitution and common sense call for Ottawa to respect the jurisdiction of Quebec, ”said the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François. Lisee. Moreover, Mr. Lisée is still awaiting a response from the federal government on the possibility that Quebec will receive full compensation for the programs resulting from the strategy.
The Government of Quebec has exercised its responsibilities in these matters for a very long time. Indeed, the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology is paying, for the year 2013-2014, an amount totaling $ 17.5 million in scholarships and mobility programs for students. colleges and universities wishing to study abroad. In addition, the proportion of foreign students coming to study in Quebec is increasing year after year, in particular thanks to the 40 international agreements signed between Quebec and various countries. A growing number of these foreign students then choose to immigrate to Quebec permanently, which is facilitated by the Quebec Experience Program, to the extent that these students have acquired a sufficient command of French. This program is also a success, the number of students who received a Selection Certificate increased from 606 in 2010 to 2,156 in 2013.
“The growing presence of foreign students in Montreal poses linguistic challenges. Many of them do not master French when they arrive, hold jobs in downtown businesses and represent significant potential in the permanent welcome that Quebec can offer them, since they know Quebec and hold a diploma from a Quebec educational institution. Reconciling this challenge and this potential is the responsibility of the Government of Quebec, not of the Canadian government, ”said Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane de Courcy. .
For the government of Quebec, the federal government&#39;s use of the international dimension to interfere in exclusive jurisdiction of Quebec is unacceptable.
“It is up to Quebec to determine its needs in terms of the recruitment of foreign students and the mobility of Quebec students. It goes without saying that it is not for Ottawa to establish the parameters of the international positioning of our education network. The federal government&#39;s current strategy is an additional illustration of the problems engendered by Ottawa&#39;s interference in Quebec&#39;s exclusive jurisdictions, ”said the Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Mr. Alexandre. Cloutier.
To obtain full financial compensation, the Quebec government is continuing its representations to the federal government. Minister Duchesne also sent a letter to this effect to Minister Fast this morning, in which he opposes the federal government&#39;s international education strategy unveiled on January 15.
