Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Pierre Duchesne, and the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Jean-François Lisée, is pleased to announce that a sum of $ 173.4 million has been set aside by his government for the construction project of the Science Complex of the University of Montreal, on the Outremont site.
“Investing in education, research and innovation is investing in our future. Investing in our youth, in our students and in our researchers, is to invest in this formidable capacity that we have to stand out, to create and to push the limits of knowledge ”, declared the Premier.
In addition to a science pavilion of 44,512 square meters, this project also includes the construction of a teaching pavilion, a library and a parking lot. Four science departments (chemistry, physics, biological sciences and geography) will be grouped together within this new complex, the construction of which, spread over three years, will generate more than 4,600 jobs. The overall plan for the sector also includes residential spaces, four parks and a tree-lined esplanade.
“The Science Complex is the largest university infrastructure project awarded in higher education. Through this large-scale investment, the government confirms its choice to support the largest French-speaking university in North America, thus allowing Quebec to shine on the international scene thanks to cutting-edge infrastructures for scientific teaching and research ”, added Minister Duchesne.
The total estimated cost of this project is $ 350 million, half of which will come from the Government of Quebec. A sum of $ 173.4 million has also been set aside for this purpose in the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan. Of this amount, $ 92.3 million is intended for teaching spaces and $ 81.1 million for research spaces. Note that this is the largest amount ever invested by the government for a building dedicated to higher education and university research.
// © Stéphanie Tougas
“This project, which we are carrying out with rigor and enthusiasm, is progressing with the collaboration of several partners, first and foremost the Government of Quebec. Members of our community will soon be able to benefit from classes, laboratories and living spaces adapted to the pursuit of their training and their scientific research work. In fact, our scientists are among the best in their field and often among the best in the world. We want to give them spaces where they can continue to deploy their talent, ”said the rector of the University of Montreal, Guy Breton.
In accordance with the provisions of the Government of Quebec&#39;s Framework Policy on the Governance of Large Public Infrastructure Projects, which provides for a rigorous planning process to ensure optimal control of costs and schedules, the University recently submitted its file for initial business at the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology. Construction of the Science Complex will begin in the fall of 2015.
“Montreal is increasingly recognized worldwide as a capital of knowledge and creativity. Thanks to this new innovation hub, which will benefit from modern infrastructures, we are even more relying on the strengths that characterize our metropolis, ”added Minister Lisée.
The Université de Montréal Science Complex site is located at the junction of the Outremont, Parc-Extension, Mile-End and Ville de Mont-Royal districts. Site rehabilitation work, funded by the Chantiers Canada-Québec program, began in spring 2012 and ended in summer 2013. Completed within budget and on schedule, this work made the site ready for use. receive buildings, parks and a residential sector.
