Saguenay - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announced a grant of $ 175,000 to the current art center Bang, for the renovation of one of its venues, the Espace Séquence.
“In all regions of Quebec, artists need places like the Espace Séquence that support their practice and provide them with a framework conducive to reflection, research, exchange and creation. These dissemination spaces are all the more necessary as they stimulate the encounter between contemporary art and our citizens eager for artistic discoveries ”, declared Minister Kotto.
“Culture and the arts are essential tools for the region&#39;s economic development and thereby contribute to enriching the quality of life of an entire population. With so many talented artists in our region, our mandate was to empower them to create a unique gathering place. I am very proud that we are participating in the emergence of Bang, a contemporary art center, ”said Stéphane, MP for Chicoutimi, President of the Treasury Board and Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region. Bedard.
This project will not only make the Espace Séquence even more attractive and inviting, but also increase the visibility and attendance of this center for the production, dissemination and promotion of contemporary art. As a result, the aesthetic improvement of the building will significantly contribute to the revitalization of the downtown area of the Chicoutimi borough in Saguenay.
The overall cost of the project is estimated at $ 292,200 and breaks down as follows: $ 175,000 is allocated under the Capital Assistance program of the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications, $ 100,000 comes from the revitalization program for the facades of city centers. cities of the City of Saguenay and $ 17,200 will be donated by the current Bang art center.
Let us recall that the current Bang art center will be officially inaugurated this evening, October 17, 2013, on the occasion of the opening of a collective exhibition in which ministers Kotto and Bédard will participate. The current Bang art center was born from the pooling of the resources of two Saguenay artist-run centers, namely Espace Virtuel and Séquence, in order to create a single strategic hub for the dissemination and production of contemporary art in the region. of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean. It provides artists with spaces, equipment, services and specialized resources and offers the community various activities such as exhibitions, conferences, debates, performances, publications, residencies and documentation.
