Montreal - The Minister for Indigenous Affairs, Élizabeth Larouche, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the Minister for Tourism, Pascal Bérubé and the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Jean-François Lisée, announced the allocation of financial assistance of $ 450,750 in support of the 23festivalPrésence autochthon, which will take place in Montreal from July 30 to August 5, 2013.
“The Government of Quebec is proud to be associated with the Présence autochthonous festival, which aims to celebrate, honor, but also to make known to the entire Quebec population, the history and culture of Indigenous people in Quebec. In short, it is a privileged moment to strengthen the links between our nations, and thus forge beautiful friendships, ”declared Minister Larouche.
“Once again this year, Native Presence offers citizens and visitors a privileged opportunity to discover the richness and diversity of Native culture and to let themselves be permeated by it. In a warm and friendly atmosphere, the public will be able to appreciate the works of talented artists, a real immersion in the rich creative universe of the aboriginal nations. Congratulations to Terres en vue for organizing this unifying and necessary event, ”added Minister Kotto.
“The Présence autochthonous festival enriches the tourist offer of Montreal and all of Quebec. This unique and dynamic event contributes to the attractiveness of our destination. Lovers of singing and music as well as theatrical performances, cinema, dance, gastronomy and literature will make remarkable discoveries there ”, mentioned Minister Bérubé.
“Over the space of a few days, the Présence autochtones festival changes the Montreal landscape to immerse us in the heart of Indigenous cultures through the staging of their rites and customs and the practice of their languages. The metropolis proudly welcomes these activities which bear witness to the presence and liveliness of the first peoples, ”concluded Minister Lisée.
The contribution from the Government of Quebec is distributed as follows: $ 300,500 comes from the Secrétariat aux affaires autochtones, $ 55,250 from the Conseil des arts et des lettres du Québec, $ 50,000 from the Tourism Industry Development Program - assistance funding for festivals and tourist events from Tourisme Québec and $ 45,000 from the Metropolis Initiative and Outreach Fund, administered by the Metropolitan Region Secretariat.
