Quebec - On the occasion of the last day of consultations on immigration planning in Quebec for the period 2012-2015, the member for Drummond and official opposition critic for immigration, cultural communities and language, Yves-François Blanchet, denounced the fact that the Canadian government has voluntarily excluded many Quebec companies that wanted to participate in the next edition of Destination Canada 2011 - Employment Forum, which will take place in Paris in November 2011.
The purpose of this forum is to recruit, in multiple fields of employment, qualified workers, temporary or permanent, and therefore potential future residents who will settle in Canada and in particular in Quebec.
The federal government, through the Canadian Embassy in Paris, has stated that:
“While the groups follow one another in parliamentary committee to insist on the importance of the immigration of skilled workers, Quebec companies are excluded by the Government of Canada because they have activities only in Quebec! It is very commendable to support the flow of new blood to francophone communities outside Quebec. However, in the context of a further confirmed decline in French in Quebec and especially in Montreal, this Ottawa decision is deeply discriminatory against Quebec and Quebec businesses, ”said Yves-François Blanchet.
&quot;Quebec must fight to attract French-speaking immigrants and the federal government is cutting the rug out from under its feet by limiting its potential to recruit, through this employment forum, also paid for by the taxes of Quebecers, qualified workers,&quot; temporary and permanent, many of whom will eventually become permanent residents and future citizens. What did the Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities, Kathleen Weil, do to denounce this situation to her counterpart in Ottawa? The minister must immediately demand and obtain an explanation from the federal government! Better still, it must admit that only Quebec should have immigration powers on its territory, ”concluded Mr. Blanchet.
