Terrebonne– On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the MNA for Terrebonne, Mathieu Traversy, announces the allocation of financial assistance of $ 148,500 for the restoration of the Bélisle house, a listed heritage building located in the heart of Vieux-Terrebonne.
“Our city is steeped in history, and I am proud to belong to this community which has the affirmed desire to protect and showcase a rich heritage testifying to our past. This work will have the effect of maintaining this classified heritage property, which is located in the heart of Old Terrebonne, in good condition and putting it more in the foreground in the cultural and tourist offer of the area, ”says Mathieu Traversy.
The financial contribution will make it possible to carry out restoration work on this protected building under the Cultural Heritage Act. The project consists of the restoration of the exterior masonry walls, chimneys and doors.
“The Bélisle house, known as the Maison de pays, is a heritage place at the heart of the cultural life of Terrebonne. This place of cultural dissemination is an example of the integration of all the dimensions of our Quebec identity, combining past, present and future. It is essential to preserve it, to enhance it and to remember it, ”says Maka Kotto.
Financial support of $ 148,500 from the Ministry of Culture and Communications comes from the Quebec Cultural Heritage Fund. The City of Terrebonne, owner of Maison Bélisle, is the project&#39;s main financial partner. His estimated financial participation is $ 174,325.
“We are grateful for this significant contribution from the Ministry of Culture and Communications. The Bélisle house is a precious Terrebonne and Quebec heritage. Protecting and enhancing our built heritage is a cultural responsibility that we recognize and assume, just as we were committed to in our cultural policy, ”underlines Jean-Marc Robitaille, Mayor of Terrebonne.
Additional information about Maison Bélisle is available on the Quebec Cultural Heritage Directory (RPCQ) website at www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca.
New tools for disseminating cultural heritage have been added to the RPCQ, making it possible to discover all of its richness and diversity, by making it accessible to all. In fact, part of the content of the RPCQ can now be found on the Government of Quebec&#39;s open data portal, atwww.donnees.gouv.qc.ca, as well as on the social network Pinterest, in the form of virtual exhibitions, at www.www.donnees.gouv.qc.ca. pinterest.com/rpcq.
Online training is also available at www.formation-patrimoine.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. Composed of video capsules and learning activities, it presents the basic concepts of the Cultural Heritage Act and explains the roles and responsibilities of each to promote the knowledge, protection, enhancement and transmission of Cultural Heritage.
