Montreal– Jean-François Lisée, Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and Minister responsible for Tourism, Pascal Bérubé , are pleased to announce the allocation of financial assistance totaling $ 1,935,000 for the presentation of the 31st edition of the Just for Laughs Festival.
From July 13 to 28, Montreal&#39;s Quartier des spectacles will welcome the best comedians from here and elsewhere. They will do everything to amuse the crowds who attend the many shows. This festival is one of the flagship events of the summer season and it contributes to making Montreal one of the largest cultural metropolises in the world, by focusing on varied artistic expressions accessible to the public on outdoor stages.
“The Just for Laughs Festival is a cultural event that enjoys great notoriety on the world stage. All the big names in Quebec humor have performed there, and new artists in the profession dream of taking part. It is this festival that allowed us to discover and appreciate comedians from other countries, who for their part fell in love with Quebec by first discovering our metropolis, ”said Minister Lisée.
“A major event in our cultural life, this festival embodies our joie de vivre, as well as our legendary sense of humor. It also contributes to the influence and positioning of Montreal as one of the largest cultural cities in the world, ”said Minister Kotto.
“It is with great pleasure that the Government of Quebec is associated with the Just for Laughs Festival, an international event that helps make our destination attractive. Humor has been an integral part of our cultural and tourist offer for several years. We are therefore very proud to contribute to the fame of this event, which highlights our uniqueness and our dynamism, ”Minister Bérubé said.
The contribution from the Government of Quebec is broken down as follows: $ 500,000 comes from the Metropolis Initiative and Outreach Fund, administered by the Secrétariat à la région métropolitaine, $ 270,000 from the Assistance for the distribution of variety programs the Cultural Business Development Corporation and $ 1,165,000 from the Tourism Industry Development Program - Financial assistance for festivals and events from Tourisme Québec, i.e. $ 1,000,000 for the organization of the event and additional assistance from $ 165,000 for the development of an innovative and distinctive project.
