Quebec - The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, announce the tabling of the bill concerning the Inspector General of the City of Montreal. This bill, drawn up in collaboration with the City of Montreal, provides for the creation of the function of Inspector General of the City of Montreal while defining its status, mandate and powers.
“Integrity is one of the pillars of our government&#39;s action and the bill I am presenting today aims to prevent corruption and collusion. The inspector general would be endowed with powers unprecedented in the municipal system. This is a unique case in response to the unique situation that prevails in Montreal, ”said Minister Gaudreault.
The mandate of the Inspector General would be to supervise the awarding and execution of contracts for the City and the organizations related to it, to recommend to the council measures to prevent breaches of integrity, to promote compliance with the provisions. legal requirements and the requirements of the City in contractual matters as well as to train elected officials, civil servants and employees of the City.
Compared to the Auditor General, whose audit mandate is carried out through periodic activities, the Inspector General would constantly monitor the awarding and execution of contracts. To this end, he would have increased powers that neither the City&#39;s Comptroller General nor the City&#39;s Auditor General have. In fact, he would have in particular a right of access to third parties to examine documents, make copies of them, and to request information.
He would have the right to use any computer there and to request any assistance in accessing its content. Failure to respond to his requests, or harm him, would be an offense punishable by a fine. The Inspector General could also cancel any contracting process of the City or a related organization or terminate any contract entered into by them or even suspend their execution. However, in accordance with the principle of accountability of elected officials of the City and heads of organizations, the latter could overrule a decision of the Inspector General.
“Once again, with this strong gesture, our government is acting quickly to meet the needs of the City of Montreal. The post of Inspector General comes in addition to other measures, such as the integration of the Municipal Integrity Protection Squad (EPIM) into UPAC. In the end, these actions not only help strengthen the confidence of Montrealers, but also that of the entire population of Quebec, ”concluded Minister Lisée.
