Quebec - In the wake of the debate surrounding censorship at the recent Gala Les Olivier, Agnès Maltais, Member of Parliament for Taschereau and Parti Québécois spokesperson on secularism, calls for the withdrawal of Bill 59 on hate speech. The Parti Québécois considers that this bill would have a harmful effect on freedom of expression in our democracy.
“Bill 59 was brought back to the fore with the censorship saga at the recent Les Olivier Gala. It is a bitter taste of the fate reserved for public debate if it were adopted. This bill will impose a climate of self-censorship even greater and harmful than the current situation, a police regime of thought where anyone will be constantly liable to be prosecuted by self-proclaimed defenders of political correctness ” , said the member for Taschereau.
Indeed, the bill will open the door to an extreme judicialization of public debate. Any person or organization may, in complete confidentiality and even if they are not directly targeted by the comments, contact the Commission des droits de la personne et des droits de la jeunesse (CDPDJ) by filing a complaint to initiate an investigation of the author of a speech. A complaint may even be filed before the speech is held. This complaint may target anyone who allows a disturbing speech to be held, including the owner of a performance hall, as Minister Vallée clarified in a parliamentary committee.
&quot;This judicialization of the debate would occur even though the deadlines for processing complaints and investigating the CDPDJ extend over more than a year, and the financial resources of the organization do not allow it to commit the resources. to deal with an increase in complaints that will result from the adoption of Bill 59. It&#39;s ridiculous, ”said Agnès Maltais.
“Defamation laws and the Criminal Code are sufficient to counter hate speech and to regulate public discourse. According to the Parti Québécois, it is freedom of expression itself, by making it possible to argue, debate, counter and rule out hate speech, which remains the solution, and not censorship and dissuasive fines. We are therefore asking for the withdrawal of Bill 59, ”concluded the Member for Taschereau.
