Chibougamau– The deputy for Ungava, Mr. Luc Ferland, on behalf of the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, and on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb , announced a major investment to improve the tourist offer in the Eeyou Istchee / Baie-James region.
Financial assistance of $ 1,886,999 is granted to support three profitable projects for the region&#39;s tourism industry: the Capissisit Lodge inn, the Waswanipi Sibi Lodge hotel and the Incoming Travel Agency (DMC).
“I am delighted that our government is joining forces with those of partners in the Eeyou Istchee / Baie-James region. The financial support announced today will, among other things, contribute to the economic and tourist development of the regions north of the 49th parallel. They will also improve the quality of accommodation, an essential element in the development of an international Nordic destination, ”said Ungava MP Luc Ferland.
“I am very happy to support these projects which will improve the tourist offer and the development of such a grandiose territory, concealing an exceptional tourist potential. I also salute the mobilization and dynamism of all business people as well as economic stakeholders in the region, ”added Minister Bérubé.
“The Accord niches of excellence, created in 2002 by a government of the Parti Québécois, have been crucial in the development of the regions, by leveraging their specific assets and by promoting the mobilization of economic players,” recalled Ms. Élaine Zakaïb. &quot;I am proud that we can thus contribute to the economic diversification of the Eeyou Istchee / Baie-James region&quot;.
“It is with pride that Tourisme Eeyou Istchee emphasizes teamwork with its partners and makes consultation between the various tourism development players essential. This allows us to have a common vision for the development of sustainable tourism of international caliber for our region. These announcements therefore show that these joint efforts have been beneficial for Eeyou Istchee / Baie-James, making us all the more proud and encouraging us to continue in this direction ”, added the president of Tourisme Eeyou Istchee, Mr. Raymond Blackned. .
“It is with pleasure that I welcome this announcement of Tourisme Québec&#39;s financial participation in these three tourism projects which are very important for our Eeyou Istchee / Baie-James region. The tourism strategy north of the 49th parallel, which for our region is accompanied by a niche of excellence in tourism within the framework of the ACCORD approach, is an unprecedented opportunity for the tourism development of our beautiful region. The announcement of these new tourism projects is part of a process of economic diversification and permanent benefits for our northern region, ”concluded the president of Tourisme Baie-James, Mr. Luc Letendre.
For her part, the Minister for Native Affairs welcomed these announcements: &quot;We can only rejoice in front of these structuring projects which will not only contribute to the economic development of Nord-du-Québec, but also to the influence of Native cultures&quot;, she indicated.
Through the Tourism Industry Development Program - Tourism Development Assistance North of the 49th Parallel, Tourisme Québec is investing $ 1,320,000 in the completion of the project to expand and renovate the Auberge Capissisit Lodge in Oujé-Bougoumou. These investments will make it possible to meet the current business clientele.
Support of $ 349,999 is allocated to the Waswanipi Sibi Lodge hotel for the construction of a three-star hotel with 20 rooms. Tourisme Québec is injecting $ 250,000 through the Tourism Industry Development Program - Tourism Development Assistance North of the 49th Parallel, while $ 99,999 is allocated under the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement (EPRT ) by Eeyou Istchee. The only hotel in the community, the property will have meeting rooms and business services.
Finally, financial assistance of $ 217,000, to support the creation of a receptive travel agency, was granted to the Cree Outfitter and Tourism Association. The objective of this agency is to contribute to the increase of the international clientele in the territory of Eeyou Istchee / Baie-James by developing partnerships, creating new packages and improving conditions of access to the territory. An amount of $ 62,000 comes from the Tourism Industry Development Program - Tourism development assistance north of the 49th parallel and an amount of $ 155,000 comes from the Support Program for the Development of Strategic Sectors and Niche Markets. excellence (PADS) of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy.
Remember that the Québec Tourism Strategy north of the 49th parallel is one of the measures of the 2012-2020 Tourism Industry Development Plan. This aims to develop world-class tourism north of the 49th parallel and relates to the development of infrastructure, attractions and distinctive tourism products, training and human resource management, promotion and marketing. and the need to act in partnership.
As for the EPRT of Eeyou Istchee, its aim is to associate local, regional and government partners in the achievement of regional priorities for the development of the tourist offer in order to maximize the contribution of this industry to the economy. The financial partners are Tourisme Québec, Tourisme Eeyou Istchee, the Cree Regional Authority and the Société de développement de la Baie-James.
Finally, PADS supports the implementation of strategies for the development of niches of excellence within the framework of the ACCORD approach (Concerted action for regional development cooperation).
