Quebec - As part of the ACCORD Capitale-Nationale process (Concerted action for regional development cooperation), the Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale region, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the mayor of Quebec, Mr. Régis Labeaume, announce their financial support for the establishment of a research platform in the field of the biological manufacture of vaccines and other treatments. The project, whose costs are estimated at $ 670,000, benefits from funding of $ 215,000 from the Bureau de la Capitale-Nationale and the Ministry of Finance and the Economy and $ 200,000 from the City of Quebec. The participating companies, Medicago and Folia Biotech, will invest $ 255,000.
This research platform, known as BioProduction21, will be based on a technology developed by Medicago and will be carried out in collaboration with the company Folia Biotech and the Center for Infectious Disease Research at Laval University. This technology is based on the use of plants to produce different varieties of proteins useful in the development of vaccines and other technologies or applications, such as therapeutic proteins and diagnostic solutions. The economic development agency, Québec International, is responsible for managing the financial assistance.
“I am proud to be able to say that the Parti Québécois government is respecting its commitments and investing in research and innovation in the Capitale-Nationale. This R&amp;D synergy will strengthen the region&#39;s scientific and industrial leadership in bioproduction at the international level. It is important to remember that this strategic positioning of the region in this area is the result of structuring decisions taken more than ten years ago. The biomedicines market alone is expected to represent more than $ 182.5 billion by 2015. In addition, this initiative will serve to attract more providers of technology solutions and applications as well as business partners for the region ” , said Ms. Maltais.
“This project illustrates the spirit of innovation, dynamism and confidence that drive Quebec&#39;s entrepreneurial community. Through our Economic Development Strategy, launched in December 2011, we are pleased to be able to support the BioProduction21 project. We will thus promote the creation of quality jobs, the strengthening of leading-edge exportable expertise and the positioning of Québec within the global elite of innovative cities, ”concluded Mr. Labeaume.
The ACCORD approach aims to boost the economy of the regions of Quebec. Its goal is to position the regions of Quebec as centers of particular industrial skills recognized around the world. This approach is based on regional strengths as well as on the mobilization and dynamism of business people in the region.
The niche of excellence in life sciences will contribute to the development of businesses and the sector by relying on the convergence and integration of technologies aimed at accelerating development and maximizing the commercialization of health and wellness products and services. -to be. The key sectors in this niche are diagnostics and vaccines, cosmeceuticals and telehealth.
