Quebec - The Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to announce the allocation of $ 33,000 in financial assistance to the Association des microbrasseries du Québec (AMBQ) for the organization and holding of its annual conference which is currently taking place at the Center Mont-Royal in Montreal. This is a unique opportunity to bring together all the players in the brewing industry and their partners, in a context that encourages professional meetings and discussions, and thus to strengthen the ties that unite them.
“This is a unifying activity that greatly contributes to improving know-how and increasing knowledge and skills in our microbreweries. It is also a great way to achieve the objectives of the strategic development plan for the brewing industry, which also fits in with the orientations of the Food Sovereignty Policy. A must-attend event for all those working in this environment, the AMBQ&#39;s annual convention is a major training and stimulating tool that we must proudly support ”, mentioned Mr. François Gendron. .
Speakers, both from Quebec and abroad, are participating in the annual conference this year. They will discuss different facets of the business and many aspects of how a brewing business operates. Everything is done to maximize knowledge transfer and networking with these guests or with the establishments they represent. In addition, the AMBQ is organizing on this occasion the “Supplier Fair” which serves as a forum for microbrewers and suppliers of products, services and expertise and which aims to consolidate or develop relationships of &#39;business.
The AMBQ was created in 1990. Its mission is to bring together Quebec microbreweries and it ensures the promotion and defense of their common interests. The Association has 33 brewing companies among its members. These provide employment to more than 800 people in Quebec.
It should be remembered that with investments of $ 2.3 billion and an annual food demand of nearly $ 34 billion supporting 475,000 jobs, the biofood industry is a powerful engine of the Quebec economy.
For more information on the Government of Quebec&#39;s Food Sovereignty Policy, you can visit the blog www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca dedicated to it or go to the pagewww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSAd on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
