Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Bank of Economic Development of Quebec, Élaine Zakaïb, confirmed the allocation of financial support totaling more than $ 50 million to Le Groupe ALDO, in order to support the completion of an investment project of $ 363 million. The company will transform its technological infrastructures in order to take the digital turn. The ALDO Group plans to create a minimum of 400 jobs at its head office in Montreal over the next five years.
“My government is proud to contribute to the growth of a Quebec flagship and world leader in the fashion industry. Our financial support for the realization of the company&#39;s project The ALDO Group will create several hundred quality jobs in Quebec by focusing on cutting-edge technologies, in addition to helping to promote Quebec creativity and know-how. worldwide. The creation of sustainable jobs and the increase in private investment are the very foundations of our Priority Jobs economic policy, ”said Pauline Marois.
Government assistance consists of a loan of $ 40 million, a non-repayable contribution of $ 10 million and a grant of over $ 2 million for the deployment of a workforce training plan. &#39;artwork.
“Since its inception more than 40 years ago, the ALDO Group has shown itself first and foremost to be a visionary,” declared Nicolas Marceau. Once again, the company demonstrates it by innovating and adapting its business activities to the global context. To increase Québec&#39;s competitiveness, our government supports structuring, innovative and wealth-creating projects, such as the one presented by the company today. &quot;
The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, confirmed the award financial support totaling more than $ 50 million to Le Groupe ALDO, in order to support the implementation of an investment project of $ 363 million. // (c) Mélanie Malenfant (source)
