Montmagny - The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, confirmed this morning, in front of representatives of the agricultural community of Montmagny, that the Financial Support Program for Exhibitions (PAFEA) was renewed for the year 2013-2014.
“For consumers, agricultural shows are a great way to connect directly with producers. Also, if the consumer likes a product, they will want to put it in their grocery cart afterwards. Quebec products are therefore highlighted and this fits perfectly with the objectives of the Food Sovereignty Policy that we have just unveiled, ”said the Minister, also indicating that the government was already working to maintain the Program for a longer period. period.
The PAFEA provides support for agricultural exhibitions to carry out activities related to the promotion of Quebec agriculture and agri-food, the next generation of farmers, the promotion of regional products and public awareness of different aspects of the agri-food sector. . The Program supports 32 agricultural exhibitions in 12 regions of Quebec by making available, for 2013-2014, a total sum of $ 1,760,000. It should be noted that agricultural exhibitions welcome nearly a million visitors each summer and that their annual economic spinoffs are estimated at over $ 61 million.
Mr. François Gendron also took the opportunity to congratulate the Société d&#39;Agriculture du Comté de Montmagny which obtained the mandate to organize for the first time the Quebec final of animal judgments, which will be presented during the &#39;&#39; Agricultural exhibition in Montmagny from August 16 to 25, 2013.
“A new page is being written with this new Quebec final. This is great news for the region, which is working hard to organize a quality agricultural exhibition. By obtaining the Quebec animal judgment final, it is a mark of recognition for all the artisans who ensure the success of this event year after year ”concluded Minister Gendron.
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food ( www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
