Quebec - The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, the Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions, Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Mrs. Agnès Maltais, and the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, announce the allocation of financial assistance of $ 71,000 for the holding of the 10th Snow Pentathlon.
Taking place from February 22 to March 8, 2014 on the Plains of Abraham, this unique competition is the largest winter multisport event in the world according to the International Triathlon Union (ITU). On the program for amateurs: cycling, running, cross-country skiing, skating and snowshoeing.
“Thanks to the expertise of the organizers, the Pentathlon des neiges is now one of the unmissable events in Quebec for winter sports enthusiasts. I am convinced that the enthusiasm generated by this multisport event will continue and that it will continue to encourage young and old to move and keep in shape, ”Minister Malavoy said.
To mark its 10th anniversary, the Pentathlon presents a world first, the Quebec ITU Winter Triathlon. This elite 25 km snowshoe, speed skating and cross-country skiing race will close the event on March 8. Several world-famous athletes have confirmed their presence and will try to claim victory.
“The national capital is delighted to be the host of the 10th Snow Pentathlon, which this year presents a first, the Winter Triathlon. This competition will certainly help attract new visitors who will come to appreciate the northern charms of Quebec. I also invite athletes and spectators to take advantage of their stay to discover the many assets of our magnificent region ”, underlined Minister Maltais.
“The Government of Quebec is pleased to support this event, which aims to strengthen the positioning of Quebec City as a global winter destination. Quebec tends to stand out with its structured tourist offer, which offers ever more original and diversified experiences. In this sense, the Pentathlon des neiges, which already enjoys great renown, is succeeding in renewing itself and contributing to Québec&#39;s international influence, ”declared Minister Bérubé.
Note that the financial assistance announced today comes from the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport ($ 28,000), the Secrétariat à la Capitale-Nationale ($ 25,000) and Tourisme Québec ($ 18,000). .
