Quebec - The Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, announced today that she accepts Hydro-Quebec&#39;s recommendation regarding the closure of the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant. This recommendation emanates from the evaluation report, produced by the crown corporation and made public today, on the costs of refurbishing the nuclear power plant.
“This report shows that the refurbishment of the Gentilly-2 power station is not an economically profitable solution for Quebecers. We need to learn the right lessons from the additional costs incurred in the refurbishment of the twin plant at Point Lepreau in New Brunswick, the sale of Atomic Energy of Canada Limited and the Fukushima nuclear disaster. In addition, we must consider that we have a surplus of electrical energy, ”indicated the Minister.
The decommissioning and dismantling stages will be carried out in order, rigor and, above all, with the greatest concern for the safety of workers and citizens. The Crown corporation will also call on Gentilly personnel to carry out these highly complex operations. In addition, the population will be informed of all the stages of this exercise. Hydro-Québec, for its part, will be available to provide information.
The Minister made it clear that she is wholeheartedly with the employees of the plant and their families. Thus, it obtained the assurance that the Crown corporation will use the expertise of people already in place at the plant by involving them in decommissioning activities. Eligible employees will also be able to retire and permanent employees will be reassigned to other functions within the Crown corporation.
“For the future of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, we have provided significant economic leverage, namely a diversification fund worth $ 200 million. This fund will make it possible to carry out promising projects which will give new life to the region. Our government is listening to your concerns. We know that the region has all the assets necessary to succeed. I appeal to our strengths, our creativity, our spirit of innovation and our ingenuity, to the knowledge of our academics and to the determination everyone to make this new start a success, ”concluded Minister Ouellet.
For more information on the fund, the plan and the Economic Diversification Table of Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
Consult the press releases issued by the Parti Québécois government concerning Gentilly-2
The Parti Québécois demands an apology from the Liberal Party of Quebec for lying about Gentilly-2: Watch the press conference by Luc Trudel and Noëlla Champagne.
