Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Maka Kotto, and the Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale region and the Chaudière-Appalaches region, Ms. Agnès Maltais, took part today in the ceremony marking the assumption of responsibility for the heritage of the Augustines of Quebec by the Cultural Heritage Trust of the Augustines. This ceremony took place in the presence of representatives of the Augustines of the Hôtel-Dieu of Quebec and of the other monasteries of Quebec.
“The symbolic gesture made today by the Augustines formalizes the transfer, to a social utility trust that they created, of an exceptional heritage. On behalf of all Quebecers, I would like to thank this community of admirable women for this invaluable gift, for everything they have done for us and what they continue to accomplish today in their various places of engagement. What is given to the community by the Augustinians represents a legacy of incomparable scope in the history of our heritage, ”declared the Premier.
&quot;I express my gratitude to all the people who work hard to share the Augustinian heritage and who make its conservation a unique project in the world, based on the reappropriation of heritage, the democratization of culture and the transmission of knowledge. . I greet with admiration the Augustinians, these women of vision who, by offering us their shared heritage, demonstrate to what extent they are aware of the importance of delivering their teachings to future generations, ”added Minister Kotto.
“The Augustines are making a historic gesture, and I thank them for sharing with us the magnificent convent complex they have occupied since the time of New France. When the restoration of the Augustinian monastery of the Hôtel Dieu de Québec is completed, people from the National Capital region and visitors from all over will be able to discover, to their greatest happiness, spaces of commemoration, culture and sharing. », Underlined Minister Maltais.
To ensure the permanence of the attachment of their heritage to its origins, the Augustines of the Hôtel-Dieu de Québec cede their lands and buildings to a social utility trust, the Augustine Cultural Heritage Trust. The latter will administer the cultural heritage of the community and make it accessible to the public. Also, the 12 monasteries will entrust their collections and archives to this trust to ensure their conservation and enhancement.
It should be remembered that the governments financially supported the realization of this project. The total cost is estimated at $ 36 million, and the Government of Quebec has paid $ 15 million for the establishment of this innovative complex, while the contribution of the City of Quebec is $ 6 million. For its part, the federal government has allocated $ 15 million for the realization of the museological component, among other things.
