Quebec - The Minister responsible for Government Administration and Chairman of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, is proud to announce the adoption of the Directive on the management of major public infrastructure projects. The new directive, which is published today in the Official Gazette, establishes a rigorous process for the management of major projects, in order to make the right investment choices and to acquire quality infrastructure, while respecting the planned budgets. .
The Directive follows on from the government&#39;s commitments, for more than a year, to ensure better planning of public infrastructure spending. It replaces the Framework Policy on the Governance of Major Public Infrastructure Projects.
“Our government is taking yet another step in favor of transparency, rigor and sound management of public finances. From now on, the choice of carrying out any $ 50 million infrastructure project will be subject to a prior decision by the Council of Ministers, based on a detailed case file. Checkpoints will be established at each critical stage in the progress of the project. Any modification with regard to the total cost or the initial schedule of the project must be authorized in advance by the Council of Ministers ”, declared Minister Bédard.
These new measures will allow the government to have all the information necessary to agree on the relevance of a major project, and to ensure that all the required actions, from the start of the project to its closure, have been planned. and completed.
Investment choices and the management of major projects will henceforth be subject to impartial control and planning rules, for the sake of transparency and accountability to the population and elected officials. Departments and agencies will have to prioritize their needs, within the budget allocated to them, and select the most promising projects for the socio-economic development of Quebec.
“The review of our practices marks a break with the mismanagement of public infrastructure under the former government. Our government is continuing its momentum by establishing rules that will allow us to make the best choices for the future of Quebec, ”concluded Minister Bédard.
The new Directive can be consulted on the website of the Secrétariat du Conseil du trésor at www.tresor.gouv.qc.ca.
