Montreal - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Jean-François Lisée, announce financial assistance of $ 202,000 at the International Festival of Films on Art (FIFA), which will hold its 32nd edition from March 20 to 30, in Montreal.
“Audacity, avant-garde, discovery ... The International Festival of Films on Art is an invitation to open these doors of our imagination that we usually leave closed. The films presented there destabilize us, surprise us, sometimes fill us with admiration, sometimes with perplexity, always with fascination in the face of the act of creation. Once again, this is proof of the cultural diversity and openness shown by Quebec, ”said Minister Kotto.
“The International Festival of Films on Art has conquered the world by presenting, for more than thirty years, a selection of original and impactful cinematographic productions. This annual meeting, where the diversity of creative practices from the four corners of the globe is celebrated, showcases the talent of local artists, in addition to contributing to the cultural influence of our metropolis on an international scale. ”, Underlined Minister Lisée.
The Corporation for the Development of Cultural Enterprises (SODEC) grants an amount of $ 92,000 through the Promotion and Distribution Assistance Program (component 4 - Assistance to film festivals). To this contribution is added $ 50,000 from the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications, as well as $ 60,000 from the Metropolis Initiative and Outreach Fund of the Metropolitan Region Secretariat.
SODEC reports to the Minister of Culture and Communications. It supports the production and dissemination of Quebec culture in the field of cultural industries. Since 1995, SODEC has resolutely pursued its mission of promoting and supporting the establishment and development of cultural businesses, including the media, in all regions of Quebec.
Attached to the Minister of the Executive Council, the Secretariat advises the Government of Quebec on any issue or measure having a significant impact on the Montreal metropolitan region and its development. It provides the secretariat for the Ministerial Committee of the metropolitan region, chaired by Minister Jean-François Lisée. The Secretariat acts in concert with its various partners in order to promote the coherence and convergence of all interventions, as well as the growth and dynamism of the metropolitan region.
