Quebec - Following the broadcast of La Facture last week, the official opposition was surprised to learn that the government has finally heard reason and that it will act on the contentious issue of access to plans of water.
“It&#39;s still astonishing to hear the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Pierre Moreau, say that he is going to take action. Barely three weeks ago, his own political party as well as the CAQ rejected our proposal to follow up the petition of more than 7,000 signatories asking for better access to Quebec&#39;s water bodies. Are we to understand that we must now go through La Facture for the government to hear reason? Asked the member for Jonquière and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in municipal affairs, Sylvain Gaudreault.
The report clearly demonstrated that the government&#39;s laxity has reached its limits. We learned that non-resident citizens must pay sums of up to $ 600 in order to have access to a body of water, if only for one day. This situation can not continue. In parliamentary committee, the member for Labelle and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of sports and recreation, Sylvain Pagé, pleaded the cause of the citizens. “Water bodies are public spaces and not private. As such, the government has a duty to ensure that access management is fair for all Quebecers, ”he declared.
The Parti Québécois also wants Minister Pierre Moreau to call on the federal government to simplify the cumbersome process that allows municipalities to regulate against public nuisances on their bodies of water. Remember that the municipality of Saint-Adolphe-d&#39;Howard was rejected in the Supreme Court about ten years ago because water bodies, even in Quebec territory, come under federal jurisdiction. Recently, an agreement was reached between Quebec and Ottawa to allow municipalities to legislate, but many of them are discouraged by the municipal, national and federal administrative mazes. “It&#39;s obvious: the process would be much simpler and more efficient if Quebec had all of its powers. This is another concrete reason for making Quebec a country, ”concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
