Quebec - The Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation, Bernard Drainville, today presented to the National Assembly Bill 2, An Act to amend the Election Act in order to limit contributions to $ 100 per voter and to revise public funding of political parties.
“By tabling this bill, we want to re-establish the bond of trust that must unite Quebecers and their elected representatives in the National Assembly. The revelations of recent years and those brought to light by the Charbonneau commission in recent weeks have tarnished Quebec&#39;s reputation, they have undermined our democracy, ”declared the Minister.
“The collective interest must take precedence over individual interests. As elected officials, we have a duty to work to strengthen our democracy. Our citizens expect us to act diligently and firmly. Limiting contributions to political parties to $ 100 will put an end to influence peddling and the use of nominees, ”continued Bernard Drainville.
“Quebecers want us to fight corruption and collusion. They want us to bring integrity back to our democracy. We are committed to it, we will keep our word, ”added Bernard Drainville.
In order to make the financing of political parties essentially public, at zero cost for taxpayers, the bill proposes the following changes in particular:
“Our government is committed to a merciless fight against corruption and collusion, and to fighting cynicism. Our proposal will give Quebec one of the most rigorous and honest funding systems for political parties in the world, said the Minister. By tabling this bill and Bill 1, we are undertaking the cleaning up of our institutions. &quot;
Finally, Mr. Drainville invites all his colleagues in the National Assembly to collaborate in the adoption of the bill in order to establish a political financing system that will meet the expectations of the people of Quebec. “It is in the interest of Quebec that this bill be adopted as quickly as possible. Partisan interests must be left out. Unduly delaying the adoption of measures aimed at regaining the confidence of the population would be judged harshly, and rightly so, by the latter. &quot;
