Quebec - The Parti Québécois family spokesperson, Sylvain Pagé, deplores the fact that the Liberal government, after having reneged on its electoral promise by increasing the prices of childcare centers to 174%, is now destroying the network of childcare centers. educational childcare services in Quebec, and that the Minister of Families, Francine Charbonneau, does not even realize it.
&quot;While doctors will receive $ 800 million more than expected, we took $ 74 million from daycares last year, and we will deprive them of another $ 120 million next year. According to network spokespersons, these cuts could amount to a total of $ 320 million. The government&#39;s message is clear: parents must pay more for less service, ”said Sylvain Pagé.
In addition, the Minister of Families has never revealed her intention to cut the hours of educators by 16%. However, these cuts will have a direct impact on the quality of services and may lead to job losses and even plant closures, a bad scenario that the Minister, moreover, is unable to rule out. “The Liberals are doing a simplistic accounting operation, with no regard for the quality of service. However, quality should be at the heart of our concerns! », Sylvain Pagé continued.
Meanwhile, several questions remain as to the factors that could explain the low costs of the “efficient third party”. &quot;Is it the location factor?&quot; Or the parents&#39; hours? Or rather the social environment? Are these old installations almost paid for? Have the land been donated by municipalities happy to see a daycare setting up in their homes? We have no response from the Minister, ”added the MP.
This morning, in the National Assembly, in an unprecedented mobilization, the four national associations came to denounce with one voice the cuts imposed by the Liberals on the network of childcare services. They indicated that they were not listening to the Minister for Families, that the discussion is one-sided. &quot; It&#39;s not complicated; the associations are ready to discuss, but they want the minister to take the time to listen to them. This must guarantee equal opportunities for all children in Quebec. It is time for the Minister to realize that she is destroying this magnificent network, whose primary mission is to prepare the future of our children, ”the spokesperson concluded.
