Québec, August 25, 2016 - The member for Taschereau and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois for the Capitale-Nationale region, Agnès Maltais, as well as the member for Vachon and spokesperson for transport, Martine Ouellet, asked the Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale region, François Blais, and his colleague Minister of Transport, Laurent Lessard, to make public the redevelopment plan for the bridgehead sector as quickly as possible.
“In April 2015, the project, valued at around $ 500 million, was supposedly ready to be unveiled to the public. However, the population is still waiting. Today, in the news, we wonder about the future of the Sainte-Foy train station; Are we going to tackle each element of this large ensemble that constitutes the bridgehead sector separately? Haven&#39;t we decided anything yet? There are many questions and the people of Quebec and Lévis are waiting for answers. Minister Blais must, for once, show leadership and meet the many expectations of citizens, ”said Agnès Maltais.
“Recently the new Minister of Transport - the third! - met with the mayor of Quebec, and we know that this issue was discussed. Can we have more details? The redevelopment of this key sector is a file of great importance for the capital, and the process must be carried out in full transparency, ”added the Member for Taschereau.
“Laurent Lessard, unfortunately, displays his usual nonchalance since taking office as Minister of Transport. Imagine: he is not even embarrassed to say that he has no opinion on UberX&#39;s illegal activities, and he considers that a cleanup at the MTQ is not necessary, despite all the denunciations of UberX. intimidation and conflict of interest, despite all the setbacks its senior leaders have experienced since last spring, despite the crisis of confidence. We are asking him to get his act together and ensure that his government quickly unveils to the population the plan and the timetable it is considering to revitalize the bridgehead sector, ”concluded Martine Ouellet.
