Saint-Eustache - On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the MNA for Deux-Montagnes, Daniel Goyer, announces the allocation of a grant of $ 959,000 for the restoration of the Chénier-Sauvé house.
“The Chénier-Sauvé house is part of the old core of Saint-Eustache, and this restoration will give it back its luster. It represents a heritage interest for its architectural value, but also for its historical value since it is associated with the many politicians who inhabited it until the 1980s. It is essential to maintain these heritage assets which are landmarks of our history and preserve them for the benefit of future generations, ”says Maka Kotto.
The financial contribution will allow restoration work to be carried out on the exterior envelope of the Chénier-Sauvé house. This wooden house is representative of the bourgeois residences built at the end of the 19th century, by its exterior ornamentation details among others.
“This action to protect and enhance the heritage is in addition to the cultural dynamism that reigns in the city of Saint-Eustache. The perseverance and will of elected municipal officials ensure that today the built heritage can faithfully reflect the face and memory of the past. Let us mention the Globensky mansion, the Légaré mill and the church of Saint-Eustache, which are eloquent examples of protected heritage buildings in the region, ”said Daniel Goyer.
In 2001, the Fondation Maison et Jardins Chénier-Sauvé, a non-profit organization, acquired this heritage gem. In 2006, the City of Saint-Eustache acquired the house and gardens and entrusted the foundation with organizing various activities there, in addition to allowing cohabitation with various cultural and community organizations. Thanks to today&#39;s announcement, the Chénier-Sauvé house can be restored in accordance with the objectives of the Quebec Cultural Heritage Fund as well as the Capital Assistance program of the Ministry of Culture and Communications.
The Department&#39;s financial support of $ 959,000 comes from the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. Additional information about this property cited by the municipality in 2007 and benefiting from a status under the Cultural Heritage Act is available on the website of the Quebec Cultural Heritage Directory (RPCQ), atwww. Patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca.
New tools for disseminating cultural heritage have been added to the RPCQ, making it possible to discover all of its richness and diversity, by making it accessible to all. In fact, part of the content of the RPCQ can now be found on the Quebec government&#39;s open data portal, at www.data.gouv.qc.ca, as well as on the social network Pinterest, in the form of virtual exhibitions, at www.data.gouv.qc.ca .pinterest.com / rpcq.
Online training is also available at www.formation-patrimoine.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. Composed of video capsules and learning activities, it presents the basic concepts of the Cultural Heritage Act and explains the roles and responsibilities of each to promote the knowledge, protection, enhancement and transmission of Cultural Heritage.
