La Malbaie - The Premier of Quebec and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix – Côte-de-Beaupré, Pauline Marois, announces an investment of $ 496,000 at Cégep de Jonquière, for the transformation of the multipurpose room of the Center d&#39;études collégiales in Charlevoix ( CECC), a constituent of Cégep de Jonquière.
“Giving priority to accessibility to higher education throughout Quebec remains essential for my government. Education is a great asset: it allows citizens to invest more in the development of their community. The Center d&#39;études collégiales is therefore an important player in social and economic development for the Charlevoix region, ”said the Premier.
The new multi-purpose hall of the CECC will provide students with a small performance hall, a cafeteria and a student café. This work is part of an upgrade of the CECC facilities.
“In our knowledge-based society, it is essential that all Quebecers have the opportunity to pursue their talents and ambitions to the end. To do this, students must benefit from training incentives and an environment conducive to studies and personal development. This new multifunctional room will directly benefit the student population and will undoubtedly become a place of gathering, meetings and enriching exchanges ”, indicated the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology , Pierre Duchesne.
The CECC opened its doors almost 20 years ago thanks to people involved in their community, who wanted to endow their region with a higher education establishment.
For Guylaine Proulx, Executive Director of Cégep de Jonquière, “it is essential that young people and adults be able to have the choice to study in their region. Knowing the regional realities well, the Cégep de Jonquière is working to provide the Center d&#39;études collégiales en Charlevoix with adequate infrastructure to offer quality training and an attractive living environment for students. Ms. Proulx takes the opportunity to announce an additional financial contribution from Cégep de Jonquière of $ 200,000, which will be used to continue upgrading the CECC&#39;s facilities.
The CECC welcomes approximately 250 students each year. Since its opening, it has graduated more than 2,000 college students. This educational establishment offers high quality technical and continuing pre-university training. It also strives to provide training that meets local labor needs.
“The multipurpose hall will strengthen the feeling of belonging to the CECC and will surely interest more young people to study in the region. These transformations will testify to the desire to move forward and offer 21st century facilities to a population that now lives in the digital information age. Today, we are proud to say that the CECC, which has grown in clientele in recent years, has helped to improve training and education in the Charlevoix community, ”said CECC director Gina Pinet.
The Cégep de Jonquière receives annually from the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology an investment allocation of $ 3.4 million for the maintenance of all of its assets, including those of the CECC.
Given the magnitude of the cost of the planned transformation, an amount of $ 496,000 will be added to the investment allocation. It will allow the work associated with the multifunctional room of the CECC to be carried out properly.
At the end of the Higher Education Summit held in February 2013, five work sites were set up, including one on the offer of college training. By June 2014, recommendations will be made on the establishment of the college training offer in Quebec, the definition of regional training niches and the optimization of the continuing education offer. For more information on the projects resulting from the Summit, see www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca/le-sommet/chantiers-de-travail.
