Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, today presented the document of orientations and initiatives Solidarity: a wealth for Quebec, which incorporates an innovative vision of solidarity at the heart of all of the government action. Ms. Marois also announced the implementation of several structuring measures resulting from this vast plan.
For the occasion, the Premier was accompanied in particular by the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltais, the Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Diane De Courcy, the Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Véronique Hivon, the Minister for Families, Nicole Léger, and the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert.
“Quebec is an avant-garde nation that was built in a spirit of solidarity and mutual aid, in line with the values that led to the social gains of which we are proud today. To remain a leader in social policies, the Government of Quebec is putting forward an unprecedented vision of solidarity, both human and inclusive, which implies that all actions taken must be oriented in such a way as to ensure the well-being. to be Quebeckers, and to give everyone the opportunity to flourish and contribute to the development of the community. From now on, any project must be marked by the government&#39;s vision of solidarity, ”explained the Prime Minister.
Today, the Quebec government announced several new concrete measures stemming from the solidarity pillar. These represent investments of nearly 320 M $ additional by 2017. In total, 2.9 billion more in favor of solidarity will have been invested by the government between September 2012 and 2017.
The government&#39;s vision for the pillar of solidarities is based on its desire to increase the coherence and cohesion of its action. It revolves around a triple balance: between solidarity and prosperity, between solidarity and individual responsibility, and between current needs and those of future generations. From this triple balance emerge three orientations that will guide the strategic planning of departments and bodies for the development of future public policies:
The government has already committed nearly $ 2.6 billion since September 2012 for strategic initiatives in the area of solidarity. This desire to act for the benefit of people has resulted in the announcement of several flagship measures such as:
In addition, the government quickly mobilized to respond to the tragedy that struck the community of Lac-Mégantic by announcing an initial aid envelope of $ 60 million. This tragedy caused a feeling of devastation, but also demonstrated the great solidarity of Quebeckers.
Solidarity must be approached from a long-term perspective, while recognizing that the complexity of social problems requires comprehensive and integrated solutions. Thus, not only is the government putting in place important measures to intervene today, but it is also taking action to place its policies in a long-term perspective that takes into account the interdependence of social, economic, cultural and other factors. territorial.
“By implementing the solidarity pillar, we aim to make Quebec a society where justice, equity, equal opportunities and inclusion translate into a human vision of solidarity. The measures announced today constitute one more step towards that Quebec, and our government will continue on this path in order to place its action in a long-term perspective. We want to prepare for the future by strengthening our support and reiterating our vision of solidarity as an asset for Quebec, ”concluded the Premier.
See also the press release issued at the same time: The Quebec government announces an additional $ 320 million for the implementation of ambitious solidarity measures.
Visit the Parti Québécois blog and read Pauline Marois&#39; post: &quot;Solidarity: a wealth for Quebec&quot;
For more details on the document of orientations and initiatives for the solidarity pillar, consult the Internetwww.mess.gouv.qc.ca site.
