Quebec - On the eve of the tabling of the next federal budget, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister responsible for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier , wished to recall the main expectations of the Government of Quebec.
“The last federal budget had some nasty surprises in store for Quebecers. This year, we are first of all asking the federal government not to initiate new bickering and to avoid causing harm to the Quebec economy, ”declared the Minister of Finance and the Economy.
Nearly a year ago, the federal government announced a new infrastructure plan for the period 2014-2015 to 2023-2024. However, as the current plan expires on March 31, 2014, Quebec still has no news from the federal government when it sent it a draft agreement on October 23 regarding the new plan. Building Canada.
“We have been waiting for the details of the Building Canada Plan for almost a year. I reiterate that the approach proposed by Quebec, namely the payment of funds in the form of a &quot;block&quot; transfer, is the most effective approach and the most respectful of our areas of jurisdiction; by doing so, the negotiations would already be concluded and the projects would be ready to start this spring. We are also waiting for a clear signal so that Quebec finally gets its fair share in the merit funds of the new federal plan, ”said Minister Cloutier.
Regarding the new Canada Job Grant (CES), the Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs and Sovereignty Governance reminded everyone that Quebec has already notified the federal government and the provinces that it does not not participate in the federal approach and demand that the current Labor Market Agreement be renewed.
“This federal initiative, in addition to diverting $ 70 million per year intended for Quebec, constitutes an interference in our jurisdictions and jeopardizes programs which have achieved consensus and which give positive results. The federal government must respond positively to the unanimous motions of the National Assembly by granting Quebec a right of withdrawal with full compensation by renewing the current agreement, ”said Minister Cloutier.
In addition, Quebec is also demanding that all federal funds devoted to active employment measures targeting young people, older workers and disabled people in Quebec be transferred to it. Thus, it will be able to ensure an optimal intervention of the public employment services and adapted to the reality of the labor market in its territory. Quebec also sent a draft global agreement to the federal government on October 11.
Given the unilateral changes to the main federal transfers since 2008, the Government of Quebec has suffered significant losses and will face a considerable shortfall.
In fact, since 2009-2010, Quebec has had to deal with a loss of $ 8.7 billion in equalization due to the caps that have been imposed on the program and which no longer adequately compensate for the differences in fiscal capacity between the provinces.
In addition, the changes announced in 2011 to the Canada Health Transfer (CHT) will create a shortfall of $ 9.5 billion within ten years. “Moreover, according to estimates by the Office of the Parliamentary Budget Officer, the federal government will have a budget surplus mainly thanks to the changes it has made to the CHT, to the detriment of the provinces, which will have to deal with growing needs in health care and reduced federal funding. This situation will become critical, ”said Minister Marceau.
Consequently, Quebec asks the federal government to gradually reduce to 25% within ten years the share of its funding in provincial health spending and to distribute the CHT more equitably, taking into account the additional costs related to weight. demographic of people 65 and over in each province.
“Quebec also considers that the Canada Social Transfer (CST) is underfunded and that it must be increased in order to reach at least its 1994-1995 level, taking into account the cost of life. This underfunding represents a shortfall of $ 800 million per year. The CST should be distributed more equitably, taking into account the number of social assistance recipients, ”added Mr. Marceau.
The Minister for Intergovernmental Affairs and Sovereignty Governance recalled that labor-sponsored funds are an important economic development tool for Quebec, especially for SMEs. “The federal government must take into account the specific nature of the Quebec economy. Quebec therefore demands that Minister Flaherty reverse its decision to eliminate the tax credit on labor-sponsored funds and stop attacking the pillars of our economy, ”said Minister Cloutier.
Minister Marceau reiterated that the federal government must abandon its plan to set up a national securities commission and respect the jurisdictions of the provinces. “Each province has specific financial and economic needs and must retain the ability to intervene locally. The Government of Quebec is ready to collaborate with the other provinces on any improvement of the securities regulatory regime, insofar as this project will respect our jurisdiction and will not aim to centralize regulatory operations in Toronto ”, added declared Minister Marceau.
The Minister also reiterated his request to Minister Flaherty not to impose new measures in terms of mortgage rules which, while meeting the needs of certain markets such as Toronto and Vancouver, would harm the interests of the Quebec economy. “The federal government must be creative and must avoid pan-Canadian wall-to-wall policies. Our real estate market is currently in balance. A further tightening would seriously harm our economy, ”said Minister Marceau.
On October 18, 2013, Canada and the European Union announced that they had reached an agreement in principle as part of the negotiation of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement. The government of Quebec gave its support to this agreement in principle, but only after having obtained assurances from the federal government that it would obtain compensation for the increase in tariff quotas for cheese. In this regard, the Minister recalled that it is important that concrete and adequate measures be announced soon.
“The Softwood Lumber Agreement between Canada and the United States provides for a regional exemption mechanism that would allow Quebec exports to be exempt from taxes and export quotas. The new forestry regime, in force in Quebec since April 1, 2013 and geared towards the free market, could, in our opinion, justify such an exemption. However, Canada and the United States have not yet implemented the regional exemption mechanism. The Accord provides for the establishment of a working group on regional exemptions, in which Quebec must absolutely participate. Also, the regional exemption mechanism provided for in the Agreement must be implemented so that we can formally request an exemption from taxes and quotas. In doing so, Quebec exporters will be able to benefit from better access to the American market, ”the Minister indicated.
Quebec is also asking the federal government to fairly settle certain disputes, in particular the equitable treatment of dividends from Hydro-Québec, such as those from Hydro One, to the corporate tax base in the equalization program, as well as &#39;&#39; short-term resolution of the dispute over the income stabilization program.
