Quebec - The Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions, Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the Minister for Tourism , Mr. Pascal Bérubé, are pleased to announce the allocation of financial assistance of 45,000 dollars, to support the Envol et Macadam festival.
From September 5 to 7, the 18th Envol et Macadam festival offers a foray into the world of alternative music in order to enjoy original and diverse performances from here and elsewhere. In addition, the festival presents PlanetRox, an international musical competition whose objective is to introduce the best emerging groups from several countries.
“Boosting the urban district of Nouvo Saint-Roch, this unique event attracts artists whose reputation is well established, in addition to participating in the development of the next generation of music in our region. I congratulate the organizing committee, the musicians as well as all the participants, who made this cultural event a real success, ”said Minister Maltais.
“Envol et Macadam is an important event that is always eagerly awaited in the Quebec City region. Bringing together a young and dynamic audience, this distinctive event diversifies the region&#39;s tourist offer. Several lovers of alternative music will converge on Quebec City in the coming days in September, to attend performances by renowned artists, ”Minister Bérubé said.
The contribution from the Government of Quebec is distributed as follows: $ 20,000 comes from the Tourism Industry Development Program - Financial assistance for festivals and tourist events, from Tourisme Québec, and $ 25,000 comes from the Secrétariat à la Capitale -National.
Attached to the Minister of the Executive Council, the Secretariat advises the government and the minister responsible for the region, Ms. Agnès Maltais, on any question or measure having a significant impact on the region and its social, cultural, tourist and economic development. The Secretariat acts in consultation with its various governmental and regional partners, while financially supporting the realization of projects contributing to the development of the Capitale-Nationale, for a mobilized, innovative, festive and international region.
