Quebec - The Minister responsible for Government Administration and Chairman of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, is proud to unveil the Report on the implementation of the Integrity Act in Public Contracts, which was tabled today &#39;hui in the National Assembly. This report describes the tangible results of Law 1 and the contract authorization regime administered by the Autorité des marchés financiers (AMF).
“Since 2012, our government has taken the necessary measures to restore public confidence in its institutions. After more than 4,000 verifications carried out and 235 authorizations to contract issued by the AMF in one year, the process we have put in place is already having major repercussions on the integrity of companies wishing to do business with the State ”, declared Minister Bédard.
The report presents the results of all the measures taken by the government since the adoption of the Integrity Act. The measures aim to strengthen the conditions of integrity for companies wishing to do business with the State, and to increase the effectiveness, efficiency and consistency of the rules established by the Law on contracting by public bodies. The results obtained confirm that the rigorous and orderly implementation of the Integrity Act in public contracts is having the expected effects.
“We are already seeing a change in culture within companies. In addition, Bill 1, along with other measures adopted by our government to review its contractual practices, will allow us to effectively fight against collusion and corruption. This will undoubtedly lead to lower contract costs and savings for Quebecers, ”added Minister Bédard.
Remember that Law 1 was adopted on December 7, 2012. Under this law, companies wishing to do business with the State must meet the high standards of integrity that the public is entitled to expect. The law covers all public service or construction contracts and sub-contracts over $ 10 million granted by departments and agencies, as well as municipalities and government enterprises.
The report can be consulted on the website of the Secrétariat du Conseil du trésor, at www.tresor.gouv.qc.ca.
The measures provided for in the Integrity Act in public contracts have two main objectives, namely to strengthen the conditions of integrity for companies wishing to do business with the State and to strengthen the effectiveness, efficiency and consistency of the government. Law on contracting by public bodies.
The implementation of the authorization to contract regime is a major component of the fight against collusion and corruption in public contracts in Quebec. Its gradual implementation has made it possible to promote the harmonious implementation of this reform, which is already having the expected effects. This is a first step towards the subjugation of the great majority of State contractors.
The main observations that can be made following the first twelve months of application are as follows:
Thanks to the efforts of the partners, the implementation of the authorization system prior to obtaining a contract was carried out within the prescribed deadlines.
Since January 15, 2013, public service or construction contracts and sub-contracts and public-private partnership contracts with a value equal to or greater than $ 40 million have been reserved for companies having obtained an authorization from the Autorité des marchés financiers. financial markets (AMF) attesting to their integrity. As planned by the government, these tax liability thresholds were lowered to $ 10 million in the fall of 2013.
The partners of the contract authorization regime have put in place processes that have made it possible to carry out more than 4,000 verifications and to issue 235 authorizations to contract in the first year of application.
The failure of some companies to pass the contract authorization regime test resulted in the loss of public contracts as well as the inability to secure new public contracts and subcontracts of any value whatsoever for a period of time. their period of ineligibility.
The model adopted has enabled the rehabilitation of certain companies from which authorization to contract had been withdrawn or refused. In addition, some companies lose the opportunity to obtain public contracts by avoiding the AMF test. Still others voluntarily undertake the necessary actions in order to maintain their privilege of doing business on the public markets.
The entrenchment of the role of those responsible for observing contractual rules in the Act respecting contracting by public bodies reinforces the importance given to compliance with the normative framework, ethics and sound contractual management practices within organizations. subject.
The shift brought about by the attribution to the Conseil du trésor of certain authorization and orientation powers previously vested in the ministers responsible for the education and health and social services networks has taken place effectively within the new organizations. subject.
