Saint-Prime - On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the MNA for Roberval, Denis Trottier, today announced the allocation of financial assistance of $ 113,150 to the Corporation de la Vieille Fromagerie Perron de Saint-Prime, for the enhancement of the building housing the Cheddar Cheese Museum. The councilor, Gemma Lamontagne, representative of the mayor of Saint-Prime and prefect of the MRC du Domaine-du-Roy, Bernard Généreux, and the president of the board of directors of the Corporation, Carl Bouchard, participated in this press conference.
“There is no doubt that the municipality of Saint-Prime owes its fame, in large part, to the Perron family and their cheeses. The old cheese factory, transformed into a museum, will be fully enhanced in order to offer a place of sharing and discovery that will appeal to both history and heritage enthusiasts and lovers of good local cheeses ”, indicated the Minister Maka Kotto.
The Corporation of the old Perron cheese factory in Saint-Prime is the owner of the former Perron cheese factory, built in 1895. The building, listed in 1989, is one of the last examples of the many artisanal cheese dairies established in rural areas at that time. . With the financial support of the Ministry of Culture and Communications, the Corporation has been engaged since 1989 in an interior and exterior restoration program which has enabled the installation of the current museum dedicated to the history of the cheese industry of yesterday to today.
&quot;This investment, in addition to consolidating the offer in terms of cultural tourism, will have the effect of maintaining jobs in the region and showcasing a building representative of the region&#39;s industrial heritage,&quot; said MP Denis Trottier. Renewal of the permanent exhibition
Thanks to a grant from the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications of $ 223,500, paid in the fall of 2012, the Museum will also be able to renew its permanent exhibition. Entitled De Perron en Perron, 125 years of expertise, this project aims to present the evolution of the cheese industry from the 1950s to today. The project also includes the enhancement of traditional knowledge linked to the profession of cheese maker. This new permanent exhibition will be offered to the public when the museum reopens in summer 2014.
