Montreal - The Minister of Justice, as Minister responsible for the fight against homophobia, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, and the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, are pleased to support the Montréal Pride event, which will take place in the metropolis from August 12 to 18, by announcing the allocation of assistance financial year totaling $ 90,000.
Fierté Montréal presents celebrations and cultural events that highlight the significant contribution and commitment of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and transgender (LGBT) people to the culture and influence of Montreal. During the seven days of festivities, the heart of the metropolis will be animated by various activities, including the much anticipated 2013 Pride Parade.
“This celebration of diversity is a testament to the values of openness and equality that so well define Montreal and Quebec society. I would like to thank all the community organizations and all the partners who invest in Montreal Pride. You are helping to build a Quebec that is ever more open to difference, a Quebec for all, ”said Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud.
“Each year, the great Montreal Pride parade arouses growing interest from Montrealers and visitors. I salute this international event which illustrates the diversity of Montreal and Quebec. I am delighted with the effervescence and creativity of Fierté Montréal, which greatly contribute to the metropolis&#39; influence, ”said Minister Lisée.
“I salute the members of the organizing committee for their determination to make Montreal Pride a unique international event, which enriches the tourist offer of the metropolis and all of Quebec. The Government of Quebec is proud to support this festive and colorful event which contributes to making Quebec an attractive and diversified tourist destination, ”indicated Minister Bérubé.
The contribution from the Government of Quebec is distributed as follows: $ 60,000 comes from the Tourism Industry Development Program - Financial assistance for festivals and tourist events, from Tourisme Quebec, and $ 15,000 from the Initiative Fund and outreach of the metropolis, administered by the Secretariat to the Metropolitan Region. Finally, financial assistance of $ 15,000 comes from the discretionary budget of the Minister of Justice and Minister responsible for the fight against homophobia, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud.
