Témiscouata-sur-le-Lac– On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the Minister for Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, Pascal Bérubé, announces the award of a financial support of $ 337,120 to the Société d&#39;histoire et d&#39;archéologie du Témiscouata, for the restoration of Fort Ingall.
“This historic landmark must be preserved and today&#39;s announcement demonstrates the importance our government attaches to Quebec&#39;s collective heritage. The buildings located on this heritage site are a testimony to our past, and their restoration will allow present and future generations to appreciate their great value, ”said Maka Kotto.
“Fort Ingall is a place of great cultural value in the region. The investment of the Government of Quebec, but also that of the various partners, demonstrates the interest and desire to ensure the preservation of this institution, which is part of our cultural heritage, ”added Pascal Bérubé.
Fort Ingall, located in Témiscouata-sur-le-Lac, is a heritage site classified under the Cultural Heritage Act. This heritage interpretation site recognized by the Ministry is a military fortress erected between 1839 and 1841 and reconstituted in 1975 following archaeological excavations. This financial assistance will allow the conservation of the eight buildings of Fort Ingall by the restoration of the wooden structures, the roofs and, finally, the mortar joints between the beams of the walls and around the chimneys. Drainage around buildings will also be improved. This work will be carried out according to the historical and architectural characteristics of this heritage site.
The Témiscouata History and Archeology Society and the City of Témiscouata-sur-le-Lac are partners in this project estimated at a total cost of $ 376,581.
The Department&#39;s contribution comes from the Capital Assistance program and is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 2 billion for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year.
