Saint-Cyprien– The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister for Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, Pascal Bérubé, announced the creation of nearly 130 jobs at Groupe AMT. The project includes replacing and adding mold cells and machining centers in order to increase the production potential of the company, whose factories are currently operating at maximum capacity.
“My government is redoubling its efforts to ensure that Quebec businesses prosper and create lasting jobs in each of our regions. We are there to support them in carrying out promising projects, as evidenced by our support for the AMT Group. This support is another fine example of concrete actions we are taking to achieve our growth objectives for Quebec, including the creation of more than 43,000 jobs, as announced in the Priorité emploi economic policy, ”said Pauline Marois. .
Thanks to the allocation of a $ 10 million loan through Investissement Québec, Groupe AMT, which specializes in the production of high integrity die-cast aluminum parts, will be able to go from before with the completion of an investment project of $ 47.5 million.
&quot;The AMT Group is one of the most dynamic companies in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region,&quot; said Pascal Bérubé. Its high-quality products have made it famous and set it apart in niche markets. Thanks to this expansion project, the company will be able to take advantage of future business opportunities in growing sectors. It is with great pride that we support it in the pursuit of its promising activities for the economy of Bas-Saint-Laurent. &quot;
The AMT Group operates the following production units: AMT Die Casting Inc., which has two factories in Saint-Cyprien, Bélisle Industries Inc., located in Saint-Jean-de-Dieu, and Darona Inc., located in Saint- Jean-sur-Richelieu. The company manufactures aluminum parts primarily for the automotive, recreational vehicle, electrical, electronic and medical equipment markets.
To learn more about the Priorité emploi economic policy, visit www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueeconomique.
