Gatineau– On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the Minister of Public Security and Minister responsible for the Outaouais region, Stéphane Bergeron, announces the allocation of financial assistance of $ 126,500 to the Basse-Lièvre community television, for the acquisition of specialized equipment that will allow it to take the HD turn.
“Community media play an essential role in developing the feeling of belonging to an environment. In the 2.0 era, it is essential to continue to support these information officers who do remarkable work with citizens of all regions of Quebec, ”said Maka Kotto.
The acquisition of equipment adapted to the HD shift will improve the broadcast quality of the productions of this television station, the oldest independent community television station in Quebec and the only one present in the Outaouais region.
“This major technological shift had become absolutely necessary to allow Basse-Lièvre Community Television to maintain its partnership with the cable company Vidéotron and its MAtv channel in the Outaouais. It will thus be able to continue to offer the region&#39;s population a diversified program that reflects its reality, ”declared Stéphane Bergeron.
The Ministry of Culture and Communications is allocating $ 126,500 to this project, the total cost of which is estimated at $ 158,220, under its Capital Assistance program. The Basse-Lièvre community television completes the funding.
As for the oldest independent community television in Quebec, TVC Basse-Lièvre, it welcomes this announcement from the Ministry with enthusiasm, since it will allow it to maintain its services well beyond its forty-two years of existence; thanks to this new HD technology. &quot;On behalf of the board of directors, the TVC Basse-Lièvre team and the entire population concerned, we would like to thank the government of Quebec and its Ministry of Culture and Communications for this important contribution,&quot; concluded the president, Sylvain Pilon.
