Quebec - The Minister responsible for Government Administration and President of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, and the Minister of Public Security, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, are delighted with two measures that support the work of service employees correctional. This concerns, on the one hand, the adoption of Bill 32 amending the Act respecting the pension plan of peace officers in correctional services and, on the other hand, the regulation of the pay equity program of certain police officers. the peace.
These measures were announced in the presence of the president of the Union of peace officers in correctional services, Mr. Stéphane Lemaire.
“We are proud of the adoption of a bill that will ensure the sustainability of the pension plan for peace officers in correctional services, by correcting a situation that had dragged on for ten years. This bill will not only allow the plan to be better funded, but also a new sharing of risks, ”said Minister Bédard.
The bill proposes several amendments to the Act respecting the pension plan of peace officers in correctional services, including:
“The employees who participate in this plan and the government have jointly made the responsible choice to better fund the plan and to join forces, within the pension committee, for the decisions to be made in the future. I salute the spirit of collaboration of all the stakeholders who contributed to this positive result for all parties, ”added Minister Bergeron.
In addition, the ministers confirm the settlement of the pay equity program of certain peace officers. Employees in the predominantly female job category &quot;correctional services officers, class 15&quot; will thus be entitled to salary adjustments retroactive to November 21, 2001, to which interest is added. Payments will be made during the month of June 2013.
The Quebec government thus concludes the last initial pay equity program for the public and parapublic sectors dated November 21, 2001.
This is the first time that such a broad consensus has emerged regarding the value of the jobs of peace officers covered by this pay equity plan, including that of health care officers, members of the Order. nurses from Quebec, working in correctional service establishments.
The conclusion of the program thus puts an end to the dispute between the parties and the pay equity committee made up of representatives of the government and of the following unions:
“These two measures are recognition of the work of people who work in often difficult conditions, while respecting the government&#39;s ability to pay. They are the result of fruitful work between the unions and the government to resolve two issues that have been dragging on for several years. This is a win-win solution for all parties, ”the ministers concluded.
