Quebec - The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Mrs. Agnès Maltais, announces a simplification of administrative procedures for citizens and families. Indeed, new forms have been put into circulation by the Registrar of Civil Status for declarations of death, change of name or indication of sex and birth.
“The new declarations are fully consistent with our government&#39;s desire to simplify the lives of citizens and families. With these advances, we are removing red tape for people who already have to deal with the moving events of the loss of a loved one, the change of identity or the birth of a child. Thanks to the new declarations, citizens and families no longer need to fill out several forms with the same information each time, ”said the Minister.
With these changes, citizens and families are informing several departments and agencies of their new situation in a single step. They also reduce the costs and delays associated with obtaining a civil status document to prove their change of situation. In addition, the improved form for the birth also gives the possibility of requesting registration for direct deposit for payments of various family allowances.
“As Minister responsible for the fight against homophobia, I was made aware of the many obstacles that transgender and transgender people face within the government apparatus. This new declaration removes an obstacle by facilitating the communication of the change of name or sex to the various departments and bodies, ”declared the Minister of Justice, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud.
The departments and bodies targeted by these new declarations are:
It should also be noted that this concerted approach with other departments and bodies is based on the integrated delivery of services and makes the public administration even more efficient.
This approach is already very popular with the population with regard to the Quebec service for change of address, for which there were more than 635,000 uses last year.
