Lac-Mégantic - On the occasion of the unveiling of the reconstruction plan for downtown Lac-Mégantic, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy and Minister des Transports, Sylvain Gaudreault, announced financial assistance of $ 16.2 million for the creation of a new commercial center in Lac-Mégantic. This sum is taken from the $ 60 million envelope made available following the tragedy of July 6.
“From the outset, the government made a commitment to support the municipality in the reconstruction of a downtown area that reflects the people who live there: strong, warm and dynamic. Today&#39;s announcement thus enables us to firmly lay the groundwork for this mobilizing project for the community, its citizens and its business people. The future begins today, and rest assured that it is with determination and enthusiasm that I support this project which marks the renewal of Lac-Mégantic, ”said the Premier.
Concretely, the assistance granted will allow the construction of a commercial axis in the extension of Papineau Street as well as the construction of a permanent bridge over the Chaudière River to facilitate access to these new commercial sectors. The commercial axis will be equipped with buildings that can permanently house the majority of businesses that are still affected. The new buildings will provide 48,000 square feet of retail space.
“This financial assistance will make it possible to respond to one of the priorities expressed by the City of Lac-Mégantic, namely to act quickly to relocate the businesses of the municipality in order to promote the resumption of economic activities. The survival of these businesses is essential since they represent the nerve centers of the city&#39;s economy, and our government is happy to help revive them, ”added Minister Gaudreault.
In addition to the new commercial hub, the plan provides for the creation of a commemorative area erected in memory of the victims on the site of the accident, including the July 6 Memorial Park.
