Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, the Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, and the Minister for the Regions and Minister responsible for the region of Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, today announced the actions that the government intends to take regarding the situation involving the City of Gaspé and the Pétrolia company.
“Supporting economic development with a view to sustainable development requires taking into account the protection of the environment and the social impacts of projects. It is clear that there are still points to be clarified for the City of Gaspé in the case of the Haldimand 4 well, ”said Yves-François Blanchet.
The drilling permit was issued by the Ministry of Natural Resources in June 2012 according to the rules in force. This does not allow any hydraulic stimulation including hydraulic fracturing. Pétrolia has, moreover, made no such request. &quot;No hydraulic stimulation permit will be issued for a project near homes until the government has assessed the minimum safe distance to be observed near homes and sources of drinking water,&quot; said Martine Ouellet.
In addition, any project including a fracturing operation intended to search for or exploit oil must be authorized in advance by the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and provide for consultation with the population.
Since the beginning of the fall, the new government has been in contact with the Town of Gaspé in the Haldimand 4 well file. Several important concerns have been raised by the municipal administration and the latter wishes better support from the government. . Ministers Blanchet and Lelièvre will be traveling to Gaspé this week to meet with City representatives in order to fully understand their position and the support requested.
Pétrolia is currently finalizing the preparatory work for the drilling and the government will meet with the company before the drilling is carried out to discuss the file. A meeting, in which Minister Martine Ouellet will participate, is scheduled with the company this week. It will also provide an opportunity to take stock of the issue of the social impacts of the project and the concerns of the government.
The three ministers recalled that the Government of Quebec had the health and safety of all Quebecers at heart and that no compromise was possible in this regard. “The people of Gaspé must know that we are taking the situation very seriously and that the Haldimand 4 project is not escaping the government&#39;s vigilance. The actions to come will be guided by a single principle: that of acting in the best interest of Gaspésiens and all Quebecers ”, concluded Gaétan Lelièvre.
