Quebec - The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, and the Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions, Ms. Agnès Maltais, announced the allocation of financial assistance of $ 875,000 for the organization of the Snowboard Jamboree - FIS Snowboard World Cup 2014.
“Once again welcoming the world&#39;s snowboard elite for a World Cup stopover is a privilege for Quebec. This year, the event offers acrobatic downhill and halfpipe athletes a final chance to qualify for the Sochi Olympics. This promises to give rise to high performances! I therefore invite the population to come in large numbers to admire them and to take advantage of the other activities offered by the organization. It&#39;s a great way to enjoy winter! Said Minister Malavoy.
Presented in Quebec City and Stoneham from January 16 to 19, this great snowboarding festival includes the men&#39;s high jump (big air) event as well as the men&#39;s and women&#39;s halfpipe and acrobatic descent (slopestyle) events. ). In addition to these, regional and provincial competitions, as well as various family activities, are also organized.
“The government intends to make Québec one of the main winter tourist destinations in the world by focusing on the development of a range of varied activities that will allow visitors to have a global winter experience. The holding of major competitions in the Capitale-Nationale, such as the 2014 FIS Snowboard World Cup, contributes to enriching our offer and promoting our destination in winter, ”Minister Bérubé said.
“With less than a month before the Olympic Games, what pride and what a privilege to see the best snowboarding athletes descend on our slopes! For the first time in Quebec, this combined presentation of the free practice events of the International Ski Federation (FIS) and the World Snowboard Tour increases the international influence of the Capitale-Nationale. People will be able to follow the performances of the athletes on their screens and discover the attractions of the region, ”said Minister Maltais.
It should be noted that government financial assistance comes from the Support Program for International or Pan-Canadian Sporting Events of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport ($ 650,000), the Tourism Industry Development Program - Financial Assistance for Festivals and tourism events from Tourisme Québec ($ 125,000) and from the Capitale-Nationale Region Economic Development Fund of the Capitale-Nationale Secretariat ($ 100,000).
