Quebec - The Minister of Justice, Attorney General and Member of Parliament for Chambly, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, the allocation of financial assistance of $ 15,000 to the Chambly Basin Recreational Tourism Corporation for the presentation of the 12th edition of Bières et Saveurs, which will take place from August 30 to September 2, 2013. About a hundred exhibitors will be present and will offer craft beers and microbreweries, local alcohols as well as Quebec foods during the many tastings to which festival-goers are invited.
“As the Member of Parliament for Chambly, I am delighted with the considerable success achieved over the years by the Corporation Récréotouristique du Bassin de Chambly. In addition to the economic spinoffs that the 12th edition of Bières et Saveurs will have in the region, this event greatly contributes to highlighting the region&#39;s agri-tourism offer and the excellence of Quebec products, ”said Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud. .
The participants will be able, in particular, to visit the Chapiteau des Saveurs which is presented, once again, by the promotional campaign “Foods from Quebec: always the right choice! &quot;. Renowned chefs, members of the Society of Chefs, Cooks and Pastry chefs of Quebec, will perform culinary demonstrations, share their best recipes made with local products and will taste the fruits of their know-how to the delight of visitors. The Bières et Saveurs activity will also offer a host of entertainment for families, such as shows and games for children at the Seigneurie des Petits.
&quot;Bières et Saveurs follows the straight line of the&quot; Aliments du Québec: Always the Right Choice! &quot;Campaign. and contributes to the implementation of the Food Sovereignty Policy, in particular by highlighting the offer and the particularities of Quebec products. It will allow thousands of gourmets to discover some of the 16,500 products certified &quot;Aliments du Québec&quot; and &quot;Aliments Prepared in Quebec&quot;. I invite you to come and celebrate the great diversity of microbrewery beers and Quebec foods - products that bear witness to the creativity and know-how of local businesses, ”declared the vice-premier. Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron.
Note that the Chambly Basin Recreational Tourism Corporation is a legally constituted non-profit organization with its head office in Chambly. Better known as the Bassin en fête, the Corporation is dedicated to the recreational and tourism development of the Chambly region.
To learn more about the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can consult the blog (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or the Internetwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA) website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and of Food. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
