Quebec - The Minister for Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, denounces the federal government&#39;s tinkering and improvisation in the infrastructure file. Mr. Cloutier is sorry to see Ottawa persist in wanting to impose restrictions in its new infrastructure program that risk compromising sports, recreation, culture and tourism projects throughout Quebec, for the ten coming years.
Minister Cloutier asks the federal government to listen to the positions expressed by the municipalities of Quebec and to follow the proposal made months ago by the government of Quebec.
“If the restrictions envisaged by the federal government had been in effect since 2007, dozens of structuring projects for the economy of Quebec and for the vitality of several communities, notably the Super PEPS in Quebec, the Musée des beaux-arts in Montreal or the Gatineau Ice Sports Center of Excellence would not have been able to benefit from funding from this infrastructure program, ”said Mr. Cloutier.
In terms of culture, major projects such as the Pointe-à-Callière Museum, the Contemporary Art Museum, the Théâtre de la ville in Longueuil, Robert Lepage&#39;s Diamant in Quebec City, the Les 7 frères de la main project , as well as the Aboriginal LOCATION are awaiting funding from the federal government. The restrictions announced by Ottawa therefore risk having serious impacts on the latter.
&quot;Quebeckers have a right to expect that their tax dollars will be used for projects that are a priority for their communities,&quot; said Mr. Cloutier.
Minister Cloutier deplores the fact that the federal government is plunging Quebec and its municipalities into uncertainty at the last minute, when the government of Quebec sent him more than four months ago a proposal for an agreement aimed at a transfer into budget block for Quebec.
“The simplest and most logical solution is an agreement for a bulk transfer to the Government of Quebec of its fair share of the Building Canada Fund, of the type concluded in 2005 on the Excise Tax Fund. on gasoline, ”explains Mr. Cloutier. “This would ensure adequate and orderly financing of sports, recreation, culture and tourism infrastructure. Our government is already investing $ 9 billion a year in infrastructure projects. We have always worked with municipalities and know their priorities ”.
