Quebec - Reacting to the postponement of consultations related to the green paper on biofood policy, the member for Kamouraska-Témiscouata and official opposition critic for agriculture and food, André Simard, said he was absolutely discouraged liberal attitude. “This government has no will to develop and support agriculture in a proper way. By cutting income insurance, failing to adequately protect farmland and now refusing to discuss a real policy for the agricultural community, he clearly demonstrates that agriculture is a secondary sector for him, ”he said. -he assures.
It is clear that the Liberal government has decided that the Plan Nord will allow it to set aside all other sectors. “Agriculture employs more than 60,000 Quebecers and when all the processing, distribution and catering sectors are added, more than 400,000 workers are affected. This is a major economic sector, but the government is now focusing only on the Prime Minister&#39;s attempt to leave a political legacy with his marketing plan for the North, ”added the Member for Kamouraska-Témiscouata.
In addition to postponing consultations on the green paper, the government is pushing back legislation to increase fines for pet-related offenses. &quot;It&#39;s been more than three years since the report of the working group on companion animals recommended increasing these fines and nothing has been done since,&quot; lamented André Simard.
The Parti Québécois proposes an enlightened vision for Quebec agriculture. “We have developed a real policy of food sovereignty, we want to proclaim our agricultural lands natural wealth and we intend to bring La Financière agricole back to its primary vocation, that of supporting our farmers. “The agricultural crisis is still raging in Quebec. Thousands of farms have disappeared since 2003 and this pace has been accelerating since 2008. It is time to have a government that truly focuses on agriculture, a government that will understand and help farmers, a government of the Parti Québécois ”, added concluded André Simard, mentioning that the CAQ has nothing to propose to revive the agricultural sector.
