Quebec - The Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions, Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the Minister for Tourism , Mr. Pascal Bérubé, are pleased to announce the allocation of financial assistance of $ 141,500 to support the SSQ Deux Rives Marathon.
Unmissable event for running enthusiasts, the SSQ Deux Rives Marathon is one of the most important high-level sports competitions in the Capitale-Nationale region. The 16th edition will take place from August 23 to 25 and will offer a vast program of activities, including the famous marathon, the half-marathon as well as the 10 km Oasis.
“Sport is one of the forces of attraction of our region. In recent years, Quebec has acquired its letters of nobility in the organization of sporting events. The Government of Quebec is proud to be associated with this meeting, which allows the Capitale-Nationale to reaffirm its position in this area, and thus maintain its reputation for excellence, ”said Minister Maltais.
“This event undeniably improves the tourism offer in Quebec. Sports tourism is a booming industry segment, on which Quebec relies to structure its event offering and attract new customers. The SSQ Deux Rives Marathon embodies this vision, and the Government of Quebec is proud to participate in its success, ”said Minister Bérubé.
Thus, the Secrétariat à la Capitale-Nationale is contributing an amount of $ 86,500 as part of the Economic Development Fund for the Capitale-Nationale region, while $ 55,000 comes from the Tourism Industry Development Program. financial support for festivals and tourist events, from Tourisme Québec.
The Secretariat, attached to the Minister of the Executive Council, advises the government and the minister responsible for the region, Ms. Agnès Maltais, on any question or measure having a significant impact on the region and on its social, cultural, tourist and economic development. . The Secretariat acts in consultation with its various governmental and regional partners, while financially supporting the realization of projects contributing to the development of the Capitale-Nationale for a mobilized, innovative, festive and international region.
Tourisme Québec promotes, in consultation and in partnership with public and private stakeholders, the development of the tourism industry with a view to economic prosperity and sustainable development. Through concrete actions such as the funding of festivals and events, the Government of Quebec supports initiatives that contribute to the tourism development of the Capitale-Nationale and that encourage its influence at the national and international level.
