QUEBEC, Dec. 2013 / CNW Telbec / - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, and the Minister responsible for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignist Governance and Member of Parliament for Lac-Saint-Jean, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, announced that the decree authorizing the establishment of a technical landfill site (LET) by the Régie des materials residual du Lac-Saint-Jean in Hébertville-Station has been adopted yesterday in Quebec by the Council of Ministers.
The Government of Quebec has been following the issue rigorously for several months. The various stages inherent in the realization of this project have been successfully completed. Last September, the report following the information and consultation period of the Office of Public Hearings on the Environment (BAPE) was made public. At the end of this consultation, the BAPE commission indicated that the project was justified. The Commission for the Protection of the Agricultural Territory of Quebec (CPTAQ) on Monday, December 9, gave the authorization to use the lots necessary for the establishment of the site. The adoption of the decree by the Council of Ministers now authorizes the construction of the landfill site at Hébertville-Station.
“The residual materials of the territory are currently transported to the LET of L&#39;Ascension-de-Notre-Seigneur. However, the latter must cease its activities soon, and it is not possible to extend the long-term landfill at this location. Authorizing the LET project at Hébertville-Station therefore turns out to be an environmentally acceptable solution and responds to a regional demand for the continuation of a safe service for the elimination of residual materials in Lac-Saint-Jean ”, declared Minister Blanchet.
This step will allow the Lac-Saint-Jean Residual Materials Board, which brings together the 36 municipalities in the region and the Montagnais community of Mashteuiatsh, to request certificates of authorization from the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, La Faune et des Parcs (MDDEFP) and then begin work leading to the establishment of the new LET at Hébertville-Station. This new landfill site will replace the Ascension-de-Notre-Seigneur landfill site, which is scheduled to close on August 31, 2014. The LET will have a total capacity of 2,500,000 m3, or 70,000 tonnes per year, for a useful life of about 30 years.
“We followed the file diligently to ensure that it was proceeding normally in compliance with the applicable rules. The process followed its course, the population was consulted, the BAPE and the CPTAQ made recommendations favorable to the project. I am pleased to announce that the decree was adopted yesterday, which will allow the Residual Materials Board to begin work as soon as the certificates of authorization have been obtained, ”said Minister Cloutier.
&quot;The entire population of Lac-Saint-Jean is the winner since a delay in the construction schedule for the landfill site would have had major financial consequences for the 108,000 citizens of the three RCMs concerned,&quot; added the member for Roberval, Mr. Denis Trottier.
The decree concerning the issuance of the certificate of authorization and the environmental analysis report will soon be available on the website of the Ministère du Développement durable, de l&#39;Environnement, de la Faune et des Parcs, following the publication of the decree in the Gazette officielle du Québec.
