As part of the Colloquium Together, let&#39;s move mobility forward, organized by the Table of Prefects and Elected Officials of the South Crown, the leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, accompanied by the spokesperson for issues concerning the REM, Alain Therrien, presented the positive repercussions for the Montérégie of the Grand Déblocage, a plan to reduce road congestion by 10% and significantly increase the mobility of citizens of the metropolis and neighboring regions. “The citizens of Montérégie will see their quality of life improve in concrete terms with the vision that the Parti Québécois has for public transit. I also welcome the mobilization of elected officials from the South Shore, who are keen to present concrete solutions to reduce congestion, ”he said at the outset.
Earlier today, along with the member for Verchères and spokesperson responsible for the Montérégie region, Stéphane Bergeron, Jean-François Lisée distributed leaflets on Le Grand Déblocage at the Sainte-Julie park-and-ride parking lot, before go to the Longueuil metro aboard the “Véronique mobile”. He also toured the constituency of Verchères to meet with citizens and organizations.
IN SHORT
The Parti Québécois is proposing the Grand Unblocking for the citizens of Montérégie:
“By 2025, we want to reduce road congestion by 10% in the metropolis and neighboring regions. This means 133,000 fewer cars on the roads, and a reduction in GHGs at least 8 times greater than what the REM promises. In addition, as we know, citizens want to spend less time traveling, and more with their families; we offer them accessible, efficient and fast transport solutions. This is our commitment! », Then exposed the leader of the official opposition.
“Our roads are blocked. Yesterday was an inconvenience, it is now a plague. In the greater metropolitan area, a motorist loses 76 hours per year in traffic jams. And no current project will reverse this crazy trend. The REM is an expensive and inefficient project; by respecting the same deadlines and the same costs, we are presenting a much more useful and ambitious plan, ”added Alain Therrien.
“The Grand Déblocage that we are offering is, among other things, better service for the citizens of the South Shore, who will finally have a public transport service that meets their needs. The tram-express will be a breath of fresh air for many citizens of the region. In addition, it is an essentially electrical plan; with 475,000 additional electrified trips, the Parti Québécois confirms its desire to really turn its back on oil, ”concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
