Montreal– The greater Montreal area has just been recognized among the 21 intelligent metropolises of the year (Smart 21) by the Intelligent Community Forum (ICF), the largest international body in the field. The Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, and the Minister responsible for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb , consider that this recognition confirms the enviable and very promising positioning of the metropolitan region of Montreal in terms of information and communications technologies (ICT).
Undoubtedly an economic engine, the ICT industry is of strategic importance for Quebec and the greater Montreal region. In growth, in 2012 the sector had more than 92,000 jobs in nearly 5,000 companies in Greater Montreal, which represents 8% of the Montreal workforce.
“The dynamism and creativity that characterize our metropolis have favored the expansion in the territory of one of the most prosperous industries of the day. The digital sector in the greater Montreal area is booming, with many varied projects and activities, carried out simultaneously by the most avant-garde companies in the field. The recognition that the greater Montreal region has just received in this regard confirms its status as a world leader in this cutting-edge sector, ”said Minister Lisée.
The government of Quebec welcomes the initiative of the TechnoMontréal industrial cluster, which, in partnership with Montreal International, the City of Montreal, the Regional Conference of Elected Representatives (CRÉ) of Montreal, the Chamber of Commerce of Metropolitan Montreal and the Conseil des arts of Montreal, submitted the city&#39;s candidacy to this prestigious competition.
“Generating quality jobs, the information and communications technology industry is one of those with the greatest potential to attract investors and young talents. As in other emerging sectors, the regrouping of the dynamic forces of the community within TechnoMontréal bears witness to the value of the strategic alliances resulting from industrial clusters, ”said Minister Zakaïb.
The distinction granted by the ICF is the first step in a process which will make it possible to select, in January 2014, the seven best performing cities in the field, then to designate a big winner in June 2014.
The Intelligent Community Forum (ICF) is a New York-based nonprofit research organization that studies the development of 21st century cities. The independent think tank is dedicated to job creation and the development of the digital economy. The ICF, focused on research, conferences, advisory services, educational services and an annual competition, identifies and shares best practices developing in smart cities.
