Quebec - The Minister responsible for Government Administration and President of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, announced eight measures that will allow the government of Quebec to develop its expertise in free software and to intensify its use within public bodies.
“The government strongly believes in the benefits of using free software. Today&#39;s announcement is an important step in this direction. For us, free software represents both an essential option for public organizations and a business opportunity for several Quebec companies. In short, free software pays off for Quebec, ”said Minister Bédard.
Among the measures announced, let us mention the creation, as of April 1, 2013, of a government center of expertise in support and development of free software. The Free Software Expertise Center (CELL) will be tasked with developing cutting-edge expertise in order to support public bodies in the development of solutions based on free software. For example, document management and geomatics tools as well as collaboration and participation platforms would be developed using this type of software.
Here are the other measures that will allow the Quebec government to take advantage of free software:
&quot;With these measures, which will accentuate the use of free software in public bodies, the government is going one step further to give itself greater flexibility in the management of its information resources,&quot; concluded Minister Bédard.
Annex: Mandate of the Center of Expertise in Free Software [www.tresor.gouv.qc.ca]
To increase the use of free software within public bodies, government authorities must offer them guidance, guidance and support.
To do this, the government will set up, within the Shared Services Center of Quebec, a team of experts responsible for supporting public bodies in the use of free software. The Center of Expertise in Free Software (CELL) will help to develop internal expertise and know-how, to preserve them, to identify and to mark out the niches of government intervention, thus promoting the adoption of technologies. currently little known.
More specifically, the mandate of CELL will consist of:
