Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces that the results of the sampling and analyzes carried out by the Department following the events in Lac-Mégantic are available for consultation. By disseminating open data related to water and air quality, the government allows the population to have direct access to reliable data. Data concerning the state of soil contamination will also be released in the coming weeks, as soon as the characterization has been carried out.
“I have made a commitment that all the data relating to the contamination of the sites affected by the disaster will be published, explained and kept up to date. However, it must be scientific and transparent. Field workers have been working since July 6 to ensure the protection of the environment and the health of citizens. Since the beginning of July, the situation has changed enormously. The sampling results that we are making public today meet recognized scientific standards. This is the most up-to-date information available to us to date, ”explained Minister Blanchet.
The data collected by the Ministry&#39;s experts are available in the form of tables and graphs. Several observations emerge and deserve to be highlighted with regard to water quality:
With regard to air quality, analyzes carried out by the TAGA mobile laboratory have indeed shown a notable decrease in contaminants in the air as of July 8 and a return to normal as of July 10. However, ad hoc analyzes are always carried out to ensure the health and safety of workers on site.
In addition, it should be remembered that oil deposits were observed, particularly on the banks and on the first three meters of the edge of the bed of the Chaudière River. All the necessary work is done to clean up this watercourse which has its source in Lac Mégantic. All the required staff and equipment are put to work in order to achieve the best results as quickly as possible.
“The disaster inflicted heavy damage on the environment. There will never be any question of minimizing them. On the other hand, people&#39;s health will be protected and most of the damage will be repaired, ”reiterated Minister Blanchet.
It should be noted that only the results of the Department&#39;s analyzes are published on its website. Other data, produced by third parties or obtained in the course of an investigation, will continue to be used for the assessment and monitoring of the situation. Ministerial data is available at the following address: www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca/lac-megantic.
