Montreal– Jean-François Lisée, Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, announces the allocation of government financial assistance of $ 200,000 to carry out implementation activities. market outside Quebec for the 2013 edition of the Grand Prix Cycliste de Montréal, which will be held today on Mount Royal. This contribution comes from the Metropolitan Area Secretariat&#39;s Initiative and Outreach Fund.
“We are very proud to host this spectacular sporting competition in Montreal, because it is one of the most prestigious on the world cycling calendar. The event attracts the best Canadian and foreign athletes in this discipline to the heart of our metropolis and at the same time contributes to the notoriety of the Montreal sports scene, ”said Minister Lisée.
It should be noted that the Grands Prix Cyclistes de Montréal and Québec, events of the WorldTour circuit, are presented this year, in particular thanks to a financial contribution of $ 344,000 from the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport, paid as part of the Program. support for international or pan-Canadian sporting events.
“The Grands Prix Cyclistes de Montréal and Québec are the only events on the WorldTour circuit to be presented on the American continent. I invite cycling enthusiasts, as well as the general public, to come together along the circuits used by the athletes to encourage them. One thing is certain, these young cyclists are a real source of inspiration for all those who cultivate the desire to move and to surpass themselves, ”said Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Marie Malavoy.
This fund aims to support the implementation of initiatives that contribute to the economic, cultural and social development of the Montreal metropolitan region and to its influence on a Canadian and international scale, with a view to sustainable development.
The Secretariat, which reports to the Minister of the Executive Council, advises the Government of Quebec on any question or measure having a significant impact on the Montreal metropolitan region and on its development. He provides the secretariat for the Ministerial Committee for the Metropolitan Region, chaired by Minister Jean-François Lisée, as Minister responsible for the Montreal region. The Secretariat is developing dialogue with its various strategic partners in order to promote the coherence and convergence of all interventions, as well as the growth and dynamism of the metropolitan region.
Through the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, the Government of Quebec helps the regions of Quebec hold pan-Canadian and international events and that they benefit from modern and safe sports and recreational facilities.
