Durham-Sud– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions and Member of Parliament for Johnson, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, is proud to participate in the inauguration of the Durham-Sud Grocery service station - Solidarity cooperative. He takes the opportunity to announce the financial assistance of $ 69,500 granted by the Government of Quebec to this project. This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship Infrastructure Program (PIEC).
Specifically, the project targeted the modernization of the grocery store to make the premises more attractive to customers, the redevelopment of the cash counter and product shelves, the replacement of certain refrigerators as well as the installation of surveillance cameras. to ensure security. The project also included the addition of a service station requiring the installation of tanks and gas pumps as well as the acquisition of the adjacent land for the development of a parking lot.
“The consolidation that large companies engage in in order to remain competitive has often deplorable effects for smaller communities. The momentum that animates our villages, now as well connected to the world as Montreal, Paris or Sidney, could have broken completely in the absence of critical mass to protect services. But Durham-Sud is following the lead of the best. It relies on its own dynamism and provides itself with the means and services necessary to maintain its development and, above all, its quality of life. I am very happy to respect this commitment made last year to the community and to concretely support such a great idea, ”declared Minister Yves-François Blanchet.
It should be noted that this project made it possible to create a new full-time job, a few part-time jobs as well as the consolidation of the eight existing jobs. This initiative required a total investment estimated at $ 322,000. The Government of Quebec, under the CEIP, contributed an amount of $ 69,500. Other partners also participated in this project, notably the MRC de Drummond, the Sonic company and the Caisse Desjardins du Val Saint-François.
For his part, the chairman of the board of directors of L&#39;Épicerie de Durham-Sud- Coopérative de solidarité, Mr. Roger Viens said he was very happy with the support of the Government of Quebec for the realization of this project which allows today hui for the Cooperative to offer more services to its customers and better meet the needs of the community of Durham-Sud.
L&#39;Épicerie de Durham-Sud - Coopérative de solidarité is recognized as a social economy enterprise in the retail sector by the region&#39;s Social Economy Pole. It was created in January 2000 thanks to the mobilization of the population, which allowed the restart of a quality, viable and competitive grocery store in the field of food and other related fields. With more than 230 members, the Cooperative has become a place of meetings and exchanges and constitutes an important socio-economic contribution for Durham-Sud, in addition to reinforcing the feeling of belonging of citizens to their community.
Remember that the CEIP has a budget of $ 10 million. It aims to support social economy enterprises in the implementation of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition projects for commercial or industrial infrastructure. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, to contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories as well as to promote the preservation and enhancement of the environment.
