Quebec - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, as well as the Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Jean-François Lisée, today announced the addition of additional professional resources for 15 family medicine groups (GMF) in the Montreal region. These GMFs will share a total of 44 full-time equivalents (FTE) to complete their professional workforce. This represents an annual investment of $ 3,284,868 for the region.
&quot;Adding professionals such as nutritionists, social workers or even kinesiologists to physicians is a way of supporting medical practice in FMGs, because it allows better monitoring of patients, in particular those suffering from chronic diseases&quot;, explained Minister Réjean Hébert.
“I am happy that FMGs in the region can benefit from the addition of health professionals. In addition to helping to provide more support for physicians, this improvement in the service offer within FMGs will improve the accessibility and continuity of medical care and services to the population, ”said the minister responsible for the region. , Mr. Jean-François Lisée.
“Consolidating the FMG network is one of our government&#39;s priority actions to build a strong and accessible first line. We are committed to carrying out a series of measures in this direction, and the allocation of new resources for the best performing FMGs is one of them, ”added Minister Hébert.
It should be noted that this addition of professionals is determined according to the performance of the FMGs, according to various criteria, including respect and renewal of their contractual agreement, the achievement of their target of clientele registrations, as well as their service offer in unfavorable hours (evenings and weekends) in relation to the number of patients registered.
Nationally, 181.5 additional FTEs will be distributed among 60 FMGs, for an average of 3 FTE each. This addition represents an annual investment of $ 13.6 million.
For the complete list of FMGs that have benefited from an addition of staff in Quebec, visit www.msss.gouv.qc.ca/presse.
