Montreal - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, receives with interest the report tabled today by the Task Force on Quebec Cinema Issues, co-chaired by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Communications, Rachel Laperrière , and the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Cultural Business Development Corporation (SODEC), François Macerola.
“I would like to thank the co-chairs who carried out this mandate with passion. I also wish to underline the contribution of the 17 members of the working group who, thanks to a diversified knowledge of the environment, had the will to contribute to advance our national cinematography. The participation of all these actors, joined by nearly twenty organizations and groups called upon to share their expertise, will certainly have contributed to enriching the recommendations made today, ”said Minister Kotto.
It should be remembered that the mandate of the Working Group on Quebec Cinema Issues, formed last February at the request of the Minister, aimed to carry out an analysis of the issues of cinema distribution in Quebec, in the context of the current digital revolution and taking into account the different platforms, as well as to analyze the conditions that lead to the decision to finance the production of films so that they stand out and reach the public. Lastly, the mandate consisted in proposing, where appropriate, new guidelines as to the role that the State and its bodies concerned should play, as well as in carrying out a review of existing support measures.
“It has been more than ten years since the Quebec government was concerned about the future of our film industry. Indeed, the filing of the last Quebec film and visual production policy dates back to March 2003, under a PQ government. However, Quebec cinema is a beacon of Quebec cultural expression, here and abroad. It is for this reason that this report, inspired by the impact of the digital revolution on the production, distribution and broadcasting of cinema and by the accelerated transformation of the market and cultural practices, constitutes a valuable tool for the future. of this industry which generates an economic activity of more than one billion dollars by providing employment to nearly 15,000 people ”, affirmed Maka Kotto.
“The future of our Quebec cinematography is a priority, and I intend to act on the recommendations of the task force. The report insists on the need for an in-depth review of the support and accompaniment of SODEC in the field of cinema. It is in this context that, without delay, I entrust today, to the Deputy Minister of Culture and Communications, Rachel Laperrière, in concert with SODEC and as proposed throughout the report, the mandate review the assistance programs for the film industry, so as to take into account new issues, including those affecting the digital world. Also, in the light of the recommendations contained in the report, I intend to adopt an action plan that I will present to the Council of Ministers shortly, ”the Minister concluded.
The task force report is available on the SODEC website at www.sodec.gouv.qc.ca.
