Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announced on behalf of the Minister responsible for Social Services and Youth Protection, Ms. Véronique Hivon, the funding of two support projects for palliative home care in Center-du-Québec initiated by the Center de santé et de services sociaux (CSSS) Drummond and its partner , Services René-Verrier, as well as by the CSSS Bécancour-Nicolet-Yamaska.
“We want people at the end of their life to be able to live their last moments in a serene way, with as little suffering as possible, in the place of their choice, in the company of their loved ones. This is why we are committed to supporting initiatives that will allow them to have access to personalized home services adapted to their needs, ”declared Minister Hivon.
The CSSS Drummond and Services René-Verrier share a project aimed at improving the service offer to people in palliative care at home and their loved ones, from the angles of respite-babysitting, support and accompaniment. The granting of a recurring annual budget of $ 200,000 will make it possible in particular to train and equip volunteer resources so that they intervene effectively and safely, in addition to promoting respect for the choices of people at the end of their life. who wish to stay at home as long as possible.
On the territory of the CSSS Bécancour-Nicolet-Yamaska, financial assistance of $ 50,000 per year will support the improvement of respite-troubleshooting activities at home, while making it possible to develop and consolidate partnerships with various organizations, thus promoting the implementation of new services. This project will benefit both people at the end of their life and those around them.
In total, these three organizations will share financial assistance of $ 250,000 to carry out their projects. Finally, it should be remembered that public funding for the two palliative care homes was increased by 13% and ten palliative care beds were added last fall in the Center-du-Québec region.
“Three of my relatives have died of cancer in recent years, including my father and his wife, and two of them at the René-Verrier unit. I know what a difference unconditional love and compassion can make when it comes time to leave. I am delighted from the bottom of my heart to see my government recognize this supportive role at the end of life. More and more people are being offered alternatives which are important for the patient, yes, but also for his family and loved ones. It has always seemed crucial to me that the State be a partner in this touching commitment, ”declared Minister Blanchet.
