La Malbaie - The Minister for Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, participated in the congress celebrating the 50th anniversary of Camping Québec, the Association des camping grounds du Québec. In front of more than 250 people gathered for the occasion, Mr. Bérubé wished to recall the important role of this accommodation sector, which allows its users to practice a variety of activities throughout Quebec.
“I would like to pay tribute to Camping Québec for the work accomplished. Your accommodation sector is more and more popular and is experiencing marked growth year after year, notably with an increase of 2.8% in 2012. In addition, I would like to congratulate the campground managers who invest in the enhancement of their product thus contributing to the development of attractive, distinctive and quality facilities that enhance the tourism offer in Quebec, ”declared Minister Bérubé.
“Camping is a tourist product which has evolved a lot in recent years and which continues to improve. With more than 800 campgrounds spread across the province, the offer is more diverse than ever! Camping Québec is the largest association of campgrounds in North America, which makes it a major player in the industry. I was delighted to receive the Minister at our event. We were thus able to discuss issues that are close to the heart of our members and I foresee very good collaborations in the years to come ”, specified the president of Camping Québec, Ms. Natasha Bouchard.
Minister Bérubé has also confirmed financial assistance of $ 100,000 distributed over the next three years to Camping Québec. This contribution will allow the association to improve and enhance the support, products and various services that have made and will continue to advance the camping industry over the coming years. The assistance provided comes from the Financial Assistance Program for Sectoral Tourism Associations.
Founded in 1962, Camping Québec, the Association des terrains de camping du Québec, is a private, non-profit association that represents campground operators in Quebec. With more than 600 members from the private and public sectors, it represents more than 90% of the camping offer in Quebec. Camping Quebec&#39;s mission is to promote the camping offer in Quebec, to establish and promote best business practices in the industry and to defend the interests of its members.
