Quebec - The Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Seniors and Minister responsible for the Estrie region, Mr. Réjean Hébert, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, of Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that a grant of $ 100,000 is granted to the MRC du Haut-Saint-François for the organization of its public transport and that a grant of 73,866 $ is granted to ensure the improvement of a bus transport service between Cookshire-Eaton and Sherbrooke.
These subsidies are paid within the framework of the government assistance program for regional public transport intended for the development of public transport.
“Our government encourages and supports the development of public transit, which makes it possible to optimize the use of the road network while increasing the fluidity of travel, reducing the level of congestion and reducing pollution attributable to the consumption of hydrocarbons. . Today&#39;s announcement will allow the Estrie region to support community involvement in its development, ”said Minister Hébert.
These subsidies aim to provide the population of the Haut-Saint-François MRC with better public transport services and to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, by ensuring the maintenance of service between Cookshire-Eaton and Sherbrooke, the Ministère des Transports intends to contribute to socio-economic support and regional development in the Estrie region, while promoting community participation in its development.
&quot;By participating in the financing of public transit, we are investing in sustainable development and the mobility of people, a social, environmental and economic issue that is at the heart of our government&#39;s mission,&quot; added Mr. Hébert.
Public transit is one of the cornerstones of the next Québec Sustainable Mobility Policy. Currently being developed, this policy will take over from the Québec Public Transport Policy. The new policy, which will be adopted in the fall of 2013, will place the user at the heart of his concerns and guide the actions that will be undertaken by 2020 with a view to improving the public transport service offer throughout the region. Quebec territory.
The parameters of the government assistance program for regional public transport, as well as the preparatory documents and some of the briefs submitted as part of the consultation on the policy, can be consulted on the website of the Ministère des Transports at www.mtq .gouv.qc.ca.
