Pointe-Claire– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces a tightening of the management of materials containing PCBs in Quebec. Although the Department is already working with businesses, a new inspection program will make it possible to intensify the control of places that have already stored PCBs, to tighten the management of materials containing BCP currently in Quebec and to better supervise their gradual elimination. The new program will ensure better monitoring of the presence of materials containing PCBs in Quebec, supervise their transfer to an authorized site, and restore a feeling of security undermined by recent events.
“The worrying Pointe-Clairea case will have been a catalyst for change for Quebec. Although it has been absorbed with a minimum of environmental consequences, and despite a completely transformed picture over the past 12 years, it is clear that there are still things to do. First and foremost, we must validate and, if necessary, complete the portrait of the sites where materials containing PCBs are still found in Quebec, but also identify the dynamics of their treatment and their movements, as well as the gaps in the system. As I made a commitment to the mayor of Pointe-Claire and to Quebeckers, we are now carrying out this exercise, ”said Minister Blanchet.
The Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP) lists the places where PCBs produced, received or stored are classified as residual materials. In addition, companies wishing to store the PCBs they generate themselves for more than 12 months must obtain an express authorization for this purpose. Companies that operate PCB transfer or treatment centers must hold a specific permit. These permit holders, as well as anyone in their possession of residual materials containing PCBs or contaminated by PCBs, must send the Department an annual report on the management of residual hazardous materials. However, it seems clear that stricter measures and an increased frequency of inspections would have reduced the chances of the events in Pointe-Claire occurring this summer.
The new program targets all places where PCBs have been declared or discovered since the end of the 1990s. These places are divided into 5 categories:
As part of this program, more than sixty inspections will be carried out in Quebec by April 2014. All the targeted sites will have to be verified within a 5-year horizon.
Carried out on the basis of a reorganization of the inspectors&#39; tasks, this exhaustive program will be carried out at zero cost by the MDDEFP. In addition, the Department invites citizens to inform it of any doubts they may have regarding the presence of materials containing PCBs or contaminated with PCBs in their sector if they believe that such a site is not listed. and inspected.
“This initiative is part of our efforts to prevent environmental incidents. Since the tragedy in Lac-Mégantic and the fuel oil spill in Sept-Îles, our government has begun to think hard about the means to be implemented to reduce the incidence of such events having an impact on the environment. The new inspection program for materials containing PCBs will give us a head start in this area, ”commented Minister Blanchet.
Additional information is available on the Ministère&#39;s website at the following address: www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca/matieres/bpc.
