Quebec - The Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, will take part on November 7 and 8, in Paris, in the 29th session of the Ministerial Conference of La Francophonie. Several interviews with key Quebec interlocutors in the Francophonie and within the government of the French Republic are also on the program.
“Quebec plays an active and essential role within this ministerial consultation body. This will be an opportunity to share our vision on the main axes of Francophone action, in particular through the follow-up of the decisions taken by the Heads of State and Government in Kinshasa, but also in the perspective of the Dakar Summit, in Senegal, which will take place in a year, ”said Minister Lisée.
During this 29th session, Minister Lisée will emphasize the need for the States and governments of the Francophonie to continue their commitment to strengthening democratic institutions and governance as well as gender equality. The Minister will also underline the importance that must be given to the Francophone Economic Strategy, which will be tabled next year in Dakar, in order to promote the prosperity of the Francophone space, more particularly in Africa.
In the context where Quebec wishes to give new impetus to its relations with Africa, meetings are planned with several counterparts from African countries. Let us recall that a mission led by Minister Lisée in West Africa last September made it possible to conclude numerous economic and institutional agreements with African partners.
Finally, the Minister will take advantage of his visit to Paris to meet with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the French Republic, Mr. Laurent Fabius, and the Minister Delegate in charge of Development, Mr. Pascal Canfin, to whom he will notably present the news. Quebec&#39;s economic policy and with whom he will talk about social economy. Two components of this policy, the Foreign Trade Development Plan and the Transport Electrification Strategy, could constitute important levers for strengthening economic ties between Quebec and France.
