Quebec - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is pleased to be associated with the launch of the Expo-sciences Hydro-Québec and invites young people from elementary school, high school and college students to participate in large numbers.
“Science fairs are often the first meeting place for young people with science and technology. In developing their project, they use their skills and familiarize themselves with the foundations that guide any scientific process. Such an activity also provides an opportunity to reflect on the impact of science on our lives, ”said Minister Duchesne.
The Hydro-Québec Science Fairs are organized by the CDLS-CLS Network, which includes the Scientific Leisure Development Council (CDLS) and the nine regional scientific leisure councils (CLS). These are scientific competitions allowing young people to present a design, experimentation or scientific popularization project. The projects are presented locally and are evaluated and then move on, if necessary, to the regional and national components of the competition. More than 15,000 young Quebeckers participate each year in this competition.
Through its NovaScience program, the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology grants the Council for the Development of Scientific Leisure and each of the CLSs annual financial assistance to help them achieve their mission. This consists of promoting scientific leisure and culture as well as careers in science and technology among the regional population, and more particularly among young people. The 2014-2019 National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI) recognizes the role played by this network in promoting science and technology. In 2013-2014, a sum of $ 1,582,219 was paid to these organizations and used in particular for the organization of science fairs.
“Training the next generation and transmitting a passion for science is a common objective of the Expo-sciences and the PNRI. I encourage young people to take an interest in science, technology, engineering and mathematics and to consider careers in these stimulating and promising fields for the development of Quebec. I invite the public to encourage the participants by visiting the Hydro-Québec Science Fair, which will take place across Québec from the end of February, ”concluded Minister Duchesne.
For more details on the Hydro-Québec Science Fair, visit www.exposciences.qc.ca.
