NOTES FOR A SPEECH BY THE LEADER OF THE QUEBEC PARTY, MR JEAN-FRANÇOIS LISÉE
ECONOMIC NATIONALISM
NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF PRESIDENTS QUÉBEC, SUNDAY, JANUARY 15, 2017
To watch this speech, click here!
The pronounced version is authentic.
&quot;I know there are some who will say:
Let the foreigners come here and invest their money, and you&#39;ll be fine.
Now that is no longer enough.
Foreigners only come here when it pays them, and I understand that.
For us, however - yes, for us Quebecers of all origins - is that enough?
Can we be satisfied with what it can bring us?
Will we always be victims of this state of mind which condemns us to touch only the crumbs that fall from the table where those who come from elsewhere eat?
My dear friends, I am deeply convinced that the people of Quebec have made their choice.
I am convinced that he wants to become the master of his economy. &quot;
Have you noticed that this is not my usual style?
That is true.
I have just quoted, word for word, a speech given on September 30, 1962 by Prime Minister Jean Lesage.
I have just had a National Council of the Parti Québécois applaud a Liberal prime minister.
I&#39;m playing a good trick on you because this speech is the founding text of Quebec economic nationalism.
There was a before, and there was an after.
And nothing was the same.
The Parti Québécois has done a lot to modernize economic nationalism each time it comes to power.
It is our turn to do so.
And it presses.
Because around us, on this continent, there are not only altar boys.
And we will have to show muscle, defend our jobs, our market share, step by step over the coming years.
Headquarters Economic nationalism in 2017 means first of all recognizing the considerable importance of keeping our own head offices here.
It is not true that companies are stateless.
Local owners hire more locally and invest more in their community.
Acting resolutely to keep them, as several other states in the world are doing, including the United Kingdom and the United States, is a necessity.
There is a harmful naivety in the Couillard government in the face of the realities of the business world.
A refusal to be firm and active, in the common interest of Quebecers.
The opposite of the spirit of Jean Lesage.
Elected in 2018, a Parti Québécois government will act quickly to ensure that the retention of strategic head offices is one of the explicit missions of the Caisse de depot et d&#39;Investissement Québec.
We don&#39;t want to live Rona again.
Never.
The Quebec government is generous in its help to businesses to bring out champions in our country.
We will continue to do so, but in a more efficient and targeted manner.
In particular by giving the gazelles program all its resources, that is to say by targeting companies with the highest growth potential and by supporting them towards national and then international success.
And the international headquarters of our future gazelles, do you know what? We will keep them at home!
Conditional aid With us, that will be the end of providing research tax credits to companies that go abroad with, in their pockets, the patents designed with our money.
Our support will be conditional.
It&#39;s with us, or you pay back.
And if the idea of investing, say, a billion dollars in Bombardier occurred to us in the Parti Québécois government, do you think for a moment that we would forget to demand guarantees against relocations in return? When I speak to you of harmful naivety.
Turning our backs on oil, we are going to bring about the emergence in Quebec of a transportation electrification cluster that can and must become a benchmark on the planet.
We have all the tools, all the resources, all the inventiveness.
All that&#39;s missing is political will.
She&#39;s getting ready, she&#39;s coming, with us.
Increase Quebec ownership When companies close their doors, our first instinct will be to sit down with the employees and executives who have been laid off to tell them: what if we relaunched the factory as a cooperative?
What if, in your factory, you were masters at home?
Ownership of agricultural land in Quebec is also an issue of economic nationalism.
We are of the generation that must ensure that our lands remain in the hands of Quebec farmers, not in those of foreign or anonymous investment funds.
We are committed to it.
Economic nationalism also means short circuits, even more competitive electricity prices for greenhouses, space in our grocery stores for local products, a simplified regulatory framework for small producers.
The government of SMEs Economic nationalism also means promoting entrepreneurship in all its forms.
And, to begin with, stop harming.
Our small and medium-sized businesses are crumbling under discouraging and counterproductive municipal, Quebec and federal paperwork.
Ensuring product quality, employee rights, protecting the environment, yes, without compromise.
But, in the digital age, how can we explain that Quebec and the municipalities have not computerized or simplified their relations with businesses?
In power, in 2018, we will be the government of SMEs as never before.
And one of our first actions will be to break the culture of racketeering at Revenu Québec, which has been denounced several times by the Québec Ombudsman.
No, our entrepreneurs should not be presumed guilty.
I, the son of an entrepreneur, can hear the discontent all over Quebec over the dubious tactics of Revenu Quebec. We are going to put an end to it.
Tax havens Economic nationalism means refusing Quebec millionaires to hide their savings in tax havens.
It is to stop stupidly applying the scandalous tax loopholes invented by Paul Martin and Stephen Harper to Quebec taxation.
Privileges protected, again last fall, by Justin Trudeau, against the unanimous wish of the National Assembly.
A government of the Parti Québécois will make taxable the accounts in Bermuda of our citizens who have sought to avoid taxes.
Today, tax evaders who confess their crime do not pay a fine.
I give them notice.
When the Parti Québécois is in power, hurry out of the shadows, because the longer you wait, the higher the fines will be.
We need the money you owe us to pay for home care, support for our children, healthy schools, CHSLDs where care is not rationed.
Your behavior is shameful.
With you, we will be intractable.
Our fair share Today&#39;s economic nationalism means calling for justice as long as we are part of Canada.
The fair share.
The calculations are clear.
If we received the Canadian average of productive federal investments in Quebec - no more than the average, just our share - our economy would benefit from an additional annual injection of up to $ 4 billion per year, creating 35,000 good direct jobs.
Immediately, we would receive less equalization.
At once. With pleasure.
You know the song by Dédé Fortin: Pass me the puck, and we&#39;ll count some, goals. Ottawa spends it often, the puck: billions in tax credits for the tar sands in the west and oil in Newfoundland, billions in public investments for nuclear power in Ontario and for its auto industry.
For Quebec? Equalization.
As a bonus, insults because we are receiving equalization.
A vicious circle of impoverishment and systemic denigration.
Do you think for a moment that if Bombardier&#39;s head office was in Toronto or Edmonton, it would still be waiting for its federal aid check?
He would have received it a long time ago.
Ottawa gives a loan guarantee to Newfoundland for its hydroelectric project.
Okay; let him pass us the puck and do the same for Hydro-Quebec&#39;s current debt, and we&#39;ll save $ 9 billion.
Otherwise, it is an injustice!
The largest investment in Canadian history has begun.
One hundred billion dollars for warships.
Our share of the bill for us, the Quebec taxpayers, is $ 20 billion.
But justice did not go that way.
Ottawa does not pass us the puck.
Ottawa takes the $ 20 billion and gives us $ 600 million in Lévis.
It is the greatest economic injustice to Quebec in Canadian history.
I&#39;m telling you: we&#39;ll still be talking about it in 150 years!
Listen carefully: nearly $ 20 billion in Quebec taxes will be used to create excellent jobs in Vancouver and Halifax.
Then the feds are going to accuse us of not creating as many jobs as they are, they are going to send us equalization, accusing us of being on social assistance for Canada.
Not.
Not.
Do you think the Parti Québécois did well a few years ago by making the somewhat obscure concept of fiscal imbalance a major political issue?
You have not seen anything yet.
In 2018, our government will make the injustice of the warship program a central issue in defending our rights vis-à-vis Ottawa.
Speaking of Ottawa, it goes without saying that economic nationalism, like ecological nationalism, is refusing to have a pipeline imposed that would cross 860 of our waterways to help warm the planet.
International nationalism Nationalism is not about staying at home.
It&#39;s being present in the world, in your own way, defending your interests.
And I&#39;m going to tell you a bit about free trade.
Beyond slogans.
The first Quebec politician to have declared that free trade with the United States would be beneficial for the Quebec economy was called René Lévesque.
He was quickly followed by Jacques Parizeau and Bernard Landry.
Liberal leader Robert Bourassa was more cautious.
He thought it was a miscalculated risk.
He thought that Quebec entrepreneurs would not be strong enough to withstand American competition.
Labor organizations feared that an agreement with the United States would force us to reduce our social safety net.
A legitimate fear at the time.
But, in the federal election of 1988, where it was the main stake, it was the voters of Quebec who gave Brian Mulroney the majority necessary to move forward, against the wishes of Ontario and the majority of provinces.
Barely ten years later, Quebec companies had, more than any other in Canada, gained market share south of the border, created jobs in all regions. And our social safety net has not melted.
It was extended with all the measures adopted by the Parti Québécois government from 1994 to 2003.
Jacques Parizeau was in heaven.
The agreement had &quot;decanadianized&quot; the Quebec economy.
Before, 60% of our North American exports went to English Canada. After that, 60% went to the United States.
A complete reversal.
A Quebec much less dependent on Canada.
Was the agreement perfect? No.
A poisoned chapter gave corporations the right to sue states.
A bad idea.
In addition, lumber was excluded, which made us very vulnerable for the future.
But overall, the agreement has enabled the expansion of hundreds of Quebec businesses.
As Minister of Foreign Trade, I have seen that when an SME starts exporting, it invests in its work tool, improves its products, and trains its employees better.
It is a powerful lever to increase productivity.
And that is essential.
Right now, our overall productivity is increasing by 0.7% per year.
To sustainably finance our social safety net, this rate should be doubled.
This is why our main proposal offers innovative measures to significantly increase the number of our exporting companies, and, consequently, our productivity, our solidarity, our national wealth.
Does this mean that all international economic agreements are in our best interest? Absolutely not.
Financial deregulation deals have been toxic to many nations around the world, and we were fortunate not to have participated in them.
For Europe, there are pros, there are cons.
First, it should be known, the current agreement only exists through the will of two states: Quebec and France.
It would never have seen the light of day without our common political will, and transpartisan in both cases.
Moreover, a sovereign Quebec could very well have negotiated a free trade agreement with Europe, even more interesting than the one before us.
Do you doubt it? Here is the list of countries whose economy and population are equivalent or weaker than those of Quebec, and which have yet signed agreements with Europe: Norway, Egypt, Peru, Israel, Morocco.
Apart from the fact that their economy is smaller than that of Quebec, these countries had something else in common: they did not need to ask permission from Ottawa.
It is true, an independent Quebec could not sign an agreement with the countries of the Pacific.
An unstoppable geographic argument.
Do you know what? This is a good thing.
The trans-Pacific agreement is a bad deal.
I&#39;m glad he&#39;s dead and buried.
Among other things, to sign it, Canada still wanted to sacrifice our agricultural industry.
So, good riddance.
But back to Europe.
What interest? There are 500 million consumers there, more than in the United States.
And, if we sign, our SMEs will be able to sell their products there for around 10% less than the products of our American competitors.
A decisive competitive advantage.
From maple syrup to Quebec planes.
How many jobs are we going to create with this? You will not find any satisfactory estimate.
As we had none before free trade with the United States.
The answer is directly linked to the dynamism of our businesses.
And I trust them.
I have seen them at work in the United States, Africa and China.
That&#39;s nice to look at. But Canada had to get involved.
At the 11th hour, during negotiations, Ottawa decided that in order to favor western beef, it was going to sacrifice Quebec&#39;s dairy and cheese companies.
It would jeopardize this extraordinary achievement of recent years: the emergence of excellent fine cheeses from all regions of Quebec. We understand each other: an independent Quebec would never have sacrificed its own industry to help beef from the West, beef from another country.
Economic nationalism is knowing how to use the balance of power in negotiations.
And, as soon as we were informed of this bad move from Ottawa, Pauline Marois, Nicolas Marceau in Finance, François Gendron in Agriculture and I in Foreign Trade put Quebec&#39;s fist on the table.
This agreement cannot be applied without Quebec adopting the implementing decree.
So, no, we said, we will only sign this decree when Ottawa formally undertakes to adequately compensate for the damage it causes us.
Otherwise, it&#39;s no.
This is what Parizeau would have done.
This is what Péladeau would have done.
And that&#39;s what I will do.
But the great naive economics who govern us, supported by François Legault, moreover, do not want Quebec to have a balance of power.
They put us in a weak position.
And we received, in December, the bill for weakness.
The damage caused by Ottawa, over 5 years, amounts to precisely $ 1.5 billion for our industry.
Ottawa is offering to absorb less than a quarter of that amount.
This is the cost of weakness.
There is also this loathsome investor-state remedy clause in the agreement.
The Walloons were right to want to remove it. We in the Parti Québécois agreed with them and I personally intervened in this regard with the French Prime Minister.
As a government, we do not want to see it again in the future.
What shocks me most about the Couillard government is its refusal to hold a parliamentary committee on the agreement.
Its refusal to let parliamentarians study it, to hear the experts, to compare points of view.
It&#39;s a shame. When we say that we want to negotiate all of our treaties, it is because we want to negotiate them with the greatest possible transparency and let parliamentarians do their work without constraint before making a decision.
There are free trade dogmas.
Some who think it&#39;s never good, some who think it&#39;s always good.
The Quebec nation, which exports half of everything it produces outside its borders, must choose agreements on a case-by-case basis, accept those that are good and reject those that are not.
Buy Québécois Act But among blissful lovers, there are those who believe that these agreements prohibit us, everywhere and always, from promoting local purchasing, Quebec content.
I invite them to visit a country called the United States.
They sign free trade agreements (and not just coupons) and, on top of that, they have the Buy American Act.
They do both at the same time. To quote one of the great characters of our cinematographic culture: &quot;them others, they have it, the business, the Amaricans&quot;.
As soon as it is elected in 2018, the Parti Québécois government will introduce a purchasing policy for Quebec, for Quebec content, wherever possible.
Economic nationalism also applies to culture.
Francophone content and Quebec content must predominate in electronic windows that are today online cultural stores.
Do you think it&#39;s impossible to bend these giants?
This is what they had said to Gérald Godin, who nevertheless forced the powerful American majors to broadcast the same day, in Quebec, the French and English versions of the new films.
Impossible?
This is what they had said to Louise Beaudoin, who nevertheless forced Microsoft and Apple to release the French and English versions of the new software on the same day.
Why? Because they put Quebec&#39;s fist on the table.
Two last elements, to end this overview of economic nationalism.
Consultation Consultation.
A Quebec value.
Consultation as a trigger for joint action to push economic nationalism up a gear.
We owe René Lévesque and much to the then president of the FTQ, Louis Laberge, the practice of great summits and great collective projects.
We owe it to a Liberal minister, Gérald Tremblay, for having implemented the concept of industrial clusters in Quebec, a model of great value.
I had the privilege of working at the great summits of 1996, which brought about the economic and social recovery of Quebec.
This is also true locally.
Here in Quebec, in the 90s, our capital had reached the end of its economic model.
Political and economic players have come together.
They could count on the unifying leadership of a Parti Québécois government.
Everyone had the development of Quebec at heart.
Everyone knew his enormous potential, the talent of his people.
The assets were there.
Together, they found the way.
Result: Quebec went from “Old Capital” to “Capital of Innovation”.
A creative and prosperous city, recognized throughout the world for its vitality, its culture, its beauty, its dynamism, for its quality of life and its full employment.
The example of Quebec is all the more inspiring as the assets that have made it successful are present in all our regions:
Talent and creativity;
We have a lot of them.
Openness towards our economic partners around the world;
We have that too.
Boldness;
With us, the consultation will be back.
Our financial levers. Finally - and this allows me to come full circle with Jean Lesage and his advisor at the time, Jacques Parizeau - there are our great economic tools, which we can use more and better.
As of 2018, the Caisse de dépôt et placement must find in its law the balance desired by Lesage between performance and economic development in Quebec.
We will go further in this direction, by giving it an explicit mandate for regional and sectoral economic development.
And, if it does major projects, it will do them with a Quebec content policy.
Double mandate for Nicolas Marceau There will soon be $ 10 billion in the Generations Fund. How can we use part of this fund to accelerate sustainable economic growth in Quebec, while reducing the relative weight of our debt?
Today I am giving a double mandate to Nicolas Marceau. First, to consult and propose the best ways to make more productive part of the $ 2 billion that we deposit each year in the Generations Fund to make it an additional engine of Quebec economic nationalism.
This will be our way of leaving future generations with both a lighter debt and a stronger economy.
Second, work with us to develop the most robust Quebec purchasing policy possible for our next government.
My friends, Quebec economic nationalism has a house, it is the Parti Québécois. He has a team, the members of the Parti Québécois.
As of 2018, it will have a pilot, the government of the Parti Québécois.
Thank you!
