Quebec, March 14, 2017– The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health, access to care and home support, Diane Lamarre, and wearing it? speech in education, research and school perseverance, Alexandre Cloutier, denounced the fact that the Liberals have not fulfilled their commitments, while the Minister of Finance has revealed the truth: the promised reinvestment is not the appointment.
“Liberal austerity is far from over. In fact, we are rather witnessing the arrival of austerity 2.0: before, the government announced cuts and made them. Now, it is much more devious: we announce investments, we let time pass, and, finally, we realize that the sums that were announced have never been invested, ”Jean-François Lisée immediately pointed out.
“We already knew that the Liberal government had deceived Quebeckers by promising that the zero deficit was in no way going to cause cuts in services. In education, health… the Ombudsperson has said it, everyone has said it: the cuts were devastating. Last year, when the budget was tabled, the government talked about the imminent arrival of reinvestment. Nine months later, we can only note that he has again deceived Quebeckers: the Liberals had promised to reinvest in services at the level of 4%, and we are at 1.7%. At this rate, at the end of the year, the promised reinvestment will be $ 1.5 billion short. To make matters worse, the Prime Minister seems proud of not having fulfilled his promises. For him, it is the fault of others, it is the fault of the health and education networks, ”also denounced the leader of the official opposition.
“In the health system, $ 293 million that had been promised was not reinvested. However, the minister made a commitment to seniors and patients to provide funds for primary care, home care and mental health. Just for that last aspect, $ 70M was announced, but nothing was delivered. If Minister Barrette refuses to provide services to patients and to reinvest, is it because he plans to put a band-aid on before the next election? Instead, we are suggesting that it establish real policies to improve accessibility, home care and mental health care, ”added Diane Lamarre.
“In education, $ 627 million that the network sorely needs have not been spent! In fact, out of a 4.6% investment promise, the Liberals only returned 0.3% to the education system. It&#39;s a real disaster! Put yourself in the shoes of the parents of the students, especially those in difficulty. The school is falling apart, the services are insufficient, and the promised money is ultimately not invested. It is unacceptable, ”continued Alexandre Cloutier.
The faces of liberal inaction “Liberal non-reinvestment has faces: those of families who do not have access to speech therapists, psychoeducators; those with autism who wait on excessively long waiting lists; those of the elderly who see their home care rationed; those of people with mental health problems who do not have access to care. It is not ineffectiveness, it is ill will. When it was time to cut, the Liberals were extraordinarily efficient. Now that it is a question of reinvesting, they are showing complete incompetence. The Liberal government of Philippe Couillard has a serious credibility problem and, a few days before the new Quebec budget, we can already wonder whether we will be able to trust the new promises, ”concluded the leader of the official opposition.
