La Pocatière - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, today presented her commitments for the development of the regions. With a PQ government, three main actions will support the regions of Quebec: a development fund of $ 500 million, a law on decentralization and the strengthening of the National Policy on Rurality. &quot;At the Parti Québécois, we are convinced that the future of Quebec depends on the development of the regions, which is why we are proposing measures that will enable them to face the new challenges of the future,&quot; said Pauline Marois.
Together with the local development centers and under the direction of the Banque de développement économique du Québec, a Parti Québécois government will invest $ 500 million in regional funds to promote the diversification of local and regional economies. These regional funds will also help create jobs throughout Quebec. &quot;We will review public venture capital funds by abolishing in particular the controversial Regional Economic Intervention Fund (FIER),&quot; she explained.
The Parti Québécois intends to make decentralization one of its priorities. We will adopt a framework law on decentralization modeled on that tabled by the deputy for Berthier, André Villeneuve, last November. “The occupation of the territory is a fundamental issue for the Parti Québécois. It is essential that decision-making centers and services be accessible to all Quebecers, regardless of the region in which they live. To enrich ourselves collectively, we must rely on prosperous regions where Quebecers can count on quality jobs and accessible services, ”assured Pauline Marois.
A Parti Québécois government also intends to strengthen the National Policy on Rurality by improving the Rural Pact as of 2015. Adopted in 2001 by the government of the Parti Québécois, the National Policy on Rurality pursues the objective of offering the rural world and to the regions more development tools by focusing on their particularities. More than 8,000 projects have seen the light of day thanks to this policy, hailed by the OECD.
“By strengthening the National Policy on Rurality, by decentralizing powers to the regions and by establishing a fund of 500 million, the regions of Quebec will have the means to develop and contribute to collective enrichment. The Liberals have neglected the regions for nine years and the Caquists are offering nothing new. With the Parti Québécois, citizens will be able to count on a government that listens to their needs and their realities. It&#39;s up to us to choose! », Concluded Pauline Marois.
