Quebec - The member for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, conveys his warm congratulations to the 18 Quebec personalities who have been awarded the Ordre de la Pléiade. More particularly, he underlines the tributes thus paid to Mrs. Pauline Marois, Premier of Quebec, to the Member of Parliament for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and official opposition spokesperson for international relations and Francophonie, Carole Poirier, to the former Member of Parliament for Chambly, former Minister of Justice and former Attorney General, Bertrand St-Arnaud, as well as to the former Member of Parliament for Dubuc and former Minister for Housing, Jacques Côté.
“The 18 people honored today come from very different backgrounds. Each, in its own way, represents the values of La Francophonie. These women and men made Francophone and Quebec culture shine around the world. On behalf of the Parti Québécois team, I extend my congratulations to them, ”said Stéphane Bédard.
The leader of the official opposition insisted on the commitment of Mmes Marois and Poirier and MM. St-Arnaud and Côté - moreover, the former received the highest distinction of the Order, the rank of Grand Cross, while her three former colleagues are decorated with the rank of Chevalier. “Throughout her political career, Pauline Marois has made it her duty to promote the French language and Quebec culture; she was very proud of them, placed them at the heart of her action and has always done them honor. The international influence of French has always been a priority for her. The same goes for my colleague Carole Poirier; in the context of her duties as vice-president of the Quebec Section of the Parliamentary Assembly of La Francophonie, in particular, she represents Quebeckers with dignity in international forums and contributes to the promotion of francophone parliaments. Its numerous positions in favor of respect for rights, especially those of women, also deserve to be underlined, for their accuracy and relevance. As for Bertrand St-Arnaud and Jacques Côté, I would like to underline their professional and political career, exemplary in terms of cooperation, solidarity and democracy. They share these values with the other recipients of the Ordre de la Pléiade, and it is with exceptional dedication that they have always defended them, in the name of their keen sense of justice, ”he said. -he adds.
La Pléiade, the Order of La Francophonie and the Dialogue of Cultures, was created in 1976 and aims to honor personalities who stand out in their defense of the ideals of the Parliamentary Assembly of La Francophonie, namely democracy, the rule of law. , respect for human rights, the international influence of the French language and cultural diversity.
