Quebec - “The Parti Québécois is proposing a bunch of democratic measures to restore the public&#39;s confidence in its institutions. As soon as it comes to power, a Parti Québécois government undertakes to put forward five measures to give more power to citizens. &quot;
This is the assurance given by the leader of the official opposition and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, by making a commitment to establish fixed-date elections, to limit donations to political parties to 100 dollars, to increase the powers of the Auditor General, give the population the right of popular initiative and appoint a parliamentary budget officer.
To put an end to the absolute power of the Prime Minister to be the only one with the prerogative to call an election, too often based on partisan interests as Jean Charest is preparing to do, a Parti Québécois government will table a draft law establishing fixed-date elections upon taking office.
“Quebec will then hold general elections on a predetermined date, as do the United States, France, Canada and eight Canadian provinces. Jean Charest is against fixed date elections. He prefers to keep power to call the election at the time that will best serve him according to his interests and not those of Quebecers, explained Pauline Marois, mentioning that fixed-date elections would save citizens thousands of dollars. . The responsibility of the Chief Electoral Officer to always be ready for an election call comes at a significant cost. &quot;
As soon as it takes office, a Parti Québécois government will introduce a bill aimed at limiting the influence of money within political parties. Funding of political parties will become essentially public. The maximum donation to a political party will be $ 100, excluding membership fees, while the political contribution tax credit will be eliminated.
This reform will make it possible to counter cynicism by raising the suspicions of the population regarding the financing of political parties and to push René Lévesque&#39;s great reform further. The Parti Québécois is the political formation that has taken the most steps to clean up our political mores. With the proposed reform, no one will be able to &quot;buy&quot; influence with a donation of $ 100 or appear to do so.
Greater powers for the Auditor General A Parti Québécois government will extend the mandate of the Auditor General of Quebec to all government corporations. The government will adjust its budget accordingly. &quot;This reform will allow greater transparency in the management of government corporations,&quot; said the leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard.
As soon as it takes office, a Parti Québécois government will modify the Popular Consultation Act in order to define the right of initiative. This change will be the subject of public consultations.
Major principles should guide the framework of this right, including respect for the Charter of human rights and freedoms, the future charter of secularism and the future constitution of Quebec. All fiscal questions should be excluded from this right of initiative. To trigger a referendum, the register would have to count the duly registered signatures of at least 15% of the population, or around 850,000 people. Signature campaigns should take place within the framework of clear funding rules.
“The establishment of the right of popular initiative is a powerful democratic tool which offers citizens a new way of expressing themselves and initiating debates. It is about giving Quebecers the opportunity to be heard outside election periods and not just every four years, and for the government, it is the best way to remain attentive to the needs of the population, ”insisted Pauline Marois.
A Parti Québécois government will endow the National Assembly with a Parliamentary Budget Officer. Its mandate will be to present annually to the National Assembly an independent analysis on the state of public finances, the expenditure budget of the government and its state corporations as well as trends in the national economy. This reform will make it possible to avoid the tampering with the portrait of public finances to which the Liberal government has accustomed us. With this increased transparency, the debates around public finances will be more rigorous.
“To restore the public&#39;s confidence in its political institutions, the Parti Québécois is proposing concrete and daring measures. Not only are we committed to instituting these reforms, but we are also committed to respecting our word, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
You can watch the message from the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, at the following address: http: //go.pq.org/6d5.
