Quebec - The Parti Québécois vigorously denounces the attitude of the Liberal government, which refused this morning to debate a motion asking the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment and the Fight against Climate Change to hold a traveling BAPE on the entire TransCanada Energy East pipeline project, including the Cacouna oil port.
The official opposition spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, and the spokesperson for sustainable development and the environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, say they are worried about the lack of listening and transparency shown by the Liberal government.
&quot;The Minister of the Environment does not seem to want to know the environmental impacts of the TransCanada project, while elected officials, citizens, environmental groups, municipal unions and farmers are calling with one voice for more transparency: in short , they want a minimum of respect and listening. The only legitimate organization in the eyes of people to carry out independent and rigorous information and consultation work is the BAPE, ”said Bernard Drainville.
&quot;Is the Minister of the Environment afraid to consult Quebeckers?&quot; The protection of agricultural land, the consequences on beluga whales, the fight against climate change and the impacts of potential oil spills on communities are essential issues. It is normal and fair for Quebec to apply its regulations and subject TransCanada to its environmental assessment procedure, ”added Sylvain Gaudreault.
&quot;What we want is to document all the effects that this project will have on our local communities, as well as on the economy of the tourism and fishing sectors,&quot; said the deputies of the official opposition from the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Côte-Nord regions, Pascal Bérubé, Harold LeBel, Marjolain Dufour and Lorraine Richard. It should be noted that the Marine Mammal Interpretation Center and the Saguenay-Saint-Laurent Marine Park in Tadoussac also have a negative opinion on the project to develop an oil port in Cacouna, due to the anticipated adverse effects on marine ecosystems.
The Parti Québécois hopes that the Liberal government will announce the rapid holding of a BAPE on the entire TransCanada pipeline project. It should be remembered that the company wishes to export oil production from Western Canada to international markets and plans to build an oil pipeline of nearly 1,000 km in Quebec for this purpose, in addition to developing an oil port in Cacouna.
