Bas-Saint-Laurent - Gathered for a press briefing in Trois-Pistoles, the candidates of the Parti Québécois du Bas-Saint-Laurent presented their regional electoral platform. A Parti Québécois government will promote regional development, job creation, support for businesses, health, local services, education, culture and will continue to fulfill its commitments in terms of forests and wind power development. .
The candidates Pascal Bérubé in Matapédia-Matane-Mitis, Harold LeBel in Rimouski-Neigette, Michel Lagacé in Rivière-du-Loup - Témiscouata - Les Basques and André Simard in Côte-du-Sud intend to continue positioning the region for the development of job-creating projects. The candidates will continue to support the completion of Autoroute 185-85 (including phase 3), the extension of Autoroute 20 and to ensure the maintenance and improvement of road, maritime and airport transport infrastructure in the region. They also wish to continue to support agriculture, maple syrup production and the agrifood sector, in particular the food sovereignty policy, throughout the Bas-Saint-Laurent territory. A Parti Québécois government will ensure that posts are maintained in the regions and will enhance the tourism potential of the St. Lawrence River.
In order to support businesses in Bas-Saint-Laurent, candidates will continue to support innovation, research and exports. They also intend to help businesses in the region to compensate for the distance from markets, particularly in terms of transport costs. The enhancement and protection of our regional flagships remain a priority for the Parti Québécois du Bas-Saint-Laurent team.
The candidates André Simard (Côte-du-Sud), Michel Lagacé (Rivière-du-Loup - Témiscouata - Les Basques), Harold LeBel (Rimouski-Neigette) and Pascal Bérubé (Matapédia-Matane-Mitis)
The Parti Québécois candidates also undertake to ensure greater accessibility to health and social services and to promote the maintenance of local services. For example, street work services, daycare places, social housing, cell phones and the realization of several drinking water projects. They wish to ensure access to higher education in the region and increase the role of the Université du Québec à Rimouski as a partner in regional development and in research. In addition, the candidates intend to give a new impetus in terms of culture.
When it comes to forestry, the Parti Québécois has sent clear signals, taken concrete actions and made firm commitments for the industry and our workers over the past 18 months. After the adoption of the Wood Charter, the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise, the announcement of silvicultural work and the announcement of investments for forest biomass, the candidates will continue to implement the sites and other commitments announced. at the National Forest Meeting.
In terms of wind power development, the Government of Quebec has confirmed its commitment and support to the wind industry with the allocation of 800 MW. Our party supports the Bas-Laurentian Community Wind Farm project. In addition, a regional consortium for the community wind farm was formed to ensure that the projects are done in collaboration and that all the RCMs in the region benefit from the spinoffs of this future wind farm at the BSL. The committee of 10 partners is made up of representatives of the eight RCMs, the regional conference of elected representatives of the BSL and the native nation of the Maliseet.
“Our government has accomplished a lot in just 18 months. With more time and a majority government, we can go even further. Our region has a strong and quality team and we have the firm intention of continuing our actions in health, education and culture and to encourage job creation, business support and support the forest industry. and wind power development which are essential to the development of our region&#39;s economy. The Parti Québécois is determined and will continue to act with integrity and transparency to fulfill these commitments and to make the region more prosperous and stronger, ”concluded the candidates Pascal Bérubé, Harold LeBel, Michel Lagacé and André Simard. -1018 for Bas-Saint-Laurent (pdf): http: //go.pq.org/byM.
