Montreal - The Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Vachon, Martine Ouellet, has released three measures to ensure that Quebecers collectively enrich themselves with natural resources. “The exploitation of our natural resources is a major economic issue which is also linked to sustainable development. We need a government that stands up to protect our interests and that is what the Parti Québécois intends to do. The exportation of our ore in the raw state by boat is over without asking for anything in return, ”said Martine Ouellet during a debate organized by the Federation of Quebec Chambers of Commerce.
“The Liberal government is having the mining companies sign a 20-year lease, which gives them all the rights, without any requirement or guarantee of economic benefits. If the Parti Québécois is brought to power, we will negotiate so that there is local transformation with each new mining project. Other provinces or countries have done it, and mining companies have bowed to their demands, ”she said.
The Parti Québécois is committed to requiring companies in a position to do so to carry out secondary and tertiary processing in Quebec, in order to create quality and sustainable jobs. “We really need to take back control of our natural resources. A lot of wealth is created by processing and we must demand that it take place in Quebec, ”explained Martine Ouellet, recalling that several Canadian jurisdictions require local processing of their mineral resources. Ontario and the Northwest Territories are calling for 10% of diamonds mined there to also be processed locally. Newfoundland was able to negotiate an advantageous agreement with the company Vale Inco for the Voisey&#39;s Bay deposit.
The Parti Québécois is also committed to creating a post of chief miner. Based on the model of the chief forester, his mandate will be to ensure that the exploitation of mineral resources brings Quebecers sufficient amounts to compensate for the loss of these non-renewable resources. It will provide financial control over mining companies on behalf of the Government of Quebec and technical control over the volume mined as well as the value extracted.
“With the Parti Québécois, it is the people of Quebec who will get richer through the exploitation of our natural resources and not just a few companies. The signing of agreements and the benefits of the transformation will help communities accept mining projects. Everyone will be a winner. This is the commitment that we are making and that we will achieve! », Concluded Martine Ouellet.
