Quebec - Taking stock of the last parliamentary session, surrounded by her caucus, the leader of the official opposition and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, regrets that Quebec is stalling. She listed several proposals made by the Parti Québécois during the last session to improve the efficiency of the state and the quality of life of citizens. One by one, the Liberal government chose to ignore them.
“We have suggested a ceiling price on gasoline, as has been done for several years in New Brunswick with a result in favor of motorists; the government is procrastinating. We want greater use of Quebec wood in construction; the government refuses to act vigorously in this direction. We want greater transparency at Hydro-Québec in order to improve its efficiency. We want the Auditor General to have full access to the books of the Crown corporation, without restriction. However, the Liberal government refuses. We suggest that pharmacists have more powers in order to relieve emergencies and facilitate access to health care for Quebecers; the Liberal government is dragging its feet. These are all examples that could improve the lives of Quebecers, but the government does not want it, ”said Pauline Marois.
The last political session was marked by the long-awaited announcement of the Plan Nord. Obviously, this plan is more of an image campaign for the Prime Minister than a real development plan. “All the projects included in the Plan Nord were already in the pipeline. What Jean Charest had sown as hope was more linked to energy development. He failed, because what was presented on the matter smacks of warmth, ”indicated the leader of the official opposition.
She also took the opportunity to indicate that the Parti Québécois is keen on a real debate on natural resources and royalties. “We want Quebecers to enrich themselves, with respect for the populations and with respect for sustainable development. Yes, we must develop the North, but developing the North does not mean giving it away. This is what Jean Charest is doing now, denounced the leader of the official opposition. A fundamental debate on a responsible policy of royalties on our natural resources is necessary and must be started quickly ”, she continued.
She reiterated the often-repeated demand for a public commission of inquiry into the construction industry, in particular to restore the confidence of Quebecers, but also for the government to stop wasting millions of dollars that are currently falling into the pockets of dishonest people. “For two years, the observation has been disturbing: nothing has changed. Certainly, we have adopted some laws, but they have not resolved anything. Worse, the Quebec justice system is in crisis, unfortunately the follow-ups to Operation SharQc and the bludgeoning law on state prosecutors and lawyers illustrate this perfectly. Now, to restore confidence, in addition to a public commission of inquiry into the construction industry, the current Minister of Justice must be replaced, ”repeated Pauline Marois.
For his part, the member for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, remarks that the bills adopted will not revolutionize Quebec. He notes, however, that some bills have been curiously dropped. “While Jean Charest promised to have all the bills related to ethics adopted as a priority during this parliamentary session, he deliberately dropped two bills concerning the Election Act and particularly the one concerning the financing of leadership races. It&#39;s curious! », Noted Mr. Bédard. He also regrets that the Liberal government has duped the citizens of the regions, concerned about the redistribution of the electoral map. “It is obvious that the Liberal defeat in Kamouraska-Témiscouata displeased Mr. Charest, who now prefers to abandon them. However, the problem is nevertheless real and it is logical that one discusses, without partisanship, the advisability of integrating the concept of the dynamic occupation of the territory. The Liberals have therefore chosen partisanship to the detriment of the defense of the regions of Quebec, ”laments Stéphane Bédard.
The Leader of the Official Opposition notes with concern that the Liberal government has claimed many lives in recent months. “Students are experiencing a disproportionate increase in tuition fees; families will not have the childcare places promised by the Liberal Party; farmers are going through an unprecedented crisis and the government is turning a blind eye; seniors will still have to wait in sometimes inhumane conditions before the government acts swiftly and vigorously. The only ones who receive the attention of the Liberal government of Jean Charest are once again the friends of the regime. It is time for that to change: Quebec deserves better, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
