Québec, May 1, 2020 - Noting the excesses that healthcare establishments are currently facing, particularly in Montreal, the deputy for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and Parti Québécois spokesperson for health, Joël Arseneau, proposes that facilities be dedicated to treating only patients with COVID-19, in order to curb the spread of the virus.
IN SHORT
The situation observed in certain Montreal hospitals worries the member for the Islands; According to him, it is urgent to lower the pressure, especially since some establishments no longer have any room for maneuver. “Unfortunately, the end of the crisis is not yet in sight. To curb the spread of the virus, both among patients and staff, we therefore have a duty to put in place the best possible organizational practices. One way to consider would be to dedicate buildings to COVID-19, so as to isolate affected patients from others, especially the most vulnerable, ”he said.
What is a dedicated hospital? “Basically, you take buildings - arenas, convention centers - or existing hospitals and convert them into temporary facilities to accommodate patients with symptoms of COVID-19. They can also organize screening, and offer support and training for caregivers. In a dedicated hospital, it is also easier to divide the sectors, according to the level of care required. Such arrangements were used successfully during the SARS epidemic and, more recently, in China, ”explained Joël Arseneau.
The Parti Québécois believes that Quebec has no choice. &quot;Faced with the more than probable possibility of a second wave, we must at all costs preserve the capacity of our hospitals and, above all, the health of the staff,&quot; added the deputy.
Always wishing to make a positive contribution to the debate, Joël Arseneau was also pleased that the government retained its previous proposal, namely to deploy buffer zones to prevent the spread of the virus in residences for the elderly. “When good ideas are applied, all of Quebec wins! », He concluded.
