Montreal, March 20, 2021 - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Paul St-Pierre Plamondon, strongly denounces the desire of the Ministry of Higher Education to cut the content of the Initiation to the History of Western Civilization course, offered at the college level ; he asks Minister Danielle McCann to intervene to thwart and avoid this race to the bottom.
IN SHORT
Recently, the Minister of Higher Education, Danielle McCann, gave the green light to a recommendation from her ministry that from 2023, Antiquity and the Middle Ages will no longer be taught to a large part of the students. college, despite the alarm bells sounded by many luminaries. The reason? The program would be &quot;too busy&quot;.
“This is a very eloquent illustration of the concept of a race to the bottom. In Quebec, since the end of the 1960s, we have essentially moved from the classical course - which placed great emphasis on philosophers, theologians and currents of thought - to the evacuation of all knowledge that allows one to think for oneself, to &#39;&#39; have structured critical thinking; as if we wanted to tear ourselves away from our roots, to erase from our memory all the baggage of our civilization, especially with regard to philosophy, democracy and the scientific method. It certainly cannot be good news, ”said Paul St-Pierre Plamondon at the outset.
The new version of the course provides for the teaching of recent history only, that is to say that from the 15th century to the present day. “How will the students go about understanding the chain of historical events? Where will they hear, henceforth, about Athens, the Romans, the eras and the founding events of Western civilization? Asks the leader of the Parti Québécois.
Following the example of emeritus teachers who have spoken, this one proposes a solution: to divide the subject to be taught in two courses, offered in as many sessions. “We can&#39;t cut the story off depending on the mood of the moment! As Minister, Ms. McCann can absolutely not endorse such a recommendation. On the contrary, it must be inspired by the philosophy and humility of Bernard de Chartres who, in the 12th century, affirmed that the thinkers of a given era were dwarves on the shoulders of giants; in other words, that any intellectual advance must be based on the work of our predecessors. It is an immutable principle, which retains all its relevance, today more than ever, ”concluded Paul St-Pierre Plamondon.
