Montreal - Premier of Quebec and Leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, announces that a Parti Québécois government will continue to transition to a green economy.
“The foundations for the transition to a green economy are in place. My government has announced an ambitious project, that of the electrification of transport. It will increase the number of electric vehicles on our roads, by developing a strong industrial sector and a new center of technological knowledge, ”said Pauline Marois.
“The record of my government&#39;s 18 months is remarkable. We have taken courageous action by pulling Quebec out of nuclear energy and asbestos. We have set up a BAPE on uranium and tabled a bill for a moratorium on shale gas, which the PLQ and CAQ are opposed to. We have put an end to the mini-power plant projects, which Philippe Couillard wants to bring back, ”added the Prime Minister.
The National Strategy for Sustainable Mobility, which has been favorably received by stakeholders in the field, is another important milestone in this transition. It allows Quebec to position itself as a leader in the transportation of the future and in the fight against climate change. Moreover, the Carbon Exchange, set up with California, will help us in particular to meet the objective, by 2020, of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions by 25% compared to the 1990 level. .
At the same time, the Parti Québécois government has integrated environmental requirements into calls and proposals from the public and parapublic sectors with the Priority Employment economic policy. The Québec industrial policy also applies the principle of ecoconditionality in government financial assistance programs for businesses and establishes a new program dedicated to the eco-performance of businesses.
Finally, a Parti Québécois government will adopt a new energy strategy that will promote the development of renewable energies and their production.
“Philippe Couillard does not have an environmental team or program. It has made no commitment to the environment and sustainable development. The only guarantee of continuing to move forward with a government that implements an industrial policy, a transport electrification strategy, a sustainable mobility strategy and an energy policy, is to vote for the Parti Québécois, ”concluded the statement. Prime Minister.
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
Watch the press conference.
