S orel-Tracy, October 26, 2014 - Members of the Parti Québécois join the citizens&#39; demonstration against the transport for the export of oil from the tar sands on the St. Lawrence River, being held today in Sorel-Tracy. The MP for Vachon, Martine Ouellet, the MP for Verchères, Stéphane Bergeron, the MP for Berthier, André Villeneuve, and the MP for Saint-Jean, Dave Turcotte, are present alongside the population to tell the government to assume its responsibilities .
“The Liberal government and the federal government must listen to the citizens present at this demonstration. The St. Lawrence River must not become a highway for the export of oil from the West. There is no structural fallout and Quebeckers must assume all the risks. In addition, Quebec still does not have the necessary tools to intervene effectively in the event of an accident. Prime Minister Philippe Couillard may claim that we are well equipped to face this possibility, all the studies say the opposite. The citizens obviously do not have confidence, just like us, and demand more transparency and security, ”declared Martine Ouellet, official opposition spokesperson for transport, transport electrification and maritime strategy.
Several recent reports confirm the deficiencies in the Canadian Coast Guard&#39;s response capacity in the event of an accident. In November 2013, the Tanker Safety Expert Committee criticized the low oil recovery capacity in the event of a spill, which is only 5% to 15%. In May 2013, a study by Genivar concluded that the Gulf of St. Lawrence and the St. Lawrence River were one of the two sectors with the highest risk of a major oil spill in Canada. Finally, in September 2013, another study by Genivar highlighted the lack of the federal authorities&#39; ability to respond to emergencies in the Gulf of St. Lawrence.
Stéphane Bergeron, official opposition critic for Canadian intergovernmental affairs, for his part welcomes the commitment of the citizens of Montérégie and Sorel-Tracy. “The people of our region are very mobilized to protect their living environment and their environment. We have repeatedly asked Transport Canada to organize information sessions to keep the public informed of the measures being taken to ensure the safety of citizens and the protection of the environment, which has always been refused. However, citizens have the right to know, ”he added.
