Quebec - As part of International Literacy Day, the member for Saint-Jean and official opposition critic for employment, vocational training, literacy and youth, Dave Turcotte, underlines the importance of literacy and good learning of the French language for the establishment of a fairer, richer and more prosperous society.
UNESCO has chosen Literacy and Sustainable Development as its annual theme, thus emphasizing the correlation between our ability to read and write and that of making informed and judicious choices for the socio-economic and environmental future of our societies. Twenty-two organizations from Quebec civil society have also taken the bull by the horns by setting up, today, the Network to fight illiteracy, an initiative that must be supported.
“In the world in which we operate and where information is omnipresent, it is clear that literacy is increasingly synonymous with inclusion. It is irresponsible to even think about the possibility of removing tools from the people or organizations that promote lifelong learning and which thus seek to improve the living conditions of thousands of Quebecers and women. Quebecker, ”said Dave Turcotte.
Bourget MP and spokesperson for immigration and the French language, Maka Kotto, focuses on learning the French language for successful social and professional integration into Quebec society.
“For us to come to a more egalitarian society, the entire population must have access to learning our official language. This is why francization courses for people who choose Quebec as a land of welcome are so important. Living and working in French everywhere in Quebec, but also being able to learn to read and write, at any age, is essential. We cannot repeat it enough: the predominance of French is, in Quebec, a major factor of integration, the gateway to Quebec culture, the job market and intercultural dialogue. In short, francization is the keystone of successful integration, ”said Maka Kotto.
A government responsibility
The Member of Parliament for Pointe-aux-Trembles and spokesperson for primary and secondary education and school perseverance, Nicole Léger, insists for her part on the necessary efforts that must be made to improve the teaching of French in our schools. .
“Unlike Minister Yves Bolduc, who has no strategy to improve the teaching of French or an agenda to do so, we believe it is essential to take a serious look at it. Instead of making cuts in teacher training and educational advisor positions, an action plan needs to be implemented. We still do not know what the minister&#39;s vision is or what his priorities are. French should be included, ”said the MP.
Dave Turcotte would like to remind the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Yves Bolduc, that he has duties towards people wishing to fully integrate active life by taking steps to improve their reading and reading skills. writing. The Parti Québécois has always been committed to this and will continue to insist on obtaining concrete action from the government in the area of literacy and adult education. However, this requires the renewal of the adult education policy, including a vast project to fight illiteracy in Quebec.
“The Government of Quebec must do everything possible to promote mastery of the French language by the entire population. It is imperative to be able to read and write in order to fully integrate, both in the social world and in professional life; Minister Bolduc must therefore ensure that he provides the necessary support to students in training as well as to people who choose to take up the literacy challenge at a certain point in their life, ”insisted the Member for Saint-Jean.
Remember that Minister Bolduc did not hesitate to suggest that school boards and schools cut the purchase of books and French language improvement programs, which betrays a flagrant ignorance of the importance of books and reading. from an early age to counter illiteracy.
“Quebec has major challenges to meet in this area; its Minister of Education must be the standard bearer of all the measures and all the means that will promote lifelong learning of the written language, ”concluded Dave Turcotte.
