Quebec, October 18, 2016 - The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the spokesperson for the regions team of the Parti Québécois, Sylvain Gaudreault, denounce the damage caused by the Liberal government in the regions of Quebec , which are the result of his toxic austerity policies, dogmatism and shortsightedness.
“The disappearance of the many development and support tools, including local development centers, which have gone from 120 to just 48, is unacceptable. Beyond the $ 40 million that is no longer available to support our entrepreneurs, it is the expertise and invaluable advice of 3,000 volunteer mentors, most often established entrepreneurs, who have been struck off in one fell swoop. What is most important for a young person starting out in business is the support of someone who has already been there and who has succeeded, ”explained Jean François Lisée.
“The Prime Minister axed several programs that were stimulating regional development by saying that there would be no consequences. We now know that this is false. Worse still, the Prime Minister has no idea of the real effect of his harmful decisions on the regions; he cannot even say how many companies were supported last year by the structures that replace the CLDs; At the time, more than 2,000 were supported by CLDs each year in their creation, consolidation and expansion. No figures, either, for all those who have not had access to the support of the volunteer mentor entrepreneurs that the Liberal Party has fired. The Prime Minister has harmed the regions, and he continues to assert that there is no problem, ”continued the leader of the official opposition.
The Parti Québécois believes that a strong Quebec depends on the vitality of its regions. He always made and still makes the choice to defend the regions. “The Prime Minister has chosen not to appoint a minister responsible for the regions. Two elected officials from Montreal are watching from afar what must be taken seriously. No one understands this choice. It&#39;s hard not to believe that Philippe Couillard has abandoned this essential question. Mr. Lisée appointed me coordinator of the regions team, and my mandate is to reach out to entrepreneurs and decision-makers across Quebec. We will be the allies of all regions of Quebec, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
