The leader and vice-leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée and Véronique Hivon, as well as the candidates Dave Turcotte (Saint-Jean) and Nicolas Dionne (Iberville), presented the Parti Québécois plan to provide better services people living with an intellectual disability (ID), an autism spectrum disorder (ASD) or a disability, and their loved ones.
IN SHORT
The Parti Québécois is committed to:
Jean-François Lisée first recalled the fight led by the Parti Québécois alongside the Parents group to the end, which campaigns for all children with disabilities to obtain equity in terms of services, that their families are natural or welcoming. “Together, we strongly denounced Philippe Couillard&#39;s lack of compassion. The austerity his government has imposed has had serious consequences for thousands of children and families. Today, I am very proud to present a credible and comprehensive plan that will put in place a continuum of services and care to meet the needs of people living with a disability, ID or ASD, their families, and those who help them on a daily basis, ”said the chef first.
First, the Parti Québécois is committed to reducing waiting times for a diagnosis. “According to the testimony of several parents, the wait can be up to 12 or even 24 months in certain regions where there is a lack of resources and expertise. This is unacceptable! This is hardly better for the services themselves, which are often inaccessible. To improve access to services and ensure early detection of an ASD, we will invest $ 30M in the first year of our mandate and increase this amount by $ 10M each year. Ultimately, therefore, an additional $ 60 million will be devoted to resources and services related to ASDs. And there will be as much money for the ID, ”explained Dave Turcotte.
Then, we will put in place a policy for caregivers. “We will guarantee them 8 hours of respite per week. This will recognize the value of their commitment, their work and the sacrifices they make. We will also fund much better community organizations that support these caregivers and people living with an ID, ASD or disability themselves. The Parti Québécois is committed to increasing the funding of independent community action organizations in all sectors by $ 200 million, recurrent and cumulative, during the mandate. These groups will then be able to better support people, particularly in terms of employment, housing, personal finances, etc. », Added the vice-chef, Véronique Hivon.
“We will also stop making a difference between families who take care of a child living with a disability, depending on whether they are natural or foster. Ultimately, we will invest $ 24 million to strive for equity in services, in all regions. And each of these families will be able to count on professional services - respite, troubleshooting, babysitting, information or psychological support. The parents we met also demand more flexibility in the programs intended for them; with us, they will have it, ”continued Nicolas Dionne.
The Parti Québécois also intends to improve home support. “We will invest $ 100 million per year, to reach $ 500 million, in the long term, in order to initiate a real shift in health and social services for people living with a disability, ID or ASD. Vulnerable people, who need care or support, must be able to get it at home. CHSLDs will no longer be the only option; we favor autonomy, and we will give people the means to apply this principle by simplifying and improving the service employment check program, in particular. Likewise, we will ensure that the Régie du logement monitors the increase in rents in private residences, ”said Véronique Hivon.
“We need to take better care of our world. This is one of the major challenges of this electoral campaign. The Parti Québécois has the right team, the right plan and, above all, an iron will. With us, the compassion deficit will be over, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
