Quebec - The MNA for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, as well as the MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesperson for the status of women, Carole Poirier, mark International Women&#39;s Day, which will take place tomorrow.
“Since its creation, the actions of our political party have been guided by this aspiration for full equality between men and women. From one generation to the next, this fundamental cause has continued to be embodied by exceptional women and sometimes also men. Women have risen to higher levels; in all areas, they have shattered glass ceilings. In Quebec, thanks to pioneers, women now know that they do not have to impose limits on their ambitions. I am extremely proud, moreover, to have had the privilege of rubbing shoulders with some of them. On the occasion of International Women&#39;s Day, the members of the Parti Québécois join the entire population in paying tribute to each of these unique and remarkable women, ”declared Stéphane Bédard.
“In Quebec, the theme for International Women&#39;s Day this year is Women on the Move for Equality - Solidarity Against Austerity. This theme leads us, in the context of the decisions and cuts of the current government, to reflect on the fragility of our achievements, which have all been, we know, hard won, ”added Carole Poirier.
&quot;When the government cuts in health, social services, food security, social assistance, employment assistance, education, homework assistance, local and regional development, the environment, community housing, culture and services for people with functional limitations, it affects women in the first place, and it is worrying, ”continued the member.
“The day of March 8, this year, is not one where we will only remember past struggles so that we will never forget what others have done before us. More than ever, it must be one that allows us to unite our forces, to be united and to fight in the present against this austerity which threatens our achievements. As long as all women are not free, we will be on the march, ”concluded Carole Poirier.
