Lévis - While in the Chaudière-Appalaches region, the Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, presented her plan to promote entrepreneurship.
“Our government will support and grow Quebec businesses. It is businesses and entrepreneurs who create jobs and we are determined to strongly support them, using the levers of the State, ”said the Premier.
Pauline Marois announced four commitments to help businesses and entrepreneurs.
A government of the Parti Québécois:
maximize the benefits of oil exploration on Anticosti Island for Quebec SMEs.
“My political commitment is motivated by the desire to contribute to the prosperity of Quebec. We must help our companies to grow, to export, to conquer the world. This is the culture we want to deploy: in business, Quebecers must become the best in the world. We must encourage and support young people to go into business, to be bold. Quebec needs your talents, your skills, your ideas, ”added Pierre Karl Péladeau, Parti Québécois candidate in Saint-Jérôme.
“For the past 18 months, our government&#39;s roadmap has been impressive, particularly thanks to the Economic Policy Priority Employment, which acts on several fronts. With the Industrial Policy, to increase our productivity, the Foreign Trade Development Plan, to increase our exports, and the National Research and Innovation Policy, to support commercialization, we have put in place the necessary conditions to support the creation of jobs. Finally, with the Transport Electrification Strategy, we are developing a new high-performance industrial sector with high added value, ”continued the Prime Minister.
“Electrifying our transportation means betting on local businesses, which already manufacture trains, subways, buses, batteries and components for electric vehicles. This will allow us to create new technologies and new skills in a host of areas such as town planning, design, alternative energy methods and many more. We have everything we need to make Quebec more prosperous, ”concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau.
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
Watch the press conference.
