Quebec - The member for Kamouraska-Témiscouata and official opposition critic for agriculture and food, André Simard, demands from Minister Pierre Corbeil a complete report on the slaughter of animals according to rites religious. He asks the Minister to make this portrait public by March 23 in the National Assembly.
“For some time now, Quebecers have been discovering the effects of a legal provision allowing ritual slaughter. Thus, we learn, through the media, that Quebec consumers buy halal meat without them being informed. There is real discomfort in the face of this lack of transparency, ”said MP André Simard.
Indeed, legislation has long allowed the slaughter of animals according to religious rites. The regulations are federal and Quebec must comply with them. This type of slaughter is a direct blow to Quebec values. “In Quebec, we have long made the choice to slaughter our animals for consumption by taking measures to numb animals and slaughter them while minimizing suffering. In their great openness, Quebecers also accept that, on an exceptional basis, religious communities can carry out slaughter according to rituals. However, when the exception becomes the rule, there is a problem, ”continued André Simard.
The member for Kamouraska-Témiscouata, also a veterinarian, has been contacted by various sources in recent months to inform him of this practice, which seems to be increasingly widespread. The Parti Québécois also tried to obtain more information from the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (MAPAQ), but without success. The ministry has no information on this subject, according to a response to an access to information request that the official opposition sent a few weeks ago.
André Simard said he was surprised to learn yesterday that the slaughter of poultry in an Olymel slaughterhouse is halal, without any form of identification. “This is no longer hearsay, but corroborated facts. This means that this type of slaughter is widespread and that worries me, ”he added.
A few days before an interpellation that will take place in the National Assembly on March 23, the Parti Québécois is therefore asking for clarifications from Minister Corbeil in order to know the application and the framework of this legislative provision. “The MAPAQ has enough inspectors for the Minister to have a clear picture quickly. Consumers must be able to make an informed choice about where the products they buy come from. In this case, it is not normal that we withhold information on the type of slaughter ”, concluded André Simard.
