Québec - The MNA for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, and the MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesperson for the status of women, Carole Poirier, are pleased to mark the 75th anniversary of the obtaining of the right to vote and to be elected for women in Quebec. Assented to on April 25, 1940, Bill 18, supported by Prime Minister Adélard Godbout, represents both the culmination of a long-term struggle and a great collective victory for Quebeckers.
“Nowadays, it could not be otherwise, but we must remember the fight that women led to obtain their right to vote, starting in the 1920s. I think of Idola Saint-Jean , to Marie Gérin-Lajoie, to Mrs. Walter Lyman, to Thérèse Casgrain, among others; these pioneers will have shown great daring and tremendous determination to move Quebec forward, ”said Stéphane Bédard.
However, it was not until 1961 that a first woman, Marie-Claire Kirkland-Casgrain, made her entry into the National Assembly. Several others have since marked the political history of Quebec. “Let us think of Lise Payette, who has never ceased to campaign for the feminist cause, for justice, for equity. Her inspiring example inspired other women to get involved in politics, including the first to be elected to the highest office of the Quebec state, Pauline Marois. Let us also mention Louise Harel, the first woman to hold the presidency of the National Assembly; each in its own way, these women have contributed to our progress as a people, ”continued the Leader of the Official Opposition.
Carole Poirier also insisted on the importance of not lowering our guard, because the ideal of full equality has not yet been achieved. “Gender equality is not just a question of parity; we must also learn to listen to each other more, and to take better advantage of the differences between women and men, both in politics and in other spheres of activity. As Pauline Marois recently reminded us, &quot;society cannot deprive itself of so much talent, gray matter, sensitivity to different realities. [...] Equality does not mean that we are the same, we are the same. are different. We should have the same rights &quot;. To achieve this ideal, let&#39;s focus on education; it is through it that changes in mentality, the end of discrimination and real equality of opportunity will come about, ”she argued.
