Quebec, February 1, 2021 - Parti Québécois Leader Paul St-Pierre Plamondon, as well as Iles-de-la-Madeleine MP and health critic Joël Arseneau believe that it is time for the system to regional alerts by color is back, in order to better reflect the epidemiological situation in each region of Quebec.
IN BRIEF The epidemiological situation differs greatly from one region to another; However, the government continues to impose sanitary measures uniformly. In the eyes of the Parti Québécois, a return to the regional alert system - the famous color code - is desirable, because it better reflects the reality of each region. Logically, we must also lift the curfew in areas that would change to yellow or orange.
Paul St-Pierre Plamondon believes that a distinction must necessarily be made between the regions most heavily affected by the number of cases and hospitalizations, and those where the situation has been stable for several weeks. “In Bas-Saint-Laurent, the Côte-Nord, the Gaspé and the Magdalen Islands, for example, the data is stable, even encouraging. Under these conditions, it would be logical for the government to relax certain measures and constraints imposed on the population &quot;, he argued.&quot; For example, in these regions, one could in particular think of giving a little air to organized sports, non-essential businesses as well as the cultural sector. In addition, considering that the curfew was intended to be a measure of last resort, superimposed on the maximum alert level, we must lift in the regions considered less at risk, ”continued the leader of the Parti Québécois. In other words, ideally, we would revert to the regional alert system. “The color code is based on scientific criteria of public health and the epidemiological situation of each region. It reflects the real situation much better than the &quot;wall to wall&quot; method currently in force, and whose limits are obvious, &quot;continued Joël Arseneau. The Parti Québécois therefore asks the government to return, as of February 8, to an approach. differentiated by region. “It is not only a question of transparency, but also of coherence - two essential issues if we want the support of the population. And that&#39;s without taking into account that for hundreds of small businesses, this could make the difference between the survival of their business or bankruptcy, ”concluded Paul St-Pierre Plamondon.
– 30 –
SOURCE: Lucas Medernach Director of Communications Quebec Party
