Quebec - The member for Rousseau and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of finance and revenue, Nicolas Marceau, strongly denounces the announcement by the Minister of Finance, Carlos Leitão, who intends to raise the QST to 11%; this tax increase is unacceptable, given what the Liberal Party promised during the election campaign.
“The Liberals made a commitment to lower taxes, not raise taxes! Unfortunately, this is the recipe they favor: promise one thing, but govern while doing the opposite. They have been operating like this for 12 years! », Denounced the member for Rousseau.
Note that since the Liberal Party returned to government in April 2014, families in Quebec have seen their tax burden increase by some $ 1,500. “This new liberal decision is unfair, especially for people who are approaching retirement age: all their lives, they have paid a lot of tax but few taxes, and, now that they have a lower taxable income, they will have to pay more taxes! There is no fairness in this decision, it is regressive; the tax is more progressive and contributes more to social justice, ”continued Nicolas Marceau.
Moreover, there is no reason to believe that the changes announced by Carlos Leitão will really be at zero cost, as he claims. If so, there would necessarily be losers and winners, but who are they? The government does not identify them. “What we know is that the QST hike announced by the Minister of Finance will increase inequalities in Quebec. Middle-class families, among others, will not be protected from its effects, nor from those of the increase in many other tariffs. Let us add that the Ministry of Finance has already overestimated the revenues from the QST. Finally, the government has no solution to propose to counter the tax losses related to electronic and cross-border commerce, ”added Nicolas Marceau.
The spokesperson urges the Prime Minister to give details of his real intentions. &quot;Considering the number of times the Minister of Finance has been rebuffed by Philippe Couillard, the latter must now look Quebeckers in the eye and tell them whether or not he intends to increase the QST to 11%,&quot; he said. he concluded.
