Quebec - The MNA for René-Lévesque, Martin Ouellet, tabled a petition in the House this morning asking the government of Quebec to modify the Act respecting elections and referendums in municipalities before the next elections, so that any member of the a council or municipal body found criminally responsible for sexual assault be declared incompetent to perform their duties, regardless of the sentence.
During a press briefing held with her colleague Carole Poirier, spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on the status of women, as well as Julie Fréchette, Guilaine Lévesque and Maryse Gagnon, from CALACS Lumière Boréale in Baie-Comeau, Sylvie Ostigny, from Regroupement des femmes de la Côte-Nord, and Isabelle Brousse, from the Regroupement des groups de femmes de la region de la Capitale-Nationale (Portneuf – Québec – Charlevoix), the member for René-Lévesque also recalled the inadmissibility of &#39;a situation that persists in Baie-Trinité.
“The mayor of this Côte-Nord municipality was convicted of sexual assault in July 2015. He nevertheless continues to exercise his functions. It is unbearable, especially for the victims. It is essential to remedy the situation and ensure that when a decision is rendered by the Court, the judge is required to clearly establish whether the elected official is disqualified from sitting on the Council. This modification would make it possible to shorten the deadlines since, at present, a second procedure must be initiated to do so, ”explained Martin Ouellet.
“During the study of the estimates, the Minister responsible for the Status of Women indicated that she intended to act quickly to resolve this type of situation, in collaboration with the Minister of Municipal Affairs. We therefore expect concrete actions from him, ”added Carole Poirier.
It should be remembered that the Law allowing a municipal elected official to be temporarily relieved of his duties, adopted under the Parti Québécois government in the wake of the Charbonneau commission, had already outlined possible solutions to avoid such situations. “Unfortunately, in this case, the fact that the sentence has already been handed down prevents the application of this law. That is why today we are asking the government to use other means to correct this situation as quickly as possible, ”continued the MNA for René-Lévesque.
Finally, the Parti Québécois spokesperson for municipal affairs, Sylvain Gaudreault, wants the government to take this opportunity to make another amendment to the Act. “It is high time we stopped paying severance payments to elected officials who leave their functions during their term of office; I ask the minister to act promptly in this direction, ”he said.
