Quebec - The member for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, added her voice today to that of the Coalition for the maintenance of the Health Commissioner and welfare (CSBE).
“I would like to underline this citizens&#39; initiative launched by Ms. Line Bélanger, member of the CSBE Consultation Forum, aimed at bringing together all the groups to speak with one voice to denounce this completely senseless liberal decision to abolish the sentinel, the watchdog of the health network, at a time when it is suffering the repeated and undocumented repercussions of Minister Barrette&#39;s reforms. By doing so, the minister is depriving us of an independent view of great importance. These are several organizations representing citizens, doctors, unions, among others, who speak with one voice today; the Minister must listen to reason and reconsider his decision, ”declared the Member for Taillon.
“It was Philippe Couillard himself who created the CSBE barely 10 years ago. What does he think of the dismantling of his Minister of Health today? Isn&#39;t it strange that this government which has promised so much transparency is so opaque and that it is trying to silence the CSBE at the very moment when the latter is carrying out work on emergencies, CHSLDs and the remuneration of doctors? In these circumstances, we support the very legitimate request of three former deputy ministers of health, who demand that the Auditor General urgently assess the reforms. Nearly 50% of Quebec&#39;s budget is allocated to health. If the minister is so confident in his changes, he should favor and not muzzle their assessment. Why this resistance? We put all these questions to him this morning, but we got no answer, ”added Diane Lamarre.
The spokesperson recalls that in 2016-2017, the CSBE plans to publish several very relevant works. “We are awaiting the publication of a study on the performance of emergency departments in Quebec, along with recommendations, an analysis of the complaints examination system, as well as a report on housing for the elderly. In addition, the CSBE is pursuing a broad consultation on the concerns of Quebecers regarding the basket of insured services, and for which it has already received nearly 2,000 testimonials from the public. It has also started the necessary work on the revision of the method of remuneration of doctors, as well as on the public coverage of social services. It would be a real shame, even absurd, if such efforts did not come to fruition, ”she concluded.
Finally, let us recall that the Parti Québécois is sponsoring a petition in favor of maintaining the CSBE position. It can be viewed and signed online at https://www.assnat.qc.ca/fr/exprimez-votre-opinion/petition/Petition-5947/index.html.
