Quebec - The Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the MP for Duplessis, Lorraine Richard, have proposed a solution to the Liberal government to support the ex-workers of the Cliffs Natural Resources mining company and to fill the deficit in their pension fund. Several former employees and retirees of the company were also present at the press briefing, in support of the Parti Québécois proposal.
“These people who are accompanying us today are victims of the Plan Nord. When the price of metals fell, foreign investors disappeared, leaving them unemployed and deprived of part of their retirement. Since Cliffs came under the protection of the Companies&#39; Creditors Arrangement Act, the government has acquired the company&#39;s profitable assets at low cost. After the acquisition, the government is to announce the establishment of a limited partnership to operate the assets of Pointe-Noire, the railway and the port. We are proposing to include in the shareholders&#39; agreement the reimbursement of amounts missing from the Cliffs employee pension fund in order to restore full capitalization, through the payment of 30% of net operating income. The return on these assets will of course also be used to repay the government&#39;s investment, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
Remember that the Companies&#39; Creditors Arrangement Act does not consider retirees as priority creditors. As a result, the disposition of Cliffs assets will not honor the employer&#39;s share of pension fund contributions.
“Cliffs Natural Resources has ceased its activities, resulting in the loss of 600 jobs in Quebec and reducing the pensions of more than 700 members of the pension plan by 21%. For the North Shore, it is a real tragedy; economic development suffers enormously, being deprived of significant amounts. The Plan Nord, for ex-employees of Cliffs, is a loss of 21% of their pension plan, which is nevertheless a deferred salary for work already done. The solution that we are proposing could be spread over a few years, allowing everyone to find their account, including taxpayers and users, ”added Lorraine Richard.
