Bécancour - It is by visiting Fromagerie L&#39;Ancêtre de Bécancour that the Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, pledged to follow the federal government so that dairy and cheese producers here are compensated. for the impacts of a possible free trade agreement with the European Union.
On this occasion, she was accompanied by the Parti Québécois candidate in Rousseau and Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, by the candidate in Nicolet? Bécancour, Jean? René Dubois, and by the candidate in Montarville, Simon Prévost.
“Today we are making a formal commitment to Quebec dairy and cheese producers: we will ensure that the federal government respects its commitments. We are the only team that talks about agriculture in this campaign. Liberal leader Philippe Couillard has made no commitment to this major sector of our economy, ”said Pauline Marois.
“Quebec has obtained that a possible agreement protects our supply management system. However, the agreement in principle reached with the European Union poses problems for the cheese industry. Thus, because we insisted, the federal government made a commitment to compensate dairy and cheese producers who could be affected by increased imports. These measures must specifically agree on a long enough period of time for the increase in the import quota, and must ensure that the income of dairy and cheese producers is maintained, ”continued the leader of the Parti Québécois.
Moreover, the entry into force of this agreement will represent advantages for Quebec, in particular thanks to the elimination of tariffs on many products of interest, such as maple syrup. For meat producers, this agreement will allow access to the European market. Quebec, which is the leading Canadian exporter of pork meat, will therefore be able to take advantage of this access, while three slaughterhouses in Quebec are already certified by the European Union.
With its food sovereignty policy, the Parti Québécois government has endowed Quebec with a real agricultural policy, worthy of the 21st century. This recognizes the value and originality of Quebec products and highlights the know-how of Quebec artisans. Our policy will help agricultural producers to continue to modernize to face the challenges of globalization.
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
