Québec, November 4, 2014 - The member for Rimouski and official opposition spokesperson for seniors, Harold LeBel, and the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for social services, Jean-François Lisée, wish to take advantage of National Caregiver Week to recognize these exceptional people and salute all the work they do on a daily basis.
“We have more than 300,000 caregivers in Quebec. Most of them are women, who regularly provide care and support to a parent or loved one, sometimes to the detriment of their professional life. We must recognize family caregivers as partners, and not as resources, as they are currently considered. The care provided to vulnerable people is important, but we must also offer more respite and monitoring services to family caregivers, so that they can free themselves, recover and catch their breath, ”said Harold LeBel.
The member for Rosemont recalls for his part the lack of support, yet so crucial, with which caregivers must deal. In September, the Parti Québécois had the opportunity to address the subject at a meeting of the Committee on Citizen Relations, during which several groups and organizations came to testify to the dire needs of caregivers.
&quot;It goes without saying that we are very worried about the consequences of liberal austerity on family caregivers and the services offered to them, and we hope that the government will take advantage of this national week to improve the support it provides them&quot; , added Jean-François Lisée.
The MP also wishes to underline all the efforts made by community groups that support our family caregivers, as well as the spirit of solidarity that inspires them. We are thinking in particular of the Regroupement des aidants naturel du Québec, which does a very important job by working to improve the quality of life of family caregivers throughout Quebec, as well as Baluchon Alzheimer, which, with its some 25 baluchonneuses, offers respite to family caregivers of people with Alzheimer&#39;s disease.
“Despite the climate of uncertainty that reigns and the cuts to which the community sector has been subjected since the last budget, the groups continue to be present and to carry out essential work with the most vulnerable people in our society; this is to their credit, ”concluded Harold LeBel.
