Appealing to the spirit of openness shown by the government in certain files, the member for Matane-Matapédia and parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois, Pascal Bérubé, and the member for Rimouski and spokesperson for the second opposition group for the seniors and in the area of employment, Harold LeBel, proposed three measures aimed at tackling the labor shortage and concerning workers aged 65 and over.
IN BRIEF The Parti Québécois is proposing three measures to combat the labor shortage:
· Allow workers aged 65 and over to stop contributing to the Pension Plan.
· Allow the postponement of the retirement pension until age 75.
· Ensure that seniors are represented on the Labor Market Partners Commission.
We are reaching out to the government to ensure that these proposals are considered in a non-partisan manner for the next budget.
Many regions of Quebec are currently facing two major challenges: the labor shortage and the aging of the population. “The situation is contradictory to say the least: on the one hand, the number of unfilled positions continues to grow and, on the other hand, more and more workers aged 65 and over are being forced into retirement because our system does not encourage them to remain in employment, ”said the parliamentary leader at the outset, before adding that if Quebec had the same employment rate as Ontario for 60-69 year olds, we would count 66,000 more active workers in the market.
After having looked at and analyzed all the proposals made on this subject during the last electoral campaign, the elected members of the Parti Québécois identified three measures that could significantly and quickly improve the situation.
“We are proposing that as of the next budget, workers aged 65 and over can choose to stop contributing to the Quebec Pension Plan. Concretely, they could therefore see their net salary increase by 5%! This is how we clearly tell older workers that we want to continue to benefit from their experience and know-how, ”said the Member for Rimouski.
“In a spirit of openness and collaboration, we also encourage the government to adopt a proposal from the Liberal Party: allow the postponement of the retirement pension until age 75 - it would then be more generous. We believe that this measure would represent an excellent incentive to stay at work, ”added Pascal Bérubé.
“Finally, we are proposing to give seniors a place on the Labor Market Partners Commission. Thus, for example, we could put seniors who wish to work part-time in contact with employers struggling with a labor shortage. The reality of seniors wishing to remain active in the labor market would also be much better portrayed, ”concluded Harold LeBel.
