Quebec - Joining their voice to that of the Coalition of Regional Tables of Community Organizations (CTROC) during a press briefing at the National Assembly, the MNA for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for services social, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the member for Rimouski and spokesperson for the elderly as well as in the fight against poverty, solidarity and The social economy, Harold LeBel, is worried about the impacts of the intermixing of structures in the health network following the adoption, under gag order, of Bill 10.
“On several occasions in parliamentary committee, we have expressed to Minister Gaétan Barrette our concerns regarding the preservation of the budgets granted to community health and social services organizations. We denounced all the uncertainty created by this mixing of structures and the cuts in services that the community sector will have to make up for in the coming months. The unprecedented centralization, adopted under gag order with Bill 10, will have significant consequences for local expertise. Can we afford to drop all this expertise, as well as the necessary consultation between the health and social services network and the community? », Asked Jean-François Lisée.
“We have worked very hard to ensure that Minister Barrette recognizes the importance of community organizations that work with vulnerable people and seniors, especially those living in poverty. The harmful effects will be major for these organisms; they are often the last resort for people in difficulty, especially when it comes to housing or social assistance. Faced with the minister&#39;s indifference, we insisted and defended them throughout the work surrounding Bill 10, adopted under gag order, ”added Harold LeBel.
“Let us also recall that with the remarks made by Minister Carlos Leitão last October, suggesting that community groups could take over from certain services currently provided by the Ministry of Health and Social Services, the situation appears to us to be difficult. &#39;all the more worrying,&#39; continued Jean-François Lisée.
Adverse effects on the ground
“The repercussions of austerity are visible everywhere in Quebec. The concrete examples of community organizations threatened with closure, in particular because of the new rules of the Homelessness Partnership Strategy (HPS) and the unconvincing responses from Minister Lucie Charlebois, are numerous and disturbing. We have also recently learned that the positions of street workers are in danger, since the municipalities, grappling with the cuts of 300 million from the Fiscal Pact, no longer have the means to pay them, ”said Jean-Francois. Lisee.
“Just like the CTROC and the Touche pas à mes regions! Coalition, we denounce the dismantling of regional consultation bodies. Behind the structures that are abolished, there are people, resources, tools. These are huge losses for local development and the regions. It is totally unacceptable to plunge the network into such a mess, when the priorities are quite different. It is patients and access to care that should be a priority, as should support for the community environment, which every day accompanies thousands of citizens struggling with all kinds of difficulties, ”concluded the Member for Rosemont.
