Quebec– Sylvain Gaudreault, MP for Jonquière and official opposition spokesperson for sustainable development and the environment, and Bernard for Marie-Victorin and spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, call on the Liberal government to immediately stop TransCanada&#39;s work in Gros-Cacouna.
The Parti Québécois deplores the fact that the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment and the Fight against Climate Change, David Heurtel, shows so little consistency and caution in his assessment. “The Energy East project is disastrous for the environment. Authorizing geotechnical drilling in habitat essential to the survival of belugas, without having access to the best possible scientific information, is already troubling. Authorizing the holding of exploratory drilling in a St. Lawrence nature reserve sheltering a biodiversity unique in the world for the possible passage of an oil pipeline, that becomes unbelievable! », Declared Sylvain Gaudreault.
Last May, the Minister of the Environment boasted, along with his colleague, Minister of Natural Resources, of presenting a “global, coherent, rigorous and integrated” vision in the government action plan on hydrocarbons. “The project is not profitable for Quebecers. We do not want our territory to become a mere highway to get oil out of the tar sands. What is the interest of Quebeckers in this? We see above all the environmental and safety risks associated with the pipeline project, in exchange for economic benefits that are far from convincing, ”added Bernard Drainville.
Worse, the Minister of the Environment made three major admissions in this file:
The documentation of environmental impacts is currently insufficient to give the green light to any stage of the TransCanada project. Serious questions remain unanswered.
A BAPE is necessary if we want to work with rigor and to get out of a logic of incoherent decisions taken in isolation.
In conclusion, the members for Jonquière and Marie-Victorin demand:
By resigning itself to not being able to prevent the continuation of TransCanada&#39;s work in Gros-Cacouna, the Couillard government is demonstrating that Quebecers are not masters of their territory, a finding that is unacceptable to the Parti Québécois. On the contrary, we alone have the right to decide how to develop our economy, while respecting the environment. The government has a duty to ensure that this right is respected.
