Québec, May 11, 2020 - For the sake of transparency and precision, and for the benefit of the entire population of Québec, the member for Matane-Matapédia and parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois, Pascal Bérubé, as well as the member for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and health spokesperson, Joël Arseneau, want a clear line to be drawn between politics and Public Health, in particular to preserve the latter&#39;s independence.
IN SHORT
Since the start of the crisis, the Prime Minister has mentioned that his government relies on public health experts to determine the scales and the timetable for deconfinement. However, in recent days, the joint press briefings of political power and public health have caused a lot of confusion. &quot;It is increasingly difficult to determine to what extent the government relays the recommendations of Public Health, and if the latter agrees with the deconfinement strategy adopted, while the situation continues to deteriorate in Montreal. . So that Quebeckers can get a clear idea, the two entities should no longer share the same forum. For us, this distancing would have the advantage of preserving the necessary independence of Public Health. It is always the politician who decides. Public health is an adviser, ”said the parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois.
His colleague from the Magdalen Islands also believes that the population would benefit if Public Health - whose main mandate is to determine, based on science, the safest procedure to follow - clearly indicated its recommendations. . “In a period of deconfinement, everything must be done to ensure the health and safety of workers and citizens in general; It then becomes fundamental to know the part of the decisions which is the opinion of the experts, and that which is more the responsibility of the government. Citizens should be able to know if the recommendations of Public Health are being followed to the letter, or if there is still work to be done to meet the targets. Currently, only the Prime Minister is witnessing the reservations of public health. But the latter is indebted to all Quebecers, and not only to the government. Obviously, this exercise is only possible if the press briefings are held separately, ”argued Joël Arseneau.
“The issues related to the pandemic are great and worrying. Quebeckers are worried. It is more than essential that the government be in harmony with the experts, and that Public Health can say what it wants, when it wants, ”concluded Pascal Bérubé.
