Montreal - Surrounded by the Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Bourget and Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, by the candidate in Verdun, Lorraine Pintal, by the candidate in Mercier, Sylvie Legault, by the candidate in Charlesbourg, Dominique Payette, the candidate in Laporte, Sophie Stanké, and the candidate in Jean-Talon, Clément Laberge, the premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, presented the commitments of the Parti Québécois for the cultural community at the Quebec.
“Our culture is a source of pride for all Quebecers. It contributes to the development of the Quebec nation, to the vitality of the French language; it is the mark of our specificity. To showcase our heritage and promote our talents and our artists, the Parti Québécois is committed to providing Quebec with a new cultural policy. This policy will strengthen our culture, give it the means to develop fully, to remain inspiring and dynamic, ”said Pauline Marois.
For 25 years, technological changes have modified the cultural universe by pushing back borders, markets, skills, laws and funding. Cultural institutions and artists must learn to live with these changes. Quebec&#39;s cultural policy has not been modernized for 22 years.
“The Liberal Party has no vision for Quebec culture; he did not make any commitment on this subject. We cannot trust Philippe Couillard to defend our identity and our culture, ”added the Prime Minister.
The Parti Québécois government has moved forward on a number of issues that were stagnant under the Liberals. We have announced significant investments:
In addition, as part of Montreal&#39;s 375th anniversary, the Parti Québécois government is committed to supporting the Pointe-à-Callière museum expansion project and the Cité Mémoire project, which will aim to enhance heritage in Old Montreal.
Finally, the “Pôle de creation et de diffusion de Gaspé”, of the Regroupement Pied Carré, with a view to establishing permanent artists and craftsmen in the Mile End, was financially supported.
“To give new impetus to our culture and to increase its vitality, I am announcing that a Parti Québécois government is committed to ensuring that the cultural sector goes digital. We have also announced $ 150 million in the 2014-2015 budget to support the media and cultural institutions, from creation to marketing of works, ”said Pauline Marois.
The Parti Québécois government is the first to have published a real digital strategy of this scope for Quebec. It affects all the major cultural sectors such as the arts and letters, cultural industries, media, heritage, museology and libraries. The cultural strategy will enrich the offer of digital cultural content and facilitate the dissemination of content. In particular, it will allow the purchase and access to cutting-edge technology equipment for artists and theaters, and it will allow the digitization of content. In the era of new means of communication, this is a major step forward for visibility and access to our culture.
Télé-Québec&#39;s cultural Web platform is, moreover, a concrete illustration of the digital shift that the cultural world of Quebec must take. The sitelafabriqueculturelle.tv offers a showcase of choice to our artists of all disciplines and all regions of Quebec. Culture enthusiasts thus have access to portraits, interviews, performances, works in creation, short films and archival documents specific to our culture.
In addition, over the past 18 months, the Parti Québécois government has initiated the pilot project “A school welcomes an artist” so that children and young people are more in contact with art. This initiative will be expanded in a future term.
In addition, the Parti Québécois government has started important work on cultural philanthropy, the future of our cinema and the improvement of our museum network. This work was carried out in partnership with the circles concerned. Recommendations have already been put in place, particularly with regard to philanthropy. The work will continue over the next four years.
Finally, a Parti Québécois government undertakes to table a bill to regulate the price of a new book.
“At the Parti Québécois, we believe that contact with art makes people better, that our culture is rich, that it is a source of pride and prosperity. We have a plan to support Quebec culture; we want to continue our work, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
Watch the press conference.
Watch Lorraine Pintal&#39;s message.
For a strong and vibrant culture !, a post from Lorraine Pintal to read on the Huffington Post Quebec blog.
