L&#39;Assomption - After Electrolux executives confirmed the date for the closure of the L&#39;Assomption plant, the Parti Québécois candidate in L&#39;Assomption, Pierre Paquette, the candidate in Repentigny, Scott McKay, and the candidate in Rousseau and Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, reiterated the commitment of the Prime Minister and the Parti Québécois not to let down the some 1,300 workers at the plant.
“I want to assure the 1,300 Electrolux workers and their families that the Parti Québécois will continue to do everything possible to help them get back to work quickly. As soon as the company indicates its intentions with regard to the plant, we can put in place a strategy to exploit the potential of its industrial conversion. We ask Swedish society to make its decision known as quickly as possible so that we can act, ”said Pierre Paquette.
“As early as May 2013, we made funds available to find economic stimulus projects for L&#39;Assomption. Our strategy is deployed in three axes. The first concerns the industrial conversion of the plant, as my colleague Pierre Paquette mentioned, with active canvassing. The second axis establishes a model for the economic vision of the MRC. Finally, we are going to enhance the region&#39;s industrial appeal by identifying niches for the future, ”continued Scott McKay.
Moreover, Emploi-Québec has already implemented a series of measures such as training projects for workers and an ad hoc table for subcontractors, an investment that represents more than $ 1.4 million. In addition, Emploi-Québec has set up a reclassification assistance committee that will continue to support workers over the coming months.
“A Parti Québécois government will be there to support industrial projects that could help revive L&#39;Assomption and the Lanaudière region. We will continue to work with the MRC and the Local Development Center so that these projects progress quickly. The next few weeks are likely to be more difficult, but workers and their families will always be able to count on the help of our government, ”concluded Nicolas Marceau.
