Quebec - The member for Verchères and official opposition spokesperson for ethics and integrity, Stéphane Bergeron, today tabled a motion in the National Assembly asking the government to extend the work of the Commission investigation into the awarding and management of public contracts in the construction industry (Charbonneau commission). Yesterday, the former investigator of Operation Diligence, Sylvain Tremblay, affirmed that &quot;everything that was inside the file on the Liberal Party has been completely concealed&quot;.
“The assertions of this ex-investigator of the Sûreté du Québec are worrying. The Commission had the mandate to investigate the link between the funding of political parties and the awarding of public contracts. According to Mr. Tremblay, it would not have gone far enough. The system, the workings of which we have started to understand, has not been fully revealed, and it is important to do so, ”said Stéphane Bergeron.
The deputy is surprised that the Commission has not summoned Marc Bibeau to respond to the various allegations that have circulated about him. “The Commission went so far as to summon a Union Montreal receptionist to find out whether or not Bernard Trépanier had asked her to count tickets. But she did not consider it necessary that the great liberal financier, Marc Bibeau, come to testify. Mr. Bibeau would have pretended to be a member of Jean Charest&#39;s cabinet, would have requested the list of contracts from Hydro-Quebec and would have promised contracts to contractors in exchange for financing. It is the least that he can come and explain himself under oath before the Commission, ”continued Stéphane Bergeron.
The motion tabled reads as follows:
“That the National Assembly take note of the statements made by the former Sûreté du Québec investigator, Mr. Sylvain Tremblay, and consider the opinion expressed by a large number of citizens to the effect that the Charbonneau commission failed to hear several key witnesses and demand that the Liberal government extend the commission&#39;s mandate in order to complete its analysis of the links between the awarding of public contracts within the Quebec government and the funding of political parties.
Let this motion become an order of the Assembly. &quot;
The member deplores the fact that the Liberal government and the CAQ rejected the motion. “After resisting for more than two and a half years before setting up a commission of inquiry, the culture of secrecy continues at the PLQ. All the light must be shed; it appears clear that key people were not heard by the Commission. Integrity and ethics in the awarding of public contracts are essential for Quebec, ”concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
