The leader and vice-leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée and Véronique Hivon, “accompanied” by Paul St-Pierre Plamondon, Parti Québécois candidate in Prévost, presented the Parti Québécois plan to improve work-life balance personal; this involves in particular teleworking.
IN SHORT
“Since the start of the campaign, we have been making more proposals to give families more time. Today, we rely on technological tools to facilitate the reconciliation between professional and personal life. In 2018, they are performing well enough that we can trust them without affecting performance. Our objective is therefore for there to be 200,000 more teleworkers in Quebec by 2025, ”announced Jean ‑ François Lisée.
According to the CIRANO study, the savings realized by a worker doing two days of teleworking per week are estimated between $ 600 and $ 3,500 annually. For the company, the savings can reach $ 10,000.
“To get there, we obviously have to support SMEs and employers. This is why we will be implementing, for the first year, a tax credit that will help them implement telework when the tasks of the employees allow it. To set an example, the State will promote teleworking; we estimate that in certain crown corporations and in the public service, several people could telework at least one day per week ”, continued Paul St-Pierre Plamondon.
“We will thus allow Quebecers to have more time for themselves and for their loved ones. In addition, by limiting travel, we reduce road congestion and GHG emissions. Depending on the number of days of teleworking, this measure will remove 14,000 to 35,000 cars from the roads each day, which corresponds to between 16,000 and 40,000 tonnes of GHGs per year. Remember that in the greater Montreal area, a worker can spend the equivalent of a week in his car, each year, only for the back and forth trips between his home and his office! The time has come to rethink the way we do things. The Parti Québécois is proposing a bunch of concrete measures that really go in this direction, ”concluded Véronique Hivon.
For our explanatory sheet, click here.
