Quebec, March 8, 2017 - The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the Parti Québécois spokesperson for the status of women, Mireille Jean, mark International Women&#39;s Day, which is being held this year in Quebec under the theme “Equality without limits”.
“Today we celebrate women, their struggles, their aspirations, their achievements. We recall the importance of their presence in all spheres of society, as well as the need to achieve parity, by putting the necessary efforts into it. We reaffirm our desire to see women, all women in the world, thrive in a respectful, safe and egalitarian environment ”, declared Jean François Lisée straight away.
“Lately, unfortunately, the news has reminded us how fragile women&#39;s achievements remain - let&#39;s just think of Indigenous women. Sustained efforts and vigilance are therefore essential and, in all cases, &quot;denounce&quot; is the key word. Indeed, everyone has a duty to denounce abuse or injustice; to be silent is to roll back the cause of equality between men and women, ”added Mirelle Jean.
&quot;For Quebec to continue moving forward, elected officials from all political parties must set an example,&quot; continued the spokesperson. At the Parti Québécois, we will strive, among other things, to achieve a zone of parity in our candidacies. And our government will be equal. In addition, since last year, we have passed two significant amendments in favor of women: one of them aims to ensure a safe perimeter around abortion clinics, and the other gives municipal officials leave. 18 week parent. &quot;
Meanwhile, the government seems resigned to waiting for things to happen on their own. “The Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Lise Thériault, promised almost a year ago to legislate on gender parity. We are still waiting. Then, yesterday, the Prime Minister refused to meet with members of the March 8 Collective. No matter how hard I look, I cannot find any valid argument that could support this decision. And what about the necessary return of sex education classes? The Parti Québécois will closely monitor the situation; women can count on us, ”insisted Mireille Jean.
“International Women&#39;s Day, in addition to provoking individual and collective reflection on the notion of equality, also leads us to remember all those who have come before us and who, through their struggles, their courage and their will, have has been able to advance Quebec society. Let us thank them and pay homage to them, ”concluded Jean François Lisée.
