Quebec - The member for Saint-Jérôme and leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, as well as the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of entrepreneurship, Martin Ouellet, paid tribute to the memory of Mr. Bernard Lamarre, renowned Quebec engineer, whose death we learned earlier today. He was 84 years old.
“On behalf of the entire Parti Québécois team, I offer my sincere condolences to the family and loved ones of Bernard Lamarre. This entrepreneur driven by passion and daring has paved the way for generations of engineers. His talent, recognized and hailed by all, has allowed Quebec genius to shine around the world. Mr. Lamarre will remain forever associated with the emergence of Quebec inc. It is a source of pride for all Quebecers, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
Among the achievements in which Bernard Lamarre has participated, we can mention the James Bay hydroelectric complex, the completion of the Montreal Olympic Stadium, the Champlain Bridge boom, the Ville-Marie highway and the Louis-Hippolyte-La bridge-tunnel. Fontaine, in addition to numerous projects abroad. “Bernard Lamarre&#39;s ambition knew no bounds. Under his leadership, his company crossed borders and became one of the most important engineering companies on the planet, piloting large-scale projects in some fifty countries, ”continued the leader of the official opposition.
In addition to his business successes, Bernard Lamarre was also actively involved in the community. “He was named an Officer, then a Grand Officer of the Ordre national du Québec, in particular for his constant commitment to social and cultural causes. The Montreal Museum of Fine Arts, the Order of Engineers of Quebec, the Société du Vieux-Port de Montréal, among others, have been able to count on his experience and dedication. He has also always advocated for entrepreneurship, and used his talents as a communicator to promote it. There is no doubt that Bernard Lamarre is one of the great builders of modern Quebec, ”added Martin Ouellet.
