Québec - Stéphane Bédard, the member for Chicoutimi, leader of the official opposition and critic for institutional reform, and the members of the Parti Québécois from the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie regions accept the proposal of the Coalition for the maintenance of counties in the regions to extend beyond June 30 the suspension of the process of delimiting the electoral map provided for in Law 132.
“The observation is quite eloquent and shared by the majority: Bill 19 does not meet expectations and does not resolve the problem on a permanent basis. The solution must be lasting, not just for an election. This is what we have been saying for a long time and this is exactly what the Coalition is asking for as well. To do this, we must hold a parliamentary commission as soon as possible to review the criteria of the Election Law, ”declared Stéphane Bédard.
The Parti Québécois and the Coalition share the same concern that this parliamentary commission is examining the principle of the dynamic occupation of the territory and the fair representation of rural and urban constituencies. “Urbanity and rurality are present in all regions of Quebec. For us, this is a criterion that would allow the maintenance of the political weight of our region and of all the regions of Quebec, ”recalled the MP for Matane, Pascal Bérubé.
“The Coalition offers the Minister for the Reform of Democratic Institutions, Pierre Moreau, to get out of the corner. He must endorse this offer and push back the June 30 deadline. Parliamentarians must meet this fall, in a calm climate, in order to reach a lasting solution, ”continued the MP for Kamouraska-Témiscouata, André Simard.
“The citizens of Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie want sincerity and a real desire to protect the weight of the regions of Quebec in a lasting way,” said the member for Rimouski, Irvin Pelletier.
Note that an agreement was reached to hold consultations on the following criteria:
“Today, the ball is in the court of the Premier of Quebec, Jean Charest. At a minimum, he must authorize his minister to say yes to this request, ”concluded Matapedia MNA Danielle Doyer.
