Quebec– Diane Lamarre, Member of Parliament for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, this morning presented to the National Assembly Bill 691, An Act to prohibit the billing of incidental costs for insured services. This bill removes the regulatory power to order incidental costs that Minister Barrette had given himself in Bill 20.
“The Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, often complains about the duration of the study of Bill 20. I contested for hours the amendment he wanted to impose concerning incidental costs. The minister trivialized these fees, refusing to see them as a clear obstacle to universal access to care. However, for the underprivileged, for the elderly - often the most affected by these costs for ophthalmologists or dermatologists - these &quot;surprise overloads&quot; at the doctor&#39;s office can make essential care unaffordable, &quot;said Diane. Lamarre.
While organizations representing several hundred thousand Quebeckers, including groups of physicians, also publicly opposed these accessory costs, the minister persisted in wanting to impose them. It was only recently that he realized how unacceptable his amendments in favor of incidental costs were.
&quot;The Minister having declared on several occasions in recent weeks that he no longer intends to publish by regulation a list of fees that physicians may charge to patients for services already provided by the RAMQ, he this regulatory power should not be maintained. We are proposing - following the example of the Québec Ombudsman, who made a recommendation, until recently, during its consultation on Bill 92 - to remove this power given to himself by Minister Barrette. We must send the clear and unequivocal message that the ancillary costs are over, and that from now on, they are strictly prohibited, ”continued the deputy.
“The Parti Québécois continues its fight against overbilling on behalf of patients, on behalf of users and on behalf of all citizens of Quebec who already pay, through their taxes, for health services. We are calling on the government to cooperate and ask it to call for and quickly adopt our bill, ”concluded Diane Lamarre.
Let us recall that Bill 20 provides, in section 76, that “the ancillary costs [provided for in the agreements] (…) may continue to be billed until the entry into force of the first regulation”; therefore, as long as the minister does not repeal this provision, the status quo prevails. His statements that there will be no settlement have no legal value. He needs to call and pass Bill 691 quickly to put an end to any ambiguity.
