Québec, February 28, 2021 - The member for Duplessis and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois pour les Seniors, Lorraine Richard, as well as her colleague from Îles-de-la-Madeleine and spokesperson for health and social services, Joël Arseneau, believe that the government is on the wrong track by taking for granted that all seniors not residing in CHSLDs or RPAs are able to travel to receive the COVID-19 vaccine. According to them, it would be much simpler and more logical to organize the vaccination at home for the most vulnerable.
IN SHORT
&quot;This week at a press conference, the Minister of Health, Christian Dubé, declared that&quot; the principle [for seniors wishing to be vaccinated] is to move around &quot;; yet many of them have no capacity, no way to do it. Logically, it would be more for the vaccine to reach them, ”argued Lorraine Richard.
The member argues that community organizations, from which the government has requested support, will not necessarily be able to meet the demand. “The people who work in these organizations are certainly generous and dedicated, but often they are elderly and volunteer. However, at no time did the minister mention that he intended to provide them with support, financial or otherwise. Does he ignore the immense logistical, technical and human challenges of moving an elderly with loss of autonomy to a vaccination center? », She continued.
“It is astonishing that the government, which has been busy planning the vaccination operation for months, has ignored, for example, the issue of distance, given the vast territory of Quebec. Or that despite the evidence, he failed to consider that sometimes the simple act of moving a person puts their health or safety at risk. For us, it is clear: some people must be vaccinated at home, whether they are elderly, disabled or with reduced mobility, ”added Joël Arseneau.
To those who would doubt such an approach, especially given the constraints linked to the storage of Pfizer&#39;s vaccine - although they were recently eased - the MP replied that no obstacle is insurmountable. “In Switzerland, for example, we organize home vaccination operations for vulnerable people who cannot move around. We use refrigerated boxes, time is strictly controlled, and all actors collaborate effectively. The key is careful planning up front, and using the right people, such as paramedics, ”he added.
“Since the start of the crisis, the government has repeated that seniors must be protected as a priority, and no one is questioning this evidence. However, it is not for them to live up to expectations; it is up to the government to adapt to their reality. It must therefore review its strategy, ”concluded Lorraine Richard.
– 30 –
SOURCE :
Laura Chouinard-Thuly
Press Officer
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois
514 880-9594
Laura.Chouinard-Thuly@assnat.qc.ca
