Quebec - Diane Lamarre, the member for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, today tabled Bill 491, An Act to put an end to incidental costs by amending the various legislative provisions.
“For the Parti Québécois, it is clear that patients do not have to pay or take out their credit card to access insured services. In this sense, Bill 491 puts an end to all forms of overbilling and ensures everyone the same chances of access to health care. It also reaffirms the public and universal character of our health system, and places patients at the center of the legislator&#39;s concerns. Currently, they are obviously not there, since we have a minister of doctors more than a minister of patients, ”declared the deputy.
“The Minister of Health himself admits that these fees are actually a trick used by some doctors to pay their office fees and increase their profit margin. We say: enough is enough! Let us stop tolerating an illegal practice that takes patients hostage. The minister persisted, after dozens of hours of debate in committee, in wanting to legalize the illegal, even going so far as to allow doctors to bill more services to patients. We therefore attempt one last time to reason with it. If the minister does not hear, perhaps his leader will be more receptive and call our bill, ”added Diane Lamarre.
In summary, Bill 491:
“The physician compensation package is close to $ 7 billion for this year alone. We are of the opinion that the 1% necessary to cover ancillary costs, estimated at $ 50 million, should be provided for within this envelope, and not billed to patients, who already pay taxes. A simple reorganization of the money supply provided for the remuneration of physicians would make it possible to cover these costs and to prohibit their invoicing. We see them as real financial barriers that prevent some patients from accessing essential care. We are therefore taking the initiative of proposing an avenue that ensures justice and fairness to all Quebecers, the only avenue that is acceptable, ”concluded the MP.
