Montreal - The team of candidates of the Parti Québécois of the metropolitan region announces its commitments for Montreal. “A government of the Parti Québécois will appoint a minister responsible for the Metropolis. The Liberals have abandoned Montreal and its priority issues, namely public transit, roads, francization and integration of newcomers, the fight against poverty and homelessness. These files have rarely attracted the attention of the Prime Minister, deplored the candidate of the Parti Québécois in the riding of Pointe-aux-Trembles, Nicole Léger. We will rectify this situation. The government of Quebec must govern its metropolis in an integrated and coordinated manner. &quot;
The minister responsible for the Metropolis will be endowed with the authority and powers necessary to ensure the coherence of government policies towards Montreal. It will be supported by a permanent ministerial committee and will ensure links with the Montreal Metropolitan Community in carrying out the Metropolitan Land Use and Development Plan (PMAD).
Nicole Léger also reviewed the commitments of the Parti Québécois in family matters. “We have to keep our families in Montreal. Since the Liberal Party came to power, Montreal&#39;s interregional migration deficit has exceeded 20,000 people. We have to change that! », She launched. A Parti Québécois government will ensure Montreal&#39;s fair share in the construction of social and community housing and complete the network of early childhood centers so that each child has access to a place in daycare.
&quot;We will also enter into an agreement with the City of Montreal concerning integrated urban revitalization,&quot; added Nicole Léger. It is important to maintain a diversified social fabric and a good intergenerational balance to preserve cohesion and avoid the impoverishment and aging of the metropolis. Our neighborhoods must remain attractive living environments for everyone. &quot;
The candidate in the riding of Gouin, Nicolas Girard, for his part presented the commitments of the Parti Québécois in terms of the environment and public transport. “We will modernize and electrify the public transportation network,” he said. Traffic congestion has increased over the past decade and now costs us $ 1.5 billion a year. There have been no new metro stations on the island for 30 years. And while we do nothing, greenhouse gas emissions continue to rise and suffocate our planet. &quot;
A Parti Québécois government will extend the blue metro line to Anjou and add reserved lanes in all future road projects for the greater Montreal area. In order to achieve a 40% increase in ridership of the public transport network by 2020, financial priority will be given to public transport projects prioritized by the Montreal community.
&quot;We are going to improve the quality of the environment with the full participation of citizens,&quot; continued Nicolas Girard. In accordance with the principles established by the PMAD, we will protect woodlands and wetlands on the island of Montreal. We will also increase the supply of public transit and develop Montreal&#39;s green economy. &quot;
The fight against waste is also one of the priorities of the Parti Québécois platform for Montreal. The water and sewer network rehabilitation programs will be reviewed in order to reduce losses in the distribution of drinking water and improve wastewater treatment.
The protection of the French language and the promotion of culture are at the heart of the Parti Québécois&#39; commitments for the metropolis. “We are going to adopt a new Charter of the French language in order to make French the official language of work and education. It is not normal that more than a quarter of Montreal businesses do not respect the provisions of Bill 101 on signage and do not greet their customers in French. Montreal must be given back its French face ”, declared the Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Rosemont, Jean-François Lisée, adding that Montreal&#39;s cultural vitality is also a great force of international attraction on which we must build. to attract investment.
“Head offices and large companies are leaving Montreal. It is good paying jobs that are being lost. We must stop this bleeding and intervene more quickly, by relying on the new Banque de développement économique du Québec, which we are going to create, and the Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec. We must also capitalize on the strength of our culture, our language and our distinct identity to attract the best to us, ”he added.
“The French language and cultural dynamism make Montreal a unique city. They are forces of attraction for skilled workers and entrepreneurs from everywhere. We must build on these strengths. Our language and our culture are our best calling cards to invite the whole world to come to us, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
For the candidate in the Crémazie constituency, Diane De Courcy, education and the economy are two essential themes for the future of the metropolis. “We are going to step up efforts to fight dropping out and better prepare students for the demands of the 21st century. To achieve this, we will promote the next generation in science and technology and we will support a future city of trades in order to make vocational training more accessible to those under 20, ”she said.
“Let us not forget either that the manufacturing sector has weakened considerably over the past ten years. The unemployment rate is 3% higher in Montreal than elsewhere in Quebec. Several factories have closed their doors, it is unacceptable! », Added Diane De Courcy.
To tackle these problems, a Parti Québécois government will create favorable conditions to retain businesses and attract new ones, in particular by supporting the city&#39;s centers of excellence. “Montreal&#39;s cultural vitality is an exceptional business card for attracting new investments. But training a skilled workforce and supporting economic development poles in certain key sectors are the best ways to retain them. It&#39;s time for Montreal to become Quebec&#39;s economic powerhouse again! », Concluded Diane De Courcy.
