Quebec– The member for Terrebonne and official opposition critic for family matters, Mathieu Traversy, is pleased to mark Quebec Childcare Week 2015, taking place from May 24 to 30 and having as its theme My roots and my wings.
“On behalf of my colleagues in the parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois, I tip my hat to all the educators and dedicated professionals who, every day, are committed to providing quality services to children and their parents. Their commitment and generosity are sincere and their efforts are necessary for the proper functioning of the network, all the more so in this context of budgetary austerity. These people really hold the service with the strength of their arms; we are very grateful to them! &quot;Said the spokesperson.
It was at the initiative of a Parti Québécois government that the network of educational childcare services was created in 1997. Since then, the model has been envied around the world, in particular because it has given thousands of new parents the choice to return to school or the workforce, as well as the ability to better align work and family life. Unfortunately, this Quebec success is currently being abused by the Liberal government of Philippe Couillard.
“Increase and modulation of tariffs, end of universality, increasing privatizations… the short-sighted decisions of the government threaten equal opportunities. This is all the more worrying given that there is such a shortage of childcare spaces - since the Liberals have delayed their development - that a real license resale market, giving the right to subsidized spaces, has developed. . Some people are getting richer, there is speculation being done on the backs of children; this is totally unacceptable! Fortunately, we will have the opportunity to explore this question in greater depth during the parliamentary committee that we proposed and to which the minister finally consented. The quality of services given to children and their safety must be priorities at all times, ”concluded the deputy.
