Québec, August 19, 2019 - Noting that the theme of equalization gives rise to numerous debates and as many interpretations, the member for Matane-Matapédia and parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois, Pascal Bérubé, wishes to set the record straight. The hour: Quebec is far from being &quot;dependent&quot; on Canada, as many - notably the Premier of Alberta, Jason Kenney - like to have people believe.
IN SHORT
“It is important to denounce the attitude and the words of Jason Kenney. He is only trying to gain political capital; in his scenario, Quebeckers are the spoiled children of the federation and Albertans, those who are blithely abused. However, to affirm this is to omit, voluntarily or not, important pages of history ”, first indicated Pascal Bérubé.
Indeed, Premier Kenney, who takes the liberty of correcting his Quebec counterpart with arrogance, is careful never to mention that, originally, equalization was created to avoid a situation like that experienced by Alberta in the 1930s - she was in default by then. Since then, this province has certainly grown richer, but above all thanks to investments linked to oil, financed among other things by Quebecers&#39; money.
&quot;Quebec does not benefit from Canada or the equalization program,&quot; continued Pascal Bérubé. On the contrary, he contributes his fair share, without however obtaining any compensation. Where, for example, are the millions that Ottawa should pay us to fund health care? Investments for our forest industry? Where are the substantial maritime contracts for the Davie? Nowhere. Let us also remember that the federal government financially supported oil in the West, hydroelectricity in Newfoundland, the automotive industry in Ontario, and so on, while the development of Hydro-Quebec was funded. 100% by Quebecers. In the end, therefore, Quebec is clearly the loser. &quot;
“Nationalists and separatists know that Quebec would do better if it became independent. In this way, we would control 100% of our taxes, instead of sending part of it to Ottawa. No one could - falsely! - accuse us of receiving federal charity. Moreover, this has been demonstrated time and again: without the duplication of federalism, Quebec would have ample means to be sovereign. In short, independence has only virtues; I invite Mr. Kenney to consider this avenue, too, if he is not satisfied with the federation! Added the parliamentary leader.
