Québec - The MNA for Vachon and official opposition spokesperson for transport, Martine Ouellet, the MNA for Taschereau and spokesperson for the Capitale-Nationale region, Agnès Maltais, the MNA for Marie-Victorin and energy and natural resources spokesperson, Bernard Drainville, and the Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Jean-Talon, Clément Laberge, are concerned about the safety of the citizens of Jean-Talon and note that the government Liberal is still with absent subscribers when it comes to defending the interests of the citizens of Jean-Talon and Quebec in the face of the federal government&#39;s lack of consideration.
“If a new oil port is established at the Port of Quebec, hundreds of tank cars will pass through the heart of the riding of Jean-Talon. Quebec City must not turn into a highway for the export of oil from the tar sands. Transport Canada has been blamed by numerous reports for its lax safety and, meanwhile, the Liberal government is on its knees before the federal government. A BAPE must absolutely look into the Port of Quebec project so that the people of the region can express themselves, ”said Martine Ouellet.
“Ministers Heurtel and Hamad refuse to confirm whether there will be BAPE consultations on the Port of Quebec project, and they claim that Quebec laws will apply… find the mistake! Only a credible organization like the BAPE can evaluate the project and allow people to express themselves. We must consult our world independently. For the Liberals, a BAPE for the oil port of Cacouna is good, but a BAPE for an oil port in Quebec, we will see. Be serious! », Continued Agnès Maltais.
“In recent months, several projects have demonstrated Quebec&#39;s limited capacity to exercise its full sovereignty on the environmental level. In response to this, on December 3, my colleague Sylvain Gaudreault tabled a bill affirming the primacy of Quebec&#39;s environmental jurisdiction. For the Parti Québécois, it is only natural that Quebeckers have full control over what happens in their territory. Unfortunately, the Liberal government of Philippe Couillard refuses to defend our interests against the Government of Canada, ”added Bernard Drainville.
“This is not to alarm citizens, but to inform them that the Port of Quebec project concerns them very directly. I think that it is the role of a deputy to be at the side of the population in the face of the risks that could affect them. The CAQ candidate does not even seem to know. As for the Liberal Party, what has it done so far? I challenge Sébastien Proulx to tell the population if he intends to oppose the transport of oil intended for export in Jean-Talon, ”concluded Clément Laberge.
