Québec, December 1, 2016 - The Parti Québécois spokesperson for education, school perseverance and literacy, Alexandre Cloutier, asks the Minister of Education, Sébastien Proulx, to put in place a guaranteed threshold of direct services to students attending public schools in Quebec, within the framework of the policy on educational success that it is due to file soon.
Alexandre Cloutier is making this request while the national consultations on educational success are taking place today and tomorrow, in Quebec City. “Services for exceptional students should no longer bear the brunt of government budget decisions from year to year. The Ministry of Education establishes a minimum number of teachers per student; if the government is serious in its desire to fight against dropping out of school, it should be the same for professionals who work with young people in difficulty, ”he said.
“The government&#39;s national consultations will be in vain if they are not accompanied by concrete commitments in terms of funding and resources to meet the needs of the students. The Liberal government&#39;s repeated cuts have created a shortage of resources in our schools. Some situations are downright aberrant: ratios of one psychologist for 2,600 students in Abitibi-Témiscamingue; 53% of at-risk students who do not have services in the Quebec City region, etc. It is high time the Minister of Education set guidelines; a minimum threshold of services to students must be offered throughout the territory, ”insisted the spokesperson.
“This request is part of a series of proposals from the Parti Québécois to improve academic success: the deployment of 4-year-old kindergartens, the promotion of teachers and the improvement of their training, the introduction of a course in Quebec citizenship, free school materials and increased efforts to tackle illiteracy, among others. It is also essential that the issue of &quot;class composition&quot; be the subject of the next educational success policy, &quot;concluded Alexandre Cloutier.
