Drummondville– Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, accompanied by candidate in Drummond – Bois Francs, Daniel Lebel, and candidate in Chambly and Minister of Justice, Bertrand St Arnaud, announced that a government of Parti Québécois will continue to implement new measures to fight corruption and strengthen integrity.
As soon as it came to power, the Parti Québécois government adopted bills on integrity in public contracts and on the new funding regime for national political parties, making it possible to remove from office a municipal elected official accused criminally. . These laws, as well as other measures, notably enabled the government to save $ 240 million in road works.
A Parti Québécois government will table a specific bill that will facilitate the disclosure of wrongdoing in public bodies while ensuring the protection of “whistleblowers”.
“If such provisions had been introduced under the liberal reign of Jean Charest, state employees could have denounced, without fear of reprisals, the choices made by the cabinet of a liberal minister, in particular with regard to the allocation of subsidized places in daycare, political control of the sports infrastructure program or the system of appointing judges according to political affiliation, ”said Daniel Lebel.
“While the Liberal government did nothing for nine years, allowing the situation to deteriorate, our government has cleaned up. Laws and practices have been put in place to curb corruption and collusion. When we ask Philippe Couillard if he is comfortable with the legacy of Jean Charest, he avoids answering. How can we trust him to implement the future recommendations of the Charbonneau commission? »Added Bertrand St Arnaud.
&quot;It is only with a government of the Parti Québécois that the population can be assured that the fight against corruption and collusion will continue, and that integrity will be at the heart of the government&#39;s concerns&quot;, concluded Pauline Marois. .
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
Watch the press conference.
