Quebec - “Following the admission of the Liberal government to the decline of French in Montreal and elsewhere in Quebec, Minister Christine St-Pierre remained frozen and showed no real desire to make an effort to ensure that the situation &#39;improves,&#39; said the member for Drummond and official opposition spokesperson for language, Yves-François Blanchet.
“Even if yesterday the Liberals recognized that the French language is being abused in Quebec and that the efforts to protect it were insufficient, this morning Christine St-Pierre is not announcing anything to us. I questioned the Minister on the use of English as a working language, on the anglicization of immigrants, on commercial signage, on bridging schools, on English as a subject at the top of the list on new bulletins, on the anglicization of institutions and all I got as a response was a passive attitude, of laissez-faire, the consequences of which she certainly knows ”, continued the deputy.
“Voting for a motion from the official opposition stating:“ That the National Assembly note and deplore the non-respect of the provisions of the Charter of the French language in terms of commercial signage ”should normally have serious consequences. However, in light of what we are seeing this morning, all this government wanted was to save face, ”continued Yves-François Blanchet.
“We do not have more answers in five minutes during the interpellation than in one minute and a half during the question period. It is so sad to see the government of Quebec being responsible for the anglicization of Quebec through its excessive indifference. How can the Liberals be so lax? “Asked Yves-François Blanchet.
“For example, with regard to the English file at the Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec, I asked Minister St-Pierre at least seven times what she intended to do. His solution: think. It promises! », Quipped the deputy.
“The Liberal language policy is a public relations campaign that allows English to evolve quietly. It needs to change! ”, Concluded the member for Drummond.
