Montreal - Pierre Duchesne, Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Borduas and Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, announces that the Parti Québécois has filed a complaint with the Chief Electoral Officer (DGE ) of Quebec in relation to a fundraising activity of $ 428,000 revealed in the context of searches in connection with the financing of the Liberal Party of Quebec (PLQ), and which is not found in any financial report.
“Philippe Couillard wants to become prime minister; he must therefore answer the legitimate questions of the population about the party he is leading. Today, he announces that he wants to be transparent, but he does not say everything. What you need to know are the motives that led UPAC to search the headquarters of the Liberal Party last summer. We remember that Philippe Couillard personally received the visit of the investigators. What does he know he refuses to say? “, Asked Pierre Duchesne.
In fact, we learned in March 2013 that UPAC was investigating an alleged illegal financing system involving entrepreneurs who obtained contracts in exchange for political financing. A search of the premises of the Liberal Party brought to light certain fundraising activities, including a list of some 20 activities during which more than $ 700,000 were raised. A cocktail party also raised $ 428,000, an amount that is not found in any document sent by the PLQ to the CEO.
“Philippe Couillard must tell us what he knows about this illegal financing system. Where did that money go? Has Philippe Couillard checked his party to find out what happened with this money? Is it used in the current election campaign? Why does this amount not appear in his party&#39;s financial statements? He must explain himself, ”insisted Pierre Duchesne.
The search also informed us that there had been an exchange of envelopes with Schokbéton, a company belonging to Marc Bibeau, who is presented as the PLQ&#39;s big treasurer. “What role did Marc Bibeau play at the time, and is he still present in the PLQ&#39;s fundraising campaign? The police are investigating these questions, but it seems to us that it is the least of things, during an election campaign, that a candidate for the title of Prime Minister answers them, ”concluded Pierre Duchesne.
Watch the press conference.
