Montreal - It is with great sadness that the Parti Québécois and the members of its parliamentary wing have learned of the death of Mr. Pierre-Luc Paquette, former Director General of the Parti Québécois. It died out yesterday morning in Montreal. He was 46 years old.
“Being general manager of a party like the Parti Québécois requires a great degree of commitment. We have to listen to members, open spaces for discussion, offer training, work tirelessly to prepare the party and its activists for the election deadlines, all across Quebec. The years spent by Pierre-Luc at the head of the party have been fruitful and he has always guided by example. On behalf of the Parti Québécois, I offer my most sincere condolences to his son, his mother, his family and all those close to this tireless worker, ”declared Parti Québécois President Raymond Archambault.
The leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, recalled Mr. Paquette&#39;s long career as an activist. “Pierre-Luc campaigned for many years in the Parti Québécois before taking the reins. From the No campaign in Charlottetown in 1992 to the coordination of the national youth committee of the Parti Québécois (CNJPQ), through the referendum of 1995 and the election campaign of 1998, he has always been at the forefront, ready to organize places and moments of exchange, to convince new people. If there was a militant rally, no matter where in Quebec, you were sure to meet it. He loved the action and he welcomed new challenges with a smile on his face, ”he said.
Beyond his activist activities, Pierre-Luc was also a friend who leaves to mourn all those who have had the good fortune to cross his path.
“Pierre-Luc is the sincere guy who has always welcomed me with generosity, who introduced dozens of restaurants in the Plateau to the guy from Saguenay that I am. I can hardly imagine that he will no longer be there to get rid of a BIXI or to lead me to discover a new table. Thank you for everything, Pierre-Luc, ”concluded the member for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault.
