The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, accompanied by candidates Maka Kotto (Bourget), Dave Turcotte (Saint-Jean), Odette Lavigne (Fabre) and Frédéric Lapointe (Maurice-Richard), as well as Camil Bouchard, ex- member of the Parti Québécois and reference in childhood, presented his plan to ensure the benevolence of the State towards the children of Quebec, therefore to guarantee a bright future for each of them.
IN SHORT
The Parti Québécois government is committed to:
“All levels of government, all of society, must be committed to ensuring the well-being of children and youth. A Parti Québécois government will therefore elevate youth and education to the rank of permanent national priorities; the commitments we are making today illustrate this eloquently, ”said the leader of the Parti Québécois first.
There is no longer any need to prove this: liberal austerity has led to a reduction in the budgets reserved for youth protection and youth centers. “If we take into account that everything is played out in the first years of life, this is not acceptable. Quebec must take better care of its young people. Each of them must have the possibility of becoming an adult capable of loving and being loved. Everyone must develop their talents, have confidence in their abilities and succeed in being happy. A fulfilled child will become a free adult, in full possession of his means and committed to his community, ”continued Camil Bouchard.
To do this, the Parti Québécois government will create the post of Prime Minister&#39;s representative for children. “This person will report directly to the Prime Minister. It will be able to call on the Government of Quebec and the other levels of government on all issues related to the protection of our children and young people. In particular, she will see to the application of the recommendations of the Commission des droits de la personne et des droits de la jeunesse. Another of its mandates will be to identify proven strategies to fight against child abuse, ”added Dave Turcotte.
The project manager will also have the mandate to steer the national policy of benevolence towards children. “This policy will include an ambitious national objective - but absolutely necessary - of reducing the mistreatment of our children over a horizon of 4, then 8 years. To ensure its success, we will bring in the best research and preventive intervention teams in the area of child and youth mistreatment, ”said Odette Lavigne.
Frédéric Lapointe, for his part, recalled the commitment of the Parti Québécois for the adoption of a shield law, which will protect the budgets related to education, youth protection and the family (which include the educational daycare services). “Thus, future governments will be forced to pay the minimum amounts to support system costs over the years in these sectors. With such a law in effect, there will be no more sacrificed generation. The well-being of children and young people will henceforth be placed above budgetary vagaries, partisan interests and electoral calendars, ”he proudly insisted.
Finally, a Parti Québécois government will designate a minister responsible for youth, who will see to issues affecting primary and secondary education, youth protection and the family. “By bringing these areas together, we will be able to ensure a more coherent educational continuum between educational childcare services and the school network. In addition, the youth protection services and the school network will be able to work together more effectively, ”said Maka Kotto.
“Every time it has been in power, the Parti Québécois has adopted laws, policies and programs that have improved the lot of hundreds of thousands of children and parents. Today I have a thought for Mr. Jacques Parizeau, who often repeated that the primary mission of a government was to &quot;protect its world&quot;. We are resolutely committed to pursuing this mission and we will be up to the task: we will protect our world, ”concluded Jean ‑ François Lisée.
