Quebec - The member for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, today called on the Liberal government on the advantages of Quebec sovereignty.
“Every day, what happens in Quebec demonstrates to the population all the advantages that Quebec would have in being independent. As much for the protection of our territory, for our environmental choices, for the safeguard of our social policies, for our economy as for the defense of our language or our culture, the sovereignty of Quebec has never been more relevant. There are two observations at the moment in Quebec. First, the major societal choices that will determine our future will not be made in Quebec. The other observation is that it has become very clear that the national interest of Quebec is currently opposed to that of Canada in the most important issues, and that these questions affect Quebeckers in their reality. And these two interests, in the current context, are irreconcilable ”, declared Stéphane Bédard.
The leader of the official opposition also deplored the fact that Prime Minister Philippe Couillard and the head of the CAQ, François Legault, did not participate in the interpellation to defend their vision, or that Quebec has an advantage in staying within Canada. What is more, the representative of the CAQ left the Chamber, thus demonstrating the inability of his political formation to defend its vision of nationalism and to debate it on concrete questions, whether concerning the Champlain Bridge, the increase in oil transport for export or the French language.
Protecting our territory
&quot;How to tell a family from Cacouna or Sorel-Tracy that oil transport projects are not decided by the Quebec government, but by a Canadian institution, the National Energy Office, which is guided by interests economic and energy, not through safety and environmental concerns? So what do we have left? Lobby. Who will decide? Canada. The Liberal government has not shown today that decisions will be made in Quebec. The choices imposed by Ottawa are not helping us, ”added Stéphane Bédard.
Economic, environmental and cultural issues
“The federalists keep bringing the equalization argument back to us. Examples of economic choices that disadvantage Quebec abound, however. We should instead have a Quebec economic policy, with all our means, which would not support Alberta oil, the Ontario car or the financial circles of Toronto. We would focus on our areas of excellence: the electrification of transport, forestry, the aeronautics and pharmaceutical industries, in particular. Sovereignty is the end of the duplication of the 83 structures that exist both in Ottawa and in Quebec. The greatest cleansing in structures and bureaucracy, it is the Parti Québécois which proposes it ”, continued for his part the member for Rousseau and official opposition spokesperson in matters of finance and revenue, Nicolas Marceau. .
“There will be a climate change conference in Paris next year. Does the government find it acceptable for Canada to speak on our behalf on this issue that opposes us? Does he think it is normal for Quebec to be forced into corridor diplomacy, far from real discussions? The Liberals are choosing to try to exert influence in Canadian forums, while Quebec should make its voice heard in international forums. For years, Quebec has been asking that our Bill 101 apply to businesses under federal jurisdiction. Ottawa systematically refuses. Does the Liberal Party find it acceptable that the Government of Quebec is unable to enforce its language and its own laws in its territory? », Asked Stéphane Bédard.
“Today, Minister Jean-Marc Fournier and the CAQ have not demonstrated the interest of federalism. Worse, they were unable to evoke a single gain obtained against Ottawa since the election of a federalist government in Quebec. Yes, we believe that Quebec would have all the advantages of being independent. What I wish for my children is that the debates which divide us today will soon be a thing of the past. In a country of Quebec, tomorrow morning, no matter where we come from, no matter our background, whether we come from a family that arrived here at the same time as Champlain or last year, we would all be together to talk with one voice, indicate our priorities, register our values, here and internationally, ”concluded the Leader of the Official Opposition.
