Quebec– The MNA for Marie-Victorin and Official Opposition Critic for Energy and Natural Resources, Bernard Drainville, as well as the MNA for Verchères and Critic for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Stéphane Bergeron , are amazed at the Quebec government&#39;s adherence to the Canadian Energy Strategy.
“It makes you wonder if Philippe Couillard is not handing over to the rest of Canada the keys to our energy future. It is a gesture fraught with consequences because in these matters, Quebeckers have a vision at odds with Canadian values. Philippe Couillard is in the process of relinquishing control of our energy development, control of our energy sovereignty. By accepting the Canadian Energy Strategy, will the Prime Minister not thereby accept the passage of the TransCanada pipeline through our territory? Where is the Quebec interest? », Declared Bernard Drainville.
The Canadian Energy Strategy will necessarily reflect Canadian energy values, and these are the opposite of Quebec values. “We have clearly developed an energy identity that is unique to us. We are among the world leaders in hydroelectricity, we participate in the carbon market and we promote the emergence of green technologies ”, for his part recalled Stéphane Bergeron.
Who will decide for Quebec?
Several principles of the Canadian Energy Strategy threaten to weaken our power to decide in the best interests of Quebec. As the only member of the carbon market in Canada, could Quebec have to pay the cost of energy decisions made for the sole benefit of the other provinces? By slowing down, for example, all our efforts to reduce greenhouse gases, in order to promote a strategy focused on the development and export of fossil fuels, in particular oil from the tar sands?
“By adhering to this strategy, the Liberal government is ignoring Quebec&#39;s jurisdiction. It aims to promote open and non-discriminatory access to electricity transmission networks; Will there be an impact for Hydro-Québec, or on our ability to remain &quot;Masters at home&quot; in terms of energy? Could the mechanisms for authorizing energy projects by Quebec, through the Act respecting the Régie de l&#39;énergie, be called into question? », Continued the member for Verchères.
&quot;How will we, as Quebecers, be able to develop a strategy of energy independence that is unique to us, and that takes into account our characteristics and our strengths, if we have to follow a pan-Canadian strategy?&quot; », Concluded Bernard Drainville.
