Quebec - The leader of the official opposition, Jean François Lisée, the spokespersons for the Parti Québécois in matters of immigration and cultural communities, Carole Poirier, and secularism, Agnès Maltais, as well as the chairman of the caucus of deputies, Maka Kotto, launched the petition Integration and secularism: action, yes; a trial, no!
They were accompanied by MM. Ferid Chikhi, consultant in socio-professional integration, and Gabriel Bazin, lawyer, vice-president of the Black League of Quebec, and Mrs. Alexandra Regalado, businesswoman, vice-president of the Latin American Association of Quebec.
“Quebecers are an open, tolerant people. We can demonstrate it. There is racism, here as elsewhere, and we must act. But the emerging Commission on Racism and Systemic Discrimination is unacceptable. Someone has to stand up and say, &quot;Enough!&quot; It is enough to blame Quebeckers who hold on to secularism, who want to have a peaceful debate on immigration, who want to defend equality between men and women. Instead of making Quebecers feel guilty, the Liberal government should invest its energy in putting in place real employment integration measures for newcomers and real guidelines for religious accommodation. We call on Quebecers of all origins to sign our petition, in order to send a clear signal to Philippe Couillard, ”said Jean François Lisée.
“The Liberal government refuses to apply the consensus that has been forged around questions concerning religious symbols and secularism. By refusing to move Quebec forward, it is helping to fuel the division. All this out of pure electoral interest, ”added Agnès Maltais.
IN SHORT
The Parti Québécois launches the Integration and Secularism petition: action, yes; a trial, no! - In matters of integration and secularism, action is needed, not a trial accusing Quebecers of systemic racism - The petition calls for: 1) The immediate abandonment of the consultation project on racism and systemic discrimination; 2) The adoption, by June, of an omnibus bill and a calendar of actions on employment integration and the fight against racism and bullying, inspired in particular of the 20 measures proposed in February by the official opposition; 3) The adoption, by June, of a bill bringing together consensual measures on accommodation and religious symbols.
“The Liberal government is famous for its inaction, its cuts and its lack of will. He is insensitive to the high unemployment rate among adopted Quebecers. He refuses to take concrete action against discrimination in employment and housing. He reduced francization budgets, which are essential to successful integration. We have proposed 20 concrete measures to the Liberal government and to the Minister of Immigration, Kathleen Weil. The answer: only vague and imprecise. Why is she refusing to act? », Carole Poirier concluded.
SIGN THE PETITION NOW: http: //go.pq.org/tB9
SEE OUR 20 PROPOSALS: http: //pq.org/integration/
