Quebec - &quot;It is totally unacceptable that a francophone should be forced to use the services of a private francophone attendant because he is unable to obtain care in French from the attendants of a hospital in Quebec.&quot; This is what MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, said, informed of a complaint filed by a French-speaking Montreal citizen who was forced to assume the cost of a private French-speaking attendant to care for his mother in a hospital in Montreal.
Receiving long-term care at the Royal Victoria Hospital and awaiting transfer, an elderly lady is unable to seek treatment in French, a situation experienced by many patients. According to this complaint, this situation is known to the leaders of the hospital, but no change has been made. Thus, unilingual English-speaking nursing staff are put in touch with French-speaking patients.
“This situation is not only a question of language, but also of dignity and security,” added Carole Poirier.
The MNA for Taschereau and official opposition spokesperson for health, Agnès Maltais, was stunned to hear the Minister of Health and Social Services, Yves Bolduc, tell the National Assembly that Quebec has English-speaking hospitals. &quot; It&#39;s wrong. The minister does not know the law. All establishments must offer services in French. The law allows access to health services in English, but there is no English-speaking hospital in Quebec. There is a serious drift and the Minister of Health must act to call the leaders of the Royal Victoria to order, ”continued Agnès Maltais.
It was just as surprising to hear the minister say that a francophone has the right to seek treatment in French if he so requests. “We don&#39;t have to make the request, it must be automatic. Minister Bolduc must quickly demand a portrait of the linguistic situation of medical personnel in Montreal, ”she added.
For the member for Drummond and official opposition spokesperson for language, Yves-François Blanchet, this case clearly demonstrates the passivity of the Liberal government and of the minister responsible for the Charter of the French language, Christine St-Pierre. , to protect French in Quebec as a common language. “When a government minister affirms that there are hospitals in Montreal that are English-speaking, we have the greatest illustration that we are indeed in a linguistic drift,” concluded Yves-François Blanchet.
