Quebec - The member for Rousseau and official opposition critic for finance and revenue, Nicolas Marceau, announces that he will soon table a bill in the National Assembly to create the position of parliamentary budget officer (DPB).
“It is a proposal intended to strengthen the confidence of citizens in their institutions. Without any partisanship, the PBO will be able to analyze the government&#39;s financial situation and provide an independent report. This bill also aims to improve access to information for the population and a better understanding of public finance issues. We are also proposing a validation mechanism by the PBO which will allow citizens to know whether the electoral commitments of political parties are credible, ”declared Nicolas Marceau.
The three general mandates of the PBO will be:
“An independent expert will be able to produce a report on public finances at regular intervals, just as he will be able to publish a pre-election report on Quebec&#39;s budgetary situation. Thus, political parties will have the same information on which to base their electoral platform, and voters will be able to make their choice in the most enlightened way possible, ”added the Member for Rousseau.
A Parliamentary Budget Officer instead of the Auditor General (AG)
The deputy also indicates that this proposal goes further than that of the government inserted in Bill 28, which only entrusts the realization of a pre-electoral report to the VG. “For us, it is the PBO who should be responsible, in addition to the mandates that we are proposing. The VG&#39;s mission is compliance, not forecasting. The expertise required to carry out these two mandates is not the same. The PBO will be responsible for forecasting for the current year and for the future. Like other legislatures around the world, Quebec must have a Parliamentary Budget Officer, an independent expert who will be able to improve the information made public about the financial situation. The ultimate goal is for the State to be more transparent, ”concluded Nicolas Marceau.
