Quebec - The member for Sanguinet and official opposition critic for work and pensions, Alain Therrien, presents the gains obtained during the clause-by-clause study of Bill 3, relating to pension plans. retirement of municipal employees. He also announces that his political formation will vote against the bill.
&quot;We used the time of the detailed study to try to convince the minister of the merits of our positions, in particular with regard to past deficits and the importance of leaving more space for negotiation, as demanded. also cities. From the start, our only objective has been to obtain real gains for retirees and active participating workers, without compromising the sustainability of pension plans or the ability of taxpayers to pay, ”said Alain Therrien.
Here are the three gains made by the opposition and which are agreed to in the agreement:
The Parti Québécois has chosen to be constructive
“The government, with or without our support, was going to pass the bill. We have therefore chosen to be constructive and to be the bearers of the requests and criticisms heard during the consultations. We will all the same vote against the bill, in particular because of the precedents it creates with regard to breaches of contracts, past deficits and the lack of respect given to negotiations, ”added the spokesperson.
The MP recalled that the parliamentary committee sat for 77 hours, not counting the time spent hearing the groups concerned. The government has a majority, even more with the tacit - and heartbreaking - collaboration and support of the CAQ. Québec solidaire, for its part, was conspicuous by its absence.
“We believe that our responsibility was to improve the bill, to the extent of the power available to the official opposition. These three amendments were pulled out of a long struggle, and despite the complete shutdown of the government. They represent real gains for workers and retirees. Faced with the threat of a gag order, we absolutely had to secure them, ”concluded Alain Therrien.
