Ville-Marie– On behalf of the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, the Member of Parliament for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue, Mr. Gilles Chapadeau, is proud to announce the official creation of Parc national d&#39;Opémican, which will entail investments of over $ 40 million in Témiscamingue over the next few years.
“In less than a year, we have made this project a reality since the Premier of Quebec announced on March 21, 2013 her intention to create Parc national d&#39;Opémican in Témiscamingue. All legal and administrative steps have therefore been taken by the Government of Quebec to officially create this 26th park in the network of national parks in Quebec. Today, the Témiscamingue region is represented in this vast network which protects part of the biodiversity and natural heritage of Quebec and its regions, ”Minister Blanchet said.
The territory of Parc national d&#39;Opémican covers an area of 252.5 km2 and is entirely made up of public lands. It will be divided into four distinct sectors: the Kipawa River sector and the Lac Témiscamingue cliffs, the Opémican point sector, the White Lake sector and the Île aux Fraises sector. In order to respond to the requests expressed by various stakeholders during the public consultation, certain portions of the territory initially targeted, namely the sectors of McKenzie Island and the Pointe du Rocher au Corbeau peninsula, were withdrawn from the boundaries of the National Park. However, in order to guarantee their protection, steps will be taken to grant them the permanent status of biodiversity reserve, which will make it possible to address the concerns raised on this subject during the public hearing held in June 2012.
From an environmental standpoint, Parc national d&#39;Opémican contributes to achieving the objectives of the network of protected areas, particularly in southern Quebec. It also protects part of the shores of Lake Témiscamingue and Lake Kipawa, the Kipawa River, several lakes, streams and wetlands, old pine forests and various flora and fauna, including the peregrine falcon, a vulnerable species that nests within the territory.
In addition, this new national park will contribute to the preservation and enhancement of the region&#39;s cultural heritage since the buildings of the historic Opémican site will be restored. This will be the case in particular with the Auberge Jodoin, which is the third oldest building in Abitibi-Témiscamingue.
The establishment of quality infrastructures in the Opémican National Park will make sectors of this protected territory more accessible to the entire population of the region. It will also help to make Témiscamingue, and the region as a whole, better known as a true tourist destination.
“I would like to remind you that the economic spinoffs from Parc national d&#39;Opémican in Témiscamingue are estimated at approximately $ 7.5 million annually and that nearly 30 new jobs will be created there. As some of these jobs are aimed at young people, the creation of the national park will undoubtedly make it possible to slow down their exodus to large centers and will promote the retention of new arrivals in the region. The new national park therefore represents an important lever for diversifying the economy of Témiscamingue and enriching the development of the tourism industry in the entire region, ”declared the MNA for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue, Mr. Gilles. Hat.
