Québec, December 3, 2014 - Jean-François Lisée, the member for Rosemont and official opposition critic for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, and the member for Rimouski and spokesperson for seniors as well as for the fight against poverty, solidarity and social economy, Harold LeBel, took advantage of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities to remind the government that it must do everything possible to facilitate their integration.
&quot;This day is an opportunity to raise awareness of the importance of having a society that adapts more and more its reality to people who have a disability and who must, on a daily basis, live with the challenge of being different&quot;, declared Jean-François Lisée.
During question period, the member for Rimouski reminded the government that people with disabilities face challenges and sometimes insurmountable obstacles on a daily basis. “After the Minister of Municipal Affairs cut the subsidies from the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec for the adaptation of homes, the Minister of Labor tabled a draft regulation voluntarily excluding any requirement as to the adaptability of housing. Why has the minister removed these requirements? He asked.
Harold LeBel also pointed out that to these two liberal cuts is added the $ 3 million made in subsidies granted to childcare services for the care of disabled children or children with special needs.
&quot;In addition, we are still waiting for the government to submit phase 2 of the National Strategy for the integration and retention of disabled people in employment, as well as the consequent investments, to put an end to the freezing of employment integration contracts,&quot; which allow hundreds of disabled people in all regions of Quebec to enter the labor market each year. It is essential that the government put austerity aside and step up its actions to eliminate obstacles to the social participation of people with disabilities, ”added the Member for Rosemont.
“Finally, on this day, we would like to highlight the work of the Office des personnes handicapped du Québec and all the actors in the associative and community sectors, who support these people day after day and work to defend their rights and increase their social participation ”, concluded the deputies.
