Quebec - The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on the status of women, Carole Poirier, this morning tabled Bill 595, An Act to protect access to establishments where voluntary terminations of pregnancy are practiced, in order to enable women to have safe access to voluntary termination of pregnancy services, while respecting their dignity and their privacy.
The MP would like the support of the Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Lise Thériault, as well as the opposition parties in order to pass this bill quickly. “Unfortunately, many patients and employees of abortion clinics are victims of intimidation in Quebec. This is a barrier to women&#39;s free and enlightened access to the right to abortion, ”said Carole Poirier.
“Bill 595 aims to guarantee women the right to their privacy and dignity, as well as the right to receive health care in a personalized and safe manner. The objective is also to guarantee the owners of the buildings the right to enjoy their property, which includes in particular the right to access it without hindrance and that of allowing their tenants to enjoy it peacefully. Finally, more specifically, the bill would create inviolable security perimeters around the 47 abortion services, public or private, in Quebec, ”added the MP for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve.
Other jurisdictions, as well as multiple levels of government around the world, have passed similar legislation, including Australia, Canada, South Africa, and the United States. Twenty years ago, British Columbia strengthened access to abortion clinics with its Access to Abortion Services Act, which the courts ruled in accordance with freedom of expression. It should be noted that in August 2015, the Superior Court of Quebec clarified that the freedom of expression of anti-choice protesters was limited by the rights of patients. This freedom cannot cause “serious and irreparable” prejudices, such as preventing women from receiving care in a peaceful environment, or even degrading the working environment of staff.
It should also be remembered that 15 organizations supported the approach of the Member of Parliament for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve: the Clinique Médicale Fémina, the Clinique de l&#39;Alternative, the Morgentaler Clinic, Action Canada for Sexual Health and Rights, the Association des obstétriciens gynécologues du Québec. , the Mauricie Women&#39;s Health Center, the Montreal Women&#39;s Health Center, the Outaouais Women&#39;s Clinic, the Quebec Abortion Vigilance Committee, the Quebec Interprofessional Health Federation, the Women&#39;s Federation of Quebec, the Federation of General Practitioners of Quebec, the Federation of Specialist Physicians of Quebec, the Quebec Federation for Birth Planning and the National Federation for Abortion (NAF Canada).
“Minister Barrette has already expressed his support to us. Let us hope that he can convince his colleague responsible for the Status of Women, Lise Thériault, to quickly call for the bill, so that it is adopted before the summer, ”concluded Carole Poirier.
