Québec, December 19, 2016 - The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health, access to care and home support, Diane Lamarre, the member for Verchères and spokesperson responsible for the Outaouais region, Stéphane Bergeron, as well as the spokesperson for the Treasury Board, Nicole Léger, denounce the omerta which is raging in the health network. They once again ask the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, to mandate INESSS so that the processes and impacts of the Optilab project are evaluated. “The health network is not an authoritarian regime where everyone must obey blindly. Employees have the right to denounce waste or damage caused to the population, ”said Diane Lamarre.
“While my colleague from Saint-Jean, Dave Turcotte, denounced the saga surrounding the unused laboratories at the Haut-Richelieu Hospital, we learn that a brand new laboratory that cost taxpayers $ 450,000 is not strictly used for nothing for six months at the Outaouais Integrated Health and Social Services Center. It is the most total improvisation since the start of the Optilab file, and the citizens of Gatineau are paying the price, ”denounced Stéphane Bergeron.
Diane Lamarre also believes that this is, again, an example of Minister Barrette&#39;s improvisation in his Optilab reform. “The Minister still refuses to reveal the impacts that his reform will have on the deadlines for analysis of withdrawals. He also refuses to give guarantees as to the transport of the samples which, in some cases, will have to travel several hundred kilometers. We also see that he improvises with public funds. The Minister must ask INESSS to draw up a clear picture of the consequences that the Optilab project will have for patients and for the health network. He never filed any information about his alleged savings. At the moment, there are significant transportation costs, round trips of unassayed samples, including biopsies, and lost jobs. Nothing to improve economy or efficiency, ”she lamented.
With regard to the omerta that plagues the Outaouais health network, the Parti Québécois has made the protection of journalistic sources one of its hobby horses during the study of Bill 87, aimed at protect whistleblowers. &quot;I have repeatedly called on Minister Carlos Leitão so that, on the one hand, public disclosures are protected against reprisals, in the same way as those made in the public body or to the Québec Ombudsman, and that, on the other hand, the wrongdoing targeted includes the waste of public funds. Allowing public disclosure is opening an additional door for the truth to come out, even though sometimes that truth is inconvenient. Why did the minister not promote all forms of disclosure, target all wrongdoing, protect all whistleblowers? Unfortunately, a few days after the adoption of Bill 87, we are already seeing the consequences, when two employees are suspended for having publicly denounced an obvious waste of public funds, ”concluded Nicole Léger.
