Montreal - The candidate in Rosemont and Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Jean-François Lisée, the candidate in Pointe-aux-Trembles and Minister of Families, Nicole Léger, the candidate in Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, and the candidate in Saint-Henri — Sainte-Anne, Véronique Fournier, announced today, on behalf of the team of candidates of the Parti Québécois de l&#39;Île de Montréal, several commitments to keep families in the heart of the metropolis.
“Since our election 18 months ago, our government has taken concrete steps to retain families on the Island of Montreal and thus contribute to the human, cultural, economic and linguistic growth of the metropolis. , explained Jean-François Lisée. Today we are announcing strong commitments to achieve this essential objective, ”he added.
In September 2013, the Parti Québécois government released the progress report of the MONTREAL = FAMILLES Steering Committee. We are committed to following its recommendations and to taking concrete action on the two main obstacles to family retention: the cost of housing and the availability of units that meet their needs. Six additional measures will be implemented.
The costs related to decontamination are a major obstacle for the construction of new homes in Montreal. The current parameters of the ClimatSol decontamination program are ill-suited to the reality of Montreal. Starting this year, a Parti Québécois government will revise the regulatory framework for the protection and rehabilitation of land and the management of contaminated soils, taking into account the specific characteristics of Montreal within the framework of the ClimatSol program. The land decontaminated thanks to this additional effort will be primarily dedicated to the construction of family, social, community and affordable homes.
Dozens of public land, owned by the Government of Quebec or the City of Montreal, are available on the island. In the short term, a Parti Québécois government will propose to the City of Montreal the establishment of a joint committee responsible for listing vacant lots in order to set up a bank. The committee will determine the ways to facilitate the availability of these lands for the construction of housing and homes for families, in particular by cooperatives and non-profit organizations (NPOs).
In major residential construction projects, a significant part of the new supply must be adapted to the needs of families. As a result, a Parti Québécois government will give cities the power to demand the construction of homes with more than two bedrooms for families.
In recent years, Montreal&#39;s rental stock has been shrinking, due to the transformation of rental properties into undivided properties for resale purposes. A Parti Québécois government will analyze, in particular with the City of Montreal, the mechanisms, regulations and programs capable of containing this phenomenon, while allowing tenants who legitimately wish to acquire their housing to be able to do so.
An innovative practice of lower cost home ownership consists in allowing cooperatives and non-profit organizations to acquire buildings or residential complexes which become the collective property of the occupants. A Parti Québécois government will propose to entrust, jointly with the City of Montreal, a specific mandate to technical resource groups (GRT) specializing in this type of operation in order to facilitate them.
A Parti Québécois government is committed to providing Quebec with a new housing policy that will develop responses adapted to new housing needs. This policy will take into account the challenges posed by central and old districts. In particular, it will protect senior tenants against the risk of eviction from their housing.
A Parti Québécois government is also committed to modernizing the Act respecting the Régie du logement in order to simplify the rules and improve access and deadlines.
These six new commitments are in addition to the announcements made during the publication of the Montreal platform of the Parti Québécois, which includes the following measures:
“Montreal stands out from most other cities in North America by its bustling central neighborhoods. We owe this neighborhood life in large part to the families who live there. Our party believes in allowing more families, regardless of their income or their situation, to choose to live in cities. We are committed to taking strong and concrete steps in this direction, ”concluded Véronique Fournier.
Watch the press conference.
