Quebec - As part of the Municipal Summit organized by the Union of Quebec Municipalities (UMQ), the Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, presented the results of her government for the municipal sector and the Parti Québécois&#39; commitments for stronger and more prosperous municipalities.
“When we took office, our political institutions and our municipalities were facing a serious crisis of confidence. To make our cities stronger, we had to respond to this concern and start by cleaning up. This is why we have placed integrity at the heart of our action and our decisions ”, affirmed Pauline Marois.
“The day after April 7, we are determined to resume discussions to conclude a new Québec Municipalités agreement before the summer. More than a new fiscal pact, through this agreement, we are determined to develop a new relationship between the government of Quebec and the municipalities, ”continued Pauline Marois.
The Parti Québécois recognizes, like the UMQ, that municipal laws need a facelift. The new agreement will therefore be able to provide for a timetable and priorities for revising them.
The Québec-Municipalities Agreement should also give municipalities better financial autonomy, by making new sources of revenue or new fiscal tools accessible. It should also be based on a vision in which land use planning, transport and the financing of municipalities are linked, with a view to sustainable development and mobility.
The Parti Québécois has always had the conviction that decision-making bodies must be brought closer to citizens. We have always had the will to give the municipal world the necessary powers and means to serve the population.
“A balanced agreement will have to take into account the diversity of the municipal world. It will be adapted to small and large cities, rural municipalities as well as large urban centers, ”declared the leader of the Parti Québécois.
Since its publication, the Parti Québécois government has made the D&#39;Amours report progress until the tabling of Bill 79.
“We are committed to tabling a new bill and holding a parliamentary committee as soon as possible. We will remain attentive to the proposals of all parties during this parliamentary committee, ”added Pauline Marois.
“Cities offer local services that directly influence the quality of life of our fellow citizens. They must therefore have the means to act. For me and for my entire team, this involves a new partnership within the Quebec Municipality Agreement. We are determined to make it happen and we have the best team to do it, ”concluded the Premier.
