Québec, July 15, 2016 - Due to the many incidents that have occurred and the problems in detention facilities, the official opposition leader and member for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the member for Matane-Matapédia and spokesperson for Parti Québécois on public security, Pascal Bérubé, asked the Liberal government to launch a broad and non-partisan parliamentary consultation on the situation of detention facilities in Quebec.
“Detention facilities face many challenges and the resources to deal with them are lacking. Overcrowding, understaffing, lack of maintenance, drone flights and riots, for example, are increasingly worsening situations in the network. We must stop adjusting them piecemeal. We need to think globally about our correctional system. It is therefore imperative that the National Assembly hold broad consultations in order to find solutions. I invite the Minister of Public Security and the members of the Liberal Party to accept our proposal so that we can quickly begin this consultation, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
“During this consultation, members of Parliament could hear from several stakeholders: peace officers, establishment leaders, experts, unions, prosecutors and workers in drug addiction, mental health and rehabilitation. In addition, elected officials could go and meet the people concerned in the field in order to have a complete picture of the situation. Thus, possible solutions could emerge and allow a more efficient and safe deployment of correctional services, ”added Pascal Bérubé for his part.
Multiple problems
The member for Matane-Matapédia recalls that several incidents required the intervention of the Liberal government. “When Maurice Boucher&#39;s son was released by mistake, the idea of fingerprint verification was raised. The bill that would resolve this situation has still not been called. In addition, with regard to the escapes by helicopter, no net was installed; for cell phone use, there are still no wave jammers, and for the use of drones, no intervention by the Minister of Public Security has been made, ”he continued.
“No later than July 3, there was an uprising at the Roberval establishment. This is just one more example of the many incidents that occur in our prisons. Let us add a hostage-taking in Sept-Îles, recently. Among the many causes at the origin of these incidents, we can identify the lack of personnel. For Roberval specifically, 7 of the 15 new positions to be filled were not. At Leclerc Institution, reintegration services are cut off because there is no staff required. More overtime means more stress and more fatigue, which does not improve safety, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
Eloquent figures
Overcrowding is also a problem, as is the maintenance deficit of establishments. For the year 2015-2016, 6 detention facilities out of 18 had an occupancy rate of at least 100%. In 5 years, the number of prisoners sent to seclusion has increased by 33%. Last year, 6% of detention facilities were rated E, or very poor, in the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. This year, it&#39;s 33%.
Since the closure of Tanguay prison, the detention center for women in the Montreal region, the approximately 250 inmates have been transferred to Laval, to the Leclerc detention center, which has become a mixed prison. The cohabitation between women and men detained creates serious problems.
“The figures are convincing, the situation is very problematic. The system is jam-packed, our establishments are crumbling. Law enforcement officers say they lack adequate training to deal with mental illness situations. The cases are increasingly heavy among prisoners: drug addiction, mental health, older prisoners, not to mention escapes or smuggling, ”added Pascal Bérubé.
“The situation is serious, the Liberal government cannot stand idly by. We are offering a broad, non-partisan consultation in order to listen to stakeholders and study the multiple problems of our prison system. The security and probity of our judicial system are at stake, ”concluded the Leader of the Official Opposition.
