The leader and vice-leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean ‑ François Lisée and Véronique Hivon, as well as the candidates Sylvain Gaudreault (Jonquière), Jean-Martin Aussant (Pointe ‑ aux-Trembles), Jonathan Carreiro-Benoit (Gatineau), Yves Destroismaisons (Papineau), Blake Ippersiel (Chapleau), Marysa Nadeau (Hull) and Marie-Claire Nivolon (Pontiac), have sent a clear message to the federal government: a Parti Québécois government will demand Quebec&#39;s fair share in order to put an end to a decade of economic injustice.
IN SHORT
“This morning, we came to give the federal government a warning: we will no longer tolerate injustice. Quebec, for ages, has not received its fair share of federal spending. Annually, all things considered, we have a deficit of some $ 2.6 billion, the equivalent of approximately 14,000 jobs, ”said Jean ‑ François Lisée.
Structuring investments, environment ... flagrant injustices
“If we compare what the federal government has invested in the ROC with what it has invested in Quebec, we can only be unpleasantly surprised. During the worst forestry crisis in our history, the federal government paid $ 13 billion in automobile investments in Ontario, compared with only a few hundred million for forestry in Quebec. To this was added a sum of $ 1 billion from the Innovation Fund for the automotive sector, fully distributed in Ontario, while Quebec had contributed nearly $ 200 million to this fund. In addition, the Atlantic provinces received $ 75 million to control the spruce budworm. Quebec? Zero dollar. And spruce trees and budworms, we certainly have as many as in Nova Scotia, ”continued Véronique Hivon.
Jean-Martin Aussant went there with just as concrete illustrations. “When it comes to shipyards, Quebec is suffering the worst embezzlement in its history. Out of $ 100B, in fairness, our share is $ 20B. Where is our $ 20 billion, Mr. Trudeau? And what about the $ 9.2 billion in loan guarantees that Ottawa has given to the Muskrat Falls project in Newfoundland, which is in direct competition with Hydro ‑ Quebec? Isn&#39;t that a blatant injustice? “, He denounced.
Sylvain Gaudreault then referred to several ongoing environmental disputes. “The federal government is making Quebec pay $ 1 billion for the nationalization of the Kinder Morgan pipeline in Western Canada. In addition, it authorized the airport projects in Neuville and Mascouche, against the will of local authorities, anxious to protect the environment. Quebec - in particular our innovative companies in the transportation electrification sector - must also obtain its fair share of the Automotive Sector Innovation Fund. The same goes for federal funds for the installation of electric fast charging stations. And who tells us that the Energy East project, which threatens 860 of our waterways, will not eventually be relaunched? », He raised.
“Under Philippe Couillard, Quebec was in a very weak position against Ottawa. François Legault is no more the weight in front of the Trudeauists. Quebec&#39;s balance of power within Canada is never as strong as when the Parti Québécois is in power, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée. For more information, click here.
For our explanatory sheet, click here.
