The Agriculture and Food spokesperson for the Parti Québécois, André Villeneuve, the candidate in the riding of Saint-Hyacinthe, Daniel Breton, and the candidate in the riding of Johnson, Jacques Tétreault, commit to this that a Parti Québécois government put in place a process for pre-authorization of projects at La Financière agricole. Such a process will allow emerging producers to avoid many of the current pitfalls in acquiring land to achieve their dreams.
Critical for the next generation, access to land is often difficult due to market conditions. Even disregarding their high value, land is often difficult to purchase due to significant delays in being accepted for financing.
An innovative agricultural commitment
“Often the coveted land is sold to a speculator with deep pockets who can pay immediately rather than the potential succession who must have their financing approved several weeks or even months later before signing the final sale. Under a Parti Québécois government, La Financière agricole will set up a process of pre-authorization of projects without any land already attached to it. As the project is pre-approved, the next farmer will be able to find suitable land and submit an offer to purchase. La Financière will then have a maximum of 7 days to give its final approval to the financing. This is one of the innovative elements contained in the Parti Québécois agriculture platform, which will be unveiled little by little between now and the next election campaign, ”explained André Villeneuve.
“In this way, the dreams of the next generation of farmers can no longer be blocked by red tape. A young farmer will be able to set up his project, have it pre-approved, and then start looking for suitable land without having to worry about the authorization of his project. With systematic pre-authorization, the next generation of farmers will have better opportunities to prosper and add their dynamism to the Quebec economy, ”added Daniel Breton.
Let us recall that the leader of the Parti Québécois, JeanFrançois Lisée, had already committed to modernizing the Investment Fund for the next generation of agriculture, FIRA, and to make it FIRA +. “By transforming FIRA, the next generation will be able to benefit from FIRA +, which is more accessible, more generous and more daring. We can measure the prosperity of agriculture by the current state of its succession, and with the Parti Québécois, the next generation of farmers will have all the tools to prosper, ”concluded Jacques Tétreault.
