Saint-Hyacinthe, August 9, 2018 - Sylvain Gaudreault, MP for Jonquière and Parti Québécois environmental spokesperson, André Villeneuve, MP for Berthier and agriculture spokesperson, and Parti Québécois in Saint-Hyacinthe, Daniel Breton, propose that Quebec adopt a &quot;declaration of recognition of natural heritage and green infrastructures&quot;, in order to promote the protection of natural environments and to underline the importance of the work of those who value them.
IN SHORT :
After its election, a Parti Québécois government would endow Quebec with a &quot;declaration of recognition of natural heritage and green infrastructure&quot;, in order to underline in particular the importance of:
A consultation of the main partners (agricultural world, environmental groups, municipalities, etc.) would follow this declaration in order to propose the best action plan to implement the stated principles.
“Quebecers are very attached to their natural environments and are proud of it. They know how important woodlands, wetlands, streams or urban parks are, especially in the context of the fight against climate change, and are aware of their beneficial effects on reducing air conditioning costs and increasing property value. or flood prevention, ”Sylvain Gaudreault illustrated.
This is why, after consulting the partners, the Parti Québécois is committed to giving Quebeckers the opportunity to better protect this important heritage. “Several people told me that they were ready to get actively involved in ensuring the preservation of natural environments. Likewise, they expect their elected representatives to take concrete and positive actions. The Parti Québécois is therefore proposing a unifying vision of protecting our natural heritage, ”continued the spokesperson.
“It is high time that the State of Quebec recognized the contribution of the agricultural world; its actors act as guardians of the natural heritage. If, as a society, we demand from them that they protect wetlands, woodlands rich in biodiversity or even that they set up riparian strips - which they do, moreover, in all environmental awareness - , well let&#39;s make sure they have the means to do it! Of course, this involves recognition, but also through better support, which will inspire the desire to do even more. In short, let&#39;s go as far as possible in the pursuit of excellence! This is what we are committed to doing as a government, ”for his part insisted André Villeneuve.
&quot;A government of the Parti Québécois would innovate by adopting a&quot; declaration of recognition of the natural heritage and green infrastructures &quot;that would co-sign the partners of these natural environments. This would recognize the importance of natural environments essential to the preservation of biological diversity, as well as to the health and general well-being of citizens and the environment. Thus, farmers, foresters, landowners, environmental groups, municipalities and citizens will be better equipped to protect biodiversity and ecosystems together, ”Daniel Breton added.
