Montreal - “Definitely, excess language is becoming a habit at Québec solidaire. Françoise David must apologize on behalf of her party and call her troops to order so that these insulting and deceptive attacks stop ”, declared Bernard Drainville, Parti Québécois candidate in Marie-Victorin and Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation.
Indeed, this morning on the waves of 98.5 FM, on the show Puisqu&#39;il faut se lever, the co-head of Quebec solidaire, Andrés Fontecilla, compared the Parti Québécois to the extreme right and to the French National Front, in mentioning that the charter of secularism would be an anti-Muslim identity withdrawal. Andrés Fontecilla refused to apologize after uttering these words, despite the express request of Bernard Drainville.
“Québec solidaire does not seem to be able to debate issues related to the charter without falling into insults and vicious attacks. Françoise David&#39;s team appears to us determined to want to accuse ourselves of intolerance, but the reality is that it is the solidarity groups who turn out to be totally closed to ideas and to people who do not think like them ”, a added Évelyne Abitbol, Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Acadie.
“The debate on the charter is necessary to ensure the equality of all citizens, the equality of all beliefs and equality between men and women. The secularism of the Quebec state is not affirmed in any law; the rules for managing this secularism do not exist in black and white. This silence explains some of the problems we are currently experiencing. The charter offers clear and reasonable solutions so that the state is neutral towards all Quebecers, ”added Djemila Benhabib, candidate for Mille-Îles.
“The charter proposes guidelines to prevent unreasonable new accommodations from being granted in the future. But above all, it will ensure better social cohesion and better integration of new Quebecers, by combining identity and diversity, ”said Yasmina Chouakri, candidate for Anjou – Louis-Riel.
“From a party that calls itself feminist and progressive, one would have expected Québec solidaire to affirm gender equality without compromise. Instead, he is seen to take a minimal stance on the wearing of religious symbols, and engage in attacks unworthy of a serious political party. We expect better, ”concluded Leila Mahiout, candidate in Bourassa-Sauvé.
Note that last week, Amir Khadir compared the candidacy of Pierre Karl Péladeau to the arrival of Ayatollah Khomeini in Iran. Françoise David has still not called her deputy to order.
“We demand once again that Françoise David dissociates herself from the words of her candidates, that she put an end to these insults which discredit her party. Québec solidaire can continue to isolate itself in its ideology, but we can no longer tolerate this attitude worthy of the Liberal Party, which affirms that all those who do not think as it does are wrong, ”concluded Bernard Drainville.
