Québec, April 28, 2020 - Believing that many specific cases will emerge and will require rapid responses, the deputy for René-Lévesque and the Parti Québécois spokesperson for the economy, Martin Ouellet, proposes the establishment of a line 1 800 DECONFINEMENT, to answer questions from contractors and employees who will soon have to return to work, among others.
IN SHORT
“The economic consequences of COVID-19 are very great and plunge Quebec entrepreneurs into the greatest uncertainty. They will need support to get back on their feet, as tons of questions about specific measures will arise. Many, for example, are worried about the number of CNESST inspectors who will be in the field; Will there be enough to enforce the distancing instructions? Others do not even know if they are among the companies that can reopen, or if their doors must remain closed for a few more weeks, ”illustrated Martin Ouellet.
Workers, too, have legitimate questions. “Salary treatment, working conditions in the context of a pandemic, the application of safety instructions and all the new ways of doing things that will be implemented, all of this is not necessarily clear and causes uncertainty, even concern, ”continued the MNA for René ‑ Lévesque.
To quickly respond to the concerns and questions of both parties, the Parti Québécois asks that Quebec set up an information telephone line: 1 800 DECONFINEMENT. This could of course provide support now, but also during the next stages of deconfinement. Ideally, it would also be used by parents and teachers for all questions surrounding the reopening of schools; we saw it today, there are many.
In addition to all the outstanding issues, the plan announced today leaves many SMEs and even more workers hungry. “Companies in the tertiary sector, in particular, also need a horizon. When will they be able to resume their activities? Moreover, considering that the reopening of the economy will necessarily have effects on the health of workers, how do we intend to measure them, and how to ensure that no one will be put in unnecessary danger? In addition, the government has indicated that it wants to test more, in order to obtain a fair picture of the progression of the pandemic. Can he give us more details? We ask him to be transparent, ”insisted Martin Ouellet.
In closing, the member for René-Lévesque, himself an entrepreneur, invites Quebeckers to support their local businesses. “In all regions, small businesses have suffered greatly, having to remain closed while supermarkets steal market share from them. Now that they can gradually reopen, we have to show them how important they are to us by buying from them, ”he concluded.
