Québec, March 18, 2021 - Noting the increase in reported cases of abuse and mistreatment, in addition to the tragedy that took place last year in CHSLDs and RPAs, the Member for Duplessis and spokesperson for Parti Québécois for Seniors and Home Support, Lorraine Richard, is growing impatient. She demands that all means be taken to better protect the elderly in Quebec, wherever they live and whatever the issue at stake.
IN SHORT
- A post of protector of the elderly must be created to ensure the safety of the elderly and respect for their rights - The elderly must no longer be afraid to denounce the abuses of which they are victims - The increase in cases of abuse , financial or other, in the RPA is explained in particular by the glaring lack of inspectors.- A commission of inquiry on the management of the pandemic in the accommodation resources is also necessary.
For years, the Parti Québécois has been calling for the creation of a post of protector of the elderly. “Every day brings us a new case of abuse or mistreatment of an elderly person, or new revelations about the appalling living conditions in some residences. The media regularly report cases of non-compliance with ratios, inadequate care, a lack of personnel, drugs or equipment. It has to stop, and we have said it enough. Like the role of ombudsperson, a protector specifically dedicated to seniors must be appointed to ensure their safety and ensure that their rights are respected, ”reiterated the Member for Duplessis.
A protector of the elderly, a completely independent body, could in particular encourage denunciation, further believes Ms. Richard. “It is well known that seniors are reluctant to denounce the abuses of which they are victims - abusive increases in their rent or rates for care, fees charged for services not offered, negligence in all its forms, obsolescence of facilities ... They are afraid, and that&#39;s normal! Who would dare to denounce a person or a company on which we depend every day for their care? », She highlighted.
At the same time, the system needs to have more inspectors responsible for ensuring that RPA care and services are adequate. “There are currently only 7 inspectors in Quebec. They made a total of 550 visits in 2019, while Quebec has 1,750 RPAs. The minister has been aware of the situation for months. What is she waiting for to remedy it? “, Asked Lorraine Richard.
What is more, visits should be made without notice. “When the inspectors come forward, it is obvious that the establishments will do what is necessary to cover up their shortcomings. We are of the opinion that the visits must be carried out without prior notice, and at any time, not only during the day, during the week, ”continued the MP.
Finally, Lorraine Richard reiterates that a public and independent inquiry must be launched to shed light on the way in which the pandemic was managed in RPAs and CHSLDs. “We must guarantee Quebeckers that next time we will be better prepared,” she concluded.
– 30 –
SOURCE :
Laura Chouinard-Thuly
Press Officer
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois
514 880-9594
Laura.Chouinard-Thuly@assnat.qc.ca
