Montreal - After a tour of Quebec which took place during the first 15 days of the electoral campaign, Bernard Drainville took stock of the expectations of the population with regard to the adoption of the charter of secularism and equality between women and men.
“A majority of Quebecers support the charter, and ask us to go ahead to have it adopted. We are the only party that has made a commitment to do so, while the Liberal Party, Québec solidaire and the Coalition Avenir Québec are opposed to it. Worse, Philippe Couillard has undertaken to tear it up. He will do everything to block its adoption. The only way to vote for the charter is to elect a majority government of the Parti Québécois on April 7th! », Affirmed the candidate of the Parti Québécois in Marie? Victorin and Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation, Bernard Drainville, during a press briefing held this morning.
Mr. Drainville was then accompanied by Evelyne Abitbol, candidate in Acadia, Djemila Benhabib, candidate in Mille? Îles, Yasmina Chouakri, candidate in Anjou – Louis? Riel, and Leila Mahiout, candidate in Bourassa? Sauvé. In a joint declaration, they also wished to recall the fundamental importance of having the charter adopted for Quebec society.
“The charter affirms our values such as equality between women and men, and the religious neutrality of our institutions. It defines requests for accommodation and prohibits the wearing of religious symbols for government employees. In short, the charter defines the Quebec in which we want to live, it ensures the future of our society; it is necessary to ensure our social cohesion and peace, ”added Bernard Drainville.
“For the Parti Québécois, the commitment is clear: we will have the charter adopted. What about the other parties? Will they agree to give their consent for the parliamentary committee on the charter to resume its work where we left off? “, Asked the candidate in Marie? Victorin.
“We must remember that the Liberals and Philippe Couillard are genetically incapable of defending Quebec values. The current position of the PLQ is below what Jean Charest proposed, as if that were possible. After the saga on the chador, Philippe Couillard once again shows us through the absurd his inability to defend Quebec values. We ask him to explain why he still refuses to ban the wearing of the niqab and the burqa for people who give or receive a service from the state. Why does he refuse to ban the wearing of ostentatious religious symbols for government employees? For Quebecers, protecting and affirming our values is real business, ”concluded Bernard Drainville.
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
Watch the press conference.
