Montreal - The Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, this morning presented the commitments of the Parti Québécois in terms of work.
“The first right of Quebec workers is to be able to practice their profession in French. There is only one way to prevent a decline in French: to create a government that understands and assumes the historic responsibility of protecting and promoting the French language in Quebec, ”declared the Premier.
“Since the mid-1970s, major changes to labor laws, to improve the individual and collective rights of workers, ensure genuine recognition of the right of association or set up new labor institutions, have all been initiated and voted under the governments of the Parti Québécois. We want to continue improving the individual and collective rights of workers over the next four years, ”continued Pauline Marois.
A Parti Québécois government is proposing specific commitments to update certain laws or regulations in order to better respond to the new realities of work. The laws on occupational health and safety will be improved.
“Our priority will be to improve health and safety legislation. The foundations of the Act respecting occupational health and safety are still relevant. But, after more than 30 years of application, a large proportion of workers are still not covered by preventive mechanisms. The list of recognized diseases has not changed, and regulations have not kept pace either. We will pay particular attention to construction workers, who represent 5% of the Quebec workforce, but who are victims of 25% of deaths caused by a work accident or an occupational injury. We must take care of it, ”added the Prime Minister.
In addition, a Parti Québécois government will pay particular attention to workers whose conditions are precarious and who are sometimes very vulnerable.
“We need to better protect domestic workers. We must improve the lot of these workers, who have been left to fend for too long, ”continued Pauline Marois.
To do this, the Parti Québécois will ensure eligibility for the Quebec occupational health and safety plan for this category of employees, will adapt the rights and obligations of employers to the particularities of this type of work and will ensure access to remedies in the event of a claim. &#39;a dismissal.
A Parti Québécois government will also put in place measures to regulate temporary staff placement agencies. In 2010, there were 973 temporary personnel placement agencies in Quebec, an increase of 101.9% compared to 2000.
“The measures we are proposing will make it possible to better regulate unreported work and combat the exploitation of vulnerable people. We will support better application of labor laws for thousands of workers, ”added Pauline Marois.
The government has done rigorous work to ensure the sustainability of defined benefit pension plans. The work of Minister Agnès Maltais was recognized by the vast majority of speakers. We will therefore continue to implement the government action plan Towards equitable and sustainable pension plans.
Over a four-year horizon, a Parti Québécois government will initiate consultations with union and employer partners on the advisability of modernizing the Labor Code.
“There is no question for us of opening up the Labor Code to reduce the individual and collective rights of workers, nor the roles and prerogatives of the trade union organizations recognized therein. In the meantime, a Parti Québécois government will take into account any formal consensus of the parties concerning certain articles of this code, ”declared Pauline Marois.
“Quebec is based on a unique model, in which workers and employers dialogue to ensure good understanding in the workplace. This model exists thanks to the Parti Québécois. We will continue our work by putting in place concrete measures to support all workers, ”concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois.
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
