Quebec– Jean-François Lisée, the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, and the member for Saint-Jean and spokesperson for in the fight against poverty and solidarity, Dave Turcotte, support the movement &quot;On ferme!&quot; The community, out against austerity ”and ask the government to recognize the work and increase the funding of organizations.
“The community sector can count on the support of the Parti Québécois and on my presence in the field with the various stakeholders concerned today. By giving a meager indexation of 0.9% to community health and social services organizations for the current year, the government is forcing them to cut their staff and the services offered. It is the most vulnerable who, once again, bear the brunt of liberal austerity. This is unacceptable! », Denounced Jean-François Lisée.
“There are more and more young people, families and seniors who need help, and organizations have fewer and fewer resources to support them. By refusing to increase their funding, the government is forcing them to ration their services and deprive thousands of vulnerable people of essential support. The government must sit down with the organizations and recognize once and for all the precious work they do on a daily basis and the social safety net they represent. I will also be tabling a motion to this effect today in the National Assembly, ”added Dave Turcotte.
The motion presented today by the Parti Québécois reads as follows:
&quot;That the National Assembly take note of the mobilization grouping together the campaigns I care about my community, I support the community and Rights, it is defended!&quot; which takes place on November 2 and 3, 2015 under the theme? We close! The community, out against austerity ?;
That it denounce the impacts of the austerity imposed by the government, with which community organizations and the people they support must deal on a daily basis;
That it ask the government to increase the funding of organizations in line with the motion adopted in May 2013, in favor of which all the members of the Liberal Party voted;
That it urge the Minister for Rehabilitation, Youth Protection and Public Health to follow up on requests for a meeting with representatives of the community sector as soon as possible. &quot;
