The leader and vice-leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée and Véronique Hivon, as well as the candidates Nicolas Marceau (Rousseau), Alain Therrien (Sanguinet), Jean ‑ Martin Aussant (Pointe-aux-Trembles), Dieudonné Ella Oyono (Saint-Henri – Sainte-Anne) and Éric Tremblay (Repentigny), presented, this morning in Montreal, what is the only financial framework for this electoral campaign that holds water.
IN SHORT
The Parti Québécois is tabling today the most rigorous and realistic financial framework for the campaign.
Unlike the executives of the other three parties:
“Our vision is clear: priority to services. Before promising anything, a serious political party must ensure that the services already available are maintained. Our financial framework clearly expresses our desire to move in this direction, not to cut any services. As proof, we used, to base our calculations, the specific amount validated by the Auditor General to avoid any cut in services; for 2019-2020, it stands at $ 868 million. Did the CAQ and the Liberals take this official figure into account? No. We are the only ones to guarantee the maintenance of services, ”stressed Jean-François Lisée from the outset.
“We will, first of all, recover the sums that the Liberals granted to doctors, thanks to a freeze in their remuneration envelope. In other words, an additional $ 4 billion will be injected into services during the next term, ”then illustrated Alain Therrien.
Indeed, unlike some, we will not hesitate to attack the monopoly of physicians. “I am a doctor and my priority is not to be better paid: it is to improve services. Because currently, in our public health system, there are two things: patients left behind, and exhausted staff. Starting this fall, we will urgently invest $ 10 million to breathe life into the attendants and nurses. Then, we will use $ 500 million to hire others, ”added Éric Tremblay.
“As for home care, they will benefit from $ 1 billion in new money. And we will invest, from the first term, $ 200 million more than what is already provided for in the Quebec Infrastructure Plan to improve CHSLDs in Quebec, including $ 100 million from 2019. Finally, the patient will be placed at the center of the system, and the 200,000 health professionals other than physicians will have a government that supports them, that works for and with them, ”added Véronique Hivon.
“The government of the Parti Québécois will, moreover, rebalance the sharing of wealth by recovering the hundreds of millions that escape us because of tax avoidance. We will table the first green budget, which will give the Green Fund back to Quebecers. We will give families time and leeway by getting them out of traffic jams, reducing childcare fees and fighting cartels. And we will trust the regions: with us, the citizens who live there and their elected representatives will have real decision-making capacity, ”enumerated Jean-Martin Aussant.
Schools and green transport infrastructure will also be priorities for the next Parti Québécois government. “From our first budget, we will add $ 4 billion to the Quebec Infrastructure Plan for public and active transportation infrastructure. We are also going to invest significant sums to repair dilapidated schools and create new places in early childhood centers, ”continued Dieudonné Ella Oyono.
In closing, Nicolas Marceau insisted on the seriousness of the Parti Québécois&#39; approach, when compared to that of its opponents. “We are the only party to have drawn up a financial framework that conforms to the model proposed by the Association des economistes québécois. We are the only party to have used the Auditor General&#39;s figures. The only one whose financial framework is supported by three independent experts. The CAQ invented $ 700 million in economic growth; the Liberals are inventing $ 1.5 billion. We have chosen the truth, the rigor. We respect Quebeckers; no question for us, therefore, of telling them stories, ”he insisted.
Our financial framework is online
Consult the Excel file
Consult the &quot;Consolidated expenditure&quot; file
