Québec, April 17, 2020 - Méganne Perry Mélançon, MP for Gaspé and Parti Québécois culture spokesperson, asks Culture Minister Nathalie Roy to clearly indicate what she intends to do to support culture, this important sector of the Quebec economy, and ensure its revival. “Many options can be considered, and we must act quickly! », She insisted.
IN SHORT
The cultural industry was one of the first to be affected by the COVID-19 crisis. Like other sectors of activity and the population, it has actively and voluntarily participated in collective efforts to reduce the spread of the virus, but it remains nonetheless worried about the future. “The many representatives of Quebec&#39;s cultural community with whom I recently spoke want to move forward, relaunch their activities, save what they can from the 2020 summer season. But they have no game plan. Cultural organizations, including festivals, do not even know if their grants will be renewed, if their losses will be compensated. In addition, if a prolonged closure of theaters is envisaged, emergency aid will have to be deployed for presenters, especially the smaller ones. The government must formally commit to guaranteeing their financial health, despite the loss of their spring season and at least a good part of their summer season, ”claimed Méganne Perry Mélançon.
“At the Parti Québécois, we want to be constructive, and we have possible solutions to propose. For example, several speakers talked about launching a national cultural local purchase campaign, in the same spirit as &quot;Le Panier bleu&quot;, which would allow Quebecers to keep informed of the cultural offer that remains, and to enjoy. It is an idea that must be promoted! One thing is certain, the government must show leadership so that when the time comes, cultural activities can resume quickly, ”continued the Member for Gaspé.
The cultural sector represents about 4% of Quebec&#39;s economy and directly employs some 200,000 people. A true economic engine, its activities have major repercussions on several other sectors, including tourism, catering, trade in general, transport and equipment companies ... However, the government has so far sent no signal in its direction. &quot;It is high time that the Minister of Culture spoke to workers in the field, to reassure them,&quot; concluded Méganne Perry Mélançon.
