Quebec - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, as well as the president of the national executive council of the party, Raymond Archambault, and the deputies Bernard Drainville (Marie-Victorin), Denis Trottier (Roberval) and Pascal Bérubé (Matane), presented today the activity book of the next national council which will be held on January 27, 28 and 29, 2012. Under the theme &quot;Let&#39;s change politics&quot;, the Parti Québécois is submitting a dozen proposals to change the way of doing politics.
&quot;It is first and foremost to restore the public&#39;s confidence in its institutions that we are submitting these proposals to debate,&quot; said Pauline Marois, noting that Quebecers have become critical of their representatives and their government. To change this perception, we have daring proposals to increase the participation of the population in democratic life and to strengthen the role of our institutions ”.
“This unique exercise to which members of the Parti Québécois are invited is a first. Never has a political party gone so far in its desire to propose real changes. It will be an opportunity to discuss real solutions to change the policy. We also invite the entire Quebec population to think about these proposals because it is together that we will succeed in changing our ways of doing things and regaining confidence, ”she added.
The proposals are grouped under three themes: governing in full transparency, reform of the political system and electoral participation. They can be summarized as follows:
-The establishment of an open and interactive government; -The portrait of public finances six months before the fixed date elections; -The regular holding of public assemblies by the deputies; -Annual evaluation of the electoral commitments of the party in power; -The supervision of government appointments; -The popular initiative referendums; -A popular consultation on referendums; -Decentralization to strengthen the regions; -A chamber of regions; -The creation of a commission on parliamentary and electoral institutions; -The study of a first past the post electoral system with two rounds; -The student vote; -The lowering of the legal voting age to 16 years.
“Bringing Quebecers closer to decision-making centers in sectors that are important to their daily lives must be an element at the heart of new ways of doing things. The Quebec state is still strongly centralized while each region of Quebec has its own reality. The direct involvement of citizens in a more efficient and responsible democratic organization, at the regional level, would allow the regions to act more effectively in order to be able to put in place the major state policies and to respond concretely to the needs and aspirations of citizens who live there, ”explained Pauline Marois.
&quot;The members of the Parti Québécois have already adopted several proposals in the area of integrity and trust during the national convention in April 2011,&quot; said Raymond Archambault. Measures marking out the financing of political parties are included in the program, including the limitation to 100 dollars as an annual donation to a political party and the establishment of fixed-date elections. The Parti Québécois program also provides for the strengthening of the teaching of national history and education for citizenship, two essential elements for promoting the participation of Quebeckers in collective life ”.
“Citizens feel that they are not well listened to and this leads to a loss of confidence in our institutions. The participation rate in general elections is declining. This context fosters the abuse of power in the democratic process and undermines the credibility and reputation of elected officials with integrity who resist collusion and corruption. In order to achieve Quebec sovereignty, we must restore Quebecers&#39; confidence in their democratic institutions. The Parti Québécois is the only party that has the courage to present such strong proposals to combat cynicism, ”concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois.
The activity guide is now being submitted to the members of the Parti Québécois National Council, who will have until January 19, 2012 to analyze it and make their recommendations. The proposals will be debated at a national council to be held in Montreal on January 27, 28 and 29, 2012.
