Quebec City, February 15, 2017– The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the Parti Québécois spokesperson for professional laws, Mireille Jean, and the spokesperson for immigration and cultural communities , Carole Poirier, invited Prime Minister Philippe Couillard to improve Bill 98, by including robust measures in favor of employment integration and the fight against racism and discrimination.
“It&#39;s been 15 years since the Liberals have been in power… and Philippe Couillard will have taken three years to understand the urgency of legislating to offer Quebecers of various origins better access to the professions. We are very happy that he is finally talking about it. But his bill is very, very limited in scope: it simply concerns the Professional Code. Since he wants to discuss it, we are volunteers, but we must go further: today we are proposing to the Prime Minister to make his bill an omnibus on integration into employment and the fight against racism and discrimination, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
“The issues related to professional orders and the recognition of prior learning are very important, and actions have been required for a long time. We must listen to these organizations because, collectively, we must do better to recognize the skills of Quebecers of various origins who choose Quebec. It should be noted, however, that the bill contains various measures on which we are prepared to collaborate with the Minister, for example the creation of the post of commissioner for admission to professions and the establishment of a pole of coordination for the actors. But we must go further, ”added Mireille Jean.
“Last week we proposed 20 important measures for integration into employment and the fight against discrimination. Now is the time for action. On Friday, I personally sent a letter to the Minister of Immigration, Diversity and Inclusion, Kathleen Weil, to reach out to the government. We have not had an answer. However, it is a question of political will. We must broaden the scope of Bill 98, and we offer all our cooperation to the government to do so, ”insisted Carole Poirier.
Among other proposals, the Parti Québécois suggests including, in the Act respecting labor standards, a provision that would prohibit employers from requiring Canadian work experience prior to obtaining a job in Quebec, as is the case Ontario since 2013. In addition, he will demand stricter enforcement of regulations and fines for employers who discriminate in hiring, or landlords caught discriminating in housing. &quot;All that is missing is the goodwill of the Prime Minister,&quot; concluded Jean-François Lisée.
