Nicolet - The member for Drummond, Yves-François Blanchet, the president of the national executive council of the Parti Québécois, Raymond Archambault, and the president of the party for the Center-du-Québec region, Serge Bouchard, wanted to react today the announcement by the member for Nicolet-Yamaska, Jean-Martin Aussant, of the creation of a new political party. “In 2008, the citizens of Nicolet-Yamaska chose the Parti Québécois for its program and for its leader. I am convinced that they will make the same choice in the next election campaign. From this moment on, we let the constituents of the constituency judge the legitimacy or not of Jean-Martin Aussant, ”declared Yves-François Blanchet from the outset.
The citizens of Nicolet-Yamaska can rest assured that the Parti Québécois has a strong organization in the constituency and ready to quickly face any electoral eventuality. “Of course, there are some departures within the party executive in Nicolet-Yamaska, but we can count on many activists to take over. Our party is strong here and we will demonstrate this at the general assembly to be held in the coming weeks. Whether partial or general, we will have the team to win the next election in Nicolet-Yamaska, ”added Raymond Archambault.
The national executive council of the party proceeded to put under supervision of the association of the party in the constituency. “This decision is made necessary to ensure the replacement of the team. The supervision will end at the time of the general assembly where the members of the Parti Québécois de Nicolet-Yamaska elect their representatives, ”said Raymond Archambault.
“The activists first, then the citizens of Nicolet-Yamaska, took part in the recent overhaul of the Parti Québécois program. Jean-Martin Aussant&#39;s project must be presented to voters who will of course have the choice of re-electing another member of the Parti Québécois. I do not believe that Nicolet-Yamaska wants to divide the progressive and sovereignist vote in favor of the conservative federalism of Jean Charest and François Legault. The only party capable of achieving the sovereignty of Quebec is the Parti Québécois, ”concluded Yves-François Blanchet.
