The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesperson for health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, and the spokesperson for social services and youth protection, Dave Turcotte , are proud to announce that the Parti Québécois&#39;s commitments to put the health system back at the service of patients were very positively received by the representatives of the Collectif Santé, after a meeting with their representatives.
IN SHORT
“The Collective bringing together patients, physicians, stakeholders and managers in the health sector arrived at the same conclusions as us: after 4 years of austerity and failed reforms, the improvement of our public health system and social services will be a major issue in the election on October 1. The Parti Québécois is already proposing concrete solutions to meet this challenge, starting with the freeze on the remuneration of physicians, which will make it possible to invest in improving direct services to the population, expanding the fields of practice of 200,000 professionals. of health as well as the restoration of public health budgets to better prevent health problems before having to cure them, ”said the leader of the official opposition.
“The Parti Québécois&#39;s commitments are in line with the priority actions requested by the Collective, because they are thoughtful, credible solutions that will make a real difference in patients&#39; access to health services. We must deploy professionals, including specialized nurse practitioners (IPS), in the CLSCs, and make them real service points open 7 days a week, from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., for minor emergencies. We must also encourage the creation of local clinics, inspired by models like SABSA and others, where the CLSCs cannot play this role. The remuneration of physicians must also be reviewed to promote teamwork and collaboration with other professionals. It is also essential to ensure a minimum number of hours of respite each week for family caregivers. Our health plan is ready and it&#39;s patient-centered, because that&#39;s what Quebeckers want! », Said Diane Lamarre.
“The work overload of employees in the health and social services network has reached a critical point after 4 years of austerity and failed reforms. The Parti Québécois is committed to adding staff to remedy this and to improve the quality and speed of the services patients need. We must also give back a voice to the users as well as to the various territories in the decision-making of the network, whereas they are often ignored in the mega-infrastructures of the CISSS and the CIUSSS of Minister Barrette. The contribution of the next generation, whether they come from here or abroad, must also be valued and encouraged, always keeping in mind that it is the interests of the patient that must come first, ”added Dave Turcotte. .
“The Parti Québécois was the first political party to agree to meet and discuss with us following the unveiling of the priority actions that we are proposing to improve the health system and we thank them for that. We note that on many aspects, their program corresponds to our demands and we now wish to meet the other political formations in order to produce a `` report card &#39;&#39; of each of them in order to assess their respective commitments with a view to the next election, ”concluded Jérôme Di Giovanni, president of the Alliance des patients pour la santé (APS), on behalf of the Collective which also brings together the Quebec Medical Association (AMQ), the Confederation of National Trade Unions (CSN) and the Association of Senior Health and Social Services Executives (ACSSSS).
