Québec, October 23, 2014 - The members of the Parti Québécois will table a motion today without notice in order to refocus the debate on the real issues of journalistic independence and freedom of the press. The government&#39;s motion, on the order paper, is only intended to legitimize a process aimed at the expulsion of the Member for Saint-Jérôme from the National Assembly. As proof, the government wants to create a parliamentary commission controlled by the Liberals and the CAQ. However, it is the duty of the National Assembly to deal with this issue in a non-partisan manner.
“Prime Minister Philippe Couillard says he wants to elevate the debate beyond partisan issues. Today, the Parti Québécois presents its contribution to the debate. We want parliamentarians to be neither judges nor parties. A committee made up of independent experts and members chosen by each of the parliamentary groups seems to us the best way to meet all the players concerned by this debate, ”declared the leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard.
The motion reads as follows:
“THAT the National Assembly mandate a working committee to analyze journalistic independence and freedom of the press within Quebec media companies;
THAT this committee examine the tightness of newsrooms, the relations between news directors and journalists, the protection afforded to journalists by collective agreements or any other employment contract, as well as the political influence that can have the owners and the controlling shareholder of the media over the journalists;
THAT this working committee be made up of a member chosen by the Quebec Press Council, a member chosen by the Press Gallery, and a member chosen by each of the three parliamentary groups represented in the National Assembly ;
THAT the organization of the mandate be entrusted to the members of this committee;
THAT this committee hear, in public session, the members of the boards of directors, the editors, the editors-in-chief, the news directors, the desk heads and the journalists of the following media groups: Société Radio-Canada, Quebecor Media, TVA inc., TC Media, Bell Media, COGECO inc., Le Devoir, Gesca, a subsidiary of Power Corporation of Canada, RNC Media, Rogers Media inc. as well as any other person or group likely to provide expertise related to the committee&#39;s mandate;
THAT the committee&#39;s report be tabled in the Assembly no later than Friday November 28, 2014;
Finally, THAT this motion become an order of the Assembly. &quot;
&quot;If the government and the CAQ are sincere in their efforts to address these important issues, we hope they will support this motion.&quot; A rejection would mean that their motivation is only to exclude a political opponent, more precisely the deputy of Saint-Jérôme &quot;, concluded Stéphane Bédard.
