Montreal - The Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Marie-Victorin and Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation, Bernard Drainville, asks François Legault to call his candidate to order in Notre-Dame-de-Grâce, Noah Sidel, for several comments on his blog, including those that compare Bill 101 and Nazism.
Lors de la campagne électorale de 2012, M. Sidel a en effet écrit, le 24 août :« There’s a guy who runs a great blog called “No Dogs or Anglophones” that I read regularly. I’m starting to feel like a PQ government might actually go as far as to start posting those signs and forcing us dirty Anglos to wear a big A on our sleeves. […] But it’s not hard to imagine a PQ-governed province in which the English language is simply banned ».
&quot;Does François Legault endorse the words of his candidate, who makes a comparison between Nazism and the Parti Québécois, simply because we are making commitments to defend the French language?&quot; On August 3, 2012, Mr. Sidel even wrote that Bill 101 was the most restrictive and oppressive law in Canada. When a candidate allows himself to make such remarks, how can the Coalition Avenir Québec affirm that it is committed to strengthening the protection of French? “Asked Bernard Drainville.
Bernard Drainville also asks François Legault to explain his candidate&#39;s comments about the Quebec charter of values:
·         « Secularism charter’s
raison d’etre is to divide and create
hatred » (23 août 2013)    « If they
want to cover their faces, then so be
it – as long as they understand that
they can’t impose that upon others.
Legislating against Muslims covering
theirs faces is not progressive, it’s
racist, and I am unequivocally opposed
to it. » (21 mai 2010)
“Does François Legault believe, like his candidate, that the purpose of the charter is to divide and create hatred? Does he consider that the obligation to have one&#39;s face uncovered when giving or receiving a state service is a racist measure? Such remarks, made by a candidate of the CAQ, show that only the Parti Québécois can have a true charter of values adopted, ”added Bernard Drainville.
Recall that last Tuesday, on the airwaves of 98.5 FM, François Legault refused to condemn the words of his candidate. &quot;By acting in this way, François Legault confirms that the charter of values and respect for Law 101 are secondary issues for the Coalition Avenir Québec,&quot; concluded Bernard Drainville.
