Quebec - The member for Lac-Saint-Jean and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of education, research and school perseverance, Alexandre Cloutier, denounces the fact that the Liberal government has completely abandoned the regional organizations whose mission is to fight against dropping out of school.
Indeed, of the 20 regional consultation bodies on school perseverance and educational success, nearly half have practically ceased their activities, while the others are in survival mode. “How can Prime Minister Philippe Couillard accept that the organizations that coordinate action against dropping out of school disappear, when everyone agrees that this must be a priority for Quebec? “Asked Alexandre Cloutier.
The role of the regional consultation bodies is to bring together the social actors of a region around the same table in order to develop a strategy to tackle dropout, particularly in areas where the success rate is lower. Their funding was until recently provided by the Secrétariat à la jeunesse, regional conferences of elected officials, regional youth forums, school boards, CEGEPs and universities, organizations that have either been abolished or affected by government cuts. .
“The Liberal government is deconstructing the efforts of the regions that have taken charge to increase the success of our young people. It must announce without delay that it will release the necessary funding to ensure the survival of the 20 regional consultation bodies, ”continued the Member for Lac-Saint-Jean.
20 years in education
This unfortunate situation adds to the difficulties caused by the cuts that directly affect student services in Quebec public schools. During this back-to-school period, hundreds of specialist positions are being abolished across Quebec. Special classes for students with special needs are also closed by the dozen.
“This government has no long-term vision. For him, education is just a column of numbers. As proof, let us remember that the Liberal Party intends to increase the number of students per class, to no longer take into account the special needs of students in difficulty in the calculation of teacher-student ratios, and to abolish more than 2,000 posts for special education teachers and resource teachers. It would be a 20-year setback for Quebec in education! », Lamented Alexandre Cloutier.
