Québec, March 22, 2017 - On the occasion of World Water Day, the Parti Québécois spokesperson for the environment and the fight against climate change, Sylvain Gaudreault, unveiled the new proposals of the official opposition with regard to water, the common heritage of Quebecers.
Over the past year, the Parti Québécois has intervened on several occasions and made numerous proposals concerning water, in particular to ensure the protection of the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River, but also regarding the presence of pesticides in our rivers, wastewater discharges and water governance. Today, he presents three proposals relating to this year&#39;s theme, wastewater, as well as pesticides and public awareness:
Produce a reliable portrait of the evolution of the situation of wastewater discharges, by keeping the information concerning the performance monitoring of municipal structures available to ministries, watershed organizations, researchers and the general public water purification;
Reduce the use of the most dangerous pesticides, through legislative and regulatory changes, as well as through the addition of economic incentives accompanied by efforts to inform and educate agricultural producers;
&quot;I am proud to belong to a party which has the defense of water in its DNA, having notably contributed to the launch of the Water Sanitation Program, in 1978, and to the National Water Policy, in 2002 “, Insisted on mentioning the member for Jonquière.
He also underlined the deep concern of the Parti Québécois about the budget cuts imposed by the Trump administration in the Great Lakes restoration program. “For decades, on both sides of the border, great things have been accomplished to protect the ecosystem of the Great Lakes, indirectly that of the St. Lawrence River. The disengagement of the American government will inevitably have serious consequences, ”he lamented.
Finally, the Parti Québécois regrets that, for its part, the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment and the Fight against Climate Change, David Heurtel, is showing so much inertia in water-related issues. Here are a few examples:
• No lasting solution to reduce municipal wastewater discharges since the flushgate episode of the City of Montreal; • Abolition of multiple posts of engineers and technicians in wastewater treatment assigned to municipal works; • Significant drop in the number of annual inspections in the water sector; • No law on the conservation of wetlands and bodies of water; • Loss of control over the sale and use of pesticides, and no laws governing them; • Blessing from the Quebec government to the dangerous precedent created by the Great Lakes water transfer project by the city of Waukesha, Wisconsin; • No broad consultation for the Quebec Water Strategy 2017-2032.
