Quebec - In tribute to the victims, survivors and their descendants, the MNA for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, and the MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesperson for international relations, Carole Poirier, wish once again to remind the collective memory of the genocide which, 100 years ago, almost wiped out the Armenian people.
On April 24, 1915, 600 Armenian personalities - writers, thinkers, community leaders - were arrested in Istanbul, deported and then killed. In total, between 1915 and 1923, more than 1.5 million Armenian men, women and children were sacrificed on the altar of intolerance, while hundreds of thousands more had to endure exile, dispossessed of absolutely everything. “These barbaric gestures must be denounced without reserve and without nuance; they represent the darkest aspects of humanity, and we must at all costs prevent such events from happening again. On behalf of my fellow members of the Parti Québécois and on my behalf, I wish to express, in the most sincere way possible, all my solidarity and my support for the Armenian people, ”declared the leader of the official opposition.
“Since this particularly tragic episode, the Armenian people have shown remarkable resilience and immense courage. He knew how to get up, show himself strong and dignified. Today, its influence is evident all over the world, especially here in Quebec, where there are some 20,000 citizens of Armenian origin. Even though it is painful to commemorate the genocide of which the Armenians were victims, we must do so, if only to recall, at the same time, our attachment to the values linked to tolerance, justice and the peaceful resolution of conflicts. conflicts, ”added Carole Poirier.
At the initiative of the government of René Lévesque, in April 1980, the National Assembly of Quebec officially recognized the Armenian genocide, sensitive to the fact that Quebecers of Armenian origin are deeply committed to perpetuating the memory of missing persons.
