Quebec– The MNA for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, as well as the MNA for Marie-Victorin and Energy and Natural Resources Critic, Bernard Drainville, the MNA for Jonquière and environment and sustainable development spokesperson, Sylvain Gaudreault, and the MNA for Vachon and transport spokesperson, Martine Ouellet, reiterate the opposition of the Parti Québécois to the Energy East pipeline project.
“We cannot accept the Energy East pipeline project. Federal laws and jurisdictions take precedence over Quebec laws, particularly with regard to the environment and finance. Committed to our desire to make Quebec a country, we are against the Energy East project, which will be imposed on us by the federal authorities while ignoring the will of citizens with regard to environmental protection, social acceptability and economic benefits. This project is not good for Quebeckers. Here is a concrete example of the separation of powers under the constitutional law of 1867: Quebecers are not in a position to make a choice about an issue as decisive for our nation as that of the transport of oil, as for so many other issues that affect us directly. We no longer want to be tenants of our territory, but rather owners, and to have all the tools to decide our destiny ”, declared Pierre Karl Péladeau.
The Energy East pipeline project involves transporting oil for export through Quebec. “Even some fundamental aspects of the project remain unknown to this day, including the final route and the construction of an oil port in Quebec. In addition, the economic spinoffs for Quebec from the Energy East project would be very slim, compared to the environmental risks, ”added Bernard Drainville.
“Despite a unanimous motion that I tabled on November 6, 2014, asking the government to assume its jurisdiction over the environment, the Liberal government has completely abandoned its responsibility by not requiring compliance with Quebec laws by environment, and by setting up a facade BAPE, ”continued Sylvain Gaudreault.
In addition, we are seeing an increase in rail transport of oil for export, which is equally unacceptable. “Since 2009, the number of railcars transporting oil has increased tenfold, with all the risks we know, without Quebeckers having spoken on the issue. This is further proof that Quebec is currently not master of its territory, ”said Martine Ouellet.
“What are the Liberal government and the Coalition Avenir Québec proposing to promote the interests of Quebecers in this matter? How will they be able to prevent such a project from being forced on Quebecers? Asked the leader of the official opposition.
