Quebec - The MNA for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, as well as the MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesperson for international relations and Francophonie, Carole Poirier, join their voices to that of the 274 million of Francophones from the five continents who today celebrate the language they share and Francophone diversity, on the occasion of the International Day of La Francophonie, held this year under the theme &quot;I care about my planet ”.
“Quebeckers form the only French-speaking nation in America. Obviously, this specificity is the cornerstone of our identity. This precious heritage, by which we distinguish ourselves as a people, we wish and we must bequeath to future generations. This is why it is so important, for the members of the Parti Québécois, to underline our belonging to the Francophonie and to recall how proud we are of it, ”declared the leader of the official opposition.
“If Quebec&#39;s attachment to the Francophonie is undeniably based on a cultural and emotional bond, it is also for our nation an international forum that represents an extraordinary lever for asserting our interests, particularly in favor of democracy and human rights - those of women, among others - as well as in terms of sustainable development, ”continued Carole Poirier.
Stéphane Bédard underlined that French-speaking countries currently represent 16% of world GDP. In addition, according to projections - which highlight the strong demographic growth rates of all French-speaking states, mainly on the African continent - in just 35 years, the number of French-speaking speakers will have almost tripled. &quot;My colleagues and I will therefore continue to plead and act for a strengthening of the Francophone economic space, because we hope that the network that we have built over the years within the Francophonie will benefit even more entrepreneurs and Quebec experts, so that it contributes not only to our economic progress, but also to that of other French-speaking countries, ”he added.
“The French language is today the fifth most spoken in the world. Following the adoption of the Integrated Policy for the Promotion of the French Language at the Kinshasa Summit in October 2012, it is a shared responsibility that we have with the other Member States of La Francophonie to make it flourish and shine on the international scene, ”concluded the MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve.
International Francophonie Day
March 20 was chosen to recall the creation, in 1970, in Niger, of the ancestor of the International Organization of La Francophonie, the Agency for Cultural and Technical Cooperation. This event marked the beginning of fruitful cooperation between the French-speaking states of the world.
Shows, film festivals, conferences, debates, literary meetings, gastronomic events, exhibitions and artistic events of all kinds are held all over the world to celebrate the beauty of the French language. To find out more about the events organized as part of the International Day of La Francophonie, visit www.20mars.francophonie.org.
