Quebec - The member for Rousseau and official opposition spokesperson for finance and revenue, Nicolas Marceau, announced that the Parti Québécois has requested a mandate of initiative from the Committee on Public Finance to examines international tax evasion and the methods used by Revenu Québec to tackle it.
“While toxic austerity is sweeping down Quebec, we learned a few days ago that hundreds of wealthy Quebecers held or still hold secret bank accounts at HSBC Private Bank in Geneva. Several hundred million dollars are hidden there. It is systematic and large-scale tax evasion, involving wealthy taxpayers and the complicity of a bank. A parliamentary committee must study this question, ”declared Nicolas Marceau.
The mandate deposited with the Commission reads as follows:
“In accordance with the provisions of article 149 of the Standing Orders of the National Assembly, I would like to suggest to the members of the Committee on Public Finance to take up first a mandate of initiative on the phenomenon of recourse to tax havens.
With this mandate, we would like the Commission to examine the level of use of tax havens by companies and individuals in Quebec and the role played to this end by financial institutions, to assess the extent of tax losses. attributable to the use of tax havens for Quebec, as well as the effectiveness of the methods used by Revenu Québec to fight against tax avoidance and tax evasion associated with the use of tax havens. &quot;
The deputy recalls that such a commission had already done this work for contraband tobacco; moreover, she had been very useful. Then, in another vein, he mentions that the tools available to Revenu Québec to fight tax evasion are insufficient.
“Revenu Québec uses a voluntary disclosure program with amnesty. But, while the list made public contains several hundred names, Revenu Québec received only 88 disclosures. Obviously, the amnesty program has reached its limits. Let us add that the vast majority of Quebeckers are of the opinion that real sanctions should be imposed on offending taxpayers and complicit banks. Because if the rich do not pay all of their taxes, it is all citizens who pay the price. The Minister of Finance, Carlos Leitão, must respond positively to our request for the Public Finance Committee to look into tax evasion, ”Nicolas Marceau concluded.
