Quebec - The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health, accessibility to care and home care, Diane Lamarre, as well as the president of the Interprofessional Health Federation (FIQ), Régine Laurent, and the vice-president nurse president of the FIQ Abitibi-Témiscamingue union, Nancy Moore, denounced the harmful effects of the health cuts for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region.
“This morning I tabled a petition that testifies to the vast citizen mobilization that has taken place in recent months in Abitibi-Témiscamingue. Remember that the Liberal government announced, without consultation, the closure of eight mental health beds in the region, and that it is thanks to citizen mobilization that this measure was put on the ice. Not to mention that the 70 million promised when the mental health action plan was tabled are still pending; however, every day needs translate into serious and urgent situations. In mental health, proximity to care is decisive for success or failure, safety or danger, ”said Diane Lamarre.
For the FIQ as for the Parti Québécois, it is urgent that the liberal cutbacks in the health network cease. “The Liberal government is destroying the health care system. Contrary to what Minister Gaétan Barrette says, his government&#39;s cuts affect patient care and services, and compromise the safety of healthcare professionals. What we see in La Sarre, we see it everywhere in Quebec. What the Québec Ombudsperson observed in her last report, we experience daily, ”said Régine Laurent.
“The Barrette reform is a disaster for a region like Abitibi-Témiscamingue. Mergers of establishments separate services from the population. It is clear that with more than 9,000 signatories, people feel concerned and want to be heard when it comes to transforming the network. We call on the Minister to set up consultation mechanisms, such as the population forums provided for by law 10. He must hear the people of our region, ”said Nancy Moore.
“Several questions remain unanswered regarding the maintenance of mental health services in Abitibi-Témiscamingue, and citizens are worried - with good reason. I salute their vigilance and their mobilization, and I ask the Minister of Health to stop the cuts, to reinvest in health and to give the necessary guarantees so that all care and services in the region are maintained ”, concluded Diane Lamarre.
