Quebec - The Parti Québécois wants to force the Liberal government to commit itself and table a bill in the National Assembly before mid-June in order to increase the role of pharmacists in the Quebec health system.
“Pharmacists are health professionals, but currently underutilized. Distributed in 1,700 service points, 5,200 of them offer local service throughout the territory. It is time to provoke the debate and for it to take place with its face uncovered. By tabling a bill, we will be able to overcome resistance and demonstrate that in Quebec, we are determined to make our health care system more efficient, ”declared the Member for Taschereau and spokesperson for the opposition. health official, Agnès Maltais.
She recalls that in Alberta, British Columbia, New Brunswick and Ontario, pharmacists can extend, renew and sometimes, under certain conditions, prescribe drugs. “We don&#39;t need to reinvent the wheel: let&#39;s take inspiration from what is being done elsewhere to adapt it to our reality,” said Ms. Maltais.
Recalling that one in four Quebecers does not have a family doctor, the Member for Taschereau stresses the need to innovate to relieve the front line. “There is no need to bend over backwards to find solutions. They exist but you have to have the courage to apply them, ”added Agnès Maltais.
For her part, the MP for Mirabel and official opposition spokesperson for professional laws, Denise Beaudoin, believes that with the tabling of a bill, the professional orders will have a duty to explain themselves. “Currently, discussions are taking place, it seems, but behind closed doors. We must restore the confidence of citizens and open the doors to this debate. Let us not lose sight of the essential: we must, as legislators, promote the sharing of skills between health professionals to relieve our public health network, ”said Denise Beaudoin.
A motion was therefore tabled in the National Assembly to force Liberal MPs to decide on this solution. This motion reads as follows:
&quot;That the National Assembly of Quebec demand from the Liberal government the presentation, by June 10, 2011, of a bill that will allow pharmacists to exercise new responsibilities aimed at improving the quality and efficiency of care health care to the population, in particular: extending certain prescriptions which are no longer renewable according to specific criteria; adapt a prescription when the situation requires it; help solve some simple health problems, including mild infections; order certain laboratory tests to monitor the safety of the use of treatments; administer certain medications.
“With this motion, we will be able to discuss calmly in the National Assembly an effective solution to improve the Quebec health system. We will finally be able to verify whether the government&#39;s desire to increase the role of pharmacists is real or simply virtual, ”concluded Agnès Maltais.
