Montreal - Véronique Hivon, the member for Joliette and responsible for relations with civil society, citizen participation and convergence, takes note of the decision of the members of Québec solidaire (QS) to close the door at the opening of discussions about reaching an agreement for the next general election.
IN SHORT
The Parti Québécois respects the decision of Québec solidaire.
It is not the decision we were hoping for, but we are proud to have reached out and dared to try and play politics outside the box.
Véronique Hivon welcomes the democratic process that has been carried out. “This is not the decision we were hoping for. We are especially disappointed for Quebeckers, for the separatists and progressives who insistently ask us to work together, to rise above traditional partisanship, our party political egos, for the common good, to offer hope that things can be done differently in politics, ”she said.
&quot;But, beyond the disappointment, I am proud that we dared, had the audacity, in the Parti Québécois, to reach out, to try, to propose something else, to aim for the addition of forces rather than the division. We risked and it was worth it, because it could have completely changed our approach to politics. We knew very well that a company so ambitious and so far from the beaten track was demanding, but we dared! », Added the deputy.
The Parti Québécois is now the only political force that can prevent the re-election of a right-wing federalist government. We are determined and confident to get there, with our 90,000 members, our ideas and our ideals, those of carrying the project of a freer, greener, fairer and stronger Quebec for all Quebec women and men. all Quebecers.
It is now up to Québec solidaire to explain its choice to the people, who ardently hope that the progressives and sovereignists work together to put an end to the austerity regime of the Liberals. “For our part, we know where we are going. We will continue the work with enthusiasm, determination and confidence, ”concluded Ms. Hivon.
