Rimouski - Bernard Drainville, Member of Parliament for Marie-Victorin and Official Opposition Critic for Energy, Natural Resources and Northern Development, and Member for Rimouski, Harold LeBel, and Member for Matane-Matapédia, Pascal Bérubé, are concerned about the future of the wind industry in Quebec, more particularly in the Bas-Saint-Laurent and in the Gaspé, and ask the government to respect the deadline of September 3, 2014 for the granting of &#39;a 450 MW block.
“These projects represent major economic benefits for these regions, including many jobs created or maintained. Unfortunately, the Liberal government refuses to say if they will happen. This same government and the minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie – Îles-de-la-Madeleine regions, Jean D&#39;Amour, remain just as silent in the face of the smear campaign being waged against energy. wind turbine. The Liberals and Jean D&#39;Amour must plug in, put an end to the dithering and announce that they are moving forward, ”said Bernard Drainville.
In accordance with the decrees issued by the Parti Québécois government, Hydro-Québec Distribution launched, in December 2013, a call for tenders for the purchase of a block of wind energy produced by wind farms representing an installed capacity of 450 MW. , or 300 MW for the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie – Îles-de-la-Madeleine regions, and 150 MW for other projects elsewhere in Quebec.
“Who in government defends the wind industry and its workers? I do not question the good faith of Minister Jean D&#39;Amour but, for the moment, it is radio silence on his side and it is worrying. He must speak up, defend this industry and more vigorously support the communities involved. I remind you that the net profits shared equally by the partners, that is to say the RCMs of the region and the Maliseet of Viger First Nation, will be reinvested here and there is no doubt that we need these investments. When will we hear from the regional minister? Asked the member for Rimouski.
“The wind industry is a sector of the future for us. It represents significant investments and quality jobs in several regions of Quebec, including here, in eastern Quebec, and in the MRC de la Matanie in particular. This clean and renewable energy has generated a dynamic manufacturing industry and, for the host regions, it is a symbol of economic vitality. It would allow us to develop know-how in a sector of the future and carrier of projects. Workers in the region and all of Quebec would benefit, ”added Pascal Bérubé.
A profitable industry
It should be remembered that wind power employs 5,000 full-time people in Quebec, including 1,200 in the Gaspé and in the MRC de la Matanie. The average annual salary of these workers is 30% higher than the Quebec average. According to the firm SECOR-KPMG, in a decade, the development of the wind power sector in Quebec will have enabled investments of $ 10 billion, annual wealth creation of around $ 473 million and annual tax and parafiscal revenues of $ 75. M $ for the government of Quebec.
