In support of the kamouraskois citizen committee My care remains here, the official opposition spokesperson for health, access to care and home support, Diane Lamarre, as well as the spokesperson for seniors, Harold LeBel, denounced the ineffective liberal strategy of centralization in health care. “Care has to get to the patients; not the opposite! “, They argued.
IN SHORT
In May 2017 in Kamouraska, a large march was held to demand the maintenance of local services and care at La Pocatière hospital. “Over 5,000 people gathered to send a strong message to the Liberal government. A petition with some 9,000 signatures was also submitted to the National Assembly. The people and elected municipal officials of Kamouraska were mobilized for the cause. However, a year later, nothing is yet settled. We are worried more and more, because it would not happen otherwise if we planned to close the hospital of La Pocatière ”, evoked Anne Marie Labbé, Jean Martin and Lilou Cottinet, members of the committee My care remain here.
&quot;If ever this scenario were to materialize, it would be dramatic for the people of the region, especially for the elderly,&quot; said Harold LeBel. The deadlines are getting longer. The supply of services is decreasing; many are simply no longer available. People have to travel further and further, and for some it is difficult and complicated. What does Minister Barrette have to say to all these worried people? He asked.
Diane Lamarre is categorical: the members of the My care committee remain here and the entire population of Kamouraska can count on the Parti Québécois to maintain local care in the region, as elsewhere in Quebec. &quot;A Parti Québécois government will put the patient back at the heart of the health system, in particular by giving more autonomy to the 200,000 health professionals who are just waiting for that.&quot; We will support the staff and community organizations who work every day to help our world. And, from October 2018, we will redirect the billions promised to doctors towards home support and local care, ”she insisted.
