Montreal - The member for Jonquière and leader of the official opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, the member for Joliette and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of justice and for issues related to the fight against homophobia, Véronique Hivon, as well as the member for Rimouski and spokesperson for seniors and anti-bullying, Harold LeBel, are proud to announce that the Parti Québécois adheres to the Charter of well-treatment towards lesbian, gay, bisexual and elderly seniors. transidentitaires, initiated by the Fondation Émergence.
They signed the Charter in the company of Claude Leblond, President of the Fondation Émergence, Jean Lalonde, President of the Association Aînés et Retraités de la communautaire, Christian Tanguay, Executive Director of the LGBTQ + Community Center of Montreal, and Michel St -Cyr, general manager of Habitations La Traversée.
“We must continue our commitment to move towards a more just and egalitarian society. And the significant gains made in recent decades must benefit the entire LGBT community, especially seniors, too many of whom bear the marks left by years of discrimination, and suffer from loneliness and isolation. By adhering to the Charter of well-treatment towards LGBT seniors, the Parti Québécois reiterates its commitment to helping sexual minority seniors reduce their vulnerability, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
“Pride, solidarity, compassion and inclusion remain empty words if they are not accompanied by concrete measures and gestures. Together, we have made great progress, especially for trans children. But we must continue the efforts. Last year, for example, we denounced the government cut of one million dollars which led to the cancellation of the second awareness campaign to fight homophobia, despite the very conclusive results of the first campaign of its kind. , in 2013. Raising the awareness of stakeholders is an essential element in ensuring that care and services are provided correctly everywhere, from early childhood to the care of the elderly, passing through every stage of life. The second campaign must be back on track, ”added Véronique Hivon.
“It is essential to support LGBT seniors, to offer them a healthy and welcoming living environment, just as we must make the staff of the residences aware of the particular reality of LGBT seniors. Let us also have a special thought for seniors suffering from isolation, especially if they live outside urban centers, ”added Harold LeBel.
“Our nation has succeeded in building an open and inclusive society. A company that has a heart and takes care of its world. It is an achievement of which we can be proud. This precious heritage also belongs to the elders of the LGBT community, who must benefit from it in the same way as all Quebeckers, ”concluded the leader of the official opposition.
