Quebec - The National Assembly will have to vote on a motion tabled by the Parti Québécois to recall the importance it attaches to the principle of accessibility to higher education.
“The tuition hike decreed by the Liberal government is abusive and unacceptable. It will be a major obstacle to thousands of students who wish to obtain a diploma which will lead them into the labor market. All of Quebec will be weakened by this increase, ”declared the Member for Taillon and official opposition spokesperson for higher education, loans and grants, research, technology and innovation. , Marie Malavoy.
The member denounces the lack of courage of the Liberal government, which prefers to shovel the financial problems of universities into the backs of students. “Over the past few months, we have all witnessed the extravagant spending and bonuses of many university leaders. Although Minister Beauchamp denounced these practices, she is doing nothing to sanction them and wants to make students pay for these bad decisions, ”she added.
For his part, the member for Terrebonne and official opposition spokesperson for youth and student affairs, Mathieu Traversy, believes that the drastic increase in tuition fees is unfair for the current generation. “The Minister keeps saying that students will pay their fair share as she makes them pay for decisions made over the past 43 years. I don&#39;t call it a fair share, but rather an unfair share, it&#39;s an increase of $ 1,625 over five years that will have negative consequences for many young people. We cannot let this pass, the government must back down, ”demanded Mathieu Traversy.
The Parti Québécois therefore believes that the financial challenges of universities are not only the responsibility of the students, but of society as a whole. “We have an obligation as a society to provide better accessibility to higher education and it is not by imposing a tuition hike of $ 325 per year for five years that we will achieve this. The government must reverse its decision, ”concluded MP Marie Malavoy.
The deputies of the National Assembly will therefore have to vote, on Wednesday, November 9, on the following motion, at the end of a debate which will take place between 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
