Montreal - “We need to take better care of our world. The aging of the population is a major issue that must become a real priority in Quebec. We need to humanize the way we care for our elders. We must help them to live as long as possible at home by providing quality, varied and accessible home care ”.
This is what the member for Charlevoix and leader of the official opposition, Pauline Marois, said today when she made public the Parti Québécois&#39; proposals concerning our seniors. On this occasion, she was accompanied by Carole Poirier, MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and official opposition spokesperson for seniors, and Réjean Hébert, professor at the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences at the University of Sherbrooke.
Over the next ten years, Quebec will experience a significant aging of its population which will result in exorbitant costs if a shift does not begin quickly. To meet this challenge, the Parti Québécois is proposing essential changes for the well-being of our seniors, including the creation of a home care and services network and an autonomy fund as well as the adoption of a policy on aging and seniors.
“By taking this turn for our seniors, we are also easing the burden on families and caregivers. Thousands of people, women in particular, become caregivers too often without the training and support. It then becomes difficult to reconcile work, family life and helping aging parents, ”explained Pauline Marois, stressing that the Parti Québécois proposals provide concrete solutions to the real problems that many people are experiencing.
This shift will also allow us to better manage our public finances so that the aging of the population does not become an economic burden. Substantial savings can be made by better managing the allocation of places and especially by offering better home services. For example, a senior who waits in the hospital, for lack of anything better, costs 200,000 dollars per year, in a CHSLD, 60,000 dollars, while the costs for home care can be around 25,000 dollars per year. year.
A home care and services network will help a greater number of seniors and people with reduced autonomy to remain at home, close to their families, as the vast majority of them wish. They will be able to receive the care and professional services they need no matter where they live. The advantages of such a shift are obvious both in human and financial terms.
“To finance this shift, we are proposing to create an autonomy fund. This fund would make it possible to devote funds exclusively to taking care of our seniors and family caregivers. It is a smart investment that will benefit everyone. Other states have done so successfully. We must make this shift without delay, ”added Réjean Hébert, who co-chaired the public consultation on the living conditions of seniors in 2007.
“The Liberals talk fine, but are unable to deliver what they promise. We are still awaiting the hiring of the 23 inspectors promised last March in connection with the certification of private seniors&#39; residences. The government has still not amended the regulation concerning the temperature of hot water in institutions for the elderly and refuses to ensure a minimum level of training for patient attendants, ”recalled Carole Poirier.
“A crucial debate on the future of our seniors must take place before the next election. The Liberals are making promises that are contradicted by their record, while for François Legault, the fate of our seniors is completely absent from his speech. A Parti Québécois government will make our seniors a priority. We have clear and solid proposals for taking care of our seniors, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
