Québec - Martine Ouellet, MP for Vachon and official opposition spokesperson for transport, transportation electrification and maritime strategy, and Mathieu Traversy, MP for Terrebonne and family spokesperson, deplore the fact that the Minister of Transport, Robert Poëti, has withdrawn Highway 19 from the 2014-2024 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI), without any consultation of the stakeholders concerned.
“Another unjustified decline. As in the case of the LRT on the Champlain Bridge, the Minister is ignoring all the work already done and the consensus of elected officials in the regions concerned. The Minister must explain to the population the political choices he is making for the metropolitan region&#39;s transport infrastructure, ”said Martine Ouellet.
“By sending several contradictory messages, Minister Poëti is doing nothing to reassure the citizens of my riding and of the North Shore of Montreal. They are dismayed to see that he is turning his back on this project, which is so important for the region&#39;s economic development, ”continued Mathieu Traversy.
Questioned by the official opposition, Minister Poëti said that the highway 19 project was not included in the 2014-2024 PQI because, he claimed, he was waiting for the opportunity file before taking a decision. decision.
“The opportunity file was however completed by the former Liberal government in 2009. In addition, several projects under study registered in the PQI are not even at the opportunity file stage. The minister is trying by all means to hide that he is reneging on the Liberal promise to complete Highway 19, ”added Martine Ouellet.
Let us recall that in June 2010, Prime Minister Jean Charest announced that he was going ahead with the completion of Highway 19, and that the work would be completed by 2015. When it came to power, the Parti Québécois discovered however, no money had been set aside for the project.
In May 2013, the Parti Québécois government corrected the situation by registering the project in the PQI, submitting the environmental impact study and improving the project. In fact, to promote public transit, we added a 280-space incentive parking lot in the Terrebonne coast sector and arrangements for reserved lanes.
