Laval– Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, today unveiled her commitments to facilitate access to services and health care throughout Quebec. &quot;All of our commitments are aimed at one simple goal: that the patient be the one and only priority of the health care system,&quot; said the Premier.
For the occasion, she was surrounded by a strong team of candidates who bring together the expertise of several groups of health professionals:
Dr Gilles Aubé, candidate in Hull and family doctor.
Pauline Marois with the Parti Québécois health team.
“Since September 2012, our government has worked hard to implement a clear and effective plan to make the patient the number one priority of the health care system. We have taken important steps for home care, we have increased the number of family medicine groups (GMF), reduced waiting times in the emergency room and in surgery. In 18 months, the results of the Parti Québécois en santé have already been impressive, while for more than 10 years, the health and social services network lacked vision and leadership, ”added Pauline Marois.
“We are committed to putting in place a strong, accessible and efficient public health system. In the next term, we intend to continue our work, she added. To achieve this, we will implement patient-based funding to improve access, quality, equity and efficiency of services. &quot;
“Access to a family doctor and his team of health professionals is a priority for Quebecers. We will improve access to a family doctor, continue to reduce emergency room waits and bottlenecks, and improve follow-up for people with chronic illness. Since we came to power, 323,000 more Quebeckers have had access to a family doctor. To go further, we must promote teamwork between all health professionals so that physicians can treat more patients, ”said Dr. Réjean Hébert.
Once re-elected, the Parti Québécois government undertakes to complete the development of the FMG network in order to give all Quebecers access to a family doctor and his team of health professionals. Thus, 44 FMGs will be added, to arrive at a total of 300 throughout Quebec.
In addition, 150 health professionals such as nutritionists, social workers or even kinesiologists will be added and will work in collaboration with the doctors. This is a concrete way to support medical practice in FMG and to ensure better monitoring of patients, in particular those suffering from a chronic disease.
“It is abnormal that in 2014, patients are still being asked to fax medical prescriptions. We must take a turn and refocus on the reality of patients in Quebec. This is why we are going to modernize the whole concept of appointment booking. In collaboration with health professionals and institutions, we will implement a system to provide a more efficient and user-friendly method of obtaining a consultation. This measure will have a positive effect on patients in Quebec and will undoubtedly make people&#39;s lives easier, ”added Réjean Hébert.
A Parti Québécois government will set up an appointment booking system for front-line services and specialized care in public establishments. This innovative measure will significantly reduce the waiting time for patients wishing to obtain an appointment with health professionals, and will improve access to surgery and medical imaging.
Still with the objective of simplifying people&#39;s lives, a Parti Québécois government will develop the Portail Santé, a reliable and comprehensive health reference portal that will present information that is checked and updated regularly, and that will correspond to the reality of Quebec. At present, there are several Internet sites offering various information on health problems. However, it is difficult to ensure the reliability of the information.
In order to make life easier for parents, the Health Insurance Act will be amended to allow parents to obtain an additional health insurance card for their child, so that each parent can have one with them altogether. time. This administrative change will meet the needs of parents, especially those of single-parent families.
The Parti Québécois is choosing the public network by proposing to increase the offer in public establishments to improve access to ultrasound. Ultimately, our goal is to ensure that the population has access to ultrasound services within 3 months, for non-urgent examinations, and thus to eliminate unreasonable waiting. An investment of $ 8 million will be necessary to significantly improve access to this diagnostic examination and meet medically recognized deadlines.
For medical imaging, we will also put in place an action plan to improve access to public services.
A Parti Québécois government is committed to acting primarily with autistic children and their families. We want to reduce the wait time for diagnosis as well as for access to early intervention services. It has been shown that the earlier these services are offered in the child&#39;s development, the more they can have a positive and significant impact on his or her development.
We are determined that early diagnosis and intervention can be achieved quickly for children with autism 0-5 years of age, eliminating the one-term waiting list and simplifying the organization of services.
Finally, a Parti Québécois government will also intervene to regulate abusive accessory costs and provide Quebec with a new mental health action plan. We will also work to ensure interregional equity in health care provision in order to bring care closer to the place of residence of patients and to ensure equity in the financing of health care.
“We have solutions to improve access to healthcare and we have the best team to implement them. We make patients our priority. I am proposing a government that will make people&#39;s lives easier and take care of their people, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
Pauline Marois with the Parti Québécois health team.
Watch the press conference.
