Québec, June 10, 2020 - Méganne Perry Mélançon, MP for Gaspé and Parti Québécois culture spokesperson, as well as MP for Rimouski and caucus chair, Harold LeBel, joined the About fifty musicians, songwriters and other songbox artisans gathered in front of the National Assembly in a festive atmosphere. Together, they asked the government for financial compensation for these artists who are currently not eligible for any support program.
IN SHORT
The containment measures marked the end of activities for many independent musicians and songwriters, most of whom were hired on contract by restaurateurs and bar owners. “These artists lost their income in mid-March, and they don&#39;t yet know when - or even if - their business can resume. The numerous sanitary directives imposed on restaurants - as well as on bars, of course, soon - could indeed make artistic performances in establishments difficult, even inappropriate for a time, ”declared the Member for Gaspé at the outset.
However, the sums promised by the Minister of Culture at the beginning of the month are not intended for this category of artists. “The $ 400 million announced will go primarily to creators, producers, presenters, as well as festivals and events; nothing is foreseen for the interpreters. We do remember, however, that when the announcement was made, the Prime Minister left the door open to a possible improvement in aid measures for the cultural sector. The time has come! ”, Considers Harold LeBel for his part.
A spokesperson for the assembled artists agrees. “We remain hopeful but, for us, the shortfall, between now and the reopening of the bars and the full resumption of our activities, is decisive. Without direct and immediate help, many of us will likely, and with great regret, mourn our musical careers, ”explained Danny Armstrong.
The deputies and the chansonniers therefore ask the government to either include these workers in the programs already announced, or to provide specific assistance for them. “Independent musicians enliven communities and delight thousands of spectators across Quebec. We cannot deny that they are part of the Quebec culture and entertainment industry! We absolutely must find a way to support them, so that we can regain their talent and their energy on the other side of the crisis, ”concluded Méganne Perry Mélançon.
