Québec, May 3, 2020 - Inspired by the questions addressed to them by citizens across Québec, as well as the points raised by their caucus colleagues, the member for Matane-Matapédia and parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois, Pascal Bérubé, as well as that the member for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and health critic, Joël Arseneau, wish to make some suggestions to the government for the next step.
IN SHORT
Pascal Bérubé is categorical: the current crisis being exceptional, it requires exceptional measures. “My colleagues and I can attest to this: the population is very worried and has many questions. Consequently, the information intended for it must be more complete, more transparent and more easily accessible than ever before, ”he said at the outset.
He therefore expresses the wish that at the beginning of each month, the government will make its projections public, as it did on April 7. “The exercise was greatly appreciated by the public. These are certainly only forecasts, but it nevertheless allows to get a clearer idea of the situation, to know where we are. It&#39;s important to keep people in the loop, if we want their membership, ”said the parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois.
In the same vein, the member for Îles-de-la-Madeleine relays the words of researchers, who have reported a glaring lack of data about the pandemic. “These experts are demanding access to raw data, for example the demographic profile of people infected and hospitalized, the indicator of the virus reproduction rate, or even the number of deaths since the start of the year, from all causes. They claim that this information would allow them to better understand the pandemic and its evolution, including outside CHSLDs, and to advise the government more effectively in the development of public policies. If we want to achieve deconfinement, it is fundamental, ”he insisted. With this in mind, Joël Arseneau also believes that the government must clearly indicate how many screening tests are carried out in each administrative region. &quot;This is the most significant, the most eloquent data, and we cannot find it anywhere,&quot; he lamented.
