Quebec - The MP for Beauharnois and official opposition spokesperson for labor, Guy Leclair, accompanied by the MP for Jonquière and official opposition spokesperson for energy, Sylvain Gaudreault, called on the National Assembly, the Minister of Labor, Lise Thériault, and called for the modernization of the Quebec occupational health and safety system.
“After 30 years of existence, the CSST must be modernized. The current application of the law poses a lot of problems. The Minister of Labor is responsible for correcting these problems for the benefit of workers and employers. However, the reports multiply, but nothing changes. Minister Thériault has her work cut out for her; it can no longer maintain the status quo in the face of the multitude of problems and palpable tensions which will become unmanageable if nothing is done, ”said Guy Leclair.
He recalled that the Camiré report was tabled in December 2010 and was very disappointing. The unions and the employers did not reach a consensus. The report did not at all respect the essence of the CSST law, which aims for parity, since several recommendations better reflect employers&#39; concerns. Of the 32 recommendations in the Camiré report, 28 responded to employers &#39;requests and only 4 responded to workers&#39; requests. “The imbalance in this report was palpable. Minister Thériault cannot therefore endorse it in its entirety, ”added the deputy.
The deputy Leclair was also sorry that the report of the deputies of the National Assembly on the Office of medical evaluation (BEM) in 2006 remained unanswered. “Unanimously, parliamentarians called for major changes to the BEM. Five years later, no signal, no follow-up. However, the issues are not resolved, to the chagrin of injured workers. To justify her inaction, Minister Thériault takes refuge behind the Camiré report, as if it contained the solution. However, this is not the case and she knows it very well, ”added the spokesperson for work.
While the overhaul of the CSST should make it possible to correct unfair situations for workers, particularly in terms of medical assessment and treatment of occupational injuries, the opportunity has been given for the government to firmly commit to applying the CSST to domestic workers. “The time to procrastinate is over: the case of domestic workers is also another element that requires concrete action on the part of the Minister. It must now stand up for these women and grant them the same treatment as all other Quebec workers, ”concluded Guy Leclair.
