Salaberry-de-Valleyfield, September 4, 2019 - This Wednesday, the president of the Parti Québécois, Gabrielle Lemieux, alongside the president of the National Youth Committee of the Parti Québécois, Frédérique St-Jean, and the parliamentary leader and Member of Parliament for Matane -Matapedia, Pascal Bérubé, unveiled the main proposal that will be voted on at the extraordinary national convention on November 9 and 10 in Trois-Rivières.
Constituting the culmination of several months of work, research and consultations with the Quebec population, this document brings a new definition of the fundamental values, the approach and the independence project of the Party, as well as a questioning daring and innovative in its operation. This is a new start for our political formation.
Our most important goal is the country project. The new Parti Québécois is resolutely refocusing on independence, which is the key to the success of Quebec and of Quebeckers. All nationalists and separatists who adhere to the values and approach of the new Parti Québécois are welcome.
The new Parti Québécois will approach the independence project by freeing it from labels. He will seek to build consensus to advance the Quebec nation and independence. It will focus on promoting the advantages of independence and on the unexplored potential of Quebec as a response to the concrete needs of citizens, to whom it will listen.
The new Parti Québécois will strengthen its democracy to promote decision-making that reflects the will of its members, supporters and the population, at both the local and national levels. Young people, women and civil society will have a greater place there. In addition, to ensure respect for this democracy, the Parti Québécois will show more cohesion.
“It is a great pride for us to present to you what is the result of a wide consultation of the population and several hundred hours of work by our activists and our deputies. Our main proposal testifies to the lucidity and daring shown by the Parti Québécois in its modernization process. The new Parti Québécois will no longer have 20 or 30 priorities, it will have only one: advancing independence. Everything else will be subordinate to it. It is a more modern, more flexible, and more efficient training which will carry this objective of achieving independence. Gabrielle Lemieux said.
“This main proposal is a major step forward for young people in the Parti Québécois. Such involvement of youth in a political party is a first in Quebec and I am proud to see that the proposals made in this direction by the National Youth Committee are found today in the new statutes of the Party. In addition, a greater place for young people is, for a political party, a guarantee of perpetual renewal. Young people have been involved and consulted in the process from start to finish and the results are visible today. Added Frédérique St-Jean.
“It is thanks to the extraordinary work of the National Executive Council, in close collaboration with the caucus of members of the Parti Québécois, that we are presenting to you today this ambitious main proposal. The parliamentary wing will proudly wear it to the extraordinary national convention in Trois-Rivières. The Parti Québécois is getting a makeover, and it is a more democratic, more open, more united political formation that you will discover in November. A Parti Québécois fully and completely focused on the creation of a country. »Concluded Pascal Bérubé.
CONTACT: Lucas Medernach
Responsible for communications for the Parti Québécois
514 663-6519
