Quebec - On this National Patriots&#39; Day, the Leader of the Official Opposition and Member of Parliament for Saint-Jérôme, Pierre Karl Péladeau, is pleased to remind Quebecers of the determination and pride of the women and men who fought for recognition of their nation, for its political freedom and for the establishment of a democratic government.
“Let us remember the courage shown by the patriots; they did not hesitate to stand up to those who refused to consider their demands. Their legitimate fight for the recognition of our nation was memorable; with hindsight, we can say that it represents a turning point, even decisive, in our collective destiny. They fought for a great democracy, for freedom of expression and freedom of the press. We owe them, among other things, to continue our journey as French-speaking people in America, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
The leader of the official opposition also wishes to emphasize the fact that as part of the activities surrounding National Patriots&#39; Day, two of his colleagues will be honored by the Rassemblement pour un pays Sovereign for their unwavering commitment to independence. from Quebec: Agnès Maltais, Member of Parliament for Taschereau, will receive the Marie-Victoire-Félix-Dumouchel Prize, and Stéphane Bédard, Member of Parliament for Chicoutimi, the Louis-Joseph-Papineau Prize.
Pierre Karl Péladeau also congratulated Mr. Marcel Tessier, historian, who will receive the Prix Chevalier-De Lorimier, and Simon-Pierre Savard-Tremblay, for obtaining the Grand Prix littéraire de La Presse Québécoise 2015. He also underlined the posthumous tribute to Quebec war hero Léo Major.
“I warmly congratulate all the recipients, and especially Agnès Maltais and Stéphane Bédard. This public tribute is well deserved and will keep their achievements alive and intact. They are, first and foremost, independence activists. Through their work and their commitment, they have demonstrated beyond any doubt that the most promising future path for Quebecers is to create a country for themselves, ”concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau.
