Montreal - Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, presented the actions that a Parti Québécois government will take to fight homelessness. She was accompanied, for the occasion, by the Parti Québécois candidate in Joliette and Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Véronique Hivon, by the candidate in Sainte-Marie – Saint-Jacques, Daniel Breton, from the candidate in Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, and the candidate in Saint-Henri – Sainte-Anne, Véronique Fournier.
“The Parti Québécois government was the first to endow Quebec with a national policy to fight homelessness. This policy was necessary and it was called for in vain for eight years. Today, we are making a commitment to deploy our national policy against homelessness, which will be followed by a plan implementing targeted and concrete actions, ”said Pauline Marois.
In the 2014-2015 budget, investments are planned, in particular for the construction of 3,250 social housing units, 500 of which will be reserved for people experiencing homelessness. The Parti Québécois government will develop and improve local services, mainly in health and social services and community support, thanks to an investment of $ 6 million. In addition, among the measures announced last fall in the document Solidarity: a wealth for Quebec, $ 120 million over 3 years was granted to support the overall mission of community health and social services organizations.
Over the years, the face of homelessness has changed. We have to deal with many forms of homelessness. This complex phenomenon now affects women, Aboriginals, immigrants and young people who have broken up their families. Homelessness exists in all major cities in Quebec.
The policy will be deployed along five priority lines of action: housing; health and social services; Income; education, social integration and socio-professional integration; as well as social cohabitation and issues related to judicialization.
“This policy was long awaited by all players in the field. I had the honor of leading the work leading to the implementation of a global, coherent and sustainable policy to better prevent and counter homelessness in Montreal and in Quebec. Our action plan will provide for specific and concrete actions for all of the priority areas, ”declared Véronique Hivon.
“Solidarity is an asset for Quebec. Our development is linked to our ability to work together for the common good, to take care of our world. We have a plan to build a society that is fairer and more in line with the values of Quebecers, ”concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois.
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
Watch the press conference.
Read on the Parti Québécois blog: Our policy on homelessness: living with dignity
