Quebec– Jean-François Lisée, the member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, attended the third States General of homelessness in Quebec; speaking, he reiterated the urgency of correcting the situation in order to fight effectively against the phenomenon.
“In February 2014, the Parti Québécois government launched a policy to fight homelessness, and the initiative was welcomed on all sides. Of course, it would have been desirable for everyone for the government of Philippe Couillard to take up the torch and continue in the direction set out, but, surprisingly, it decided to change its strategy. In fact, last December, the government launched an action plan to fight homelessness, but it did not provide the necessary financial resources. In addition, he takes actions inconsistent with the directions he has given himself. The result today is that the community must come to terms with austerity measures that inevitably have an impact on the fight against homelessness, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
“Last March, the Liberal government offered no resistance when the federal government imposed its vision on the fight against homelessness, which is limited to the formula &#39;housing first? lack of political courage, the Quebec approach, which had proved its worth, was put aside.In addition, all the cuts imposed by Philippe Couillard&#39;s government - in education, health, social assistance, housing, and so on - are totally counterproductive, of course. In Montreal, by the summer, some fifty organizations will have lost their funding to fight homelessness; in Quebec, it is nearly twenty who find themselves on a tightrope. It must be remembered that ultimately, thousands of people at risk of homelessness lose the precious support they could previously benefit from, ”added the spokesperson. .
In these circumstances, the efforts of community groups and stakeholders who work to get vulnerable people off the streets are particularly noteworthy. “Every day, these women and men work miracles with limited resources; they deserve not only our recognition, but also our support. I would also like to thank the Réseau SOLIDARITÉ itinérance du Québec, which organized these third States General; the exercise, mobilizing and inspiring, is more necessary than ever to fight effectively against homelessness, ”concluded the Member for Rosemont.
