Drummondville - The Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, presented her commitments to take better care of our seniors throughout Quebec.
On this occasion, she was accompanied by the Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Saint-François, Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Doctor Réjean Hébert, by the candidate in Joliette and Minister responsible for Social Services , Véronique Hivon, the candidate in Blainville, Gyslaine Desrosiers, the candidate in Taillon, Diane Lamarre, the candidate in Drummond – Bois-Francs, Daniel Lebel, and the candidate in Johnson and Minister of the Environment, Sustainable Development, of Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet.
“The first choice of our seniors is to stay as long as possible in their home. We are going to give back to Quebeckers the freedom to choose where they want to age, by giving them access to adequate services and by ensuring the development of home support services, through autonomy insurance, ”said Pauline Marois.
The autonomy insurance plan will have a closed budget, the autonomy fund, which will be subject to specific accountability. This fund will be set up from the amounts provided for long-term care and services and an additional investment announced by the government of more than $ 500 million until 2017-2018. Remember that in 2013-2014, more than $ 110 million was invested in home care and services across Quebec. Ultimately, an additional $ 500 million will be invested in home care and services for seniors and people with disabilities.
“The Liberal Party is simply proposing to invest additional money, without changing the way things are done. However, if we continue to do things the same way, we will get the same results. And the results obtained by the Liberal Party in terms of home care were highlighted by the Auditor General of Quebec: disorganization; insufficient and inadequate services; regional inequities in access to services; incomplete waiting lists; absence of national standards. We do not want to do things like the Liberal Party. That is why we must adopt the Law on Autonomy Insurance, ”stressed the Premier.
Caregivers want better support. This is why respite services will be part of the eligible services under the autonomy insurance. Caregivers are valuable partners, and the Parti Québécois government will provide them with better support.
“Elder abuse can take many forms. In addition to physical violence, we can think in particular of financial pressures, psychological or emotional abuse, sexual abuse. It is essential to act to make the population and stakeholders aware of this phenomenon, ”continued Pauline Marois.
The Parti Québécois government has announced funding for the project Counter mistreatment of seniors through training and awareness, submitted by the Provincial Regroupement des Committees des Users (RPCU). This project, which will be deployed in the 18 regions of Quebec for a period of three years, aims to raise awareness among the elderly, their families and the population about elder abuse, through the training that will be provided, in the long term, by volunteers who are members of the users &#39;and residents&#39; committees.
To provide seniors who require heavier care and living environments that meet their needs, the government will continue to invest in improving CHSLDs. The money needed to make these real estate investments comes from the Quebec Infrastructure Plan.
Finally, it should be noted that the government has set up the Committee on fire protection in private seniors&#39; residences. This committee evaluates the advisability and the modalities so that all the residences for the elderly are equipped with a sprinkler network. It is made up of representatives from the Ministry of Health and Social Services, the Régie du bâtiment du Québec, the Association des chefs en sécuritéendie du Québec, the Regroupement québécois des residences pour seniors, the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec. Quebec, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy and the Provincial Association of Quebec Housing Builders. The work of the committee is still ongoing.
“We have a very good record when it comes to caring for our seniors. We want to go further, because we have a duty to take better care of the elderly. We have a moral obligation to help them live as long as possible at home by providing quality, varied and accessible home care, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
Watch the press conference.
