Québec, November 28, 2016 - The Parti Québécois justice spokesperson, Véronique Hivon, calls for urgent action from the Minister of Justice, Stéphanie Vallée, in the face of the unprecedented crisis affecting our justice system, which has the effect of increasing the number of releases of accused persons for unreasonable delays.
Véronique Hivon recalls that the government has not announced any additional investment, despite the Jordan ruling which places strict limits on the delays that can be accepted in the system. Worse, it made cuts of $ 5 million in the expenses of the Director of Criminal and Penal Prosecutions, in addition to cutting 29 full-time positions. “Stéphanie Vallée must act urgently. If the situation we know continues, hundreds and hundreds of defendants will get away with it. However, solutions exist. The minister must use it to prevent our entire justice system from falling out of favor in the eyes of the public, ”she said.
“To be corrected, such a crisis requires exceptional measures. The bleeding must be stopped. First of all, we need a transparent picture of the situation: how many stays of proceedings have been requested? How many trials are at risk of being overturned? What assessment is made by the public prosecutor? In addition, the Minister must fill vacant positions in the Criminal and Penal Division of the Court of Quebec, in addition to recalling, as supernumeraries, retired judges who are willing to lend a hand. Finally, Stéphanie Vallée should also increase the number of prosecutors, clerks and administrative employees to support the judges, while considering providing additional rooms, outside the palace if necessary, ”continued the deputy.
Finally, Véronique Hivon believes that the proposal to use the derogation clause, which has been circulating for a few days, should not be ruled out from the outset by the Minister. “No option should be ruled out, the crisis is so great. This is a proposal that the Minister must study, if only to demonstrate that she is indeed in solution mode, ”she concluded.
