Montreal - Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, today unveiled her commitments to increase the contribution of the social economy to the development of Quebec.
Once re-elected, the Parti Québécois government undertakes to present and implement the social economy action plan, provided for by the Social Economy Act unanimously adopted by the National Assembly on October 10. This action plan will be broken down into four areas of intervention: development of the social economy, innovation, territories as well as governance and recognition.
“My commitment to the social economy has never wavered. He accompanied me throughout my political career. I would even say he marked it. As Prime Minister, it is obvious to me that the development of the social economy is one of my priorities, ”said Pauline Marois.
It should be remembered that there are more than 7,000 social economy enterprises in Quebec, which employ more than 150,000 workers. Their activities represent more than 8% of the GDP and they generate socioeconomic benefits for all regions of Quebec.
“The social economy is a strong feature of our economy, recognized on the international scene. It is not enough to simply create wealth and then redistribute it. The act of creating wealth must itself generate social justice and share the benefits, ”added the leader of the Parti Québécois.
Among the measures it will implement in the short term, the government will create a partners&#39; table to draw on the expertise of the various players in this sector. It will appoint officials within the public apparatus who will take social economy enterprises into account in their programs and measures. The Parti Québécois government will also promote the expansion and development of collective enterprises by renewing the Chantier Trust, and will strengthen the role of the social economy in regional development, thanks to the National Rurality Policy.
In addition, the mission of the Banque de développement économique du Québec will be to contribute to economic development by stimulating the growth of investment and job creation in all regions of Quebec. Part of its mission will be aimed in particular at the cooperation and social economy sectors.
“It&#39;s about recognizing that economic development and social development are not mutually exclusive. On the contrary, they are complementary, ”concluded the Prime Minister.
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
Watch the press conference.
