Quebec - Following the announcement of his departure from the International Organization of La Francophonie (OIF), the Member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, as well as the Member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and Porte - speech in international relations, Carole Poirier, would like to underline the considerable contribution of Clément Duhaime to the influence of the international Francophonie.
“For nine years, Clément Duhaime has assumed the role of administrator of the OIF in an exceptional way. We would like to salute his important contribution to the development and modernization of the Organization. His love and constant dedication for the French language, combined with his rigor and his management skills, have breathed new life into the Francophonie and allowed Quebec&#39;s know-how to shine around the world, ”declared Stéphane Bédard.
“Mr. Duhaime can leave with his head held high; the work he has done is remarkable. He succeeded in consolidating the political, economic and social action of La Francophonie. The OIF, under his administration, has gained credibility and efficiency. We can be very proud of this great Quebecer! », Added Carole Poirier.
Clément Duhaime is leaving the post of administrator of the OIF after a successful career as a diplomat. He was notably appointed delegate general of Quebec in Paris by the government of the Parti Québécois in 2000. He held this position until 2005, as well as that of personal representative of the Prime Minister of Quebec to the authorities of the Francophonie. His career has been underlined on numerous occasions; among others, he was made a Commander of the Ordre de la Pléiade and an Officer of the National Order of Quebec.
The leader of the official opposition also took the opportunity to highlight the arrival of the new administrator of the OIF, Mr. Adama Ouane, who takes office as of today. “I am convinced that Mr. Ouane will meet this challenge brilliantly. On behalf of the Parti Québécois, I wish him every success in his new functions and I would like to assure him of our full cooperation, ”he concluded.
