Québec, October 23, 2014 -The member for Terrebonne and official opposition critic for family matters, Mathieu Traversy, is proud to announce that the Parti Québécois is supporting the campaign “Are you still crazy about our children? &quot;. Initiated by the Association québécoise des CPE, this movement brings together citizens and organizations calling for the maintenance of the founding measures of Quebec&#39;s family policy, in particular the development of places in childcare centers, the Quebec parental insurance plan and family reconciliation. work-study.
&quot;We invite the population to take part in the movement in order to indicate to the liberal government of Philippe Couillard its attachment to family policy and to tell it that the measures which underpin it are very important, that they are progressive, and that they have moves Quebec forward. The Minister of Families, Francine Charbonneau, has delayed the development of thousands of childcare spaces eagerly awaited by families. In addition, the government leaves room for doubt and uncertainty over these services, by not denying that it wants to cut the Quebec Parental Insurance Plan. We are told that everything is on the table; it is very worrying! », Declared Mathieu Traversy.
The member for Terrebonne recalls the positive effects of a strong family policy, both socially and economically. “Thanks to this ambitious policy, Quebec has notably enabled parents to reconcile family life and work. Single mothers and fathers have improved their living conditions. Tens of thousands of women have entered the labor market faster. Funding childcare services and support for families is not an expense, it is an investment, it is an economic development measure, ”concluded Mathieu Traversy.
The MP also invites the population to sign the petition for the safeguard of Quebec&#39;s family policy that he is sponsoring, through the website of the National Assembly: https: //www.assnat.qc.ca/fr/expressez -your-opinion / petition / Petition-4833 / index.html.
