Montreal - The Parti Québécois candidate in Bourget and Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the candidate in Jean? Talon, Clément Laberge, and the candidate in Verdun, Lorraine Pintal, condemn the lack of vision of the Liberal Party of Quebec and the Coalition Avenir Québec in the field of culture.
Mute since the start of the campaign on his commitments to culture, the head of the PLQ, Philippe Couillard, declared yesterday, in a dramatic turn of which he alone has the secret, that he did not know if the state of public finances will allow it to maintain the envelope of $ 150 million over seven years for Québec&#39;s digital cultural strategy.
For his part, François Legault has nothing to say about culture. He did not even bother to broach the subject during the election campaign, except to say that he would cancel projects already announced and which are unanimous, such as Robert Lepage&#39;s Le Diamant project or that of the Nouvelles ? Barracks.
“On March 26, when we announced our commitments to culture, we mentioned that our opponents had no vision or ambition for culture. Philippe Couillard proved yesterday that our analysis is the right one: nothing reassuring for the assistance with the creation and the diffusion of the works of our creators. Culture is essential to the development of the Quebec nation and we can see very clearly that Philippe Couillard has nothing to say about it, ”said Lorraine Pintal.
“Digital technology has become a powerful vector of transmission for culture and heritage, as well as a major lever of economic development for the media and cultural industries. To maintain the vitality and competitiveness of this sector on local, national and international stages and markets, the State must support cultural circles in their transition to the digital world. We have already waited too long to support creators and entrepreneurs in the field, who are facing the transformation of their disciplines and distribution channels allowing them to promote our culture around the world, ”added Clément Laberge.
It should be remembered that Quebec was really behind in taking the digital turn in culture, because of the inaction of the Liberal government. The Digital Cultural Strategy, unveiled on March 3 and matched with a budget of $ 150 million, will make up for this delay. It was unanimously hailed by the cultural community.
“The Parti Québécois is committed to ensuring that the cultural sector goes digital and to encourage cultural philanthropy. If the cultural community wants to be able to count on a government that supports it, it must choose the Parti Québécois. We are determined to defend French culture and language, ”concluded Maka Kotto.
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
