Rousseau&#39;s deputy, Nicolas Marceau, as well as the candidates Dieudonné Ella Oyono (Saint-Henri – Saint-Anne) and Jean-Martin Aussant (Pointe-aux-Trembles), reacted to the presentation of the pre-election report commented on by the Auditor General (VG). Together, they denounced the partisan management of public finances by the Liberal Party. “It has been shown: after austerity, electoral giveaways are raining down, and this only serves to prepare for a new cycle of reduction of services. Moreover, it is now clear that there is no room for maneuver for the tax cuts promised by the CAQ, unless there is a cut in services, ”they declared.
IN SHORT
“What we have been denouncing for several months has been confirmed: the PLQ is using the wallets of Quebecers to buy a re-election. The Auditor General confirms the liberal cycle of austerity: for next year alone, the shortfall is $ 868 million. This is the cost of election candy distributed during the summer. We in the Parti Québécois will put an end to the budgetary yoyo which only reinforces cynicism towards elected officials, ”said Nicolas Marceau.
For his part, Dieudonné Ella Oyono insists: the promises of the CAQ are unrealistic. “It doesn&#39;t swing! There is no room for maneuver to make tax cuts without reducing services. The VG report confirms it: we need all our money to maintain the quality of services. Those who will say the opposite are disconnected or cannot count. In short, if the CAQ and the Liberals persist in their ill-informed choices, they must tell the truth: what services will they cut to finance their promises, to find the $ 868 million? He asked.
“Unlike the head of the CAQ, we in the Parti Québécois are serious when we talk about numbers. We cannot promise Quebeckers one thing and its opposite. We cannot commit to increasing services while reducing Quebec&#39;s revenues. We must, for example, renegotiate the agreement with doctors to provide better health services. The cycle of electoral giveaways and austerity, with the Parti Québécois, will be over. Seriously, ”concluded Jean-Martin Aussant.
