The vice-leader of the Parti Québécois, Véronique Hivon, as well as the candidates Carole Poirier (Hochelaga ‑ Maisonneuve), Maka Kotto (Bourget), Jennifer Drouin (Sainte-Marie – Saint-Jacques) and Marie-Aline Vadius (Laurier-Dorion) , presented the Parti Québécois plan to give concrete action to the #moiaussi movement: the Parti Québécois will take into account the reality of victims by setting up, in collaboration with the judiciary, a chamber specializing in sexual and domestic violence.
IN SHORT
To better support victims, the Parti Québécois is committed to:
“The #moiaussi movement will have opened the eyes of many Quebeckers. All these revelations about sexual violence experienced on a daily basis by many women and men cannot go unanswered from elected officials. We wish to be up to the courage of those who broke the silence, on behalf of many, and witnessed an intolerable situation whose magnitude has too often been minimized in the past. And we are going to do it by giving them the essential tools to go from #moiaussi to #plusjamais ”, declared Véronique Hivon.
The movement has shown that victims are often resistant to appealing to the judicial system, which they consider ill-suited to their reality. “We have to restore confidence. This is one of the objectives of our proposal to create a specialized chamber in matters of sexual and conjugal violence within the Court of Quebec. This body would be made up of judges and specialized prosecutors. It could develop rules of practice that would facilitate the taking into account of the particular reality of victims of sexual and domestic violence, in particular with regard to the modalities for the testimony, the support of the victims and the consideration of their needs in the development. sentences, ”added the vice-chef.
“Because of the psychological wounds, victims of sexual assault often need time to rebuild themselves and find the strength to speak out against their abuser. We believe the time has come to abolish the civil statute of limitations so that every victim can obtain justice. The Ombudsperson and the Quebec Bar have also recommended going in this direction, moreover, ”said Carole Poirier.
“The associations are unanimous: those who are victims of a criminal act do not have sufficient support. Since its enactment in 1970, the Criminal Injuries Compensation Act has never undergone a comprehensive upgrade. We will undertake this work and give this law a more humane framework of application and more concerned with the bereavement and pain felt by victims, in particular on the psychological level. We will review, among other things, the whole aspect of the time required to submit a request, and that of the type of suffering that can be compensated, ”continued Jennifer Drouin.
“We have also made a commitment to increase funding for the mission of community organizations by $ 200 million. It should also be noted that a surplus of $ 40 million is accumulating in the assistance fund for victims of crime. We will redirect this money where it needs to go, that is to say to the victims and the organizations that support them, ”said Maka Kotto.
“In addition, too often, sexual and conjugal violence forces victims to relocate their living environment. In addition to the efforts made by the shelters, we are committed to building 3,000 social housing units per year, part of which will be reserved for women, in order to facilitate their long-term relocation ”, for her part indicated Marie-Aline Vadius. .
“The Parti Québécois has heard from victims of sexual and domestic violence: they want more justice and a better understanding of their reality. Collectively, we owe them a sincere and serious response. This is what we are doing today, ”concluded Véronique Hivon.
