Shawinigan - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, along with the Member of Parliament for Saint-Maurice, Luc Trudel, announced the classification of the former Shawinigan smelter as a heritage building, under the Act respecting Cultural Heritage. The event took place in the presence of the mayor of Shawinigan, Michel Angers, the chairman of the board of directors of the Cité de l&#39;énergie, Roland Désaulniers, and the director general, Robert Trudel.
“The former Shawinigan aluminum smelter is considered to be the first aluminum smelter complex in the country and constitutes an important witness to the heritage of the Mauricie. By granting the status of heritage building to this significant industrial complex, we intend to protect and enhance a heritage of great wealth for the history of Quebec, for the benefit of citizens, ”declared the Minister. Kotto.
“Anyone who has ever visited the old aluminum smelter has seen that these facilities constitute a unique and legendary industrial site. I am delighted with the protection afforded it today by the Government of Quebec. This classification makes it possible to preserve an ensemble which is intimately linked to the development of Shawinigan and which is the pride of Mauritians, ”said MP Trudel.
Established in 1899, the former Shawinigan smelter is the first electrometallurgy plant established in the country and is of major heritage interest for its historical and architectural values. It is a remarkable witness to the birth and development of electrometallurgy at the turn of the 20th century and recalls the establishment of large industries near hydroelectric power stations at that time. This is where the first aluminum ingot in the country was cast in 1901.
The buildings are representative of the industrial architecture of the first half of the 20th century, characterized by the use of new structuring materials on which were plated elements drawn from different architectural styles. This ensemble recalls the privileged spatial organization for aluminum factories of that time and testifies to the desire of the various designers to create, despite successive expansions, a harmonious industrial architectural ensemble.
The classification of a heritage property aims to guarantee its protection, knowledge and development in the public interest as well as its transmission to future generations. The Cité de l&#39;énergie, as the owner of the former Shawinigan smelter, is responsible for ensuring the preservation of the heritage value of the protected buildings.
Additional information about the former Shawinigan smelter is available on the Quebec Cultural Heritage Directory (RPCQ) website (www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca). This dissemination tool from the Ministry of Culture and Communications makes it possible to discover the richness and diversity of Quebec&#39;s cultural heritage by making it accessible to all. Part of the content of the RPCQ can now be found on the Government of Quebec&#39;s open data portal (www.data.gouv.qc.ca).
