Quebec - The member for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, deplores the refusal of the Prime Minister to offer the necessary services to autistic children and their families.
“In 10 years, the number of disabled or struggling students who are home-schooled has increased from 37 to 81. Last year alone, around 40 children were excluded from their school. I asked the Prime Minister seven questions to find out what concrete actions his government would take to ensure that children with autism and their families receive the support they deserve. I couldn&#39;t get anything out of it: no response, no commitment, no sensitivity, no compassion. Instead of committing to better support them, the Prime Minister locked himself in his accounting logic, claiming that it was necessary to achieve a balanced budget before improving services. It is nonsense that testifies to the Prime Minister&#39;s estrangement from the reality these families are experiencing, ”said Stéphane Bédard.
“The groups on the ground are worried and fear that the current cuts will accentuate the problems faced by these families. They have already called on the Prime Minister, but are still waiting for concrete actions on his part, ”he added.
To illustrate his remarks, the leader of the official opposition recalled the case of young Benjamin, which has been the subject of numerous articles and reports in recent months. This ten-year-old child, non-verbal autistic and having an intellectual disability, was expelled from his school before Christmas and, since, his parents have to cope with barely five hours per week of home schooling, offered by the school board. Out of breath, like many other families, they ask for government help to obtain the necessary resources to educate their child and allow him to continue to flourish.
“Young Benjamin was expelled because he is considered by the establishment as a“ too heavy ”case. The question that arises is the following: if the specialized school, with all the resources at its disposal, cannot take care of it, who else can? Is the Liberal government&#39;s solution in such a situation to abandon the parents? Unfortunately, it seems so, ”concluded Stéphane Bédard.
