Québec, August 19, 2016 - After the Minister of Transport, Sustainable Mobility and Transport Electrification, Jacques Daoust, took the necessary decision, namely to resign, the head of the official opposition and member for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the member for Sanguinet and spokesman for the Parti Québécois in matters of the economy, Alain Therrien, believe that the premier of Quebec, Philippe Couillard, owes many explanations to Quebecers in order to that all the light be shed on the decision-making process and the ways of doing things of his government.
&quot;Why is Philippe Couillard still waiting for a scandal to act and do the checks? He knew very well that the parliamentary committee was coming next week; why neither his office nor that of Minister Anglade did the necessary verifications with Investissement Québec, in particular concerning the supposed absence of Jacques Daoust when the board of directors met to discuss the future of Rona? Why did no one check after the Auditor General&#39;s report, after the Parti Québécois tabled the minutes and, finally, after the emails released yesterday? This is unacceptable, and it poses serious questions about the decision-making chain within this government, ”said the leader of the official opposition.
“Minister Dominique Anglade, for her part, knew that Investissement Québec was busy gathering all the documents and information regarding the sale of Rona&#39;s shares? In this story, all the people who were to be accountable, first and foremost Minister Daoust, lied about their responsibility. Who is accountable within this government? Who takes responsibility? », Continued Sylvain Gaudreault.
Alain Therrien for his part insisted that the parliamentary commission to take place next week be held in the presence of the former chief of staff Pierre Ouellet. “The commission is always necessary. We have to shed some light, know who decides within this government. The Prime Minister and ministers, or chiefs of staff and deputy ministers? This resignation once again illustrates the Prime Minister&#39;s lack of interest in state affairs. It takes all the evidence and even more before he moves or even verifies the information. That does not make sense; we need to know who decides within the Liberal government, ”concluded Alain Therrien.
