Quebec City, December 21, 2016 - The Parti Québécois spokesperson for indigenous affairs, Alexandre Cloutier, and the spokesperson for the status of women, Mireille Jean, welcome the creation by the government of Quebec of a public commission of inquiry into the relations between the members of the aboriginal nations and the police forces.
“The launch of a Quebec commission of inquiry had become inevitable. The government made the right decision by following up on the demands of the aboriginal nations, supported by the Parti Québécois, as soon as the revelations of the program Enquête were revealed. The tensions that currently exist between the communities that rub shoulders with each other and the police forces since the events in Val-d&#39;Or and elsewhere must be alleviated; to do this, it is obviously essential to shed light on the distress experienced by native communities, and on its causes, ”said Alexandre Cloutier.
“A commission of inquiry is obviously essential, but we still have to ensure that the aboriginal nations are involved in the process. In addition, special attention should be paid to indigenous women and the violence they suffer. In the immediate term, moreover, concrete measures must be put forward to counter the violence with which indigenous women are grappled, especially those of a sexual nature. It&#39;s primordial. Because, during the unveiling of the strategy to counter sexual violence by the Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Lise Thériault, nothing was proposed to support aboriginal women. We therefore expect structuring actions as soon as possible, ”added Mireille Jean.
“It is a shame to note that it took more than a year to convince this government of the need to conduct an investigation into this tragedy, to use the necessary means to find solutions. If he had been quicker in his reaction, we would be much further along in the process. Let us hope that in the future, this government will be more sensitive, more attentive to the reality of the aboriginal nations, and that it will intervene when necessary. The Parti Québécois will be very vigilant when it comes to monitoring the work, ”concluded Alexandre Cloutier.
