Quebec– The member for Saint-Jean and the Parti Québécois spokesperson for employment, social solidarity, the fight against poverty and for youth, Dave Turcotte, today tabled a motion to withdraw the project of law 70.
“Minister Blais, like his predecessor, has not been able to demonstrate in any way the effectiveness and importance of sanctioning new applicants for social assistance. On the contrary, it is an approach that does not work and instead has a negative impact on providers. We denounced the sanctions, we mentioned briefs, reports, groups that came to parliamentary committee. None of them supported the sanctions provided for in Bill 70, because, it&#39;s simple, you cannot live in Quebec with only $ 400 a month, ”explained the member for Saint- Jeans. “We learned yesterday that a first-time applicant benefits from social assistance for a period of barely 9.7 months on average. So the Objectif emploi program, which aims to get new applicants out of social assistance after 12 months, is useless; people get by on their own. The bill, with the penalties imposed on new applicants, tackles a false problem. What is needed are more resources to make sure they get away with it once and for all, ”added Dave Turcotte.
The text of the motion, which was defeated, reads as follows:
“That the National Assembly denounce the fact that Bill 70 imposes sanctions on new applicants for social assistance who refuse to participate in the Objectif emploi program; That it recognize that the sanctions imposed will have serious consequences, that they risk worsening the situation of new social assistance applicants, and that they condemn them to even greater poverty; That the National Assembly recall that many civil society groups, as well as 300 academics and public figures, strongly opposed the bill and demanded its withdrawal; That the National Assembly ask the government to withdraw Bill 70. ”
“After having said that the Advisory Committee for the Fight against Poverty and Social Exclusion was lacking in rigor, that the Civil Service Union and its 300 former university colleagues were a little ignorant, and that the Collective for a Quebec Without Poverty did not stand out in the debate, let the minister stand out and withdraw his bill, ”concluded the member for Saint-Jean.
