Montreal - vehemently denouncing the contempt displayed by federal minister Vic Toews for Quebec and the choice of its priorities, and worried about the major impacts that the adoption of certain measures of Bill C-10 could have on Quebec on crime, the Parti Québécois asks the government of Quebec to express, on behalf of Quebeckers, their outright rejection.
“Stephen Harper&#39;s Bill C-10 is an attack on Quebec values, we knew that. But the invitation made by the federal Minister of Public Security, Vic Toews, to modify Quebec&#39;s priorities to make Conservative decisions pay is unacceptable. The government of Jean Charest cannot remain silent in the face of this contemptuous attitude towards Quebec, ”declared the member for Marie-Victorin and official opposition spokesperson for Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Bernard Drainville.
“The conservative strategy is shocking. The Harper government is drowning certain good measures by trying to swallow others that go totally against Quebec values and the consensus of the National Assembly, ”declared the MP for Joliette and spokesperson for the National Assembly. official opposition in matters of justice and youth protection, Véronique Hivon.
The Parti Québécois is fiercely opposed to the federal ideology which wants to reject the Quebec model of justice for adolescents, a model which allows Quebec to have one of the lowest crime rates in America.
The silence of the Charest government is worrying
Since it was tabled in the House of Commons last September, several voices from Quebec have in turn denounced Bill C-10.
The Commission des droits de la personne et des droits de la jeunesse has rightly indicated that
[t] hese changes will interfere with the rehabilitation and social reintegration of adolescent offenders and go against most of the provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which Canada has ratified.
The Association des centers jeunesse du Québec, for its part, affirmed that the bill constitutes
a clear decline in the rehabilitation and social reintegration of adolescents.
“Neither the Minister of Justice, Jean-Marc Fournier, nor the Minister for Social Services, Dominique Vien, relayed this categorical rejection formulated by Quebec stakeholders. Does the proverb which does not say a word consent apply? This is our fear. The changes that the Conservatives want to force will have a disastrous impact on our justice system and on our approach to young people. The silence of the ministers suggests that they are complicit in the federal strategy. They have a duty not to let them do it, ”added Véronique Hivon.
What are the financial impacts for Quebec?
For his part, the member for Verchères and official opposition spokesperson for public security, Stéphane Bergeron, demands from the Minister of Public Security, Robert Dutil, that he publicly present a cost impact study. that could result from the adoption of the bill.
“Stephen Harper&#39;s choice to ban conditional sentences for certain offenses such as &#39;cattle theft&#39; takes away the power of judges to award an appropriate sentence to each person convicted. In doing so, the number of inmates will increase greatly in prisons under Quebec jurisdiction. This represents monetary and social costs. Minister Dutil must say so, ”said Stéphane Bergeron. According to some estimates, the simple abolition of the reprieve for several crimes represents between 400 and 500 million dollars for Quebec.
&quot;Cutting education, welfare or social services, as Minister Toews would like, is the best way to ensure increased crime and, in turn, further increases in incarceration and costs that will be linked to it. Can we have a better illustration that it is better to invest in prevention rather than in repression, as conservative logic roughly suggests? », Underlined Stéphane Bergeron.
“The federal government completely ignores the consensus of the National Assembly. Such an affront to Quebec is an eloquent demonstration of the need for Quebec to be able to decide, for itself, the orientations that stick to its reality and its values. In these matters, as in many others, Quebec is different and the more the years go by, the more cramped it is in Canada as a whole, unable to gain respect, ”concluded Bernard Drainville.
