Quebec - While in Quebec, on May 1, the SABSA solidarity cooperative will stop offering walk-in health services, the leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, and the MNA for Taschereau and deputy parliamentary leader of the official opposition, Agnès Maltais, denounced the disrespectful and arrogant responses given by Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard when &#39;he was questioned about this important issue.
“The Prime Minister was not even able to answer the clear and simple question that we asked him: does he commit to maintaining access to the SABSA clinic beyond May 1? The Liberal government has been in power for two years now. If we had to sum it up, it would be simple: everyone has tasted it. Teachers, nurses, pharmacists, child care providers and taxpayers. Obviously, there is one exception, only one, and it is a very embarrassing exception: doctors. They are moreover well represented within the government, by the Prime Minister himself and his Minister of Health. Why did Philippe Couillard not want to answer? What bothers him when asked about the privileges granted to physicians? “Asked Pierre Karl Péladeau.
In the company of Ms. Isabelle Têtu and Marie-Christine Leclerc, nurses at the SABSA clinic, Ms. Emmanuelle Lapointe, coordinator at the same location, and Mr. Bernard Roy, researcher at Laval University, Diane Lamarre and Agnès Maltais underlined the importance of the cooperative for the people of Quebec City&#39;s lower town.
“While the government is paying billions to doctors, here in Quebec City, a specialized nurse practitioner clinic is being suffocated by the Minister of Health. Even the Montreal Economic Institute recognizes that ensuring the survival of this clinic would be a service to the community. Instead, the Minister of Health signed his death warrant. Can the Prime Minister stop governing in the sole interest of doctors? SABSA saved $ 147,000 in medical care in 2015 and has reached nearly 1,600 patients since it opened. We wonder what more proof is awaiting the Prime Minister to recognize that this pilot project is a success and that it improves access to care. The refusal to support SABSA constitutes a serious social injustice and an affront to specialized nurse practitioners. Obviously, the Minister fears any form of autonomy for nurses, even if this generates savings, ”added Diane Lamarre.
“The situation in lower Quebec City is as follows: social workers will soon be transferred from CLSCs to FMGs; community organizations throughout the territory are currently weakened; then, because of the HPS, we lost 15 community workers. The solution we found was SABSA. And the Minister of Health drops it. He is therefore abandoning the entire population of Quebec. Gaétan Barrette has already invited patients to walk 40 meters more to see a doctor; in my turn, I invite him to go down the hill to meet the people from the clinic. He will understand, ”concluded Agnès Maltais.
