Salaberry-de-Valleyfield, September 5, 2019 - As part of its presessional caucus, the parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois announced that this fall, it will make the French language its favorite subject in its discussions at the National Assembly .
IN SHORT
“After the spring of secularism, Quebec is ready to experience its fall of the French language. We will put this more than priority issue back at the center of our debates in the National Assembly. The Government of Quebec will have to agree to look into Bill 101 and strengthen it, as we have been proposing to do for several years now. Our political action in the coming months will go in this direction; French will thus regain its place, at the forefront, in Quebec culture and identity. Moreover, our independence project will not be possible without a healthy French language, ”argued the parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois, Pascal Bérubé.
This fall, in its interventions, the parliamentary wing intends to put three main concerns forward: the promotion of French at work, the francization of newcomers, and the place of French in the public space. The Parti Québécois, which wants the Legault government to be able to make up for its inaction in recent months, will also make several constructive proposals to promote the French language, including the following:
1- Extend Law 101 to companies with 25 to 49 employees;
2- Make the francization of newcomers compulsory upon their arrival in Quebec;
3- Welcome immigrants who already master French;
4- Put into force article 1 of law 104 which requires the State to communicate only in French with legal persons;
5- Apply Law 101 to federally chartered companies;
6- Prohibit companies from requiring English when hiring when it is not necessary for the job;
7- Make the host language a major focus of campaigns to promote French.
“By dissociating the issue of the French language from that of culture and communications, the CAQ is making a serious mistake. Our language is at the heart of our culture and must remain there. The change of minister is only cosmetic and does not get to the bottom of things, contrary to what Quebeckers want. The CAQ government must assume its responsibilities and take measures that will really strengthen and improve our language, ”insisted French language spokesperson Joël Arseneau.
