Quebec– Echoing the request of the citizen collective Informatique pour tous – parole excluEs, the computer resource La Puce, among other groups, and thousands of people concerned about access to information technologies (IT), the deputy d&#39;Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, and the digital economy spokesperson for the Parti Québécois, Mireille Jean, are calling on the Liberal government to put in place a training program that will help fight the digital divide.
In Quebec, according to a survey conducted in 2014 by CEFRIO, 58% of households with an income of less than $ 20,000 do not have an Internet connection at home. This rate rises to 70% when the head of the family does not have a high school diploma. Moreover, 56% of people 65 and over do not use the Internet on a regular basis. “We all agree that the Internet and digital technologies are essential for businesses in Quebec. What we too often forget is that they are just as essential to citizens, whatever their social level. To deprive a citizen of these technologies is to deprive him of the possibilities for economic, social and intellectual development that they offer. The figures show that Quebec is far from being a hyperconnected society; we have to act, ”said Mireille Jean.
“Nowadays, as a result of technological change, the Internet and various software are required to access several government services, for example. Not mastering them puts people on the sidelines, on the sidelines of access to knowledge, ”added Lise Vincelette, member of Informatique pour tous.
Amélie Daigle, general coordinator of Parole d&#39;ExcluEs, adds that “the digital divide is rooted in socioeconomic inequalities. The government has a duty to act to promote skills development and access to IT. This is what our program for digital inclusion proposes to do ”.
Indeed, the collective, together with La Puce, has developed a continuing education program for community organizations. It allows both to introduce customers to digital technology and to update their IT equipment. &quot;This program, free and adapted to the needs of the uninitiated, offers structuring appropriation and awareness activities throughout Quebec,&quot; said Louise St-Jacques, director of La Puce.
Today in the National Assembly, Carole Poirier tabled a petition, signed by 1,872 people, calling for the establishment by the government of a similar program. “We ask the Quebec government to act to fight against digital and IT exclusion; it&#39;s a question of fairness, ”she concluded.
