Quebec– The leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, questioned Prime Minister Philippe Couillard on the additional loss of 200 jobs at Rio Tinto in Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean.
“Not a single job has been created in Quebec since April 2015. Only in recent weeks, job losses have multiplied: Colabor, Transcontinental, Jean Coutu, Tembec, Bell Helicopter, Bombardier , Rio Tinto. Nevertheless, for the Prime Minister, all is well. We lose Rona&#39;s property, and the Minister of the Economy tells us that it is beneficial for Quebec. Bombardier announces the dismissal of 7,000 people, and the Prime Minister says that is good news. Rio Tinto announces the abolition of 200 executive positions, and the Minister of Finance maintains that it is not a disaster. What is happening in this government? “Asked Pierre Karl Péladeau.
The leader of the official opposition recalls that the continuity agreement, signed by Alcan and the government of Quebec before the sale of the company to Rio Tinto in 2006, requires &quot;the maintenance, in Quebec, of activities and head offices operational, financial and strategic matters to Alcan and its assets at levels substantially similar to those of Alcan at this time ”. Article 15 also stipulates that before making the decision to modify its policies regarding the maintenance of its head office in Quebec, the company must notify the government of its intentions in writing.
“The Prime Minister has obviously not done his elementary homework for Alcan employees, nor for the Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean region, nor for Quebec. Does it undertake to assess the elimination of the 400 jobs at Rio Tinto&#39;s head office in the light of the obligations and consequences provided for in the continuity agreement, and to inform Quebecers of the follow-up it intends to give to this? analysis? Added Mr. Péladeau.
“We don&#39;t know if the government has been notified or what it will do. We therefore understand that the Minister of Finance and his colleague from the Economy are once again failing in their duties. They do not seem to realize that it is tragic for Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean to lose 200 high-quality jobs and to see a decision-making center crumble. Instead of saying that this is not a disaster, could the government finally take action to stimulate job creation? », Concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois.
