Quebec - On this day marking the 25th anniversary of the death of Félix Leclerc, the Government of Quebec wishes to pay tribute to this great artist still present in the minds and hearts of Quebecers. With this singer-songwriter, Quebec song acquired its first letters of nobility. Throughout his artistic career, Félix Leclerc has greatly contributed to shaping our culture.
“Félix Leclerc bequeathed us a work beyond dimension, vibrant with authenticity and marked with a fleur-de-lys. We must recognize in him a fervent defender of his country and a lover of his French language, as well as a true ambassador of our cultural identity. Of course, his shoes have traveled a lot and Quebec has shone at the rate of his footsteps, ”said Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto.
As early as 1950, this gifted poet and this exceptional voice aroused the admiration of young Jacques Brel, Georges Brassens and Guy Béart. In Quebec, he paved the way for Gilles Vigneault, Jean-Pierre Ferland and Claude Léveillée.Le p&#39;tit bonheur; Moi, mes shoes; Le tour de l&#39;Île; his collections and other writings are precious fragments of our cultural memory. From decade to decade and still today, it remains inspiring for many of our Quebec artists.
It should be remembered that in 1985, Premier René Lévesque appointed him Grand Officer of the National Order of Quebec, the highest distinction awarded by the Government of Quebec. In addition to this mark of recognition, there are a myriad of awards received here and in France, as well as an influence beyond the French-speaking world. From buildings to public places, we can no longer count the number of places that bear his name, thus expressing Quebec&#39;s deep attachment to the poet.
This day of commemoration marks an essential moment of meditation for Quebec to remember the great Félix Leclerc and his “forty-two thousand” words to make people dream, to uplift the spirit and to tell beautifully who we are. For a long time, its melodies will resonate in our cultural history.
