Quebec - “To improve access to health care, we must better support family physicians, develop more family medicine groups, make the most of their skills among pharmacists and other health professionals and reduce the number of bureaucracy. This is what the Parti Québécois is proposing to improve access to health care in Quebec, ”said at the outset the member for Taschereau and official opposition spokesperson for health, Agnès Maltais, in reaction. to the Canadian Medical Association&#39;s study, conducted in collaboration with the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada and the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the results of which were released this morning.
Remember that according to this survey, it is in Quebec that it is most difficult to be seen by a doctor within 24 hours when there is an urgent problem. It is also in Quebec where access is the most restricted to non-urgent care within a week. Finally, it should be noted that this survey reveals that it is in Quebec that physicians still use a paper-only medical record in greater proportion.
Continue the development of family medicine groups (GMF) and more front-line health professionals to help family physicians
In order for FMGs to offer more services, the Parti Québécois proposes to make available additional professional resources such as psychologists, nutritionists, respiratory therapists and nurses.
“In collaboration with the doctor, these health professionals can do medical follow-ups with patients. As a result, the doctor is freed so that he can see more patients, ”explained the member for Taschereau.
On many occasions, the Parti Québécois has proposed allowing pharmacists, within a well-defined framework, to prescribe, extend and renew drug prescriptions for certain mild infections, as well as for certain diseases. chronic.
“We have 5,200 pharmacists in more than 1,700 pharmacies across Quebec. Elsewhere in Canada, pharmacists can extend, renew and sometimes, under certain conditions, prescribe drugs. For a year now, we have been asking the government to act in this direction, but it is still delaying the adoption of this measure. However, this is how we must act to improve access to the health network and to make life easier for thousands of families, ”said Agnès Maltais.
Unfortunately, the Auditor General of Quebec has confirmed to us that Quebec&#39;s health record is a failure. We must get the health and social services network computerization project back on track. This is not only a cost issue, but also access to health care. According to the Quebec Medical Association, computerization saves 20% of the time spent with patients.
“Access to healthcare is still difficult. Yet eight years ago the Liberal government promised to end the wait once and for all in good health. Quebeckers have waited long enough. The Parti Québécois is proposing the right means to improve access to health care throughout Quebec, ”concluded Agnès Maltais.
