Quebec - The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food of Quebec, Mr. François Gendron, argued to the Minister of Agriculture of Canada, Mr. Gerry Ritz, as well as to his colleagues in the provinces and territories, that the Quebec Bio-Food Partners Consultation Table was very concerned about the importation of food products that did not meet Canadian requirements. Mr. Gendron expressed this view at the annual federal-provincial-territorial meeting of agriculture ministers in Halifax on July 18-19.
Quebec agri-food players approach this issue from the angle of “reciprocity of standards”. These may be deviations from sanitary or phytosanitary rules or product labeling. “Processors and farm businesses tell us that differences in regulations give imported products a competitive advantage. This is why the degree of dissatisfaction is so high in the agri-food sector with regard to the regulation of imported products, ”explained the Deputy Prime Minister. The federal minister has agreed to take this concern into consideration.
Together with the Premier of Ontario and also Minister of Agriculture and Food, Ms. Kathleen Wynne, Mr. Gendron urged the federal government to clarify and strengthen the management of tariffs applicable to products. imported products that compete with Quebec products subject to supply management. &quot;The federal government must tighten and clarify the rules applicable to imports that compete with Quebec products that are under supply management, just as it must absolutely maintain and strengthen the necessary border controls,&quot; said Minister Gendron.
Quebec and Ontario also raised the issue of the use of pesticides from the neonicotinoid family and bee mortality. Mr. Gendron requested that the review of the registration of these pesticides be accelerated. He also expressed Quebec&#39;s concern regarding the use of genetically modified alfalfa.
The Minister also broached the subject of ice wine, face to face with his federal counterpart. &quot;I am pleased that the federal minister confirms that the definition of ice wine encompasses the production method in Quebec,&quot; said Mr. Gendron.
Finally, the Minister made his federal, provincial and territorial counterparts aware of the situation in the pork sector in the United States, which is grappling with the spread of epidemic swine diarrhea. &quot;The federal government must ensure that all measures are taken to prevent this disease from entering or spreading in Canada,&quot; concluded the Minister.
