Quebec, March 16, 2017– The Parti Québécois spokesperson for the environment and the fight against climate change, Sylvain Gaudreault, and the spokesperson for international relations, Stéphane Bergeron, ask David Heurtel and Christine St Pierre, respectively Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment and the Fight against Climate Change and Minister of International Relations, to define a strategy to maintain the pressure in terms of environmental protection.
“By cutting multiple budgets dedicated to environmental protection, the Trump administration confirms its intention to withdraw from this common responsibility, as the US president has repeatedly said. Minister Heurtel should have foreseen this orientation, taken note of it and intensified the efforts of Quebec, in consultation with the American States, to continue and accelerate the global momentum that the environmental field has experienced in recent years, ”he said. immediately Sylvain Gaudreault.
More specifically, the elimination of the annual budget of $ 300 million dedicated to measures to restore the Great Lakes is a disaster, in particular to fight against the invasion of Asian carp, which is now reaching the Saint Lawrence River. “The Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence are intimately connected ecosystems, both economically and environmentally. Obviously, the disengagement of the American federal government threatens the efforts made in a concerted manner for decades, which will also have disastrous consequences on the side of the United States ”, also lamented the spokesperson.
“Minister St Pierre now has the responsibility to intervene as soon as possible with her federal counterpart, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Chrystia Freeland, but also with the American partner states of Quebec, in order to define a joint action strategy aimed at influencing decisions taken in Washington. It is unthinkable that Quebec will stand idly by and not react to the foreseeable disastrous consequences of these cuts. This is a reminder to what extent Quebec is hampered in its ability to defend and promote its own interests with the American federal authorities, due to Ottawa&#39;s stubborn opposition to allowing the proper establishment of a delegation. General of Quebec in Washington, ”said Stéphane Bergeron.
