Quebec - On the eve of the launch of the Liberal government&#39;s 2015-2020 Transportation Electrification Action Plan, the MNA for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the MNA for Vachon and spokesperson from the Parti Québécois in terms of transport, maritime strategy, electrification of transport and telecommunications, Martine Ouellet, presented the priorities of the Parti Québécois.
“The Marois government made the electrification of transport a priority during its mandate, by announcing investments of more than half a billion. Since the Liberals took office almost 18 months ago, the electrification of transportation has been neglected. Several companies have even been forced to reduce their activities for lack of government support. Meanwhile, other nations are advancing. Tomorrow, the Couillard government will finally announce a strategy to relaunch this key sector for Quebec&#39;s energy independence, for reducing its carbon footprint and for its economy. We hope that this strategy will be supported by real government will to ensure its success, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
Clear demands from the Parti Québécois
Martine Ouellet presented the priorities of the Parti Québécois which, according to her, should be reflected in the action plan. “Several months ago, we presented a zero-emission bill to significantly increase the supply of electric vehicles on the Quebec automobile market. Such legislation would make plug-in hybrid and electric vehicles more accessible to Quebecers. This law would also encourage the major automobile manufacturers to sell an increasing quantity of such vehicles in Quebec, as is done in 10 American states, representing nearly 30% of the market. In addition, the Liberal government must clearly support the Nomade project, a 100% Quebec electric vehicle, ”she said.
Moreover, in terms of public transit, the procrastination of the Minister of Transport must end. It multiplies the studies, backs off decisions and lengthens the deadlines. For example, the Liberal government must put three structuring projects back on track for Greater Montreal: the extension of the blue metro line, the LRT on the Champlain Bridge and the electrification of the Saint-Michel – Montreal axis.
“The electrification of transportation is an essential project for the development of Quebec in the 21st century. We have all the elements in hand to position ourselves advantageously around a new convergent and integrated pole of natural, intellectual and financial resources. We hope that the Liberal government will hear the call of all stakeholders. Quebec deserves a real action plan, and results, in the electrification of transportation, ”concluded the leader of the official opposition.
