Quebec - The National Assembly will have to vote on a motion tabled by the Parti Québécois so that Quebec adopts its criminal laws.
“The federal government&#39;s indifference to Quebec&#39;s refusal to have Bill C-10 imposed and the abolition of the gun registry illustrates the dysfunction of the federal system. We must therefore take steps to ensure that the will of Quebecers is reflected in our institutions and in this case, we must take steps to endow Quebec with its criminal laws ”.
This is what the member for Joliette and official opposition critic for justice, Véronique Hivon, said after tabling a motion on which the members of the National Assembly will have to vote tomorrow, at the end of a debate that will take place between 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
The motion reads as follows:
The member for Joliette recalls the incongruity in which Quebec finds itself, namely that it must administer the criminal laws of another nation. “Criminal law falls under federal jurisdiction, but the administration of justice and the ability to prosecute fall under Quebec jurisdiction. The nonsense of this division of powers is vividly illustrated in the debate we are currently discussing with Bill C-10. Because of our responsibility for the administration of justice, we must bear the costs of federal intentions, even if we are unanimously against it. It does not make sense. In addition, criminal law is intimately linked to the values of a nation. It is fundamental for a nation to be able to decide what should be prohibited and what can be accepted, ”she added.
For his part, the member for Marie-Victorin and official opposition critic for Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Bernard Drainville, believes more than ever that the National Assembly should speak clearly on this fundamental question.
“We feel the effects of the dysfunction of the Canadian federation on a daily basis. This is particularly evident these days with the determination of the federal government to want to impose, at full steam, Bill C-10 and the abolition of the gun registry, two intentions that go to the against the interests of Quebec. We must therefore adopt criminal laws that reflect Quebec values and we must now hope that the Liberal government will take action and that François Legault&#39;s CAQ will stop playing the ostrich and support this approach. It is in the best interests of Quebec, ”concluded Bernard Drainville.
