Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, and the Minister responsible for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier , today expressed their strong disagreement over the possible inclusion of five populations of Atlantic salmon in Quebec in the Federal Species at Risk Act (SARA), while the Quebec management system for this species does not give any reason. this decision. “Current data on the size of salmon populations in Quebec and their demographic evolution do not justify this designation. This listing would have negative economic and social repercussions in the regions of eastern Quebec. It could even deprive fishermen of their activity and Quebec workers of their source of income, ”said Minister Blanchet.
The intention to include Atlantic salmon on the list of endangered species is based on a report from the Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada (COSEWIC) which recently held consultations in Quebec regarding the listing of these five. Atlantic salmon populations in Schedule 1 of the Species at Risk Act. The final decision must be made by the federal Minister of Fisheries and Oceans, Mr. Keith Ashfield. However, for several years now, Quebec itself has assumed responsibility for activities related to the protection and recovery of species at risk. With regard to Atlantic salmon populations in particular, Quebec is carrying out close monitoring and adequate management, which should in no way be called into question by the federal government. However, everything indicates that the latter seems ready to move forward. &quot;It is up to Quebec to continue to ensure the responsible management of these species according to our needs, our expectations and our objectives,&quot; declared Minister Blanchet, who officially indicated his opposition to this listing in a letter sent on June 6 to the Minister. Ashfield.
It is all the more legitimate to denounce the federal government&#39;s intention since the latter does not take into account recent data compiled by Quebec as well as the Quebec consensus on the issue. Indeed, the COSEWIC report is based on data dating back to 2008, when salmon populations have increased considerably since then.
During public consultations held by COSEWIC, the Quebec Federation for Atlantic Salmon (FQSA), the Federation of Quebec Outfitters (FPQ), the Quebec Federation of Hunters and Fishermen (FédéCP) and the Société des establishments de plein air du Québec (Sépaq) jointly filed a brief unfavorable to the listing of Atlantic salmon populations as endangered species. The Federation of Quebec Salmon River Managers (FGRSQ) also submitted a brief to this effect.
“There is no question that we are in the best position to know how to manage our Atlantic salmon populations. We know the dangers that threaten them and we already have the tools to effectively manage the situation. We ask the federal government to listen to the legitimate and well-founded objection of the Government of Quebec and to act in good faith by avoiding imposing on us a new legislative and regulatory overlap that no one wants in Quebec, ”concluded Minister Cloutier.
