Quebec– The Parti Québécois spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, and the deputy for Taillon and spokesperson for health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, denounce the rationing of home care carried out by the Liberal government.
“The Minister said he was surprised by the Radio-Canada report, broadcast yesterday, illustrating the effects of liberal austerity on the Montreal health network. However, did he not read the last annual report of the Québec Ombudsman, published on September 17? Here are a few excerpts, which I also quoted to him in the National Assembly the same day: &quot;Complaints received over the past year reveal that users whose condition requires home support services are still grappling with problems. problems of reduced services, wait times, burnout of caregivers and regional disparities. &quot; &quot;The facts prove it, home support services do not concretely meet basic needs,&quot; &quot;said Jean-François Lisée.
The Protector also presents in her report three situations which illustrate the problem of insufficient resources: an 84-year-old woman who takes care of her husband and who receives only 13.5 hours of home support per week, while the CSSS assessment indicates that the couple should receive 37.5; a disabled lady, whose condition and needs have not changed, but who has seen the number of hours of home support she receives cut by 40%; and a lady, who became paraplegic, to whom her CSSS, for lack of funds, refused support. “In all three cases, we are seeing rationing of care, and the additional examples presented in the media in recent days only confirm liberal tactics. This is unacceptable, and the minister must step back immediately, ”added the deputy.
“The missing money for home care exists and it is within reach of Minister Barrette. The $ 148.5 million that was given to doctors in pay hikes during the staggering deal - highlighted by the Auditor General - is exactly what the Liberals promised for home care, but that they never paid. The minister abusively cuts the budgets of health establishments and it is the elderly, the disabled and the most vulnerable who suffer and who have to deal with a decline in essential services and support. Why not take the money where it is and use it to give services to those who really need them? », Concluded Diane Lamarre.
