Quebec, September 16, 2016 - Jean-François Lisée, the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in social services, youth protection, home care, public health and prevention, denounced, during a press briefing, the rationing of home care which persists, despite the intervention of the Québec Ombudsman with certain health establishments. For the occasion, he was accompanied by Mr. Michel G. Pigeon, who saw his home support cut by 11:45 a week at the start of the year.
“The cuts that the health network has to contend with have very concrete impacts for citizens. While his situation and his needs have not changed, Mr. Pigeon suffers collateral damage, ”denounced Jean-François Lisée.
“The case of Mr. Pigeon is a typical case of rationing of home care, which persists despite the urgent and specific recommendations of the Ombudsperson. In an investigation report sent on August 19 to the establishment concerned and to the citizen who lodged a complaint, the Ombudsperson recommended &quot;to immediately reallocate to the user all the hours [of home support]&quot;. However, to date, the establishment has still not applied this recommendation, ”added the spokesperson.
We can indeed read, on page 5 of this report by the Ombudsperson:
“Given that your situation is unique [because] you are totally dependent [on home care], that you live alone, that you do not have a caregiver, that you participate actively in society and that you occupy a full-time job that involves a strict schedule and continuous presence at your workstation, the Québec Ombudsman is concerned that the establishment is substantially reducing the hours allocated to you without showing that all of your needs, which have not changed, can be [satisfied] by the new [intervention plan]. &quot;
&quot;While the Minister of Doctors continues to deny that his cuts of nearly $ 1 billion in health care and services are having devastating effects on patients, we have, with the case of Mr. Pigeon, a concrete example that highlights them. Rationing must stop and I ask the Minister to intervene immediately so that Mr. Pigeon&#39;s home support hours are restored tomorrow, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
