Quebec “The Quebec Cancer Registry is now operational. This innovative tool is now one of the pillars of our action and will guide the actions of the Ministry of Health and Social Services, institutions and clinicians across Quebec. The ultimate goal is to improve the way we do things in the fight against cancer, a disease which is the leading cause of death in Quebec, ”said Minister of Health and Social Services, Réjean Hébert, today.
Most of the establishments in the network have successfully transmitted data to the new central database, the Quebec Cancer Registry. This is a crucial step for the health network, the Direction québécoise de cancérologie, healthcare teams and people with cancer.
The Quebec Cancer Registry (RQC) makes it possible to document all cancer cases by consolidating the information available, in particular on the nature of the tumor, the stage of the disease and the treatments. The Registry, which replaces the Quebec Tumor File, meets the objectives of monitoring the state of health of the population, planning care, supporting research and evaluating programs. It also meets the needs of the Direction québécoise de cancérologie and the Quebec Cancer Control Program. More than 150 variables for each cancer
To ensure the development of the Quebec Cancer Registry, nearly 65 establishments offering treatment to people with cancer have set up local registers that meet RQC standards. Training as well as support and accompaniment activities are also offered to medical archivists who are key players in the implementation of the RQC. At the same time, work will be carried out to standardize and computerize the content and format of pathology reports, which will facilitate the work of pathologists while making it possible to feed the new register more efficiently. Work to ensure data quality will continue until 2014.
The Régie de l&#39;assurance maladie du Québec (RAMQ), which works with teams from the Ministry of Health and Social Services to implement the Register, is responsible for the development and operation of the RQC database. “By December 2016, additional data on the four main types of cancer, colorectal cancer and breast, lung and prostate cancer, will be added to the Registry. In the end, more than 150 different variables can thus be recorded centrally, based on information from 65 health establishments, ”said Jacques Cotton, the new Chairman and CEO of RAMQ.
Processes guaranteeing the security of the transmission of information have also been put in place, as well as those required to comply with international standards regarding the establishment of a cancer registry.
“The development of the Quebec Cancer Registry is part of a desire to continuously improve the services offered in this field by giving interdisciplinary teams in the field the necessary tools to better document and assess the care provided. This is excellent news, both for those fighting this disease and for researchers and clinicians, ”concluded Minister Hébert.
