Quebec - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, today released the government&#39;s position for the implementation of a new progressive health contribution and its impact on personal income tax. to respect the commitments made during the last electoral campaign aimed at the abolition of the current health contribution.
The elements set out in the government&#39;s position will take effect as of 2013. Quebecers will therefore have to pay, for 2012, the amount of $ 200 provided for the current health contribution. As for personal income tax, no change will apply in 2012.
With the implementation of the new progressive health contribution in 2013, 3.1 million taxpayers will pay less than in 2012. Almost 900,000 more people than at present will be fully exempt from paying the health contribution. In addition, 2.2 million additional people will see their contribution reduced, compared to what they will have to pay in 2012. In total, more than four million taxpayers will not have to pay a health contribution or will see their contribution reduced from 2013. In addition, 1.8 million people will see their contribution unchanged for 2012 and 2013.
In return, taxpayers with income of $ 130,000 or more will have to pay an additional contribution of up to $ 1,000 for income of $ 150,000 or more. &quot;The new health contribution will be progressive and therefore will respect everyone&#39;s ability to contribute to the financing of our health care,&quot; said Mr. Marceau.
With regard to personal income tax, it is planned to add a new tax bracket, which will be at the rate of 25.75% for the portion of income exceeding $ 100,000. This new rate represents an increase of 1.75 percentage points to the current maximum marginal rate of 24%. This additional level will bring the combined maximum marginal rate (federal and provincial) to 49.97%, that is, a rate that will remain below the 50% threshold.
Like the amounts from the new progressive health contribution, the additional amounts collected from personal income tax will be used to finance our health system and will be paid to the Fund for the financing of health and social services establishments (FINESSS) .
In addition, the minister announced that the government will not go ahead with a higher taxation of capital gains and dividends, in order not to increase the tax burden of several households of the class. average who report this type of income. &quot;Our intention is always to ask the better-off taxpayers to contribute more without, however, imposing an additional effort on middle-class families who hold financial and real estate assets,&quot; the Minister insisted on.
With the approach that the government intends to take, more than $ 400 million will be requested from the most fortunate in order to exempt low-income taxpayers from paying the health contribution and reduce the contribution by a significant portion. of the middle class.
&quot;The proposal made public today respects the spirit of our electoral commitment, namely to breathe new life into middle-class families, restore progressivity and equity in the contribution of each to the financing of our health care,&quot; and this without impact on public finances, ”added the Minister.
“As I have said on several occasions, we are firm on the objective and flexible on the means. The solution presented today is a very good example of this: it represents the best solution and a reasonable and acceptable compromise for all Quebecers, ”concluded Mr. Marceau.
