= Quebec– The Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, accompanied by representatives of the tourism industry, today launched the St. Lawrence Tourism Development Strategy 2014-2020. Stemming from the Tourism Industry Development Plan, the strategy aims to make the St.Lawrence an international tourism icon, which will be the pride of Quebecers, enjoy notoriety among foreign clienteles and benefit from development. sustainable with considerable economic benefits.
The strategy, accompanied by a budgetary envelope of $ 77.3 million, is granted through the Priorité emploi economic policy announced in October 2013.
“The St. Lawrence constitutes the very nature of the Quebec landscape, of its human development and of its exceptional natural resources. The presence of remarkable natural attractions, appealing products for several tourist regions, characterizes the river, its estuary and its gulf. Its diverse land and sea offer makes it a national gem and an attractive and sustainable tourist destination. Its potential is unanimously recognized, it remains for us to fully develop it, with respect and innovation ”, declared the Minister.
The strategy relies on products deemed to be priorities, which demonstrate regional development potential and the ability to attract short-term investments, in addition to being attractive in our priority markets. These products are international cruises, excursion cruises, river and sea cruises, marine mammal observation, natural and heritage sites, nautical tourism, as well as festivals and events.
Of the $ 77.3 million granted, the Government of Quebec is allocating $ 21.8 million to Sépaq to carry out innovative projects, in particular, to develop Sépaq sites and national parks, strategic for the positioning of the tourist St. Lawrence, and consolidate the offer of the Saguenay-St. Lawrence Marine Park.
As well :
In addition to these investments, the financial envelopes of Tourisme Québec&#39;s other programs and financial levers may also be used, including:
The Minister thanked the industry players, grouped together in a working group dedicated to the development of this strategy, for joining forces with Tourisme Québec, in particular, the tourist associations of Quebec, regional and sectoral. He concluded by appealing to the mobilization of his numerous regional partners: “The collective will to concentrate our efforts will allow the achievement of the objectives. Together, in the short term, let&#39;s focus on cruises on the St. Lawrence, on our marine mammals, on the most promising poles and tourist circuits of the St. Lawrence, scattered from west to east. In the medium and long term, let&#39;s bet on its undeniable natural and cultural wealth, in order to make it the pride of Quebecers as well as a true international icon ”.
The document “Strategy for the development of the St. Lawrence for tourism 2014-2020 and Action plan 2014-2017” can be consulted on the Tourisme Québec website: www.tourisme.gouv.qc.ca.
