Quebec - After several announcements of price increases and revelations of deplorable situations involving seniors, the Parti Québécois called on the government to argue for an explanation. The exercise was conducted this morning, in the National Assembly, by the member for Richelieu and official opposition spokesperson for seniors, Sylvain Rochon, as well as the member for Rimouski and spokesperson for wrestling. to poverty, solidarity and social economy, Harold LeBel.
“We would have liked, like several groups, a change of tone on the part of the government. Parliamentarians must be able to work together for the well-being of seniors in Quebec, and they do not have to be rationed for budgetary reasons. In two weeks, we obtained two setbacks from the Liberal government, namely the cancellation of the increase in CHSLD fares and the cancellation of the 600% increase in the fare for paratransit and 87% for meals. in the day center. It is a step in the right direction. Now, the government must step back on the draconian cuts it intends to impose, in particular, on our seniors, and take concrete action to improve their quality of life and their access to quality care and services, ”declared Sylvain Rochon.
For his part, Harold LeBel recalled that from 2003 to 2011, the proportion of women aged 65 and over with low income rose from 3% to 15%, despite the fact that Quebec adopted a law to fight against poverty. “Obviously, we have a good collective discussion to have on the situation of our seniors, especially if we consider the State&#39;s disengagement from them. We have seen it recently with the closure of some twenty day centers and the transfer of services to the community - already overwhelmed and in a shortage of resources: the government is discharging its responsibilities to the detriment, among other things, of our seniors, and this is a very worrying precedent, ”he said.
“It is time we stopped making small savings on the backs of seniors, and made real progress in terms of their quality of life. The government has no plan to deal with the aging population; however, it is urgent to take the turn towards home care. We invite the Liberal government to put aside structural reforms, patient quotas and budget cuts in favor of the development and improvement of home care, as proposed by the Parti Québécois government, ”concluded the member for Richelieu.
