Quebec - The member for Gaspé and official opposition spokesperson for municipal affairs, Gaétan Lelièvre, as well as the member for Rousseau and spokesperson for finance and revenue, Nicolas Marceau, deplore the raised by the signing of the fiscal pact are confirmed in city budgets; the effort of 300 million that they demand will be made by the taxpayers, who will see their taxes increase.
“As the mayors of five large cities predicted when the Liberal government signed the fiscal pact, the amount requested from municipalities will be absorbed by citizens. Already, in Longueuil and Laval, for example, taxes have been increased considerably because of the fiscal pact. Trois-Rivières also plans to do so. The budgets of other cities are to come and, already, the harmful impact of the fiscal pact is clearly visible. The Liberal government has repeatedly broken its promises since taking office. The maneuver of the Minister of Municipal Affairs appears in broad daylight; the signatures imposed on the municipalities are losing a lot of money for the citizens and the regions. In the end, it is always the same pocket that is targeted: that of the middle class, ”said Gaétan Lelièvre.
The Union of Quebec Municipalities (UMQ) has also decried the infantilizing remarks of the Prime Minister, who claimed that following the signing of the fiscal pact, any possible increase in municipal taxes would be unjustifiable. The UMQ, for its part, believed that the cuts would hurt a lot and inevitably lead to difficult budgetary choices. The president of the Quebec Federation of Municipalities, Richard Lehoux, went in the same direction by declaring that following the cuts, “there will either be an increase in taxes or a cut in services. No one can deny that there will be an impact ”.
“This sum of $ 300 million, ultimately passed on to taxpayers, unfortunately adds to a long list of Liberal hikes. It was first $ 232 million in last June&#39;s budget, then $ 455 million in last week&#39;s economic update. The Liberals are using their good old recipe: centralization. They cut resources in the regions and pass on tax increases to municipalities, which must be absorbed by the population. In short, the Liberals are doing what they have always done: they promise tax and tax cuts during the election campaign, and they govern by increasing them, ”Nicolas Marceau concluded.
