Montreal, October 27, 2014 - During a meeting of the Montreal regional caucus, the members of the Parti Québécois denounced the Liberal desire to dismantle the regional consultation and development organizations, the carrefours jeunesse-emploi (CJE) and local development centers (CLDs), among others.
“Under the mask of austerity, the Liberal Party, with the support of the CAQ, made the unilateral choice to withdraw from the metropolis the means to support its entrepreneurs and its youth. We are witnessing an exercise of centralization around the ministries in Quebec, as if the Liberals knew better than the people on the ground how to serve their fellow citizens, ”declared the MNA for Bourget, Maka Kotto.
“Once again, the Liberal government is turning its back on the model of consultation and proximity, and sacrificing the young people of Quebec. It is a real disorganization of the services which is announced, in particular here, in Montreal. Since their creation in 1995 by the Parti Québécois, the CJEs have developed expertise focused on youth and local services. The strength of CJEs lies in their flexibility and accessibility, which allow them to help a large number of young people struggling with literacy, addiction and bullying, or who would be tempted to drop out, ”said the MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier.
CLDs: support for economic development The MP for Pointe-aux-Trembles, Nicole Léger, insists for her part on the essential contribution of CLDs to the economy of Montreal. “CLDs are front-line organizations that stimulate, consolidate, promote and position entrepreneurship. In addition, they often prove to be the only professional and financial resources available to local and regional leaders, to support them in their mission of dynamic occupation of the territory. These places of consultation and action are essential to the development of our neighborhoods; they must be preserved, ”she said.
In addition, the Couillard government seems to want to abolish the Montreal Regional Conference of Elected Representatives (CRÉ), despite its important contribution to the coordination of the island&#39;s partners in several economic, social and environmental issues.
“This liberal centralization means neither more nor less that the government appropriates all the decision-making levers. The PQ members of Montreal prefer to trust the people on the ground, who offer local services and who know the peculiarities of each of their neighborhoods, ”concluded the member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for the Metropolis. , Jean-François Lisée.
