** Quebec City, March 20, 2017 ** - The members of the Parti Québécois de Montréal, gathered in caucus, as well as the housing critic, Catherine Fournier, today called for a massive reinvestment in housing programs. housing that allow the construction of social housing, their renovation and adaptation for people with disabilities. They are also asking the Liberal government to intervene to limit the phenomenon of undivided conversion and to update the rate grid used to establish the construction costs of social housing.
“In Montreal, 143,900 households spend more than 50% of their income on housing. We need more social housing to prevent them from being precarious by an increase in rent. But the Liberal government cut the budget for the AccèsLogis program in half. Half the number of housing units for Montreal is unacceptable! We ask him to restore funding for AccèsLogis. In addition, for AccèsLogis to respond adequately to the reality of Montreal, the grid of eligible rates used by technical resource groups, which dates from 2009, must be quickly updated, ”said Catherine Fournier.
In addition, to convert buildings into social housing, as well as to renovate cooperatives, we rely on public renovation programs. However, the Liberal government abolished the Rénovation Québec program. “This decision had a devastating impact, especially on the adaptation of housing for people with disabilities. We therefore call for the reinstatement of this program, to effectively fight against insalubrity, improve the quality of life in social housing and allow the construction of adapted housing. It&#39;s essential, ”explained Nicole Léger.
According to the deputies, the Liberal government must also find a way to limit the conversion of undivided dwellings in Montreal. “The phenomenon slyly eats away at Montreal&#39;s rental housing stock and threatens low- and middle-income tenants, families and seniors, who fear that the housing they have lived in for several years will be repossessed and transformed into a condo. The Liberal government must come out of its stubborn stubbornness and take concrete action to limit the conversion of rental housing into undivided condos, ”said Maka Kotto.
“Housing in Montreal must remain accessible. We must therefore curb real estate speculation. Yet the Liberal government has done less in this area since it was elected. At the same date last year, $ 406 million had already been cut in housing! How much will that amount be this year? Montreal needs more social housing units and its existing housing stock, renovations. Families and low-income tenants must be able to stay in Montreal, in their neighborhood; their exodus has repercussions throughout the metropolitan region. Unfair housing repossessions and the scarcity of social housing cause great concern; can the Liberal government finally face reality and fund housing programs properly? “, Wanted to know the spokesperson of the Parti Québécois for the metropolis, Carole Poirier.
