Quebec - In the company of representatives of Montreal community organizations, the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, and the Member of Parliament for Vachon, Martine Ouellet, took part today in Montreal in the demonstration &quot;The parade of the vulnerable&quot;, initiated by the regional Table of community organizations of Montérégie as well as that of Center-du-Québec and Mauricie.
&quot;We join our voices to that of the community in denouncing once again the liberal austerity measures which particularly affect the most vulnerable of our fellow citizens. Since the arrival of this government, doctors have been entitled to the return of the Bolduc premium, the invoicing of ancillary costs, and even compensation increases of $ 148.5 million, according to the recent report of the Auditor General. . But community organizations have seen their budgets stagnate and, at the same time, the number of people affected by austerity who knock on their doors continues to increase. The government must recognize their contribution and stop offloading on them without joining the necessary means, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
“Community organizations are those who support and accompany vulnerable people on the ground. They are faced with all the impacts of Liberal cuts on a daily basis, and it is surreal to ask them to meet growing demand with budgets indexed by barely 1%. In Montérégie as in Montreal, Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, the needs are crying and the government must stop its austerity measures. Today, we are marching alongside stakeholders in the field, so that the funding of community organizations be increased, as the Liberal members themselves demanded in May 2013 by voting unanimously in favor of a motion to this effect. The Prime Minister must finally respect his word and protect the most vulnerable, as he committed to in his opening speech, ”concluded Martine Ouellet.
