Baie-Saint-Paul– Access to electricity rates adapted to support the development of the greenhouse sector was announced by the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois. This announcement was made during the unveiling of the Food Sovereignty Policy in front of several representatives of the biofood sector.
“These electricity rates will allow Quebec greenhouse operations to reduce their energy costs and thus improve their competitiveness, while contributing to sustainable development. This support fits perfectly with the objectives of the Food Sovereignty Policy, which consists of favoring local production to feed the population and make products available year round. Concretely, this targeted assistance will allow Quebec greenhouse products to take their place on the shelves of our grocery stores. I have said it often, I want our energy surpluses to be used to create wealth, and that is exactly what we are doing today, ”explained the Premier.
The energy problem facing greenhouse growers is twofold: a need for energy for heating and a need for electricity for photosynthesis (lighting).
Greenhouse production in a northern climate generates higher energy costs compared to competitors, which limits the competitiveness of Quebec companies. Fuel oil is still a widely used fuel for heating greenhouses. As its cost is high, the production season is limited. To help businesses reduce their heating costs, Hydro-Québec&#39;s DT dual-energy rate will be offered to farms. This measure targets the conversion of heating fuel (fuel oil and used oil) to electric heating for farms already eligible for domestic tariffs.
The greenhouses will thus use greener energy, which will reduce greenhouse gas emissions and contribute to the sustainable development of our agriculture.
Greenhouse production requires the use of photosynthesis lighting in winter to compensate for the low rate of sunshine in our latitudes. By offering an additional electricity option adapted to the particularities of their mode of operation and taking into account the needs of network management, Hydro-Québec will allow businesses to increase their production period. The objective of this measure is to increase the efficiency of businesses and, above all, to ensure year-round supply to our grocery stores, for the benefit of Quebec consumers.
“These measures will relieve greenhouse businesses and allow them to be more competitive and competitive. Quebecers will also have a better guarantee of a year-round offer of Quebec products. It is a formula where everyone wins, both businesses, the environment and the state corporation ”, stressed the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron.
In addition to these measures, Hydro-Québec intends to participate in research and development on light-emitting diode (LED) lighting for photosynthetic purposes to improve the energy efficiency of greenhouse companies. Hydro-Québec, in consultation with the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and the main stakeholders, will work to explore other promising avenues for the development of the sector.
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, we invite you to regularly consult the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA), or yet to follow the Ministry on Twitter (https://twitter.com/mapaquebec).
Read the press release issued during the unveiling of the Food Sovereignty Policy.
