Val-d&#39;Or– Thanks to the joint investments of the governments of Canada and Quebec, the City of Val-d&#39;Or and their partners in the community, people in difficulty and homeless people now have access to a shelter. accommodation of 22 rooms.
The Rebâtir La Piaule project, the construction of which required an investment totaling more than $ 2.6 million, was inaugurated today by Senator Ghislain Maltais, on behalf of the Honorable Candice Bergen, Minister of State (Social Development ), and the Minister for Native Affairs and Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Est, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Société d &#39; habitation du Québec (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault.
The Government of Canada, through the Shelter Improvement Program, and the Government of Quebec, under the SHQ&#39;s AccèsLogis Québec program, have jointly invested nearly $ 2.1 million to carry out this project. The community&#39;s total contribution amounts to more than $ 610,000, of which nearly $ 340,000 was granted by the City of Val-d&#39;Or. The project also received a grant of nearly $ 44,000 from Employment and Social Development Canada as part of the Homelessness Partnering Strategy.
“Our government recognizes the need to provide people at risk of homelessness with a safe place to seek refuge in times of crisis. By providing these funds to Rebâtir La Piaule, we are providing access to safe and affordable housing to all residents in need. As the Prime Minister has clarified, our government continues to prioritize four priorities that matter most to Canadians: their families, the safety of our streets and communities, their pride in being citizens of this country and, well. sure, their personal financial security, ”said Senator Maltais.
“Since it opened 25 years ago, thousands of people in need have been accommodated at the Piaule in Val-d&#39;Or and have benefited from the support of the organization. It was therefore quite natural for the Government of Quebec to reach out to this organization and support it in its reconstruction project. The new building, which is much more spacious, makes it possible to accommodate and come to the aid of a greater number of people and to offer decent accommodation conditions to its occupants throughout the year ”, underlined the Minister. delegate Élizabeth Larouche.
La Piaule de Val-d&#39;Or is a non-profit community organization that offers board and lodging for short stays to the homeless and the destitute, in emergency situations or struggling with an addiction problem. . The organization also offers support, guidance and listening in order to promote the social reintegration or recovery of its clientele.
This year, through CMHC, the Government of Canada will invest approximately $ 2 billion in housing. Of this amount, $ 1.7 billion will be devoted to supporting nearly 594,000 households living in social housing. In Quebec, this represents some 127,150 households. These investments improve the quality of life of low-income Canadians and households living in social housing, including the homeless and those at risk of becoming homeless, seniors, people with disabilities, recent immigrants and Indigenous people.
To learn more about how CMHC supports building strong homes and thriving communities for all Canadians, contact CMHC at 1-800-668-2642 or visit www.cmhc-schl.gc.ca.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec contributes to improving quality. life of 230,000 households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
