Montreal - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, is satisfied with the federal government&#39;s decision to confirm its financial support for the move of the Grands Ballets Canadiens de Montréal to the Wilder building and the culmination of the ESPACE DANSE project QUEBEC. Work will begin shortly.
“Les Grands Ballets Canadiens de Montréal is a great Quebec institution, and we are happy to support this organization so that it can have adequate facilities. This dance house project in the Wilder building, which finally materializes, illustrates our desire to support training, creation, production and dissemination in the field of the arts. It is a concrete gesture of support for creators, ”said Maka Kotto.
Last May, the Quebec government announced an investment of $ 63.2 million for the repair and expansion of the Wilder building, located in the heart of the Quartier des spectacles. Cultural organizations will be housed there, including the Grands Ballets Canadiens de Montréal, the École de danse contemporaine de Montréal, Tangente and the Agora de la danse. The Montreal offices of the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications, the Conseil des arts et des lettres du Québec and the Régie du cinéma will also be set up in this building, which will be recycled for cultural and artistic purposes. In total, nearly 300 people from the cultural world will meet there.
The financial contributions of the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications, of $ 43 1 million, and the Société québécoise des infrastructures, owner of the building, of $ 20.1 million, are part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. 2013-2023, made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 2 billion for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make informed choices.
