Shawinigan - The Minister of Infrastructure, Communities and Intergovernmental Affairs, and Minister of the Economic Development Agency of Canada for the Regions of Quebec, the Honorable Denis Lebel, as well as the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and of Land Occupation, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, are pleased to announce that the residents of Shawinigan will soon benefit from major improvements to the city&#39;s water treatment system thanks to investments governments of Canada and Quebec.
The work targeted includes the construction of two drinking water treatment plants: one for the Lac à la Pêche intake and the other for the Lac des Piles intake. The project also provides for the installation of an eight-kilometer drinking water supply pipe along Rang Saint-Mathieu, the expansion of the Grand-Mère drinking water reservoir and the repair of the reservoir&#39;s chlorination system. drinking water from Beech trees.
Construction work on these two new facilities is scheduled to begin in September 2014 and end in July 2017.
“The improvements made to the Shawinigan water treatment system will provide residents with a reliable, sustainable and safe source of quality drinking water for generations to come. Jobs, growth and long-term prosperity are top priorities for our government, and we are proud to invest in infrastructure projects like this, which significantly improve the treatment system for eau in Shawinigan, thus emphasizing the promotion of strong and prosperous communities in Quebec. ”
The Honorable Denis Lebel, Minister of Infrastructure, Communities and Intergovernmental Affairs, and Minister of the Economic Development Agency of Canada for the Regions of Quebec.
“I am very proud of this significant financial support granted to the City of Shawinigan to bring its drinking water supply installations up to standard. This project represents a major and most precious investment for the future of the municipality, which will be able to provide quality drinking water for many years to come, thus promoting the health and well-being of its citizens. Our government constantly works in partnership with municipalities to ensure that every Quebecer can benefit from essential public services, such as access to quality drinking water. ”
Sylvain Gaudreault Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière
