Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu– Low and modest income families in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu will soon have access to 12 affordable housing units thanks to the construction of the Les Habitations Mercier complex. This project, the work of which was recently launched, will result in an investment of more than $ 2.4 million from the Government of Canada, the Government of Quebec and community partners.
“Our government is working to help those in need. These new homes are more than just a safe and affordable place to live. They are the key to a better life for the families who will find a home there. We continue to focus on four priorities, as articulated by the Prime Minister, that matter most to Canadians: their families, the safety of our streets and our communities, their pride in being citizens of this country and, of course. , their personal financial security, ”said the Honorable Denis Lebel, Minister of Infrastructure, Communities and Intergovernmental Affairs, Minister of the Economic Development Agency of Canada for the Regions of Quebec and Member of Parliament for Roberval-Lac- Saint-Jean, on behalf of the Honorable Candice Bergen, Minister of State (Social Development).
“This housing project is excellent news for our region since it will allow parents and their children to evolve in a healthy and safe living environment. In addition, Habitations Mercier will meet the specific needs of families by offering accommodation with three or four bedrooms. The Government of Quebec is very proud to be associated with an initiative like this one, the objective of which is to fight poverty and improve the quality of life of Quebec households, ”said the Member for Saint-Jean. to the National Assembly and Deputy Government Whip, Mr. Dave Turcotte, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport, Minister responsible for the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ) , Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault.
The Government of Canada, through the 2011-2014 Affordable Housing Investment Agreement, and the Government of Quebec, under the SHQ&#39;s AccèsLogis Québec program, have jointly invested more than $ 994,000 for the construction of this building. The community&#39;s total contribution amounts to some $ 617,000, of which $ 570,000 is granted by the City of Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu and a little over $ 35,000 comes from the Office of Efficiency and energy innovation from the Ministry of Natural Resources so that the building meets the Novoclimat standard. Finally, it should be noted that the SHQ guarantees the mortgage loan contracted by the Office municipal d&#39;habitation Haut-Richelieu, which makes it possible to complete the financing of the project.
Half of Habitations Mercier&#39;s tenants will be able to benefit from the Rent Supplement program, financial assistance intended for low-income people who, without this support, would have to pay more than 25% of their income for housing. This additional assistance represents an investment of more than $ 103,000 over five years, 90% assumed by the SHQ and 10% by the City.
This year, through CMHC, the Government of Canada will invest approximately $ 2 billion in housing. Of this amount, $ 1.7 billion will be devoted to supporting nearly 600,000 households living in social housing. In Quebec, this represents some 127,150 households. These investments improve the quality of life of low-income Canadians and households living in social housing, including the homeless and those at risk of becoming homeless, seniors, people with disabilities, recent immigrants and Indigenous people.
To learn more about how CMHC supports building strong homes and thriving communities for all Canadians, contact CMHC at 1-800-668-2642 or visit www.cmhc-schl.gc.ca.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether it is by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000 people. households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
