Québec, July 19, 2016 - In preparation for the meeting of the Council of the Federation in Whitehorse, the member for Verchères and Parti Québécois spokesperson for Québec-Canada relations, Stéphane Bergeron, reminds Premier Couillard that his priority must be to make gains for Quebec and not to defend the interests of the rest of Canada and Canadian unity.
“Often, Philippe Couillard puts Canadian unity ahead of the interests of Quebeckers. The Prime Minister seems to consider that the fact, for Quebec, of negotiating nation to nation with Canada without going through the approval of the other provinces constitutes a failure of Canadian federalism. The Council of the Federation should, however, serve as a forum to affirm Quebec&#39;s difference and a lever to obtain benefits for Quebec. However, we have too often heard Philippe Couillard praise, for example, the merits of a pipeline that will be useful for the West only, rather than being the voice of the concerns of Quebeckers, ”he added. declared Stéphane Bergeron.
Numerous disputes with the federal government remain unresolved “The government&#39;s number one priority must be the increase in health transfers. Justin Trudeau said he was open to discussing it. It is insufficient. The share of health funding assumed by the federal government must be increased to 25% as soon as possible. This is a minimum, considering that the federal government initially committed to assuming half of health care spending. It is off the mark! However, all the studies prove it: the fiscal capacity of Ottawa amply allows it. The federal government must stop continually interfering in Quebec&#39;s jurisdictions. Rather, it must seek to assume its fair share of the costs, without conditions. In addition, if Philippe Couillard wants to seek a consensus that is useful for Quebec, he must absolutely convince several other premiers to reassess their position on a pan-Canadian securities commission, because some have indeed backed down and accepted the principle of such a federal interference, while the Trudeau government has expressed the wish to go ahead with Stephen Harper&#39;s project. Philippe Couillard must also obtain fair treatment for Quebec on employment insurance. The last federal budget improved it for several regions of Canada, but absolutely none in Quebec, ”continued the MP.
It should also be remembered that Quebec only received 3.1% of the contracts under the National Shipbuilding Procurement Strategy, while the Davie shipyard has a larger capacity than the Vancouver and Halifax shipyards. “The Liberal government in Quebec is also forgetting the workers at the Davie yard. The yard did not get its fair share because the criteria for the call for tenders were based on promises of future capacity. We learned, after the contracts were signed, that the Vancouver shipyard had received grants to carry out work, which was contrary to the conditions of the call for tenders. The government of Quebec must now make an official request: the Strategy must be reopened, so that the Davie shipyard can tender under fair conditions, ”concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
