Quebec - The MNA for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, as well as the MNA for Taillon and spokesperson for health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, deplore the fact that the government demands a downward revision of the net salary and working conditions of Quebec nurses, even though it has knowingly chosen to increase the salaries of doctors.
“The government&#39;s most recent offers to the Quebec Interprofessional Health Federation are insulting. Nurses, who provide front-line services, deserve more consideration from the government; their role and importance within our public health network are recognized by all. Obviously, however, they are not entitled to the same treatment as their physician colleagues who, this year alone, will receive $ 327 million more - in the long term, we are talking about nearly $ 2.5 billion more per year - without however, have to offer more services to the population. Why this double standard, two measures? Asked the leader of the official opposition.
“After bringing back the Bolduc premium, after cutting basic services to the population, in support services for students, in those offered to the most vulnerable people, among others, the government proposes to remove the premiums from critical, night and weekend nursing care. Why? According to the FIQ, the salary cuts could vary from 6% to 12%; it&#39;s considerable, ”added Pierre Karl Péladeau.
We also note that during this time, the government amended its Bill 20 in order to reduce the requirements for medical specialists. “With a new amendment, we restrict the period during which specialists must provide follow-up within three hours for patients referred to them in the emergency room. In addition, the requirement for them to provide services to patients who have been on hold for more than six months has been lifted. Why is the Prime Minister tightening the screws on nurses with one hand, while he eases the responsibility of medical specialists with the other, while increasing their salaries? », Continued Diane Lamarre.
“At Pierre-Le Gardeur hospital, for example, the ratio of patients per nurse in the emergency room will drop from 5 to 6, but their remuneration will decrease. We increase their task, but we lower their salary. Have the Prime Minister and his Minister of Health wondered what the impact of their decisions will be on patients in Quebec? », Concluded the leader of the official opposition.
