Quebec - The Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, denounces the attitude of the Liberal opposition which creates uncertainty by deliberately delaying the adoption of the principle of the mining bill.
“Several groups, including municipalities, citizen organizations, workers, environmental and mining organizations are calling for a new mining law. The Liberal opposition persists in filibustering in order to delay the adoption of the mining bill in principle. They are once again showing partisan blindness, ”explains Martine Ouellet.
Bill 43 is the third attempt to overhaul the mining regime. This bill is also inspired by the consensus obtained in the two previous bills. “Being a minority government, the cooperation of opposition groups is essential to the passage of the bill. As I have said several times, we are open to discussing the content of the bill and making improvements. In all, 74 briefs were submitted, 48 of which were heard during the work of the parliamentary committee. We have listened to the suggestions of the interveners and we are now ready to work with the opposition groups to improve the bill during the detailed study. But to do this, we must adopt the principle of the bill and the Liberals are determined to lengthen the procedures, ”adds Martine Ouellet.
The Minister of Natural Resources has shown herself open on many occasions to making changes in this direction, among others on the following points:
As for the transformation, the Minister announced at the start of the special consultations, as the Quebec Mining Association suggested, that it is an opportunity and market study that is desired. An amendment will therefore be tabled to this effect;
As several groups have suggested, the Minister is open to setting up two committees in this regard, an environmental monitoring committee and a committee for the maximization of economic spinoffs;
as recommended by stakeholders from the municipal world, the Minister will recommend a modification to the Minister&#39;s power following the adoption of the development plan by the regional county municipalities (MRCs);
“This sector is of capital importance to the Quebec economy. Lestatu that one is more acceptable to the people of Quebec. To ensure stability and predictability, both for citizens and for businesses, it is high time that the Liberals stop blocking the modernization of the mining law and put the interests of all Quebecers ahead of their partisan interests ” , concluded Martine Ouellet.
