Quebec - The member for Bourget and official opposition spokesperson responsible for the Charter of the French language, Maka Kotto, denounces the gesture of the Liberal government and the Coalition Avenir Québec (CAQ), who voted against his motion to to reaffirm the essential and primordial nature of French as well as the need to amend the law to make corrections to the Charter of the French language, following the judgment of the Court of Appeal of Quebec concerning the language of signage.
“The Liberal government adopts the posture of quiet resignation, even indifference, in the face of the erosion of our common public language. The CAQ, in this matter, is for its part a pale copy of Liberal carelessness. It&#39;s incomprehensible. Collectively, for generations, through our determination and our struggles, we have wanted to raise the French language to the rank of usual language and, fundamentally, to make French the common and normal language of our public life. The fight for the French language is not over; we have it demonstrated every day, ”said Maka Kotto.
The member also denounces the total absence of the Liberals during the unveiling, this afternoon, of the bust of Camille Laurin, father of the Charter of the French language, at the Parc de la Francophonie. “No one in the government has deigned to make an effort to pay tribute to Dr. Laurin, the one who bequeathed us Bill 101. How can the Liberals claim, after that, to wish our language to be protected? &quot;, he added.
The Parti Québécois, the only party to defend French
Maka Kotto also deplores the apathy of the CAQ in linguistic matters. “Even though François Legault has already claimed that his party was nationalist and in favor of the protection of French, he votes against our motion. Every day, we have the proof: PLQ and CAQ, it&#39;s the same fight! », He continued.
“The least nationalist premier in modern Quebec history admits that he has no intention of taking action to modify the Charter of the French language and ensure that French is the common language throughout Quebec public space. It is the government&#39;s duty and responsibility to protect and defend our language. The scope of this judgment is important: it confirms that we can get around the spirit of Bill 101. The Quebec government must plug this breach and extend the provisions of the Charter to apply French as the language of work to businesses from 26 to 49 employees ”, concluded the spokesperson.
