Quebec - The member for Rousseau and official opposition critic for finance and revenue, Nicolas Marceau, asks the government to abandon once and for all to increase the QST, as the Minister for Finances, Carlos Leitão, over the last few days.
Indeed, yesterday, the Minister of Finance reiterated his intention to increase the consumption tax, as proposed by the Québec Taxation Review Commission, set up by the Liberal government and chaired by economist Luc Godbout. “Quebec is already one of the states with the highest consumption tax in North America. An increase in the QST would considerably harm the progressivity of our tax system and our economy, ”indicated Nicolas Marceau, recalling at the same time that our retailers are already suffering from the competition generated by neighboring jurisdictions and online commerce.
“The Liberals have been promising tax cuts for 10 years, but instead govern by increasing the tax burden on families. During the last election campaign, the Liberal Party never talked about raising taxes; on the contrary, he was elected by promising a lower tax burden. A year later, families have seen tariffs and several taxes increase, without ever seeing the color of Liberal promises. Let us recall that in the past, the Liberal government increased the QST by two points, but never reduced the income tax of Quebecers, ”continued the MP.
In addition to being unfair and stifling the middle class, increasing the QST is proving ineffective in increasing government revenues. In fact, the latest QST hikes imposed by the Liberals did not bring in the expected revenues. People have turned more to e-commerce, in particular, to escape taxation. It should also be noted that the Godbout report provides no solution to this problem.
“The government has still not tabled an economic policy worthy of the name. The middle class and low-income households have already sufficiently contributed to the return to balanced budgets. It is now the government&#39;s turn to take concrete measures to stimulate the economy and jobs, ”Nicolas Marceau concluded.
