Québec, October 31, 2014 - In order to find solutions to speculation and the purchase of agricultural land by private investment firms, the member for Berthier and official opposition critic for agriculture, of fisheries and food, André Villeneuve, asks the Liberal government and the Coalition Avenir Québec to agree to his proposal that a parliamentary committee be given a mandate of initiative so that elected officials can hear the stakeholders affected.
“Private investment funds are increasingly interested in Quebec farmland, notably the firm Pangea, headed by Charles Sirois, a well-known businessman and co-founder of the CAQ with François Legault. Pangea covets agricultural land in several regions of Quebec. Thus, it creates speculation which leads to an increase in the value of land, making access even more difficult for the next generation of farmers. Young farmers are worried about this grabbing of the land they need to ensure the future of agriculture in Quebec, ”said André Villeneuve.
The MP points out that specific cases have already been noted by the media. For example, a producer in Lac-Saint-Jean, who wanted to provide his daughter with the necessary space so that she could take over, had the bad surprise to see his purchase offer rejected in favor of that of Pangea. . In Bas-Saint-Laurent, Pangea reportedly acquired 465 acres of farmland at $ 2,000 an acre, double the market price, causing concern among young farmers in the region.
&quot;How can young farmers hope for a future when increasingly acquiring farmland can only be done at a price beyond their means? The government must work with local stakeholders to find lasting solutions, especially for the next generation. Until now, Minister Pierre Paradis has stood idly by, having even declared that he would wait for a disaster before acting. The minister must seize the opportunity to reconsider his clumsy remarks and participate in the parliamentary committee, ”added André Villeneuve.
Charles Sirois at the CAQ convention In addition to the Liberals&#39; inaction, the CAQ encourages investment funds to dispossess our farmers of their land. François Legaul-t was delighted, last March, of the financial maneuvers of his friend Charles Sirois on farmland. Indeed, he said: &quot;Honestly, between going to borrow money from the bank and paying off your mortgage every month, or paying rent to a financier, what matters is that the rent is at a reasonable price. &quot;. In short, for François Legault, it does not matter whether a producer owns the land he cultivates.
“Tomorrow, Charles Sirois will give a lecture at the CAQ convention. Instead of inviting him to his congress, his friend François Legault should denounce the participation of Charles Sirois in the dispossession maneuvers undertaken against our agricultural producers, ”concluded the deputy for Berthier.
