Québec– The MNA for Matapédia and official opposition spokesperson for social services, Danielle Doyer, and the MNA for Saint-Hyacinthe and official opposition spokesperson for people with disabilities, Émilien Pelletier, deplore the decision of the Liberal deputies who are members of the Committee on Health and Social Services not to take up petitions relating to services for people with disabilities and accessibility to services for young adults aged 21 with disabilities.
During the month of February, several petitions, signed by nearly 8,000 people, were submitted to the National Assembly. The problems of disruption and reduction in services for young adults over the age of 21 arose when the Ministry of Health and Social Services asked intellectual disability rehabilitation centers to revise their offer so as to focus solely on rehabilitation services. This situation has left many disabled people in the care of their parents several days a week.
“Parents must scramble to find resources to support their child, as the petitioners have denounced. The consequences for parents&#39; ability to hold a job are serious and many parents have to leave their jobs to care for their child. We must find a solution to this problem without delay, but we are not listening to the government! », Protested the MP for Matapedia, Danielle Doyer.
&quot;Minister Dominique Vien must ensure that rehabilitation centers maintain services for all their users until new programs have been put in place,&quot; continued the deputy.
For the members of the Parti Québécois, an intervention is urgent, because many young people with disabilities who finish school find themselves on a waiting list, either to have access to a day center or to be admitted to sheltered workshops. In the meantime, their parents are wondering what they will do to continue to develop their skills and be part of a social network.
“The refusal to hear the petitioners in parliamentary committee is a manifestation of unprecedented indifference on the part of the Liberals. It is a lack of listening to those responsible for the petition, Ms. Raymonde Faubert and Ms. Manon Sauvé, who worked to collect these 8,000 signatures, and to the officials of the organizations who accompanied them to Parliament during the tabling. But above all, we repeat, it is a gesture of indifference towards people with disabilities who experience serious service problems, ”concluded Émilien Pelletier.
