Quebec - The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Seniors, Minister responsible for the Estrie region and Member of Parliament for Saint-François, Doctor Réjean Hébert, are proud to announce the granting of financial assistance of $ 100,000 to the City of Saint-Joseph-de-Beauce, in the region de la Chaudière-Appalaches, for the construction of a service stop at the municipal park. This assistance comes from the Quebec-Municipalities-Municipality age-friendly infrastructure program (PIQM-MADA).
Thanks to the Quebec-Municipalities-Age-friendly Municipality infrastructure program, municipalities involved in the ADM process have access to funds to support them in carrying out small infrastructure projects that meet the needs of seniors.
“I am very happy with the completion of this project in Saint-Joseph-de-Beauce, which will allow the City to offer seniors a recreational and safe community environment that they can fully enjoy. I am all the more proud of our government&#39;s commitment to this great initiative put forward a few years ago and to which the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupation, of which I am responsible, is associated. Improving the living conditions of our seniors means contributing to their development as individuals in the community. It means assuming together a responsibility that challenges us all in order to make Quebec a place where it is good to age, ”said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
“This project, like many others that are emerging in all regions of Quebec, confirms the priority that our government gives to the quality of life of seniors. I would like to salute the initiative of the City of Saint-Joseph-de-Beauce and the involvement of those responsible for the realization of this project, which meets the needs of seniors and thus contributes to their safety and quality of life. life while allowing them to remain active as long as possible, ”added Minister Réjean Hébert.
Briefly, the project aims to build a service stop near the pétanque grounds in the northern sector of the municipal park, which is the gathering place for citizens of all generations. This new quality recreational community infrastructure will include sanitary facilities accessible to the public at all times, storage spaces and a partially covered terrace. Thus, the addition of this block of services will allow seniors to have easy access to this place of amenities located near the pétanque grounds.
Completion of this project requires a total investment of $ 300,000. Under component 2.5 of the PIQM, the Government of Quebec is contributing $ 100,000 for this project.
It should be noted that the municipal park brings together several recreational infrastructures intended to improve the quality of life of the community and also to encourage it to remain active. Many organizations and citizens gather there to practice community, social and sports activities. Thus, this future infrastructure will be added to existing ones, for the greatest benefit of all generations.
The PIQM-MADA has an annual envelope of $ 3 million from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, reserved for the financing of infrastructure meeting the needs of seniors. Since 2010, 137 projects have benefited from this envelope accessible to municipalities involved in the Age-friendly Municipality initiative. These investments are part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. The PIQM-MADA program is also an action included in the policy of Aging and living together, at home, in one&#39;s community, in Quebec.
Today, with the support of 704 municipalities or MRCs, the MADA process was implemented in Quebec by the Secrétariat aux frères in 2008 and continues under the responsibility of the minister responsible for seniors and the minister of health and social services. This approach is inspired by an approach developed by the World Health Organization (WHO), and the model it proposes was designed to allow citizens to age while remaining active in their communities. The collaboration of the entire community is one of the winning conditions of the process, but it could not be fully successful without the participation of the seniors themselves and that of the local organizations that represent them. Quebec is considered by the WHO as the most advanced society in the world in the application of this approach based on the adaptation of municipal policies and services to the aging of the population.
