Quebec - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, and the Minister of Public Security, Stéphane Bergeron, announce that the Sûreté du Québec patrol vehicles will all be equipped, within three years of automated external defibrillators.
These devices make it possible to automatically analyze the activity of the heart of a person who suffers from cardio-respiratory arrest. The defibrillator then allows, if indicated, to deliver an electric shock, thereby initiating cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Once equipped with these devices, the police of the Sûreté du Québec will be able to provide assistance more quickly to people in cardio-respiratory arrest until the arrival of ambulance attendants.
“The intervention with the defibrillator with these victims, to be effective, must be as fast as possible, hence the advantage of the partnership between the pre-hospital emergency services and the Sûreté du Québec. The experience of other Canadian provinces or American states shows that the addition of defibrillators in police services substantially increases survival. Each minute gained represents an improvement in the victim&#39;s chance of survival by 7-10%. This partnership could make our pre-hospital emergency services the best in North America in this regard, ”said Minister Hébert. Minister Stéphane Bergeron for his part clarified: “Often, the police officers of the Sûreté du Québec are the first to arrive on the scene where there is the presence of people in a situation of cardio-respiratory distress. By having automated external defibrillators in their vehicles, they will be able to take the appropriate actions before the arrival of the pre-hospital emergency services teams. This additional tool provided to police officers will improve services and, in certain situations, make a difference and save lives ”.
The Department of Health and Social Services will invest a sum of $ 2.1 million for this purpose. The Sûreté du Québec will thus be able to provide approximately 1,200 devices, as well as the supplies necessary for their operation. As the defibrillators are deployed, the patrollers will be trained by the pre-hospital emergency services teams from each health and social services agency. It is expected that the deployment of the pilot project will begin in seven regions next June, which corresponds to nearly 20% of the patrol vehicles. The operation will continue over the next two years, so it is expected that all devices will be installed by 2015-2016.
