Gatineau– The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault and the Minister of Public Security, Minister responsible for the Outaouais region and Member of Parliament for Verchères , Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, are proud to announce that the City of Gatineau will receive government assistance totaling $ 59,669,635 for the realization of two major water infrastructure projects. This significant contribution comes from the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
“As Minister responsible for the Outaouais region, I am very pleased with the major financial support announced today to the City of Gatineau for the implementation of major water infrastructure work. These are projects which are building consensus and which had become absolutely essential. Our government is aware of the need to renew and develop water infrastructure in communities across Quebec. This is why it works in partnership with these precious partners, namely the municipalities, in order to provide access to quality public services for the entire population, and this, in accordance with the principles of sustainable development ”, declared the Minister. Stéphane Bergeron.
“Every Quebecer must be able to benefit from access to quality public services. Our government&#39;s commitment is to provide municipalities with the support they need to move forward with their infrastructure projects. Thus, the assistance granted to the City of Gatineau will make it possible to guarantee essential services to citizens, in addition to providing this city with infrastructures meeting the standards in force and improving the quality of public services, ”said Minister Sylvain. Gaudreault.
The first project essentially targets the repair of the wastewater treatment plant and pumping stations. Its completion will make it possible to renew deficient and obsolete infrastructures in order to make them more efficient and efficient. The main works consist of upgrading the main pumping station, adding a digester and replacing obsolete equipment for primary settling, secondary treatment, treatment and drying of sludge. The works also include the reconstruction of seven pumping stations.
Under component 1.4 of the PIQM, the contribution from the Government of Quebec to the project amounts to $ 53,092,635. For its part, the City of Gatineau is investing $ 26,546,277, bringing the total amount of investments to $ 79,638,912.
The second project involves the replacement of drinking water and wastewater pipes under Vanier Road and Bruyère, Metcalfe, Pigalle and Symmes streets. It targets the replacement of drinking water and wastewater pipes and the addition or replacement of storm water pipes under Greber and Saint-Joseph boulevards, as well as under Bélanger, Chomedey and Émile-Bond streets, Graham-Greig, Maclaren West and Pierre-Paquin. In total, water pipes of nearly four kilometers will be renewed in Gatineau.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for these projects is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make informed choices.
