Bas-Saint-Laurent– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, and the Minister for Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, announce the issuance of a certificate authorizing Boralex inc. to carry out the Témiscouata II wind farm project on the territory of the municipalities of Saint-Honoré-de-Témiscouata and Saint-Elzéar-de-Témiscouata.
“For the past 15 years, the Quebec government has made the fight against climate change one of its top priorities. Various policies launched in recent years clearly demonstrate the government&#39;s concerted action to reduce Québec&#39;s greenhouse gas emissions. We are recognized as international leaders in this global challenge. Our vision is to make Quebec a prosperous society that optimally combines the economy and the environment for the benefit of its citizens. The use of renewable energy sources such as wind, sun and water will allow us to achieve our objectives, ”declared Minister Blanchet.
The project provides for the installation, on public land where forest cover is dominant, of 22 wind turbines of 2.35 megawatts each, for a total installed capacity of 51.7 megawatts. The wind turbines will be located approximately one kilometer from the homes. The project also provides for the construction of access roads and a 34.5 kilovolt collector network, which will transport the electricity produced to the step-up connection station.
“This is great news for the locals. In addition to creating jobs and economic spinoffs for the region, this project will contribute to the development of the wind power sector in Quebec, a clean and renewable energy, which is in line with Quebec&#39;s desire for energy independence ”, underlined Minister Bérubé.
In fact, this wind farm will create approximately 200 jobs during construction and five permanent jobs during operation. Its commissioning is scheduled for December 2015 and its construction cost is estimated at just over $ 130 million. As for the economic spinoffs, 60% of the overall project costs will be spent at the provincial level, or about $ 80 million.
It should be noted that this project is part of the continuity of the Témiscouata wind farm project put forward by Éoliennes Témiscouata SEC, authorized by decree number 827-2013 of July 23, 2013, and which will be implemented in the municipality of Saint-Honoré-de-Témiscouata. The two wind farms will share certain infrastructures, such as the connection station and access roads.
The decree concerning the issuance of the certificate of authorization and the environmental analysis report will soon be available on the website of the Ministère du Développement durable, de l&#39;Environnement, de la Faune et des Parcs, following the publication of the decree in the Gazette officielle du Québec.
