Montreal - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Maka Kotto, and the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, today unveiled the names of the thirteen recipients of the Prix du Québec awarded in the fields of culture and science. The laureates will officially receive their awards at a formal ceremony on November 12, in Quebec City, at the Parliament Building.
“By advancing knowledge in their fields of activity over a lifetime, the recipients of the Prix du Québec have accomplished an extraordinary journey. Thanks to them, our know-how and our culture shine in Quebec and around the world. It is with great pride that we will promote the legacy they bequeath by awarding them the highest distinction granted by the Government of Quebec for an entire career ”, underlined Ministers Maka Kotto and Pierre Duchesne. .
Great cultural personalities at the heart of our identity
Scientists with remarkable advances
In addition to a $ 30,000 grant, the recipients will receive a silver medal, an original creation by a Quebec artist chosen by public competition. This year, the medal was produced by the jeweler Daniel Moisan. As tradition dictates, a copy will be kept at the Musée national des beaux-arts du Québec. Recipients will also receive a calligraphy scroll and an exclusive pin bearing the Prix du Québec symbol.
Short interviews, conducted with the recipients of the Prix du Québec, will be available for viewing today on YouTube and on the website at www.prixduquebec.gouv.qc.ca. The Twitter feed of the two ministries (hashtag # prixduquébec) as well as their Facebook page will also allow you to follow the activities surrounding the Prix du Québec, including the official award ceremony.
The interviews were filmed at the Écomusée du fier monde, in a magnificent heritage building. 30-second clips will be broadcast on Télé-Québec as of October 31.
The Prix du Québec website is a reference for all those who are interested in a part of our cultural and scientific history since it allows it to be traced through the journey of personalities who have distinguished themselves over the years. . The site also includes a complete inventory of medals which are the signature of visual artists as well as artisan jewelers.
