Longueuil– The Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Ms. Véronique Hivon, and the Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation and Member of Parliament for Marie-Victorin, Mr. Bernard Drainville, today announced the achievement the Académie Zénith project, which targets young adults aged 21 and over with an intellectual disability or autism spectrum disorder (ASD).
The goal of the Académie Zénith project, which will be located in the riding of Marie-Victorin, in Longueuil, is to set up a day activity service that will welcome young people aged 21 and over with a disability or an ASD who have completed their school career. The project will allow 20 young adults to maintain and develop the skills acquired at school. It will give them the opportunity to attend a place that meets their health and stimulation needs in a safe environment and with qualified personnel, while ensuring them greater social participation. They will practice various physical, cultural and artistic activities in groups that will facilitate their integration into the community and the development of the skills necessary for their development.
“Académie Zénith is a fine example of community mobilization, a mobilization that the government is happy to be able to support by emphasizing the importance of solidarity. Thanks to the collaboration of many partners from various backgrounds, these young people will be able to benefit from a new environment which will meet their needs in all the specificity and complexity of their situation, and which constitutes a logical continuation at the end of their school career. This is an innovative project which, I hope, will be imitated in other regions of Quebec, ”declared Ms. Hivon.
Recall that on April 8, Minister Hivon announced the addition of a recurring budget envelope of $ 10 million, on an annual basis, of which $ 4.3 million was granted to the Montérégie region in order to &#39;&#39; improve the offer of socio-professional activities and residential services adapted to young adults with a disability or an ASD. For the realization of the Académie Zénith project, the funding of which stems from this investment, an agreement was signed with the Pierre-Boucher and Champlain-Charles-Lemoyne health and social services centers, which are granting it a total amount of $ 138,660. .
“The Académie Zénith project responds to a crying need in Montérégie and I am happy, like my colleague, to see that the work carried out for several years upstream will take shape and give birth to a very promising project. Maryse Tessier, instigator and general director of Académie Zénith, quickly convinced me of the need for this project and since my first meeting with the latter four years ago, my team and I have put a lot of effort into ensuring that the project comes true. I would also like to thank Minister Hivon for having been sensitive to the equity of funding between the regions in investing sums in deficiencies. Young Montérégie adults with a disability or an ASD and their families will now have access to additional resources to ensure them a good start in their adult life and continuity in the services received, ”concluded Mr. Drainville.
