Drummondville - Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, and Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment and Parks and Member of Parliament for Johnson, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announced today investments of $ 8,340,916 in the Paul-Rousseau vocational training center (CFP), an educational institution of the Commission scolaire des Chênes.
“The people of Quebec recognize the importance of obtaining solid qualifications. For many, this helps to awaken and fuel the desire to learn. We must ensure that each student, whatever their age, can reach the end of their abilities, by offering them accessible and diversified training paths. A strong and prosperous Quebec needs to rely on women and men who have been given all the opportunities and support necessary to obtain a diploma or qualification, ”declared Minister Malavoy.
The investments announced today aim to meet the equipment and premises requirements for the permanent establishment of the Heavy Road Vehicle Mechanics study program (5330). They will accommodate two cohorts of students, or 40 students per year, in this study program. They will also help meet the labor needs of the Center-du-Québec region, which currently suffers from a shortage of entry-level workers in this field.
“Center-du-Québec is one of the most dynamic regions and here we find the spirit of entrepreneurship and the talent needed to ensure long-term regional prosperity. I note that these future graduates will not only be an essential work force for the transport of goods but they will also be valuable allies within the framework of the Heavy Motor Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program (PIEVAL). Through this inspection program, we want to ensure that heavy vehicles comply with environmental standards. Education is a real instrument of sustainable development ”, underlined Minister Blanchet.
This investment in the Paul-Rousseau vocational training center is part of the overall investment of $ 24.3 million also announced today for vocational training.
