Saguenay– The Minister responsible for Government Administration, President of the Conseil du trésor, Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region and Member for Chicoutimi, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, announced on behalf of the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, that midwifery services are now available in the region and that a birth center will also soon be established in the area. He was accompanied on this occasion by the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault.
“This announcement shows the importance our government attaches to the work of midwives in Quebec. In accordance with the 2008-2018 Perinatal Policy, we wish to accelerate the deployment of their services throughout Quebec, in order to give many families the possibility of using them during a natural physiological birth, within a framework personalized and warm, ”said Minister Hébert.
These new midwifery services have been offered since the fall to pregnant women throughout the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region. To access prenatal care services, women must have an uncomplicated pregnancy. For now, deliveries can take place at the Chicoutimi Hospital or at home, provided that it is located less than 15 kilometers from this hospital. Midwives are available to their clients at all times, seven days a week, 24 hours a day. Their services also include postnatal follow-up, up to six weeks after birth.
“We are happy to offer this new possibility to women in the region, who are more and more numerous to wish to receive this type of support. They will benefit from the expertise of a team of five seasoned and passionate midwives. I am delighted to see that the outcome of this project is the result of a sustained commitment on the part of various partners, all sensitive to the needs of the population, ”declared Minister Bédard.
In addition, in order to offer an additional option to mothers in the region who wish to have recourse to the supervision of a midwife, a new birth center will open its doors in August 2014. It will be located very close to the Hospital. of Chicoutimi in order to provide women with the necessary medical support in case of need. It is estimated that nearly 200 deliveries will take place there each year. Numerous prenatal, perinatal and postnatal services will be offered there, including check-ups, group meetings, pregnancy follow-ups and breastfeeding support. The house will include three birth rooms, three consultation rooms, a gynecological examination room and a community room.
“By setting up this first birthing center in the region, we want to give families, especially those of Jonquière, the possibility of choosing how they will experience this happy event of the birth of a child. We are happy to be able to offer them this intimate and warm setting. In closing, I would like to underline the sustained and persevering work of the 02 birthing house committee in favor of this project, ”added Minister Gaudreault.
At a total cost of $ 2,266,952, this birth center will be funded to the tune of $ 1,425,000 by the Ministry of Health and Social Services. This sum includes a recurring budget of $ 850,000 for operating costs as well as a non-recurring amount of $ 235,000 for equipment and another of $ 340,000 for the building. The balance of $ 841,952 will be assumed by the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Health and Social Services Agency.
