Quebec - The Minister of Public Security, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, accompanied by the Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Ouest and Minister responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, Mr. François Gendron, today confirmed that the construction project of the new Amos Detention Facility has been approved by the Council of Ministers, and that the launching of tenders and construction of the Amos Detention Facility is authorized.
“I know that the population of Abitibi has too often been scalded, in this matter, by announcements, which never materialized. Well, I can tell you, this time it&#39;s the right one! The new Amos Detention Facility was eagerly awaited. So we want people here to be proud of it. I salute the efforts made by the many people who made it possible to carry out this fine project in the near future, which will both boost the region&#39;s economy, better meet security needs and requirements, and offer a good environment to the workers of this establishment, ”announced Minister Bergeron.
The specific needs of the Aboriginal clientele who will be imprisoned there have also been taken into account in this project, in particular by providing for special arrangements for the Aboriginal people. In addition, the Ministère de la Sécurité publique is continuing its discussions to ensure that the offer of services provided to Inuit clients respects the wishes expressed by their representatives as much as possible.
Built at a cost of nearly $ 126 million, the new Amos detention facility will accommodate 220 offenders and will therefore offer 98 more places than the current facility. This construction will, among other things, ensure regional autonomy in terms of prison infrastructure and facilitate the offer of social reintegration programs. The first public call for tenders, concerning the deforestation of the land, will be launched in August. The start of construction is scheduled for spring 2014, with delivery of the project in fall 2016.
“The new detention facility will be an important economic driver for our region, both during construction and when the work is completed. More than 250 jobs will be created during the works while the new establishment will require some 70 new permanent jobs. The population will benefit from a project that meets regional needs, in particular by offering programs and services adapted to offenders, ”added Minister Gendron.
The contribution of the Ministry of Public Security to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 92.3 billion in all sectors of our society&#39;s activity, in particular more than $ 1 billion for public security establishments. This plan will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. It also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
