Quebec - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, will participate in the 50th International Air Show and Paris-Le Bourget space (SIAE). The event will be held from June 17 to 23 and will bring together some 1,300 exhibitors and more than 130,000 professionals from 45 countries.
The ministers will head a delegation of about fifty Quebec industrialists in the aerospace sector. For the occasion, they will be accompanied by representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, the Ministry of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and of Technology, Investissement Quebec, Montreal International, the General Delegation of Quebec in Paris and Aéro Montreal.
“This prestigious event is one of the high places to promote Quebec ingenuity in the aerospace sector. It is a large-scale technological showcase and, at the same time, an open market for our aerospace industry where conditions are favorable to foreign investment, ”said Nicolas Marceau.
“The SIAE offers a favorable context for the positioning of Quebec companies that negotiate with leading manufacturers about lasting partnerships. Our companies will showcase their aerospace innovations, the fruit of a partnership with an efficient education network and cutting-edge research centers, ”added Élaine Zakaïb.
Aerospace and investment experts will support Quebec SMEs to optimize their meetings with strategic stakeholders. Individual meetings and various business presentations have been planned for visitors who show interest. In addition, Quebec commercial attachés stationed in Europe will meet with Quebec companies in order to facilitate contacts with companies on the European continent. “Quebec has carved out an enviable place for itself in the aerospace sector over the years. We must therefore seize this opportunity to make our expertise and know-how better known, ”said Minister Marceau.
During this mission, Ministers Marceau and Zakaïb will meet with representatives of major aerospace companies and leaders of major industrial groups. The objective is to highlight the special advantages that Quebec offers, the strength of the Quebec aerospace industry and the capacity for innovation of our companies in this sector. They will also take the opportunity to promote the advantageous investment conditions prevailing in Quebec in addition to promoting the efforts of Quebec companies to establish partnerships with key players in the international industry.
