Quebec - The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for Status of Women, Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions and Member of Parliament for Taschereau, Ms. Agnès Maltais, are pleased to announce that the Municipality of Saint-Évariste-de-Forsyth will benefit from government assistance for the expansion of its fire station. This assistance will be granted under new sub-component 5.1 of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM), which is devoted to municipal and community infrastructure projects.
“I am very happy with my government&#39;s decision to support this fire station expansion project in the Chaudière-Appalaches region. The Saint-Évariste-de-Forsyth fire station will allow the municipality to ensure the safety of its citizens and employees, as well as to respond more adequately to the requirements of the fire service, in the best interest of the community. population ”, declared Minister Agnès Maltais.
“The selection of projects for this second phase of RECIM project approval perfectly reflects my government&#39;s desire to put integrity at the heart of its decisions. The projects chosen respect the standards in force and take into account the objectives of occupation and the vitality of the territories for the benefit of all Quebecers ”, indicated Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
Under the rules and standards in force in sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM, financial assistance for the implementation of the Township of Saint-Camille project is assessed at 65% of the amount of eligible costs.
With a budget of nearly $ 60 million over five years, sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM allows municipalities in Quebec to carry out construction projects, upgrading, rehabilitation or repair of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offer and the quality of life of citizens in addition to compensating for the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
