Quebec - The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament of Matane-Matapédia, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, are pleased to announce that the regional county municipality of Kamouraska (MRC) will benefit from government assistance for the reconstruction of its administrative offices. This assistance is granted under new sub-component 5.1 of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM), which is devoted to municipal and community infrastructure projects.
“I am very proud to announce today my government&#39;s support for the implementation of this important municipal infrastructure project in the Kamouraska RCM. The future building, eagerly awaited by the community and municipal authorities, will meet the needs expressed by the community. This new infrastructure will make it possible in particular to improve the service offer to citizens in addition to ensuring employees a healthy and safe work environment, ”said Minister Pascal Bérubé.
“The selection of projects for this second phase of RECIM project approval perfectly reflects my government&#39;s desire to put integrity at the heart of its decisions. The projects chosen respect the standards in force and take into account the objectives of occupation and the vitality of the territories for the benefit of all Quebecers, ”Minister Sylvain Gaudreault said.
Under the current rules and standards of sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM, financial assistance for the realization of the Kamouraska MRC project is assessed at 65% of the amount of eligible costs.
With a budget of nearly $ 60 million over five years, sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM allows municipalities in Quebec to carry out construction projects, upgrading, rehabilitation or repair of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offer and the quality of life of citizens in addition to compensating for the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
