Quebec - Visiting the Berges school in Quebec City, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, and the Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Maka Kotto, signed the new Culture-Education Interministerial Memorandum of Understanding, which aims to strengthen collaboration between schools and culture as well as the integration of the cultural dimension in schools.
“In view of the constant evolution of different modes of cultural expression as well as new information technologies, which are transforming the cultural practices of young people, a review of our ways of doing things was necessary. The fact of integrating culture even more into various educational courses constitutes a far-reaching gesture, which promotes the full development of young people. This integration increases academic motivation and can also contribute to the desire to learn and to the fight against dropping out of school, ”said Minister Malavoy.
The updated version of the memorandum of understanding proposes various ways to increase the synergy of cultural and school environments, such as improving the conditions facilitating school trips in a cultural environment, both for secondary and primary students, or even in schools. encouraging the diversity of modes of artistic expression and dissemination of culture. In addition, regional and national partners from cultural and educational circles will be consulted, by spring 2014, by the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport (MELS) and the Ministry of Culture and Communications (MCC ) to develop the Protocol&#39;s multi-year action plan.
&quot;The renewal of the protocol and the announcement of the new component&quot; A school welcomes an artist &quot;, which, initially, will be tested in the form of pilot projects, are a first step which will facilitate the pleasure of children. to learn and the desire to develop creativity. Artistic and cultural activity allows our young people to shape their identity; it gives them a taste for excellence, perseverance and going beyond. We must never underestimate the positive impact that the arts can have in shaping the psychic personality of our young people, ”Minister Kotto concluded.
This component &quot;A school welcomes an artist&quot; will be gradually set up, in collaboration with the cultural and school networks, and will allow students to take part in an artistic process by giving the possibility to an artist, a writer or an artist. professional cultural organization, member of the Directory of culture-education resources, to live an experience of residency in a school environment and to be inspired by it to create.
With a total budget of $ 100,000 from the MELS, pilot projects will be carried out in winter 2014 in six targeted regions. Following these pilot projects, the component will be deployed and the Directory of culture-education resources will be adapted to include a section devoted exclusively to this new component.
It should be noted that in 2011-2012, more than 13,000 cultural activities were carried out under the Culture at School program. With an annual budget of $ 3.2 million, this program is the centerpiece of the agreement between the MELS and the MCC since 1997. It allows students from all regions of Quebec to go on cultural outings or to participate in the school in creative activities led by artists, writers or professional cultural organizations. Since 2008-2009, the number of students participating in activities supported by this program has exceeded half a million each year.
