Notre-Dame-de-Ham– The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Minister responsible for the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions and Member of Parliament for Johnson, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, are pleased to announce that the Municipality of Notre-Dame-de-Ham will benefit from a government assistance for the construction of a building bringing together the municipal garage and the fire station. This assistance is granted under the new sub-component 5.1 of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM), which is devoted to municipal and community infrastructure projects.
“I am very proud to announce today our government&#39;s participation in the implementation of these major infrastructure projects in the Center-du-Québec region. The future six-door building that will bring together the fire station and the garage will replace the garage and the fire station and will provide the space necessary for the Municipality&#39;s needs to properly store its equipment in a safe and functional environment. This new building will allow the municipality to offer a better working environment to its employees in addition to adequately meeting the requirements of the fire department, in the best interest of the population, ”declared Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
“The selection of projects for this second phase of RECIM project approval perfectly reflects my government&#39;s desire to put integrity at the heart of its decisions. The projects chosen respect the standards in force and take into account the objectives of occupation and the vitality of the territories for the benefit of all Quebecers, ”added Minister Gaudreault.
Under the current rules and standards of sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM, financial assistance for the realization of the project from the Municipality of Notre-Dame-de-Ham is assessed at 75% of the amount of eligible costs.
With a budget of nearly $ 60 million over five years, sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM allows municipalities in Quebec to carry out construction projects, upgrading, rehabilitation or repair of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offer and the quality of life of citizens in addition to compensating for the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures.
The Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
