Montreal - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, notes that the Coalition Avenir Québec and its leader continue to make an erroneous and opportunistic analysis of the economic and budgetary situation in Quebec.
“The CAQ is once again showing its amateurism, by promising tax cuts with money that should be used to consolidate our public finances and stimulate the economy. We have made a responsible decision, which is to say not to radically cut spending, without increasing taxes on taxpayers and businesses, in order to achieve a balanced budget. What Mr. Legault is proposing today is a check for $ 274 million combined with spending cuts of $ 1.75 billion. This amounts to promising to put the brakes on Quebec&#39;s economy, ”said the Minister.
A tax expenditure of $ 274 million and spending cuts of $ 1.75 billion would have a negative economic impact of 0.35%. The CAQ&#39;s proposal would reduce GDP growth from 1.8% to 1.45% in 2014.
Also, in Update on Quebec&#39;s economic and financial situation in fall 2013, a gap of $ 400 million was identified for 2014-2015. “This is what we have to tackle first. It is fundamental to control spending and fund existing programs before spending. The best service we can render to families in Quebec is to continue to put our public finances in order, ”added the Minister.
In addition, the economic and budgetary update for the fall has shown that Quebec is facing practically zero inflation which negatively affects government revenues. “In his botched analysis, Mr. Legault affirms that families consume less, whereas it is rather the stagnation of prices which is detrimental to the growth of State revenues. The CAQ should drop its magic wand and redo its homework in economics 101, ”said Mr. Marceau.
In fact, let us recall that in 2013, real consumption growth remained stable at 1.8%, while nominal consumption growth, which reflects the price level and inflation, was revised downwards. It is at 2.8% rather than the expected 3.4% rate. This shows that Quebecers spend as much, but at lower prices.
“With its promise, the CAQ wants to take a step that will have a negative impact on economic growth, while continuing to want to slash government programs. The CAQ spends money that we don&#39;t have. These promises would go directly to our children&#39;s credit cards, ”concluded Mr. Marceau.
