Liberal government retreat on incidental costs
Quebec - After months of objections expressed relentlessly by the Parti Québécois and Diane Lamarre, its spokesperson for health and access to care, against the imposition of incidental costs by the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette , the latter retreats in the case. “We have never relaxed our protests because this is an unprecedented attack on universal health insurance, an injustice that the minister has imposed without any support,” said the MP.
Nevertheless, vigilance must be maintained. At a time when the Minister of Health seems to have listened to reason, the Parti Québécois wishes to warn him: if it wants to settle the incidental costs file through a secret negotiation with the medical federations, this should not end in yet another increase in the remuneration of doctors. “Patients don&#39;t have to pay the ancillary costs. Neither indirectly, through their taxes, nor directly, when they receive care in a private clinic, as is currently the case, ”insisted Diane Lamarre.
Given that the minister is negotiating behind closed doors with medical federations, the spokesperson says she has a real fear that the bill for ancillary costs will be indirectly passed on to patients, if the remuneration envelope for doctors should ultimately be increased. However, it should be remembered that over the past year, the Auditor General revealed that the Minister, through the agreement on averaging, had already granted an additional increase of $ 148.5 million to physicians, in addition to their credit. paid an additional $ 800 million over the past five years. In addition, thanks to Minister Barrette and his trailer clause, doctors will automatically receive another 5.25% more, and this, even before starting to negotiate.
“At the Parti Québécois, we have been demanding for months that incidental costs be taken from the envelope dedicated to the remuneration of physicians. They have ample means: between 2003 and 2015, the envelope in question increased by 134%, from 2.9 to 6.8 billion $. The catching up with the other provinces is far behind us! “, Also supported Diane Lamarre.
Let us remember that in October 2015, the Québec Ombudsperson affirmed, in a public opinion, that “any change intended to legalize direct billing to users, for incidental costs for which physicians participating in the public plan are already paid, and for certain services not covered by the public plan, constitutes an unfair avenue ”. At the same time, the Member for Taillon tabled Bill 491, which aimed to put an end to any form of overbilling imposed on patients and to ensure that every Quebecer has the same opportunities for access to health care.
