Québec, May 24, 2017 - The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health, accessibility to care and home support, Diane Lamarre, denounces the deterioration of the supply of home care and services, despite the promises of the Liberal government. &quot;This is shown by the most recent official figures showing actual state spending,&quot; she said.
IN BRIEF- Between 2014-2015 and 2015-2016, the budget devoted to supporting the autonomy of seniors decreased by $ 5 million; - During this time, Quebec has 100,000 more seniors; - Result? Longer access times and cut hours of service; - This week&#39;s forum was organized for the sake of the Minister of Health&#39;s image; - The Liberal government had promised an increase of $ 150 million per year for home care; he fooled Quebeckers by making other choices. **
According to what has been published, between 2014-2015 and 2015-2016, for all clienteles, expenses went from $ 1,338 million to $ 1,335 million. More specifically, for support for the elderly, the government cut $ 5 million, the amounts actually granted going from $ 763 million to $ 758 million. &quot;In a context where demand is exploding, everything indicates that this budget cut means a concrete reduction in services and an extension of waiting lists,&quot; said the deputy.
“While experts and community organizations speak of an increase in demand of at least 4 or 5% per year, the government has chosen to cut home care budgets. The Liberal Party has decided not to listen to the experts, who all advocate significantly increasing the supply of home care to mitigate the effects of an aging population on the health care system. Considering that the proportion of people 65 and over will probably double in the next fifteen years in Quebec, the government is going straight against the tide. The Minister will never resolve the overcrowding of emergencies if he does not invest massively in home support, ”added Diane Lamarre.
“During this time, further recalls the member, 12,000 people aged 80 or over are stationed on the waiting list for the access point to a family doctor. If, at 80, you are not a priority, when will you be? &quot;
Home care forum: a marketing operation “After a forum on CHSLDs, it&#39;s the turn of home care. However, if we can not oppose discussions on the services to be provided to the most vulnerable, it is obvious that this forum is also a public relations show to restore the image of the minister, who was rightly criticized. title, his insensitivity to home care. We know, however, that Gaétan Barrette prefers to give to private clinics, even if he does not obtain any guarantee as to the improvement of access to care. In short, this minister holds forums on certain subjects not because he really cares, but because politically, it is profitable, ”Ms. Lamarre added.
Broken promise Let us remember that the Liberal government had promised $ 750 million during this mandate for home care. “Not only has the Liberal Party broken its commitment but, in addition, it has dared to cut, while the needs are growing. Many citizens deplore the reduction in home support hours. I ask Minister Barrette to publicly reveal the number of patients waiting, the number of hours of care missing and the amounts really granted - not just announced - for home support. He must know that a delay in this area will cause irreparable damage and generate major costs elsewhere in the network: in the emergency room, in intermediate resources and in CHSLDs, ”insisted the spokesperson.
“In recent months, we have attempted to obtain data on wait times for home services. Unfortunately, like many others, we came up against an objection on the part of the minister and his department. They must be more transparent, ”concluded Diane Lamarre.
