Saint-Jérôme– The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, and the Member of Parliament for Labelle and responsible for the Laurentides region, Sylvain Pagé, announced today that the Saint? Jérôme Health and Social Services Center will be authorized to continue its efforts to build a new mental health pavilion. This project, the costs of which are estimated at nearly $ 100 million, will be fully funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services, under the Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI). The Premier thus confirmed that the sums had been reserved for the PQI and that the initial business case process would be completed by the end of the summer.
The Premier and Minister Hébert also confirmed that the Saint-Jérôme Health and Social Services Center may be authorized to carry out the final business case for the construction project of a new residential and care center. Long-term care (CHSLD) with 212 beds near the Saint-Jérôme Regional Hospital, a project estimated at more than $ 53 million.
“These two large-scale projects will materialize for the direct benefit of the people of the region, while contributing to the socio-economic development of the Laurentians and Quebec. These are all qualifiers for promising projects, which is why we have chosen to give priority to them, following our firm commitment to make responsible choices within the framework of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, ”declared the Premier.
New mental health pavilion
“Due to the growing needs for mental health care, the limited space currently available at the Saint-Jérôme Regional Hospital, as well as the dilapidated nature of the current pavilion and the shortcomings in terms of fire safety, major work is required for the establishment. The College of Physicians also recommended improving the quality of the current care environment while promoting integration with other hospital services, ”said Minister Hébert.
The project consists more precisely in the demolition of the current pavilion (block E), then in the reconstruction of a new wing in the same place, with an area of 15,842 m2. Valued at $ 92,445,000, this expansion project will be fully funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services, under the PQI revealed last week. This global amount includes all the demolition work of the current pavilion and reconstruction, furniture, equipment, taxes and other inherent administrative costs, as well as the costs related to the preparation of the initial business case. and the final business case.
“We have taken into account the urgency of this project, which aims to respond to glaring needs in the region. This project is eagerly awaited and has been the subject of repeated requests in recent years. We have heard the local concerns and the major challenges facing the region, and that is why we have given priority to this project within the framework of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, ”added the Premier.
A new CHSLD with 212 beds
Covering an area of 14,060 m2, the functional units of this new facility are intended to accommodate the residents of the Auberge de l&#39;Auberge and the Youville Accommodation Center, whose premises are obsolete and poorly adapted to the needs of &#39;a growing customer base. Estimated at $ 52,851,000, this capital project will be funded to the tune of $ 2,509,000 by the establishment, while the balance of $ 50,342,000 will be fully funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services, as well. under the PQI. This sum includes construction costs, the purchase of furniture and equipment, as well as taxes and various other real estate and administrative costs.
Favoring a “living environment” approach, the construction project is divided into four distinct wings assembled around a central service core. The living units, which consist only of single rooms, each have 14 beds, and have been configured in such a way as to facilitate supervision by the staff while reproducing as much as possible a similar environment at home. In addition to optimizing the functionality and quality of the living and care environments, the new construction will minimize operating costs and energy consumption. The building also provides the necessary clearances to ensure better accessibility for people with reduced mobility, as well as rooms adapted to the needs of obese people.
“Thanks to the recommended approach, this new accommodation center will both improve the quality of life of residents and facilitate the work of staff. Even if it does not increase the current reception capacity of the Saint-Jérôme Health and Social Services Center, this project significantly increases the quality of care and services offered in the region. This local initiative is therefore in perfect complementarity with our other home support projects, ”explained Minister Hébert.
“I can only welcome today&#39;s announcements, which will have a positive impact on the region. These investments will help to increase the quality of care offered, to the greater benefit of the citizens of the Laurentians, ”Sylvain Pagé, MP for Labelle and government official for the Laurentians region, declared.
