Quebec, March 7, 2017 - The Parti Québécois finance spokesperson, Nicolas Marceau, deplores the fact that François Legault wanted to play Santa Claus with Quebec families yesterday, when the promises he made do not stand on no valid budget calculation. In addition, they would discriminate against both families and four-year-old children, and they would increase the debt of Quebecers.
“François Legault spends non-existent money. He estimates that the surpluses available at the end of 2016-2017 will be $ 4 billion, and proposes to spend $ 2.2 billion. However, this sum of 4 billion does not exist. From the outset, $ 2 billion must be paid into the Generations Fund, as required by law. The rest of the recurring sums were used to timidly reinvest in education and health1. If by misfortune François Legault were to write the budget for Quebec this year and apply his promises, he would have to either subtract 2 billion from the education and health budgets, or increase the debt of Quebec by 2 billion ”, illustrated Nicolas Marceau .
Moreover, the head of the CAQ does not seem aware of the fact that his promises are discriminatory for families and children in Quebec. “If he decided to go ahead anyway, François Legault would distribute $ 500 to each person earning less than $ 150,000 per year; they are 6.34 million in Quebec. Result: since Mr. Legault is only setting $ 1.7 billion aside for his project, half of the taxpayers would be left behind. Three million Quebecers, therefore hundreds of thousands of families, would never see the color of the promised money, despite contributing, like the others, to the public treasury through their taxes, duties and tariffs2 ”, added the spokesperson.
Finally, François Legault proposes to extend kindergarten for 4 years to all children in Quebec. Once again, this measure is discriminatory. “Let&#39;s summarize: to achieve its goal, the CAQ would set aside $ 292 million - per year, let&#39;s assume. However, to cover the subsidy of $ 6,123 per student for the 90,000 4-year-olds, it would take almost twice that amount. And that&#39;s without counting the additional costs to support children in difficulty. In short, with its plan, the CAQ would only offer 4-year-old kindergarten to one in three children. In addition, accustomed to unrealistic proposals, Mr. Legault also did not budget to find, in the thousands of already overcrowded schools in Quebec, classes available to house his kindergarten &quot;wall to wall&quot;. The Parti Québécois proposal to maintain CPEs for 4-year-old children and to open, in addition, 4-year-old kindergartens in disadvantaged areas is far more effective and less expensive, ”Nicolas Marceau concluded.
