Quebec - “On September 4, Quebecers chose to turn the page and open a new chapter in Quebec history. Quebeckers have chosen change and they have chosen to do it with a government of the Parti Québécois. The first change we are proposing is to build on what unites us by taking the path of listening, dialogue and action. Our government&#39;s action will be based on four pillars: integrity, prosperity, identity and solidarity, ”declared the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, during the presentation of her Council of Ministers.
“Integrity will mark all government action. This will first translate into swift reforms, where we can find common ground with the opposition. The recommendations of the Charbonneau commission will have to be implemented once it has tabled them. It also means that the government will work with the public service so that the State regains the expertise necessary for the proper conduct of business and so that it regains its place among the most effective. It means managing Quebecers&#39; money with great rigor, ”she continued.
Prosperity will be an important pillar of government action. This change consists of finding the path to lasting prosperity for all Quebecers. It will be necessary to act in the context of a worrying global economic situation and on the basis of public finances whose state remains fragile. We will have to overcome the mammoth wall of a $ 25 billion trade deficit.
“Nothing is against the people of Quebec being among the most prosperous on the planet. We have the talent, the creativity, the land, the resources, the energy and the entrepreneurial spirit that enabled our predecessors to build this country from almost nothing. Our prosperity must be based on a long-term vision that benefits society as a whole, not just a privileged minority, ”added the Prime Minister.
With Nicolas Marceau for Finance and the Economy, Élaine Zakaïb, Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, and Pascal Bérubé, Minister for Tourism, we will have a solid team to put Quebec back on the map. path to prosperity. The mandate of the new Minister of Finance and the Economy will be to restore order to public finances and restore tax justice in order to breathe life into middle-class families.
There can be no lasting prosperity by pitting economic development against environmental protection. The two go hand in hand. With Daniel Breton as Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, and Scott McKay as Parliamentary Assistant for Wildlife and Parks, the development of Quebec will be combined with the constant improvement of our environment and we will ensure that Quebec becomes an environmental leader in the world.
Knowledge remains the route par excellence for individual and collective enrichment. The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Pierre Duchesne, will take on this strategic task with the mandate to cancel the tuition fee hike and hold a summit on higher education.
Quebec is rich in its territory and in its natural resources. This wealth belongs to all Quebecers and must benefit everyone. The Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, will have the mandate to propose a new mining royalty regime, to maximize the transformation of our resources to create quality jobs at home, to support the revival of the forest industry and to define a new energy policy. She will be supported in her work by a parliamentary assistant for forestry, Denis Trottier, and a parliamentary assistant for Nordic affairs, Luc Ferland.
The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron, and his parliamentary assistant for fisheries, Jeannine Richard, will have the priority mandate to revise the programs in order to better support our farmers and our fishermen, to encourage a succession as well as to propose and implement a food sovereignty policy.
Land use planning and transport infrastructure play a key role in the prosperity and quality of life of Quebecers. For the sake of consistency and efficiency, the Minister of Transport, Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Sylvain Gaudreault, will have the heavy task of cleaning up transport and then transforming the ministry in agency. All means must be taken to ensure that Quebec taxpayers get their money&#39;s worth. To assist him in his responsibilities, he will be able to count on Gaétan Lelièvre as Minister Delegate for the Regions and National Rural Policy and on André Villeneuve, who will act as parliamentary assistant in municipal affairs.
Quebec is a society open to the world, as much in terms of trade as in culture or international cooperation. The Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée, will be responsible for promoting Quebec&#39;s interests on the international scene and supporting our entrepreneurs on international markets. As Minister responsible for the metropolis, he will also have the mandate to create an organic link between decision-makers and citizens of the Montreal region and the entire government, in particular with the English-speaking community. Alain Therrien will assist him as parliamentary assistant for foreign trade.
The state must regain the confidence of Quebecers. For this to happen, effective management of public funds must be a key element. This responsibility will be shared by all ministers and all government employees. As President of the Conseil du trésor and Minister responsible for Government Administration, Stéphane Bédard will have the mandate to flush out the sources of inefficiency and waste, to eliminate them in order to use wisely the public money that comes from the pockets of our fellow citizens. He will also be the government leader.
“Quebecers form a nation with full rights whose identity has been forged over more than 400 years of history. My government is sovereignist and its task is to share this conviction with Quebeckers. Until this objective is reached, it is imperative to forcefully advance our interests and promote our identity, not as a province, but as a nation, ”declared Pauline Marois, designating Alexandre Cloutier to as Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs and Sovereignty Governance, whose mandate will be to take all the necessary means to defend Quebec&#39;s interests and allow it to occupy as much space as possible in the areas of its identity and its economy, including demanding new powers.
We must be proud of who we are, cherish our history, ensure respect for our values and the place of French as a common public language. We also have a duty to welcome and integrate newcomers into our nation. The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Diane De Courcy, and her parliamentary assistant for matters relating to the integration of immigrants, Suzanne Proulx, will assume this mandate. Proposing a new law 101 will be one of their priorities, so that French can regain its full place as an official language and used throughout Quebec.
Culture is an essential foundation of Quebec identity. It makes us proud, allows us to flourish, to have fun and represents an inexhaustible source of wealth. As Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto will have the mandate to support the dissemination and influence of our culture and to repatriate federal powers and budgets in the area of culture and communications.
Democracy is the basis of our society and should not be reduced to elections every four years. Quebecers have gone further and want to exercise their citizenship on a daily basis. As Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation, Bernard Drainville will have the task of changing the way parties are funded, establishing fixed-date elections and limiting the term of office of elected officials. It will have to propose mechanisms to increase citizen participation, a Charter of secularism and a bill on identity.
If prosperity and identity are fundamental for a people, so is solidarity. In this sense, the state not only helps redistribute wealth, but also ensures equality of opportunity.
The Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltais, will have the mandate to continue the work of the previous government to ensure that equality between women and men becomes an increasingly concrete reality. She will be able to count on the support of Diane Gadoury-Hamelin as parliamentary assistant for the status of women and Gilles Chapadeau as parliamentary assistant at work.
Health remains one of the top priorities of Quebecers and the government. The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, will have the mandate to provide access to primary care and a family doctor to all Quebecers as well as to humanely take care of our elders. It will have to implement a national home care policy for our seniors by creating an autonomy insurance plan. Réjean Hébert and Véronique Hivon, Minister for Public Health and Youth Protection, will implement an ambitious policy of prevention and healthy lifestyles.
For the new government, education will be a high priority. As Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Marie Malavoy will have the priority mandate to respond to the call of teachers and parents who ask for help in classrooms, and to establish kindergarten to 4 years old. years for children from disadvantaged backgrounds.
Families are at the center of many of our commitments. As Minister of Families, Nicole Léger will have the mandate to offer each family that wishes a place in child care and, with the Minister of Finance, to establish tax credits for artistic and sports activities. children.
In a society of law, the integrity of justice must be flawless. The Minister of Justice, Bertrand St-Arnaud, will have the mandate to administer justice with integrity and humanity. The justice system must be more accessible to citizens and more humane to victims. He will also have the mandate to examine with his colleagues, and if necessary with the federal government, the sanctions and sentences incurred by repeat offenders, in particular for drinking and driving.
All human beings want to live in safety. This is a basic need of all societies. Quebecers can rejoice in living within one of the most peaceful and secure jurisdictions in the Americas. As Minister of Public Security, Stéphane Bergeron will have the mandate, with his colleague from Justice, to continue the work undertaken by the previous government to repatriate data from the federal firearms registry to Quebec and to contribute to the Quebec one of the most honest and secure societies.
For more than 400 years, the Quebec nation has lived together on the immense territory that is ours with the First Nations. The golden rule for harmonious relations between our nations is simple and can be summed up in one word: respect. The person who will embody this spirit as Minister responsible for Indigenous Affairs is Élizabeth Larouche. Its mandate will be to support the aboriginal nations of Quebec in their economic, social and cultural development.
As Premier, Pauline Marois will chair the Executive Council and the Ministerial Committee on Strategic Directions. She will be responsible for Canadian intergovernmental affairs and sovereignist governance issues. In accordance with the commitment made to the people of Gaspé, Pauline Marois will assume responsibility for government action for the development of this region.
To bridge the gap that may have appeared in recent months between the generations, Pauline Marois asked Léo Bureau-Blouin to be her parliamentary assistant for youth issues. &quot;Together, we will ensure that the generations come together to forge a new alliance in which Quebec youth will take their rightful place,&quot; she said.
“Our government has a great responsibility: to make the changes that Quebeckers want. We need to build on what people do every day and build consensus. We must be flexible in our means while remaining firm on our objectives. We have this intimate conviction that the future of Quebec is to become a sovereign country. In the context of a minority government, we will protect every bit of sovereignty already in our hands and we will try to acquire new ones. The aim that must guide us all, bring us together, surpass ourselves, is that of freedom, ”concluded the Prime Minister.
