Québec, February 2, 2018 - The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the Vice-Chief and Spokesperson for Justice, Family and End-of-Life Care, Véronique Hivon, are proud to announce the composition of the new team of spokespersons and lieutenants of the official opposition.
&quot;Back in the National Assembly for the last stretch before the October election, we are proud to present a reorganized, reinforced team, which offers a greater place than ever to elected officials from generations X and Y in matters crucial. They will strengthen the multigenerational team of the Parti Québécois and, in many cases, the work will be done in tandem, for more efficiency and scope of their interventions, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
Members of Parliament will continue their excellent work in their current tasks:
President of the caucus and lieutenant for the French language
Transportation electrification and responsible for the Laurentides region
Third Vice-President of the National Assembly and responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region
SME priority - innovation, productivity, exports Digital economy, information resources Professional laws
Health and access to careHome supportRAMQ
Employment, social solidarity and the fight against poverty Seniors, fight against bullying and abuse Maritime strategy Responsible for the regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and Chaudière-Appalaches
WorkPension plans
Quebec-Canada Relations Finance Responsible for the Lanaudière region
Public health and preventionSports, leisure and healthy lifestylesLoto-QuébecReform of democratic institutions
Nordic development (Plan Nord) Responsible for the Côte-Nord region
Forests, wildlife and parks Responsible for the Gaspésie – Îles-de-la-Madeleine region
Agriculture and Food, SAQ Fisheries Responsible for the Mauricie region
“Nicole Léger, Agnès Maltais and Alexandre Cloutier keep some of their responsibilities and abandon others. I would like to thank them for continuing to work in tandem with their colleagues, in order to work as a team on several important issues, ”added Jean-François Lisée.
Treasury Board
Secularism Ethics and Integrity Responsible for the Capitale-Nationale region
Higher education and research Northern communities and Aboriginal affairs Responsible for the Nord-du-Québec region
Carole Poirier is appointed deputy parliamentary leader; She will also be in charge of primary and secondary education, school perseverance and adult education, and she will act as a lieutenant for immigration and diversity issues. She will hound the minister so that students receive the services to which they are entitled, after three years of austerity and budget cuts. Alexandre Cloutier will support Carole Poirier as lieutenant for elementary and secondary education. “I would like to thank Sylvain Rochon, who was brilliantly part of the leader&#39;s team. We will ask him to chair the Committee on Public Administration, essential for controlling government actions, while remaining spokesperson for energy and natural resources. He also becomes responsible for the Estrie region, ”added the leader of the official opposition.
Our five elected members of Generation X take the lead Pascal Bérubé becomes spokesperson for national identity “Pascal Bérubé (born in 1975) retains his functions as parliamentary leader, for which his excellent work is recognized. In addition, there is an essential function: spokesperson for national identity. The files of culture and communications, language and the promotion of history will henceforth be under its responsibility. He also becomes a lieutenant in matters of secularism, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
Sylvain Gaudreault appointed Chief Whip of the Official Opposition “I am pleased to announce that Sylvain Gaudreault (1970) has joined the team of officers as Chief Whip of the Official Opposition. He will also continue to highlight this government&#39;s false green shift, just as he retains his role as coordinator of the Regions team. I would like to thank Carole Poirier for her dedicated work with her colleagues; moreover, she will continue him in other equally important functions, ”added Véronique Hivon.
Complete recognition of the integrity of Stéphane Bergeron “The Chamberland commission having confirmed that as Minister of Public Security, our colleague Stéphane Bergeron (1965) had demonstrated integrity and professionalism, I am pleased to announce that &#39;he resumed his duties as spokesperson for public security. He keeps the files of international relations and of the Francophonie ”, also specified Jean-François Lisée.
Martin Ouellet (1977) keeps the municipal affairs, transport, Priorité PME - regional economic development and social economy files. In addition, there is the position of lieutenant for northern communities and Aboriginal affairs, issues that Alexandre Cloutier continues to manage.
Alain Therrien (1966) adds to his important portfolios of the economy and SMEs the interrelated files of the Caisse de dépôt and the REM project, for which significant cost overruns are to be expected. Catherine Fournier (1992) keeps the status of women files as well as the fight against homophobia and transphobia, and is entrusted with the important portfolio of immigration and diversity, on which Carole Poirier will second her as lieutenant. In addition, while she began a tour of CEGEPs and universities, she also obtained responsibility for the youth file. Mathieu Traversy (1984), in addition to his responsibility as deputy in charge of the organization and his mandate in tourism, became lieutenant in matters of national identity, responsible for consumer protection files - which must increasingly take on in the work of elected officials - and in access to information. Dave Turcotte (1983) keeps the social services, youth protection and drug industry files, tasks which he performs with aplomb and empathy, and is given additional responsibilities for literacy and housing, an area in which a major reform is expected shortly.
