Longueuil– The Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, resumed her electoral campaign this morning with a positive assessment of the first leaders&#39; debate, broadcast last night. She was accompanied, for the occasion, by the Parti Québécois candidate in Marie-Victorin and Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation, Bernard Drainville, and by the candidate in Saint-Jérôme, Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“Yesterday&#39;s debate clarified what is at stake in this campaign. It is the choice between going back to the liberal years or a government that will make Quebec stronger by creating jobs and adopting the charter of values. Quebeckers want a government that will take care of our world, that will take care of the economy and identity. We are offering them a team of exceptional people who will work to create quality jobs, paying jobs, in all regions of Quebec, ”declared the Premier.
“The stake of this campaign is not a referendum. There will be no referendum until Quebeckers are ready. It has been clear since yesterday: Philippe Couillard tries to make people forget the liberal years by trying to make believe that the election is about the referendum. Nothing has changed in the Liberal Party: same program, same friends, same team of 19 former ministers at the time of Jean Charest, the same who voted 11 times against the holding of a commission of inquiry and who stood up for applaud Tony Tomassi. In addition, Philippe Couillard&#39;s financial framework does not hold up. Ultimately, if the Liberals took power, it would be a return to old Liberal affairs, corruption, debt and tax increases, ”added Pauline Marois.
“If I had run Quebecor like the Liberals led Quebec, I would have lost my business. This government has indebted Quebec by $ 60 billion. He lost 150,000 good manufacturing jobs. He refused to act in the face of corruption and collusion, and had only one outdated economic strategy, based on asphalt and debt. The liberals of Jean Charest and Philippe Couillard are the same. Quebecers deserve better. If I chose to get involved in politics, it was to create more wealth and more jobs. We have the plan, and we have the team to succeed, ”added Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“We have been collectively debating the Charter of Values for over seven months now. We believe that this election is the best way for Quebeckers to decide, to choose. On April 7, Quebeckers have the opportunity to give themselves a charter that will define the Quebec in which we want to live. A majority of Quebecers support the charter of values. But the Liberal Party, Québec solidaire and the CAQ are opposed to it. All the opposition parties have spoken out against the charter of values. Worse, Philippe Couillard has undertaken to tear it up. If you want the charter to see the light of day, you have to have a majority Parti Québécois government. With Pauline Marois and the entire Parti Québécois team, we will have the secularism charter adopted, ”insisted Bernard Drainville.
“The stake of this election, everyone agrees on this subject, it is to strengthen Quebec. This is what we have been doing for 18 months. My team and I will do even more, getting back to work on April 8. We will take care of our world, we will create jobs, we will enrich ourselves, and we will ensure that our values are respected: the charter of secularism will finally be adopted, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
