Rivière-du-Loup– The Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, unveiled her commitments in the area of regional development and forests. The objectives pursued by the Parti Québécois are simple: more jobs in the regions, economic diversification, local benefits and a better quality of life.
A Parti Québécois government undertakes to develop specific strategies for regions with special needs, on the model of the Government Intervention Strategy for the Development of the Gaspésie – Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, and this , in collaboration with regional circles.
Pauline Marois was surrounded, for this announcement, by the candidate in Gaspé and Minister Delegate for the Regions, Gaétan Lelièvre, by the candidate in Roberval, Denis Trottier, by the candidate in Rimouski, Harold LeBel, by the candidate in Rivière -du- Loup -– Témiscouata, Michel Lagacé, and the candidate in Côte -du- Sud, André Simard.
“The economic method of Philippe Couillard&#39;s liberals is more asphalt and more debt. The Parti Québécois wants to create jobs in all regions. We want Quebecers in the regions to be at the heart of Quebec&#39;s economic development. From the day after the election on April 7, we will continue to implement the Economic Policy Priority Employment, the National Policy on Rurality and the Food Sovereignty Policy. We will also work to bring about the emergence of strong and diversified tourist poles in the regions of Quebec, just as we will continue to fight to counter the effects of the federal law on employment insurance on seasonal workers, ”declared the Premier. .
“If the action of the previous government was lamentable with regard to regional development, it was quite simply catastrophic for the forestry sector: loss of 20,000 jobs, closure of 300 factories and failure of seven rescue plans, here is the result of the Liberal regime&#39;s inaction, ”continued the leader of the Parti Québécois.
A Parti Québécois government will continue the deployment of the $ 675 million plan over 3 years, unveiled at the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise. From this plan results a new approach, which consists in particular in planning, over a horizon of 3 years, the silvicultural work. In addition, as we did in January, the amounts for the coming season will be announced 3 months before the start of the work, never seen before.
The Parti Québécois government has also set up 3 projects - relating to wood production, the effectiveness of measures in private forests and improvements to be made to the implementation of the forestry regime - in addition to a strategic government forum. industry as well as an interministerial committee on forestry contractors.
“The former Liberal government abandoned the regions and completely abandoned the forestry industry and workers. We are the party of the regions. The Parti Québécois team is determined to build stronger, more dynamic, more independent and more prosperous regions, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
Watch the press conference.
