Quebec - The member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois for social services, youth protection, home care, public health and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesperson for seniors, Sylvain Rochon, and the spokesperson for health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, called on the Liberal government to invest in home care and improve access to it, which is currently deficient.
The deputies thus wish to support the comments of several organizations: the FADOQ Network, the Interprofessional Health Federation of Quebec, the Council for the Protection of the Sick, the Regroupement des aidants naturel du Québec and Me Jean-Pierre Ménard, who argued today the impacts of the lack of access to home care for seniors and natural caregivers, as well as the importance of devoting additional sums to it.
“After having cut nearly 700 million in the health network over the past two years, without counting the cuts to come, the government is trying to make us believe that it is reinjecting money for home care. The Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, admitted himself that he did not know how much the promised $ 60 million will be added to. It is clear that this is an improvised announcement; we have no details on the use and distribution of this sum, which is far from meeting the glaring needs, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
The members of the Parti Québécois recall that a report by the Québec Ombudsman indicated last September that “users whose condition requires home support services are still grappling with problems of reduction in services, waiting times, &#39;burnout of family caregivers and regional disparities ”(page 103).
“In addition to affecting a very large number of seniors, home support also concerns family caregivers. Several aspects are of concern. In Quebec, 1 in 2 seniors aged 75 and over has an annual income of less than $ 20,000. The wait time for home care can be up to 6 or even 12 months. However, promoting home support saves money and time spent in the emergency room. It is therefore essential to increase the sums devoted to it, ”added Sylvain Rochon.
“Prime Minister Philippe Couillard had made a number of commitments which were lost; just think of the 250,000 jobs that will never be created. For home care, the promise was to invest 150 million per year for five years: we are still awaiting its realization. Not to mention that the minister did not specify what will happen to the small amounts invested this year. Home care has never been a priority for the Liberal government. This must change, because the population urgently needs it and they are impatient with the false promises that have been made to them. Home care is a way of improving access and the care offered, while reducing the exhausting and costly emergency calls, especially by the elderly, ”concluded Diane Lamarre.
