Québec - The member for Chicoutimi and parliamentary leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, deplores the fact that the liberals, with the complicity of the CAQ and Québec solidaire, have instrumentalised the institution of the jurisconsult as well as the commission in charge of study of the Report on the implementation of the Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct for Members of the National Assembly.
Let us recall that on February 26, the government House leader ordered an opinion on the situation of the member for Saint-Jérôme. “By agreeing to the government&#39;s request to produce an opinion on another elected official, the jurisconsult failed to fulfill his obligations under the law. Last week, the Ethics Commissioner told us that not only should this opinion have been requested by the Member himself, but that it should, moreover, have remained confidential, as provided for in the Code ” , indicated the parliamentary leader of the official opposition.
However, yesterday, the jurisconsult confirmed to us that this opinion was based on his interpretation of popular perception, not on the law. “Judging popular perception is not part of the mandate of the jurisconsult. We did not hide our disappointment at such a failure to meet its responsibilities. In addition, as was demonstrated yesterday in parliamentary committee, Me Bisson lacked consistency in relation to previous opinions, in particular that concerning David Whissel, ”continued Stéphane Bédard.
As such, the motion tabled by the Second Opposition Group, in the aftermath of difficult testimony, was wholly inappropriate. &quot;Once again, the liberals and their accomplices have only two objectives: to dismiss a duly elected political opponent who fully respects the Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct, and to create a diversion so that Quebecers forget their devoid austerity policies vision that affects families, regions and the education of our young people. We invite the other political parties represented in the National Assembly to stop using institutions and to return to constructive and calm discussions on the real issues, ”concluded Stéphane Bédard.
