Québec– The MNA for Joliette and official opposition spokesperson for higher education, Véronique Hivon, as well as the MNA for Gaspé and spokesperson for regional development, Gaétan Lelièvre, denounce the liberal cuts in higher education, which affects the quality of teaching and student services in CEGEPs and universities, throughout Quebec.
“The record cuts of $ 40 million inflicted on the network this year have hit student services very hard. The negative examples of austerity are numerous: let us mention the abolition of the posts of educational advisers, social work technicians and laboratory technicians, the cuts in academic support and psychological assistance, the reduction of hours of work. opening of libraries, as well as lower funding for sports teams. Yesterday, the FECQ, the FNEEQ and school directors expressed their concerns for the academic success of young people. They also agreed, unlike Minister Yves Bolduc, that student services are affected, ”said Véronique Hivon.
The member points out that record cuts of $ 200 million are being imposed on universities. “We are witnessing the abolition of courses, programs, and the merger of faculties. Support for students with difficulties or disabilities is affected. The situation is serious. The government&#39;s attitude is particularly paradoxical; when he was in opposition, he loudly denounced the underfunding of universities. Minister Yves Bolduc continues to say that there will be no impact and that student success is his priority; he must stop this deception. I ask him to put an end to his bad theater and his relentlessness against higher education. It is all of Quebec&#39;s social, scientific and economic development that will suffer from such bleeding, ”she added.
Université Laval closes its summer school in Percé
“The liberal cuts affecting the regions are already known; now, we are also seeing the effects in the CEGEPs and universities there. Services are cut, programs as well. The government is creating a negative spiral: young people could leave, go into exile in large cities and, if so, they may be less likely to return to live in their region of origin. In Percé, Université Laval is closing its summer school. Once again, major spinoffs for the region are disappearing and hundreds of students will no longer go through Percé during their studies. The effect is devastating for the economy and for social and regional development, ”concluded Gaétan Lelièvre.
