Montreal - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced the allocation of a $ 1 million loan to CM Labs Simulations Inc., a Montreal company specializing in simulation in real time. This loan, granted by Investissement Québec, encourages the strong growth of the company, which in particular required a move to more spacious premises. The financing will also allow the establishment of a technological infrastructure capable of supporting the future growth of the company.
“Quebec&#39;s information and communications technology industry, ICT, is one of those with the greatest impact on the innovation and competitiveness of businesses in Quebec,” declared Élaine Zakaïb. “ICTs occupy a crucial place in our economy. They are also at the heart of our industrial policy. CM Labs Simulations is our pride here and abroad and testifies to our great capacity for innovation. We want to ensure that such companies continue to grow and shine on a global scale, thus harnessing the full potential of our skilled workforce and our know-how. We also want their innovative products to be at the service of our manufacturing companies, in order to increase their productivity and competitiveness. &quot;
For more than fifteen years, the mission of CM Labs Simulations has been to solve the challenges posed by the physical complexity of the implementation of simulators in several industries such as underwater exploration, construction, defense, port operations. and robotics research. The company is active in both research and training solutions. Thus, CM Labs Simulations provides virtual training environments allowing the preparation of teams in a safe and efficient manner.
Every day, operators, soldiers, engineers and pilots train on CM Labs Simulations simulators set up in more than 1000 sites around the globe, for clients such as FMC Technologies Schilling Robotics, iRobot, CAE , L-3, Lockheed Martin, NASA, Liebherr and over 100 other businesses and educational institutions around the world.
The CM Labs Simulations team is made up of experts in the fields of training as well as the dynamics and modeling of vehicles, heavy equipment and robotic systems. The company now employs nearly 100 people, who occupy positions with very high added value.
&quot;We are delighted that the Government of Quebec is getting involved in our project and supporting us in our growth,&quot; concluded Sylvain Lagacé, Vice-President, Finance, of CM Labs Simulations. “Investissement Québec has been a partner of choice since 2010. While the financial crisis was in full swing, its financing allowed us to distinguish ourselves. We hired new resources and developed innovative products for several new markets. Today, after growing over 200% over the past two years, we are more than ever booming and our international reputation positions us as a supplier of excellence all over the world. &quot;
Investissement Québec&#39;s mission is to promote the growth of investment in Québec, thereby contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The Company provides businesses with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity investments, to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, she is responsible for administering tax measures and prospecting for investments abroad.
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
