Quebec - In the company of MPs Carole Poirier, Nicole Léger and Maka Kotto, the leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, called on the minister responsible for the Metropolis, Martin Coiteux, on the priority issues for the population of the East of Montreal.
“The east of Montreal is neglected by the Liberal government of Philippe Couillard. Next year, when we are elected, I can assure the people that they will have a government that listens to Montreal, particularly with regard to priority issues for the East. Health, education, transportation and francization, among others, are among our priorities for Montreal, ”said Jean-François Lisée from the outset.
“We challenged the minister responsible for the Metropolis today in the National Assembly, just as we asked questions yesterday of various liberal ministers. Always the same answers, without anything concrete. However, the projects that we want to put forward are the priorities of Montrealers, ”added Carole Poirier.
Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital
“One of the major examples of this abandonment by the Liberal government is the Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital renovation project. With the expected population growth by 2020 and aging, the facility, which dates back to the 1950s, is running out of space. This is a project of great importance for the East of Montreal. Yet it is totally absent from the last three budgets of the Liberal government, despite its election campaign promise. This Thursday, we even had to block access to the operating room to do emergency work in an elevator shaft. This incident bears witness to the urgency of immediately completing the renovation project for the only large hospital in eastern Montreal. A Parti Québécois government will modernize the Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital, ”insisted the leader of the official opposition.
More and better for housing in Montreal
The Parti Québécois also deplores the fact that the Liberal government has reinvested in the construction of barely 550 new social housing units in Montreal, whereas it was funding more than 1,000 a year previously. “While the needs are dire, it is unacceptable to see the government abandon families in Montreal who need housing. On the part of the Parti Québécois, we take the situation very seriously. We will gradually increase the number of new units built to reach 1,500 per year within 5 years, while launching a permanent ecological renovation program. We will also ensure that delinquent owners in terms of sanitation and loss of energy cannot increase rents until the situation is restored ”, also mentioned Carole Poirier.
Public transport: extension of the blue metro line
East Montreal has been waiting for years for the extension of the blue line, which has already been postponed multiple times by the Liberal government. “Last spring, the federal government invited the Quebec government to submit its public transit projects. In the fall, the Quebec government still had not submitted a single project to the federal government. On Wednesday, when the budget was tabled, we had the results to be expected: no specific amount was devoted to the blue line. The Prime Minister made his demands at the last minute and did not stand up to defend the interests of the citizens of East Montreal. When it is for the West, liberal logic is to say that it is urgent. But, when it comes to improving conditions for the citizens of the East, there is never that same sense of urgency or that same sensitivity. The population of East Montreal has been calling for the extension of the blue line for a long time and, for us, the only valid signal that can demonstrate that the project is moving forward would be to see it finally appear in the government&#39;s PQI; otherwise, this Prime Minister&#39;s promise is just a blast. We need a very clear signal! Promises on the extension of the blue line, we have had plenty since 2014. We need action now! “, For her part claimed Nicole Léger.
Decontamination
“The east of Montreal has thousands of hectares of contaminated land which, in their rehabilitation, could help revive its economic development. However, it is now two years since the Minister of Finance announced the creation of a new program, ClimatSol-Plus, for the rehabilitation of contaminated sites. But, to date, no amount of money has been allocated under this new program; it is zero dollars in 2015 and zero dollars in 2016. In addition, no other program relating to decontamination has been announced by the Ministry of Sustainable Development and the Environment. And it is in vain that the Montreal Metropolitan Community calls for investments. Procrastination has limits; concrete answers are needed. We need money now, ”concluded Maka Kotto.
