Granby - On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the MNA for Saint-Hyacinthe, Émilien Pelletier, today participated in the official inauguration of the barn-stable of the Héritage Miner Farm. This event took place in the presence of the mayor of Granby, Richard Goulet, the chairman of the board of directors of Ferme Héritage Miner, Paul Bergeron, and the general manager of Ferme Héritage Miner, Caroline Gosselin.
“The Government of Quebec attaches great importance to the preservation and consolidation of our heritage, in the best interest of all Quebecers. The restoration of the stable barn at Ferme Héritage Miner will contribute to the enhancement of this agricultural heritage property and, in its own way, contribute to the growth and cultural development of the region, ”Minister Kotto said.
“The barn-stable is at the heart of the Ferme Héritage Miner site, which is part of the natural, built and historical heritage of the Granby region. This former agricultural property is a source of pride for the entire population, because it is intimately linked to the founding of the region. I congratulate the municipal, local and regional partners as well as the private partners for their contribution to the safeguard of a cultural property of great significance for the Montérégie and for the Eastern Townships, ”said MP Pelletier. .
La Ferme Héritage Miner is a daring project that aims to create an ecotourism and educational farm in the heart of the city of Granby. The site includes several buildings which will all have different purposes. The barn-stable is one of the key elements of the site and will provide spaces for exhibitions as well as a place for activities and training.
The Ministry of Culture and Communications has invested $ 181,000 for the restoration of the barn-barn building at Ferme Héritage Miner, as part of its Capital Assistance program. The rest of the funding comes from private and public partners, in particular the Zoo de Granby and the City of Granby.
