Montreal - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, launched the portrait of the use of information and communications technologies (ICT) in the fashion and clothing in Quebec. It also made public, on this occasion, the names of the 15 companies in the sector participating in the PME 2.0 measure.
With a budget of $ 6 million spread over three years, the PME 2.0 measure, piloted by CEFRIO, was implemented in 2012 by the Ministry of Finance and the Economy to support 30 companies in the sectors fashion and clothing as well as aerospace in carrying out new ICT adoption projects.
&quot;The increase in the productivity of manufacturing SMEs, including those in the fashion sector, requires better integration of ICT in logistics, manufacturing processes and business processes,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “The 2013-2017 Québec Industrial Policy now provides them with concrete measures, in particular for the purchase of production computer equipment and the implementation of management software packages. This policy, which focuses on innovation as well as on the modernization and greening of our businesses, represents a powerful lever for increasing the competitiveness of Quebec&#39;s manufacturing sector. &quot;
The publication of this portrait constitutes the first of the three stages of the PME 2.0 measure. The portrait, produced by CEFRIO in collaboration with the Ministry, will allow companies to assess their state of progress. It is thus intended to be an incentive to encourage companies in the fashion and clothing industry to take the step towards adopting new technologies. Supporting these companies in their approach to integrating ICT will allow lessons to be drawn that are applicable to all manufacturing SMEs. CEFRIO will analyze and disseminate the results of projects carried out under the SME 2.0 measure in order to benefit all SMEs.
&quot;Several studies have established a direct link between the adoption of ICTs and business productivity,&quot; said Jacqueline Dubé, President and CEO of CEFRIO. “However, this link is conditional on the deployment of additional efforts that affect both employee training, organizational changes and the skills of staff and managers in the use of digital technology. It is in this perspective that PME 2.0 was developed by the Department: to promote optimal integration of ICTs within Quebec SMEs and maximize their productivity gains. It is really a measure that will promote the digital transformation of companies in the manufacturing sector. &quot;
The first section of the portrait presents statistics relating to the computerization of the various functions of businesses in the fashion and clothing sector, as well as relevant data on the habits of Quebec online shoppers. The second section presents inspiring cases of ICT implementation in Quebec companies in the sector. The last part provides an overview of key technologies. Each of the participating SMEs has undergone a digital diagnosis linked to its business strategy and is currently developing a digital plan.
“The integration of ICTs within companies in the fashion and clothing industry is one of the issues raised in the report of the Fashion working group,” added Minister Zakaïb. “Today I see that the community is more mobilized than ever to ensure the competitiveness of its businesses. They will thus be able to grow and create sustainable, value-added jobs. &quot;
