Shawinigan - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, accompanied by the Member of Parliament for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, announced the payment of a loan of $ 100,000, by through Investissement Québec, to support the growth of the Le Trou du Diable microbrewery.
“Entrepreneurship can take many forms and all are welcome,” said Élaine Zakaïb. “Whether it is a private business, a cooperative or a social economy enterprise, all of these types of businesses contribute to the prosperity of their region and to job creation. The project in question today is a good example of a dynamic and successful cooperative and we are happy to support its growth. The Québec industrial policy, made public recently, moreover presents concrete measures that could help manufacturing companies in all regions of Québec to increase their competitiveness. &quot;
Founded in 2012 by the Coop de travail Brasserie artisanale, Le Trou du Diable brews beer on a large scale and distributes its various varieties on the North American market. The loan granted to the company will be injected into its working capital in order to respond to the sustained growth it is currently experiencing and to participate in the development of the European market.
&quot;Today&#39;s announcement shows us that Shawinigan businesses are in action and that they are concentrating their efforts on further growth,&quot; said Luc Trudel. “Their perseverance is worthy of mention and I am very proud of the support provided by our government to help them reach, and even exceed, their growth objectives, as is the case with the microbrewery Le Trou du Diable, which is very quickly distinguished itself on the beer market. &quot;
&quot;Our microbrewery is internationally recognized for the quality of its products and stands out in the field of craft beers, as evidenced by the many awards we have received over the years,&quot; said the treasurer of the Le Trou microbrewery. du Diable, Mr. Luc Bellerive. “The Quebec government&#39;s support for the growth of our business, through this repayable contribution, will allow us to continue our ascent and develop new markets, particularly in the United States and in Europe. In the short term, this will allow the creation of a few new jobs, which will add to the 30 jobs already created since last January. &quot;
About Investissement Québec Investissement Québec&#39;s mission is to promote the growth of investment in Québec, thereby contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The Company provides businesses with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity investments, to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, she is responsible for administering tax measures and prospecting for investments abroad.
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
