The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, joined his voice to those of the UPA and other political parties to defend supply management and Quebec farmers, threatened by the renegotiation of the Free Agreement -North American trade (NAFTA). For him, it is clear: the Parti Québécois will not ask the National Assembly for a new version of NAFTA that ignores the interests of farmers and Quebec artists and creators.
IN SHORT
“Today, Quebec is at risk. In the last two rounds of negotiations surrounding a free trade agreement, Canada sacrificed Quebec milk and cheese for the benefit of beef and other western exports. These concessions deprive each of our family farms of $ 30,000 in income per year. Farmers have given enough! This is why we have been asking for a week now that all the political parties represented in the National Assembly affirm, with one voice, that Quebec will not accept any concession that would call into question the management of supply in the National Assembly. Quebec, ”said Jean-François Lisée. Also, the leader of the Parti Québécois reached out to his counterparts from the Liberal Party of Quebec and the Coalition Avenir Québec, as well as to the co-spokesperson for Québec solidaire, so that all sign a joint declaration that would clearly determine the conditions necessary for Quebec to ratify a new NAFTA. A minimum threshold of requirements, in short.
“Unfortunately, my call for the common front, for the unity of forces, received only convoluted responses. Luckily, the UPA invited us all to take part in a joint press conference, to show that the four parties are sticking together to defend farmers and the cultural identity of Quebec. Despite the short delay, everyone reorganized their agenda and were there. All, except François Legault. Which leads me to wonder about his priorities: why, this morning, François Legault favored his electoral campaign, to the detriment of a show of force and unity in support of supply management ? », Raised Mr. Lisée.
The leader took the opportunity to reiterate that a Parti Québécois government would not submit a new North American trade agreement to the National Assembly that would ignore the interests of Quebec farmers and creators. &quot;Prime Minister, I would never table an agreement which would increase the quotas of dairy products beyond what Canada has already conceded in the other international agreements, which would not have first given full compensation to farmers for the concessions they have already made in the agreements with Europe and the trans-Pacific, and which would dismantle the mechanisms of supply management, including class 7 milk. And I would never submit an agreement to elected officials in Quebec which would ignore the cultural exception clause, ”he argued.
“Today we wanted and had to send a message that could not be clearer, could not be more firm. This is what we did, and I am very proud of it, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
For more information on this, click here.
