Montreal - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, informed his federal counterpart, the Minister of Transport, Infrastructure and Communities, Mr. Denis Lebel, of Quebec&#39;s official position on collective transport for the future Champlain Bridge.
“The Champlain Bridge is an essential link for the entire economy of Quebec. This structure must not only meet the need for mobility and growth in the greater metropolitan area, but it must also be a major public transport axis. With this in mind, the government has confirmed to the federal government its desire to see a light rail system installed on the new structure, ”said Minister Gaudreault.
The Minister also raised the issue of funding with Minister Lebel. &quot;The toll that the Canadian government wishes to install on the new bridge raises major concerns about the fairness of this method of financing, as well as its impact on mobility and on other links between Montreal and the South Shore. . This is why we are asking that the bridge be entirely financed from federal funds, which would better serve the citizens and correspond to the responsibilities of the federal government in this matter, ”pointed out the Minister of Transport of Quebec.
The replacement of the Champlain Bridge should be an opportunity to endow the city with an exceptional work of art. Beyond an efficient and sustainable infrastructure, it is essential to create a unique one, like Montreal, a UNESCO city of design.
&quot;Quebec wants an emblematic bridge, an achievement that will become one of the symbols of Montreal, a gateway that will stand out for its aesthetics,&quot; said the Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Mr. Jean. -François Lisée. “We believe that this approach brings people together and that it resonates with citizens and partners. In order to implement it, we are asking the federal government to hold an international architectural competition, ”he added.
To make this project a success, the Government of Quebec reiterates the importance of working together with all the partners concerned.
Moreover, Minister Gaudreault met yesterday with members of the Bureau des Partenaires-Pont Champlain and elected officials from the greater metropolitan area to share certain issues regarding the replacement of the Champlain Bridge.
&quot;We must ensure that the actions taken by regional and local players with regard to transport, public transport services, land use planning and economic development are harmonized with the characteristics of the new bridge having national and international. The participation of the main players in the Montreal metropolitan region, who are also part of this global vision of mobility, is essential to the establishment of an infrastructure of such a scale, ”specified the Minister responsible for Montérégie region, Mrs. Marie Malavoy.
The position of the Government of Quebec now presents fundamental elements for future discussions. “I would like to reiterate the desire of our government and the Bureau des Partenaires-Pont Champlain to work in collaboration with the federal government to make the new bridge a flagship structure and an emblem for Quebec,” concluded Minister Gaudreault.
