Quebec - The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, responds to Kathleen Weil, Member of Parliament for Notre-Dame-de-Grâce, on the layoffs at Sears Canada .
“Our goal is clear: to do everything in our power so that these people can quickly and sustainably return to a new job. », Indicated Minister Maltais.
Emploi-Québec is already making its measures, programs and services available to these laid-off workers to support them in their efforts to integrate into the labor market and help them improve their employability.
See also the PDF. Quebec, January 20, 2014 Ms. Kathleen Weil, Member of Parliament for Notre-Dame-de-Grâce Parliament Hotel 1045, rue des Parlementaires 2nd floor, Office 2.53 Quebec (Quebec) G1A 1A4 Subject: Support for workers made redundant from Sears Canada Dear colleague We learned on January 15 that Sears Canada intended to lay off 197 workers in the coming weeks, including 38 immediately, and that a total of 1,600 employees, nearly half of them in Montreal, would be affected. The same day, the government of Quebec contacted the company in order to put in place measures to offer rapid and personalized support to these workers and, the speed of intervention being a guarantee of success, Emploi-Québec is mobilized to intervene and provide assistance to those affected.
Among the measures implemented, let us note the creation of a reclassification assistance committee, funded by Sears Canada, to allow laid-off workers to receive rapid individualized assistance and support corresponding to their situation. Emploi-Québec will be directly involved in these procedures in order to evaluate the redeployment services and ensure that they correspond to standards in this area. In addition, Emploi-Québec is already making its measures, programs and services available to these workers to support them in their efforts to integrate into the labor market and help them improve their employability. In addition, discussions have been initiated with companies interested in hiring some of the people affected by the Sears Canada decision.
Our goal is clear: to do everything in our power so that these people can quickly and sustainably return to a new job. The employment outlook indicates that nearly 142,000 jobs will be available by 2016 in the Montreal region. It should also be noted that the latest data on employment indicate that there have never been as many people in employment as at present in Quebec.
Jobs is a priority for our government. Several structuring measures have been put in place over the past year, including in particular the Tous pour emploi strategy, which aims to give impetus to our public employment services in order to promote the integration and job retention of clienteles. under-represented in the labor market. Let us also mention the Priority Jobs economic policy, which provides for investments of $ 13 billion within 10 years and the creation of 150,000 jobs within 3 years. The participation of everyone in the labor market is therefore at the heart of the Government of Quebec&#39;s action.
So you can see our total commitment to helping the people at Sears Canada. I am counting on your support in this matter and, for my part, intend to associate you with our efforts by keeping you regularly informed. Please accept, dear colleague, the expression of my best feelings. Minister Agnès Maltais
