Montreal - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced the allocation, through Investissement Québec, of a loan of $ 800,000 to the company Kinova for the development of the American and European markets, in particular with regard to a new robotics product, which will result in the creation of seven new quality jobs.
&quot;Support for the export of high-tech companies is at the heart of our government&#39;s action,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “We underlined this during the recent unveiling of the 2013-2017 Québec industrial policy. One of the axes of this policy is support for innovation, from idea to commercialization. This is why we are very happy to support the export projects of Kinova, an SME in the Montreal region with very promising potential, which stands out in a particularly competitive sector. &quot;
Kinova is active in the design and implementation of innovative solutions in personal robotics, including robotic arms, for people with disabilities. The JACO arm, for which the company holds several patents, is the first three-finger robotic arm designed to help people in power chairs increase their independence. This same slightly modified product can also be used for other applications, such as remote handling in university research centers. This is the case with the new MICO product, developed by the company. This can benefit the nuclear industry as well as the military industry, for delicate operations such as mine clearance, for example.
The company is expanding rapidly and must make additional efforts to position its products, including MICO, in foreign markets and to finalize agreements with foreign distributors in order to consolidate its position in the global market for personal robotics.
“We are active in a competitive booming industry, where we must constantly distinguish ourselves in international markets in order to support our growth,” concluded Charles Deguire, President of Kinova. “This project, which we were able to achieve thanks to the rapid support of Investissement Québec, will allow us to step up our promotional efforts, mainly in Europe and North America, and to develop distribution agreements in these territories. &quot;
Investissement Québec&#39;s mission is to promote the growth of investment in Québec, thereby contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The Company provides businesses with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity investments, to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, she is responsible for administering tax measures and prospecting for investments abroad.
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
