Quebec, May 25, 2017 - As we learn from the press that the sale of recreational cannabis could be entrusted to the private sector, the member for Labelle and the Parti Québécois spokesperson for prevention and public health, Sylvain Pagé, demands that the Liberal government show the most total transparency, and calls again for the holding of a traveling parliamentary committee so that a real social debate can take place around this fundamental question.
IN SHORT
“The legalization of recreational cannabis will have significant consequences for public health - and for young people, in particular. Serious questions arise, on a multitude of aspects; for example, how do we ensure that organized crime is kept out of this market? Or, from what age should we allow access to cannabis? In our view, the usual consultative process that follows the introduction of a bill is insufficient; an upstream debate is necessary, too many considerations are at stake. It is unthinkable that such crucial decisions be taken without consultation, behind closed doors! Unfortunately, the Liberals persist in refusing to hear the public and the opinion of experts, ”said Sylvain Pagé.
The deputy recalls that the INSPQ, last November, claimed to fear a slowdown, or even a reversal, in the downward trend in the use of cannabis in the population if for-profit players seized the market. “This is precisely a thesis that deserves to be further developed. The whole purpose of a private business is to make money. We must therefore seriously question whether this possible distribution network is the most appropriate. For us, we must never compromise on the health of the population, particularly that of our young people, ”he continued.
“The federal government has confiscated the debate on legalization from Quebec. Now, the Liberal government is now confiscating it from the citizens of Quebec. Once again, we reiterate our request for the holding of a traveling parliamentary committee, so that everyone can give their opinion on the legalization and distribution of cannabis, ”the spokesperson concluded.
