Sainte-Anne-de-Bellevue– The Honorable Steven Blaney, Minister of Veterans Affairs and Minister for La Francophonie, and Dr. Réjean Hébert, Minister of Health and Social Services for the Government of Quebec, today announced that the He Sainte-Anne-de-Bellevue Hospital will obtain independent status when it is transferred to the Government of Quebec.
&quot;The Government of Quebec will be pleased to be able to acquire Sainte-Anne&#39;s Hospital following the confirmation of a final transfer agreement,&quot; said Minister Hébert. The expertise developed in this establishment is invaluable. This is why we are going to develop a unique governance model, in collaboration with McGill University, the staff of the Hospital and the Montreal Health and Social Services Agency, which will consist of a high-level geriatric center. level. This hospital will evolve in its range of services and will serve the populations of the west of the island, as well as of the west of Montérégie. &quot;
“Sainte-Anne&#39;s Hospital is recognized worldwide for its expertise in geriatrics and mental health. I can only welcome Minister Hébert&#39;s decision to recognize his special status, said Minister Blaney. Our veterans will be able to continue to receive exceptional care within this center of excellence at the cutting edge of clinical innovation. &quot;
Following the transfer, Sainte-Anne&#39;s Hospital will be an autonomous entity reporting directly to the Montreal Health and Social Services Agency, and administered by a board of directors. In order to ensure a successful transition and the implementation of all elements of the transfer agreement, a transition committee reporting to the Board of Directors will be established until March 31, 2017. Veterans Affairs Canada will continue to work on this transition. participate in the governance process.
The transfer of Sainte-Anne&#39;s Hospital will benefit long-term veterans, hospital staff and residents of Quebec. As the demand for long-term care beds for traditional veterans is declining at Sainte-Anne&#39;s Hospital, its transfer to the Government of Quebec will make it possible to maintain and maximize the geriatric and psycho-geriatric expertise of the hospital. hospital, while making additional beds available to Quebeckers.
