Montreal - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, announces that the Hôpital du Sacré-Cœur de Montreal is officially designated an organ harvesting center. It also receives the green light from the government to implement a two-year pilot project related to organ harvesting.
“This clinical initiative will help increase the number of organs available for transplants. We thus recognize the great expertise in critical care of the Hôpital du Sacré-Cœur de Montréal, and the excellent results recorded by this establishment in this area in recent years, ”said Dr. Hébert.
This project is made possible thanks to the granting of a total envelope of $ 1.1 million starting this year, including $ 850,000 in the operating budget.
In addition, to better support the eight other establishments1 that perform organ harvesting and recognize their remarkable work, the Minister is also announcing an increase in the amount granted to them through Transplant Québec. The withdrawal fee paid by Transplant Québec will therefore be increased by $ 3,000, for a total of $ 7,500 per sample in order to better cover costs. “We recognize the importance of better supporting the activities and essential work of collection teams. We must never forget that this act makes it possible to improve the quality of life of many patients and of course often prolong it, or even save it, ”continued the Minister.
The Minister also announced an amount of $ 1 million to allow the establishment to finance and complete the initial business case for its expansion project aimed at the development of an integrated trauma center and a unit. mother-child. These studies will make it possible to correctly assess the costs.
&quot;I am well aware of the needs of the Hôpital du Sacré-Cœur de Montréal and the challenges it faces, particularly in terms of perinatal care and trauma, especially since the establishment acts in the latter area. as a reference tertiary center for some twenty hospitals in the Montreal region and western Quebec. This is why I am happy to announce today the funding of studies with regard to this major project. Today we are taking a step forward towards its realization and, at the same time, towards greater accessibility of perinatal, trauma and endoscopy care in the Montreal region, ”declared Minister Hébert.
This project mainly provides for the expansion of the front east wing of the hospital with a view to fitting out an integrated trauma center comprising in particular 32 intensive care beds, as well as a mother-child unit with 26 rooms for occupancy. simple, an intermediate neonatal care unit with 11 isolettes including an intensive care unit, as well as 6 rooms in the endoscopy unit. The costs, schedule and certain other details of this project will be specified following the preparation of the initial business case, the submission of which is scheduled for summer 2014. Note that the Fondation de l&#39;Hôpital du Sacré -Cœur, which has led a fundraising campaign for this project, plans to contribute $ 12 million to its realization.
“Our support for this project clearly demonstrates our government&#39;s desire to support our health establishments with adequate and functional infrastructures to fully achieve their mission,” added Minister Hébert.1 The other eight establishments are as follows:
