Quebec - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, notes that the poor planning of projects and the loss of expertise in the public apparatus, which have accelerated under the former Liberal government, continue to have negative effects on the balance sheet of amendments to the Department of Transport.
&quot;Liberal&quot; contracts, as mentioned by Julie Boulet, Member of Parliament for Laviolette and former transport critic for the official opposition, are very costly to Quebecers &quot;declared Minister Gaudreault.
In the fall of 2012, a report produced by the firm Secor-KPMG, commissioned by the Treasury Board Secretariat, revealed that 18 of the 20 major projects analyzed experienced cost overruns averaging 78%.
&quot;On November 12, I unveiled our action plan Pay the fair cost for road investments in order to ensure greater integrity, accountability and re-editing of accounts in the granting and management of public contracts at the Ministry of Transport. The measures implemented since September 2012 as well as those presented in this action plan have enabled us to save only $ 240M for the year 2013. The fight against collusion and corruption is a priority for our government ” continued Mr. Gaudreault.
It should be remembered that this action plan stems from a second report by the firm Secor-KPMG commissioned in February 2013. This external audit aimed in particular to examine all the additional costs required in the last 12 months. The conclusions of this review were unveiled last June leading to the 16 measures contained in the action plan. Of these, 11 were already completed or in progress.
“Never has a government done so much to ensure that Quebeckers pay the fair cost for road investments. We will continue to act with diligence and responsibility. The next step in this action plan is the creation of the Agence des infrastructures de transport du Québec. What does the CAQ offer to control costs and “extras”? What does Éric Caire, MP for La Peltrie and CAQ transport spokesperson propose to consolidate and develop expertise within the Ministry of Transport? Unfortunately, the CAQ continues to procrastinate on its position on the bill, ”concluded Mr. Gaudreault.
