Montreal - At the end of a &quot;housing&quot; tour of the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in housing matters, Carole Poirier, the leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve questioned the Liberal government so that the cuts to the AccèsLogis Québec program stop and its funding be fully restored. They were, for the occasion, accompanied by representatives of many organizations, including the Montreal Assistance Network for Single and Homeless Persons and L&#39;Avenue Logement communautaire.
“Funding for the AccèsLogis Québec program was cut in half by the Liberals for 2015-2016. It must be restored. AccèsLogis is the only social housing program in existence, and it is currently in jeopardy. It was supposed to finance 3,000 social housing units per year, but recent government cuts have reduced this total to 1,500 units. In addition, 6,000 units approved and technically under construction are blocked. Why? “Asked Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“Our great &#39;accommodation&#39; tour allowed us to take the pulse on the ground all week. I visited housing groups, particularly in Greater Montreal, the Laurentians, Montérégie and the Outaouais. I have seen the continuing urgent need for housing. The problems are clear: increasingly long delays at the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec, abolition of subsidies contributing to financial arrangements, for example for the Rénovation Québec and ClimatSol programs, increasingly rare land and buildings. The very survival of AccèsLogis is seriously threatened, it is unacceptable, ”added Carole Poirier.
An ideological brake
Members recall that the Liberal government has, by ideology, chosen to slow down the development of social and community housing for the benefit of private owners. He transferred the 1,500 units withdrawn from AccèsLogis to the Rent Supplement program. It has promised to fund 5,800 rent supplements over 5 years, but this program does not build new rental housing or improve the quality of existing housing.
“The Liberal government forgets that the development of social housing is a key way to fight poverty and homelessness, as well as to support the economy and the revitalization of neighborhoods. The construction of social and community housing enables the economic development of all regions of Quebec. It creates jobs, promotes social diversity and allows urban revitalization. Social and community housing, in addition to being an example of a social program with proven economic profitability, makes it possible to meet a significant demand for housing among seniors, single people, families and people in need. individuals or who are homeless, ”insisted Pierre Karl Péladeau.
Carole Poirier also recalls that in Montreal alone, as of November 30, 2015, no less than 24,863 households were on the waiting list of the Municipal Housing Office for social or community housing. In addition, in 2011, 143,900 Montreal renter households spent more than half of their income on housing. A situation that also affects several thousand other households across Quebec.
“The Quebec Community Housing Fund is also under the ax of the Liberals. Bill 83 threatens to abolish it, providing for the transfer of sums to the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec. However, for us, it is clear that the Fund must remain, ”added Carole Poirier.
“The Liberal government is doing exactly what it does with childcare centers in housing: it is slowly allowing the public and cooperative system to die out and replace it with the private one. The supply of social and community housing must not only be maintained, it must be improved to meet the needs of the population, ”concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois.
