Montreal - The Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, welcomed the release on bail of Alexandre Paul, the Quebec activist of Greenpeace detained in Russia since September.
“I am reassured to know that Mr. Paul will eventually be released on bail. We do not yet know the conditions of his release, but we hope that he will return to Quebec as quickly as possible. From the first days of his detention, we took action to ensure that Mr. Paul was in good health, that he was being treated in a decent manner, and to ensure that his family, with whom we communicated on several occasions , can be kept informed of his situation, ”said Minister Lisée.
On an economic mission to Pennsylvania, the Minister spoke this morning to Mr. Paul&#39;s mother to express his relief.
Recall that Mr. Paul was arrested with 30 of his colleagues after they tried to climb the Prirazlomnay oil platform of the Russian company Gazprom, located in the Arctic, to denounce the ecological risk of its drilling activities. Greenpeace International&#39;s icebreaker, Arctic Sunrise, had been boarded by a Russian Coast Guard helicopter.
Active in the file since the arrest of the activists, the minister has spoken on a few occasions with the mother of Alexandre Paul. He has discussed the matter twice with John Baird to urge him to speak to his Russian counterpart and meet with Greenpeace. Meetings also took place with the new Russian Consul General in Montreal. During their recent meeting in Paris, Minister Lisée and French Minister of Foreign Affairs Laurent Fabius discussed means to coordinate their efforts in favor of the release of the prisoners. The case was followed with interest by Minister Lisée&#39;s office, which was kept informed, in particular by Quebec representatives of Greenpeace. During the hearing on November 6 at the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, Quebec sent Caroline Émond, Delegate General of Quebec to Brussels, to listen to the debates surrounding the complaint filed by the Netherlands.
Finally, the Government of Quebec collaborated with Greenpeace, which fully defrayed the costs related to the bond, by making available the human and administrative resources of the Quebec Office in Moscow in order to facilitate and accelerate the transfer of funds.
Minister Lisée will keep himself informed of developments relating to this file, the resolution of which could take several more months.
