To give families more time, the leader and vice-leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée and Véronique Hivon, as well as the MP for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, today presented a commitment concerning the equipment school. During a press briefing, they announced that a Parti Québécois government will offer parents who so wish the choice of directly obtaining all of the required school supplies.
IN SHORT
“A Parti Québécois government will give families more time. It will free parents who so wish from the scramble for school effects and related expenses. In fact, we will ask elementary and secondary schools to provide all the required school supplies. Families are asking for their lives to be made easier; that&#39;s what we&#39;ll do. Seriously. », Declared Jean-François Lisée from the outset.
“Parents, including me, know the song: a few days before school starts, we run left and right and spend a small fortune to find all the items on the school list. And, year after year, the list grows… as does the time spent in the stores! With a Parti Québécois government, you no longer need to rack your brains to find the pale blue binder, you no longer need to travel around town to find the item that is out of stock, ”added Véronique Hivon.
The material will be given to students at the start of the school year. “Gradually, our measure - which remains optional - will replace the $ 100 check that the Liberals recently gave to parents for the purchase of school supplies. Our choice at the Parti Québécois is to give families a time check! », Continued Jean-François Lisée.
The measure will be implemented during the first term of the Parti Québécois. “From the first year, we will make sure that each school board offers the distribution service. As for the model to be adopted and the choice of the responsible body, the watchword will be &quot;flexibility&quot;, since the needs and realities of families differ from region to region. We could take inspiration from the Magasin-Partage formula, for example. Finally, I really like this idea, because it ensures that the children, among themselves, are equal, ”said Carole Poirier.
“This change in the way of doing things is really worth the effort because it will have a real impact on the lives of families. Parents will get more time and get their money&#39;s worth. The Parti Québécois is the true party of families! », Concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois.
For our explanatory sheet, click here.
