The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the candidates Mathieu Traversy (Terrebonne), Daniel Breton (Saint-Hyacinthe), Diane Gadoury-Hamelin (Masson) and Marc ‑ Olivier Leblanc (Les Plaines), presented today &#39; hui a new proposal to give more time to families: the “carpooling” component of the Grand Déblocage.
IN SHORT
“The Parti Québécois will give families more time by freeing them from traffic jams. The Grand Déblocage phase 1 was very well received by Quebeckers, who refused to allow more than 7 billion of their dollars to be spent on an electoral giveaway in the West Island of Montreal, without the congestion receding in the metropolitan area. Indeed, the Grand Déblocage phase 1 is a project suitable for all of greater Montreal which will remove 78 times more cars from our roads than what the REM promises: 133,000, against 1,700 cars for the liberal project ”, illustrated from the outset Jean ‑ François Lisée.
Today, the Parti Québécois is proposing to go even further, with the “carpooling” component of the Grand Déblocage. “There are 25 million empty seats congesting the roads of Quebec at rush hour; we will fill these seats to unblock the roads. We will offer powerful incentives to encourage carpooling across Quebec. We will see to the development of a national mobile application which will include all the services already available and which will be linked in real time to the journeys of the various public transport networks. The goal: that those who want to carpool meet. We want to match them. What we are announcing is the carpooling Tinder, ”said Mathieu Traversy enthusiastically.
A financial incentive will also be offered to all drivers and passengers: each will receive a bonus of $ 4 per trip made during peak traffic hours the first year - and $ 3 for the following years -, for the outward journey as well as for the return. Everything will be centralized and calculated on the mobile application. “For a carpooler, our proposal can represent an annual income of $ 1,600! We are confident that such a direct benefit will encourage tens of thousands of drivers to leave their cars at home and to carpool with a neighbor or a work colleague, ”continued Daniel Breton.
“We will also add dedicated carpool lanes, depending on ridership, on Quebec highways. This new measure will eliminate 7% of cars on the network by 2025, which is in addition to the 10% already provided for by the Grand Unblocking phase 1. Ultimately, this is 325,500 fewer vehicles on the roads! “, Continued Diane Gadoury-Hamelin.
The leader of the Parti Québécois clarified that the proposal does not apply to people living at the same address or to those under the age of 16, and that the eligible trip must be made during rush hour. In addition, the “carpooling” component of the Grand Déblocage represents expenditure of $ 313 million over 4 years, in addition to $ 2 million for the development of the mobile application. However, the whole does not involve any additional burden on the State, because it will be financed directly from the Green Fund, of which all the programs will be reviewed.
“We will give the Green Fund back to Quebecers. The Liberals are not using it effectively; they only finance programs that are of little use in the fight against climate change, ”concluded Marc-Olivier Leblanc.
Expected costs:
2019-2020          2020-2021         2021-2022         2022-202329 M$                  57 M$                  86 M$                 141 M$
For more information, click here.
For the explanatory sheet, click here.
