Quebec City, April 9, 2018 - Official Opposition spokesperson for the metropolis, Carole Poirier, and transport critic, Martin Ouellet, are sorry for the few commitments the Liberal government has made in the case of the extension of the blue line of the Montreal metro. “After four years of waiting, the East of Montreal is still hungry. While Montrealers were expecting the announcement of a shovelful of soil and the official start of the work, the government has instead told us that it intends to conduct other preliminary studies, ”said Carole Poirier straight away.
IN SHORT
“The Couillard government has just completed its fourth year in power and today it is announcing the establishment of a project office. Exactly what the Parti Québécois did in 2013! Montrealers will remember from today&#39;s announcement that they witnessed yet another electoral talk show, perfectly staged, as only the Liberals know how to do. A nice announcement, nice drawings to say that we are finally ready to start studying the project. Do they know that the extension of the blue line has been on the table for over 30 years? The only thing that should have been announced today is the start of construction, ”insisted Martin Ouellet.
Carole Poirier remembers the Liberals&#39; lack of seriousness last year, when they criticized the federal government for not having reserved money for the blue line in its budget. “Later, we learned that Quebec had not obtained anything… because it had not asked for anything; must do it! Today, improvisation continues: we are told about a project of almost $ 4 billion, without being able to say how the costs will be shared with Ottawa. We are told that we are moving forward but, in concrete terms, we are told of financial commitments of only $ 16 million. However, when we are serious about carrying out a project, we must not only make a firm commitment to the sums but also be able to say with certainty where the money is going to come from ”, he said. she listed.
“The failure can also be seen in the area of local purchasing,” continued Martin Ouellet. Far from having learned from its mistakes, after the fiasco of the REM - whose rolling stock will be manufactured in Asia - the government has not made a commitment to demand Quebec content. However, it is done everywhere else in the world! For the Parti Québécois, it is clear: we will require a minimum of 20% of Quebecois content in rolling stock. Unlike the Liberal government, we will not let our workers down, ”he said.
In the eyes of the deputies, the Liberal government once again made fun of the citizens of East Montreal: “Fortunately, the population is not fooled and will not take the bait; it is crude evidence that the Liberals are concentrating their energies in the West for electoral reasons. &quot;
