Québec, October 27, 2016 - Along with his colleagues Sylvain Gaudreault, Alexandre Cloutier and Mireille Jean, the Parti Québécois spokesperson on forests, Sylvain Roy, denounced the adoption by the Liberal government of the report on the northern limit of attributable forests. This new limit will cause thousands of job losses throughout Quebec, and particularly in Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean.
“It&#39;s another tile that falls on the forest communities of Quebec. After the surtax on overcalendered paper and a looming trade war with the Americans in the softwood lumber file, we learn that the government has established, by decree, the new northern limit, without consultation or impact study. This is dramatic for our regions! Before making such a modification, the Minister must assess the consequences on jobs and consult stakeholders in the forest economy. The objective is first of all to establish a northern limit that responds to the concerns of workers, ”said Sylvain Roy.
“The situation is untenable for workers and their families. In Kénogami and in the Prime Minister&#39;s riding, in Dolbeau, two factories have already been struggling with unfair taxes for more than a year, on over-sized paper. Each factory must pay more than a million dollars per month! Why is the Prime Minister refusing to act when people in his riding are losing their jobs? Sylvain Gaudreault wondered.
“This dossier is just one more example of liberal improvisation in forestry. Remember: Quebec appointed a softwood lumber negotiator a year too late, when the Americans and Canadians had already determined that quotas would be imposed on Quebec companies. The main issue for Quebec was to have recognition that our new forestry regime met the requirements of a free market. However, the Liberals of Quebec failed to have it recognized by Ottawa, ”illustrated, for his part, Alexandre Cloutier.
“In Chicoutimi, when the forestry economy is bad, service jobs are affected. In June 2015, the Prime Minister organized a regional economic summit, after which the creation of two forestry working groups was announced. Dubuc MP Serge Simard was supposed to follow up, but he failed. We have proof of this today with the imposition of a new northern limit, ”declared Mireille Jean.
