The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the candidates in Berthier and Portneuf, André Villeneuve and Christian Hébert, unveiled their concrete proposals to achieve real &quot;agricultural independence&quot; and recalled their unwavering support for the management of the offer. Thus, during a press briefing, Jean ‑ François Lisée presented his plan to support farmers and producers in Quebec.
IN SHORT
Six flagship measures of the Parti Québécois to support and develop agriculture:
The Parti Québécois has always had a favorable prejudice for workers; he certainly has one for farm workers! “The work of farmers is essential, but difficult. This is why we are going to give them a huge boost: we will launch the agricultural independence project! In other words, we are going to promote the next generation of farmers, develop family farms, protect our agricultural land and relaunch the Food Sovereignty Policy, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
Encourage the next generation of farmers and develop our family farms
Among the concrete measures presented to agricultural workers, two particularly attract the attention of Christian Hébert, who is himself a winegrower. “The Parti Québécois has really understood the issues that affect a farmer like me by proposing a FIRA +, an investment fund for agricultural succession that is more accessible, more generous and, above all, more daring. This idea, combined with a more aggressive and long-term loan guarantee policy from La Financière agricole, will allow the next generation to turn their dreams into projects, and their projects into successes. We will finally be able to be financially independent, ”said the candidate.
Quebec has chosen agriculture on a human scale, independent of large multinationals. The Parti Québécois is partly responsible for this tremendous success and wants to continue supporting family farms. “Year after year, producers pay more and more property taxes. We will tackle this situation by offsetting the increases by removing the cap from the Agricultural Property Tax Credit Program, exempting non-productive areas from property taxes, which nevertheless need to be maintained, and by taking into account private transactions to determine the value of agricultural land, ”added André Villeneuve, agriculture spokesperson for the Parti Québécois.
Regarding the shortage of workers, the accumulation of paperwork and the multiplication of administrative interlocutors, often caused by the ineffectiveness of the federal government, Jean-François Lisée undertook to create an office for the coordination of the workforce. of foreign workers, so that companies only have to contact a single point of contact to welcome foreign workers.
Protect our farmland
The Parti Québécois also proposes to cultivate the independence of Quebec vis-à-vis foreign capital, which increases the property value of land, by tabling a law against the grabbing of agricultural land. In the same vein, Jean ‑ François Lisée has made a commitment to block the dezoning project for the lands of the Sisters of Charity in Quebec City so that they retain their agricultural vocation. He also wants to speed up the processing of files at the CPTAQ, without, however, as other politicians wish, further promoting dezoning.
Relaunching food sovereignty and moving towards the agriculture of tomorrow
“François Gendron presented a food sovereignty policy that had achieved consensus. It aimed to put more local products on the plates of Quebecers. Unfortunately, out of pure partisanship, the Liberal government put it in the trash. As of October 1, the Parti Québécois government will work to relaunch it. We will also be putting forward a major campaign to promote &quot;Aliments du Québec&quot;, which will take place at the local and regional level; there will henceforth be &quot;Foods from the Montérégie&quot; or even &quot;Foods from the Mauricie&quot;, also indicated André Villeneuve.
“The Liberal government has not sufficiently set an example when it comes to food sovereignty. The Parti Québécois government will use its resources for the benefit of farmers so that at least half of the products served in public institutions come from Quebec. For Quebecers, it is a source of pride to eat local; it&#39;s up to us now to be up to the task, ”he continued.
“There are many challenges in agriculture, and we have an ambitious plan to meet them: a major project for food independence. For a true culture of agriculture, it takes the Parti Québécois in power as of October 1, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
