Québec - Bernard Drainville, MP for Marie-Victorin and official opposition spokesperson for energy and natural resources, and members of the Lanaudière region, Véronique Hivon, Nicolas Marceau, Mathieu Traversy and André Villeneuve , denounce the Liberal government&#39;s hasty decision to approve the construction of the Hydro-Québec Chamouchouane-Bout-de-l&#39;Île transmission line, despite strong citizen opposition and the unfavorable opinion of the Public Hearings Office on the environment (BAPE).
&quot;The Liberal government still refuses to listen to citizens and mayors. He goes head over heels, despite the fact that the population is against the project. Why is the government stubbornly supporting it, when the BAPE does not approve it and the citizens denounce it, and there is a cheaper, viable option that would not destroy our landscapes and who would respect the population? Bernard Drainville asked.
The project, valued at $ 1.2 billion, involves the construction, in virgin territory, of a new transmission line of more than 420 kilometers connecting Lac-Saint-Jean to Montreal. The BAPE, in a report, recommended that the government put a stop to it and send Hydro-Quebec back to do its homework, because another solution remains to be explored: the use of the rights-of-way of existing lines.
“In a context of austerity, where the government is cutting everywhere, particularly in health and education, this transport line of more than a billion dollars is a luxury project. The Liberals are obstinate, while there is another solution, identified by the BAPE, to ensure the reliability of the network. But the government has categorically refused to take the time to analyze this other option, even if it is cheaper and more consensual. Are the Liberals so short of economic projects to announce this costly project, which clearly does not pass the social acceptability test? », Continued Bernard Drainville.
The deputies wished to underline the efforts and the work of the citizens of Lanaudière, in particular those of the Citizens under high tension committee, the mayors, farmers and business people. It is a fine example of solidarity and citizen mobilization. Unfortunately, the Liberal government is deaf to the will of the people.
