Quebec, April 20, 2017– Sylvain Gaudreault, the member for Jonquière and Parti Québécois spokesperson for regional development, asks the government to intervene to ensure the survival of regional information.
IN SHORT
- Regional information is in danger because of the liberal government - The state must intervene to slow down the disappearance of regional information - In 15 years, the share of local news broadcast nationally has increased from 8 at 1%. A Parti Québécois government would bring together a group of experts to study the structural crisis in the media and its impact on democracy.
“TC Media&#39;s decision to put its regional newspapers up for sale, just a few weeks after the budget was tabled, illustrates how inadequate the measures put in place by the Liberal Party are. The media presence in the regions is constantly decreasing, both in newspapers and in national news, TV and radio networks. Influence Communication tells us that the share of local news broadcast nationwide has increased from 8% to 1% since 2001. It is therefore essential that the State intervene for the survival of information in the region, in support of initiatives. that come from it, ”said the spokesperson.
“The government must quickly announce an action plan for the survival of the regional press. A Parti Québécois government would quickly bring together a group of experts who would make concrete recommendations to deal with the structural crisis facing the media. Ideas are already emerging: as a first intervention measure, the Liberals must absolutely abandon the idea of allowing municipalities to disseminate their public notices only on the Internet; these notices are an important source of income for regional newspapers and weeklies. My colleague Agnès Maltais will give you the details of our proposal shortly, ”explained Sylvain Gaudreault.
“In a democracy, information is essential,” he continued. It is through information that new voices, reforms and leaders emerge. Why does the Liberal government insist on weakening the regions, stripping them of their tools? Why is he silent on an issue of such importance? It is high time for him to correct his situation! &quot;
