Quebec, November 3, 2019 - Joël Arseneau, MP for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and Parti Québécois spokesperson for the French language, requests that a report from the Conseil supérieur de la langue française (CSLF) be immediately tabled which was expected in September. This report must provide a portrait of the language practices of government departments and bodies. It was ordered from the CSLF in November 2018 by the former minister responsible for the French language, Nathalie Roy, in reaction to Hydro-Quebec&#39;s decision to send invoices in English only to customers who requested them.
IN SHORT
“The official language of Quebec is French, and government departments and agencies must set an example in this area. When the situation concerning Hydro-Quebec was revealed, the former minister responsible for the French language was right to request a report from the CSLF on linguistic practices within the entire government apparatus. This report was to be published last September; however, we are still waiting for it, ”said Joël Arseneau.
The Parti Québécois has also sent two access to information requests in connection with this famous report: one to the Ministry of Immigration, Francization and Integration, and the other to the Ministry of Culture. and Communications. In vain. “Each time, I was directed to the CSLF. And this one does not respond to my requests. What is he trying to hide? This lack of transparency is unacceptable, ”continued the spokesperson.
“Obviously, there is confusion. Among themselves, ministers should strive to communicate more effectively! The population and elected officials have the right to obtain this information. I reiterate the request I made to Minister Jolin-Barrette a month ago, during an interpellation, but which he then ignored: honor the commitment made by the one who preceded you, and summon the CSLF to make public, as quickly as possible, the report which has been commissioned. You have the power and the duty, ”concluded Joël Arseneau.
