Sherbrooke– The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors and the Estrie region, Mr. Réjean Hébert, accompanied by the Member for Sherbrooke, Mr. Serge Cardin, announced, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to the Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the payment of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 400,000 to the company Laboratoire M2, specializing in natural and biodegradable disinfection, to support a project investment valued at over $ 2.7 million. Government support will enable the company to accelerate research and development and bring new products to market.
“Thanks to its capacity to innovate and to its scientific and technical expertise, Laboratoire M2 is a true Quebec leader in biosafety,” said Réjean Hébert. “We are particularly proud to support this company&#39;s project, which is part of a vision of sustainable development for Quebec. This initiative will undoubtedly have positive spinoffs for our agrifood industry, while contributing to the economic vitality of the Estrie region. &quot;
The financial assistance comes from the Support program for the development of strategic sectors and niches of excellence and will be used to set up a research and development team focused on the growth of a disinfection platform based on natural active ingredients. from essential oils, including thyme and monardium. The project also aims to design and market new biological disinfectant products from this platform and intended mainly for the agricultural sector.
“More than ever, Quebec, and in particular its manufacturing companies, must rely on innovation and research and development activities to grow and stand out on world markets,” said Élaine Zakaïb. “The Laboratory M2 company&#39;s project is in line with our government&#39;s desire, clearly expressed in the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, to support innovation, from idea to commercialization. Current and future jobs depend directly on the innovation capacity of our companies. &quot;
Réjean Hébert, accompanied by the deputy for Sherbrooke, Serge Cardin, announced the payment of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 400,000 to the company Laboratoire M2, specializing in natural and biodegradable disinfection. // (c) Serge Cardin (source)
