Val-d&#39;Or– The Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Est and Minister for Indigenous Affairs, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, announced, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb , the payment of a $ 90,000 grant to the company Meglab électronique inc., specializing in the design and manufacture of control systems, for the marketing of a new product intended for the mining sector, the ContiScanTM, a project valued at $ 225,000.
The ContiScan ™ is an innovative equipment for underground mines using a shaft. It allows mining companies to continuously monitor the integrity of hoisting cables, ore buckets and service cages. The development of this product, an initiative of the underground Techno-mining niche of excellence in the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, has been entrusted to the Meglab electronics company, which holds a marketing license granted by Natural Resources Canada.
&quot;Our government is proud to be associated with an innovative product born from the mobilization of partners in the underground Techno-mining niche of excellence,&quot; said Élizabeth Larouche. “Now the Meglab electronics company will be leveraging its expertise in the manufacturing and marketing of the ContiScan ™. Thanks to this technology, mining companies will be better equipped and will be able to increase their productivity while improving safety. &quot;
“Innovation is the key to the prosperity of our manufacturing companies,” said Élaine Zakaïb. “It is for this reason that our government has made it a priority in its 2013-2017 Québec industrial policy. One of the pillars of this policy consists in promoting innovation, from idea to commercialization, that is to say by supporting companies at all stages of the innovation process. This new product opens the Canadian and international market to the company. &quot;
Founded in 1994, Meglab electronics specializes in the design and manufacture of electronic and electrical equipment as well as instrumentation and control systems mainly intended for the mining sector.
The company also offers engineering, installation, training and technical support services. It currently employs 80 people mainly in Val-d&#39;Or, where its head office and main plant are located.
The ContiScan ™ marketing plan includes the production of promotional material, participation in various exhibitions and trade fairs, canvassing and presentation visits to mining companies. A market analysis for deep mines and another targeting other potential markets will also be carried out.
&quot;The Quebec and Canadian mining sectors will be the first to benefit from the advantages of ContiScan ™,&quot; said Sylvain Viger, vice-president of the Meglab electronics company. “This continuous monitoring system will indeed generate considerable productivity gains for mining companies, in addition to facilitating the planning of hoisting cable maintenance. The support of the Government of Quebec for the implementation of our marketing plan will help us to highlight the advantages of this promising product for the future of the mining sector. &quot;
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
