Quebec- The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced the allocation of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 400,000 to the Handyem company for an investment project $ 1 million for the design of a second version of its HPC-100 optical device. It also confirmed the payment of $ 148,000 to the company UNGAVA Technologies for a project valued at more than $ 850,000 aimed at designing and marketing a new non-destructive inspection device. These projects will create 6 specialized jobs, in addition to consolidating the 18 current jobs of these companies.
&quot;Innovation is the basis of modern and competitive economies,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “Our government therefore makes a point of supporting investment projects aimed at the development of advanced technologies and which thus contribute to Québec&#39;s influence as a high-knowledge society. The announcement of our participation in the projects of Handyem and UNGAVA Technologies is proof of this. The 2013-2017 Québec Industrial Policy also testifies to this desire by providing for significant support at all stages of the innovation process, from idea to commercialization. Thus, support for industrial innovation projects carried out under the Innovation Support Program, from which funding for these two projects comes, will be more generous and better structured. &quot;
Specialized in the field of optics, the Handyem company has developed a device based on the principles of cytometry, the HPC-100, which allows the measurement of important biological markers in human cells. Used for research in the life sciences sector, this portable and easy-to-use device significantly reduces the response time to the patient&#39;s condition. His project aims to design a second version of this device, the HPC-200, which will feature several technological innovations and expand its market.
&quot;Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we will be able to design a revolutionary device which will have the advantage of being able to be used by non-specialized personnel outside centralized laboratories&quot;, underlined Mr. Alain Chandonnet, president of Handyem company. &quot;Our vision is therefore to enable more routine tests to be performed by more people, such as doctors in office and laboratory researchers, with the intention of responding to trends. emerging in decentralization and personalized medicine. &quot;
For its part, UNGAVA Technologies specializes in the design, engineering and prototyping of complex value-added devices intended in particular for the industrial sector and the field of electronics. The company&#39;s plan is to create and market a range of non-destructive testing instruments that can be used on several types of materials in different sectors, such as aerospace, petrochemicals, nuclear and wind power.
&quot;We are concentrating our energies on producing high-precision, custom-made devices that allow our customers to be at the cutting edge of technology,&quot; said François Mainguy, president of UNGAVA Technologies. “The financial contribution from the Government of Quebec intended for the development of our range of control instruments represents an important step in the growth of our company. We will thus be able to continue to export to the American and European markets, which are very promising for our product. &quot;
&quot;Over the next four years, our government will invest more than $ 1 billion as part of Québec&#39;s industrial policy,&quot; added Minister Zakaïb. “We want our businesses to continue to start, grow, export and innovate so that they remain leaders and provide quality jobs in all of our regions. Ultimately, we aim to create more than 25,000 sustainable jobs in Quebec. &quot;
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
