Terrebonne– The Member for Terrebonne and Deputy Government House Leader, Mr. Mathieu Traversy, announced, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the attribution of non-refundable financial assistance of $ 100,000 to the company Inter-Cel Radio Mobile inc. for the realization of a project of more than $ 272,000.
The financial assistance granted will be used to design and market an innovative computer solution for Canadian police vehicles. The interface will be installed inside the dashboard and will integrate software making it possible in particular to control the temperature of the vehicle and manage events. Nine software will have to be integrated into this interface, which represents a major technological challenge. The company will also develop a new instrument panel and automatic control of auxiliary batteries.
&quot;The Lanaudière region can count on dynamic and visionary companies, such as Inter-Cel Radio Mobile, to distinguish itself and prosper,&quot; said Mathieu Traversy. “This innovative project will undoubtedly contribute to the influence of our expertise in the telecommunications equipment sector, while generating significant spinoffs for our region. &quot;
&quot;By supporting the project of the Inter-Cel Radio Mobile company, our government reiterates its commitment to supporting innovation and the growth of our companies, which energize our information and communications technology industry,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “The promotion and design of innovative products are also in line with the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy. This policy notably includes an enhancement of the Innovation Support Program to finance companies that engage in a process of technological innovation. &quot;
Inter-Cel Radio Mobile is a company specializing in the integration and maintenance of computer systems for large companies and government departments, mainly for police forces. It is located in Terrebonne and has 39 employees.
&quot;Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we will be able to equip new vehicles with our computer system at the cutting edge of technology,&quot; said the director of operations of the company Inter-Cel Radio Mobile, Mr. Adam Boivin. “We will also design software that will remotely control vehicles and provide a history of events that have taken place, in order to quickly resolve technical issues causing significant delays to police forces. &quot;
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
