Val d&#39;Or - The Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Est and Minister for Indigenous Affairs, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, announced, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation of a $ 400,000 loan from Investissement Québec to the company Arkys for a research and development project as well as for the marketing of a new software suite, Skeye Aviation Systems. This $ 900,000 innovation project will result in the creation of 10 new jobs, in addition to consolidating the company&#39;s 37 current jobs.
&quot;Economic development depends on innovation and new technologies,&quot; said Minister Delegate Élizabeth Larouche. “Thanks to significant investments in research and development and to its sought-after expertise, Arkys has always remained at the cutting edge of its sector. Our government encourages and supports promising innovation projects like Arkys&#39; one, especially since it creates and consolidates quality jobs in the region. &quot;
Founded in 2000, the company Arkys provides cutting-edge technological solutions to businesses. Its avant-garde products aim to optimize the activities of companies in order to increase their productivity and improve their customer service in a context of cost control. Through its Skeye Aviation Systems division, Arkys also specializes in the development of software for air transport.
“Since its inception, Arkys has built an impressive customer base and a solid reputation in the field of technological solutions for business needs,” said Minister Delegate Élaine Zakaïb. “That said, our government intends to continue to implement favorable measures to help successful companies innovate and market their flagship products, here and internationally, while ensuring the creation of quality jobs. We will do this in particular thanks to the Industrial Policy, one of the axes of which is precisely innovation, from the idea to the commercialization. &quot;
&quot;The support from the Government of Quebec, through Investissement Quebec, will allow us to market our new software suite and thus break into the foreign market,&quot; said Éric Beauchesne, President and CEO of the company. “This funding also supports our internationalization strategy and strengthens our offer at the local, national and international levels. &quot;
Arkys is a firm specializing in consulting services and management of information and communications technologies (ICT). The company operates in the networking, Web and IP telephony sectors as well as in the creation and distribution of technological solutions. Arkys is also distinguished by its Microsoft certified custom development service offering various possibilities for existing solutions.
Investissement Québec&#39;s mission is to promote the growth of investment in Québec, thereby contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The Company provides businesses with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity investments, to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, she is responsible for administering tax measures and prospecting for investments abroad.
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
