Sainte-Julie– The Minister of Public Security and Member of Parliament for Verchères, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, announced, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the payment of &#39;&#39; a grant of $ 321,600 to the company Biomod Concepts for the design and marketing of an innovative technology in dermatological treatment. The project, valued at $ 992,500, will consolidate 14 jobs.
Biomod Concepts operates in the sector of textiles and intelligent flexible materials. It develops and markets flexible materials composed of active ingredients that can be applied to the skin for therapeutic or aesthetic purposes. The project announced today consists of designing and marketing PharmacoMS technology, which will notably allow continuous skin penetration of topical and pharmaceutical ingredients.
“Our government is proud to support a strategic company in the Advanced Flexible Materials niche of excellence in the Montérégie region,” said Stéphane Bergeron. “The niche partners are actively working to have the region recognized as a center of technological excellence for the design and manufacture of innovative materials. They rely on a solid network and on the implementation of a sustainable development approach. &quot;
&quot;The current economic context is characterized by the presence of unprecedented international competition which forces companies to innovate in order to stand out,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “Our government is committed to their success and supports them in their efforts, particularly through the Innovation Support Program. Québec&#39;s industrial policy also provides for several measures to promote innovation, from idea to commercialization, in order to considerably increase support for industrial innovation projects. &quot;
“Our company offers a portfolio of technologies that optimize the performance of products in the beauty and health sectors and that simplify their use by consumers,” said Ms. Karine Théberge, founder and president of Biomod Concepts. “Our project is ambitious and highly innovative, in particular for the health sector. Thus, thanks to PharmacoMS technology, we will offer unique combinations and features that can be used in particular for infection control or to treat specific dermatological problems. We aspire to increase our customer base in companies active in the fields of dressings, fabrics and medical devices. &quot;
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
