Saint-Gabriel-de-Brandon– The deputy for Berthier and parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy (municipal affairs section), Mr. André Villeneuve, announced, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to the Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the payment of a subsidy of $ 72,608 to the company Brandon Truck Equipment for the design and manufacture of a lighter body, a project valued at $ 550,000 which will consolidate 21 jobs.
&quot;Quebec companies must, in order to stand out internationally, demonstrate a great capacity for innovation and be able to count on a qualified workforce,&quot; said André Villeneuve. “Brandon Truck Equipment got it. Over the years, it has been able to develop products that use advanced technologies and that have allowed it to differentiate itself from the competition. &quot;
Brandon Truck Equipment specializes in general welding and manufactures dump bodies for trucks. Its project for a lighter and equally efficient body aims to better meet the needs of the industry. This bucket will be manufactured from high tensile steel. The company wants to be inspired by a European design that will be adapted to the North American market.
&quot;Our government is keen to give manufacturing SMEs in Quebec the means to promote innovation in their activities,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “We therefore plan to strengthen our support for innovation through measures implemented under the Quebec Industrial Policy 2013-2017. This policy is a powerful lever for increasing the competitiveness of Quebec&#39;s manufacturing sector. &quot;
The Innovation Support Program, from which the financial assistance granted to the company comes, will thus be enhanced in order to extend its scope of intervention.
Founded fifty years ago, Brandon Truck Equipment, a family business, has always been innovative. Over the years, it has been able to achieve technological advances that have set it apart from the competition.
“Our company is recognized as a leading manufacturer of dump trucks in North America,” said Daniel Rainville, President of Brandon Truck Equipment. “The support from the Quebec government will help us design a product that is unique in North America and that will meet the specific needs of the industry. &quot;
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
