Val-d&#39;Or– The Minister responsible for Native Affairs and Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Est, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, confirmed, on behalf of the Minister responsible for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb , the payment of a subsidy of $ 293,498 to the company Minrail inc. for the design of a new mining method using a telescopic mobile platform intended for the exploitation of shallow-dip underground deposits, a project valued at $ 805,000.
&quot;The Minrail project is certainly helping to strengthen the reputation of excellence of the MISA Group niche in the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, formerly known as underground techno-mines,&quot; said Élizabeth Larouche. “This method will notably make it possible to improve working conditions and site safety, as well as reduce the operating costs of the deposits. It is also thanks to such innovative projects that we will be able to ensure the competitiveness of underground mining operations in Quebec and have our expertise recognized. &quot;
The project aims to repair and modify a mobile platform prototype developed in 1993, in order to make it an innovative tool that meets the specific needs of the mining sector. The financial assistance granted will be used in particular for the design of the mining method, the manufacture and purchase of components used to adapt the new platform as well as to carry out workshop tests.
“Since taking office, we have made efforts to support innovation in all its forms and in all areas of activity,” said Élaine Zakaïb. “The Priorité emploi economic policy and the resulting Quebec industrial policy, announced last October, rely heavily on innovation to boost our economy, revive the manufacturing sector and create quality jobs. It is therefore with enthusiasm that we support the avant-garde project of the Minrail company, which will allow our mining industry to stand out and become one of the most dynamic and modern on the international scale. &quot;
“One of the axes of Quebec&#39;s industrial policy is precisely innovation, from idea to commercialization. This includes support for companies to obtain patents, ”continued Ms. Zakaïb.
Founded in 2012, the Minrail company specializes in the development and commercialization of a new method of mining ore for the exploitation of deposits with a shallow or medium dip. The company will also offer an on-site ore blasting service.
“Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we will be able to design and patent our mining method linked to the mobile platform that we recently acquired,” said Minrail President Marc R. Beauvais. “Our project will allow our mining companies to increase their productivity while considerably reducing their capital expenditure relating to the exploitation of shallow dip deposits. &quot;
For more information on the Priorité emploi economic policy, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueeconomique.
