Quebec - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, has confirmed the payment of a $ 400,000 grant to Les Entreprises Cafection, specializing in the manufacture of automatic hot beverage machines . The financial support, from the Innovation Support Program, will help to carry out a $ 1 million project aimed at improving the technology of machines with touch screens.
“Innovation is the cornerstone of productivity and competitiveness,” said Élaine Zakaïb. “It is also an essential component in the development of a green and sustainable economy. The 2013-2017 Québec industrial policy, recently made public by our government, precisely aims to support manufacturing companies like Cafection, which has chosen to rely on technology to make its product better suited to demand and more efficient. Industrial policy will act on the main determinants of productivity, including innovation, to revive the manufacturing sector. &quot;
Founded in 1996, Les Entreprises Cafection designs, manufactures and markets machines for hot drinks such as coffee and hot chocolate. It has more than 75,000 machines installed in various businesses, including convenience stores / gas stations, which served more than 2 billion drinks last year alone. The project announced today will help maintain the company&#39;s competitiveness and thus consolidate its 66 jobs.
“More and more, consumers are looking for quality coffee, and only freshly ground coffee beans can offer it,” said François Baron, president of Les Entreprises Cafection. “Our coffee machine with touchscreen is revolutionary. It will allow, among other things, to promote other products sold in establishments where our machines will be located and to personalize advertisements. In addition, our infusion system allows optimal freshness, while being 100% biodegradable. This is one of the reasons we are booming. &quot;
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
