Montreal - The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane De Courcy, announced, on behalf of the Minister responsible for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec , Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation of a grant of $ 127,046 to Laboratoire Bergeron, a division of Ortho-Duro Inc., to complete the development of an innovative technology for molding and manufacturing plantar orthotics from an automated station, a project valued at $ 317,615.
&quot;For more than forty years, Laboratoire Bergeron has offered high quality products and services in the field of orthotics and prosthesis manufacturing,&quot; said Diane De Courcy. “Today, this innovative project will allow the company to distinguish itself from its competitors and increase its notoriety in a highly specialized market. It is with great pride that our government supports this dynamic company which has demonstrated its expertise to us over the years. &quot;
Ortho-Duro manufactures and distributes orthotics through its Laboratoire Bergeron division, in addition to offering orthopedic services to its customers. The molding and manufacture of plantar orthotics from an automated station will be done through a process of injection of a thermosetting material. Swelling is thus created in a prefabricated universal insole and the orthosis takes the shape of the patient&#39;s foot in a few minutes. This product will allow orthotists to make a custom-made orthosis in a single visit, which will reduce delivery times.
“Innovation is at the heart of the competitiveness of our manufacturing companies,” said Élaine Zakaïb. “This is why our government has provided, as part of its 2013-2017 Québec Industrial Policy, for significant support at all stages of the innovation process, from idea to commercialization. Other measures are also planned to support the modernization and greening of manufacturing activities and promote the emergence of new flagships among the most efficient SMEs, which I call gazelles. &quot;
The financial assistance granted comes from the Innovation Support Program. This program is more generous and better structured within the framework of industrial policy, in order to further promote innovation.
“We have successfully completed the prototype development phases of the injection system for the prefabricated universal orthosis and the automated station,” said Philippe Durocher, professional technologist, President and CEO of Laboratoire Bergeron. “In order to maximize the benefits of marketing our product, we call on a consultant specializing in 3D animation for the design of the website, which will be used to present and market our process. We also work with seasoned distributors and, thanks to our expertise, we will be able to conquer several promising markets. Support from the Quebec government will therefore help us diversify our activities and increase our competitiveness. &quot;
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
