Terrebonne– The Member for Terrebonne and Deputy Government House Leader, Mr. Mathieu Traversy, announced, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the attribution of a $ 141,280 grant to Distributions Aïkiou inc., specializing in the design and manufacture of interactive products. The project, which totals more than $ 353,000, aims to expand the company&#39;s product line for small pets.
&quot;By supporting the Distributions Aïkiou project, we are confirming our commitment to supporting innovation and promoting the development of daring businesses that diversify our economy,&quot; said Mathieu Traversy. “This project also contributes to the economic vitality and development of the Lanaudière region and, more particularly, of the riding of Terrebonne. &quot;
Founded in 2008, the company Distributions Aïkiou specializes in the design and manufacture of exclusive products, such as interactive bowls aimed at providing intellectual stimulation to animals, reducing the rate of ingestion when they are feeding and to reduce behavioral disorders linked to boredom.
“Our government prioritizes support for the promotion, development and use of innovation in all areas,” said Élaine Zakaïb. “This support for innovation is one of the three pillars of Quebec&#39;s industrial policy, which was recently made public. It is therefore with enthusiasm that we encourage the innovative projects of Distributions Aïkiou, which are an eloquent demonstration of the daring, inventiveness and potential of our Quebec entrepreneurs. &quot;
The company markets several product lines, including the Aïkiou dog food activity center, the Stimulo cat food activity center and specialized rodent products. Distributions Aïkiou has also become a leader in the field of behavior and pet food.
&quot;Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we will be able to develop new products that will maximize the cognitive and intellectual functions of rodents and dogs,&quot; said the vice-president of the company Distributions Aïkiou, Ms. Kathleen Desrosiers. “In addition to ensuring the competitiveness of our company, these products are an integral part of our mission, which is to improve the quality of life and the welfare of animals. &quot;
For more information on the Priorité emploi economic policy, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueeconomique.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
