Nicolet– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announced, on behalf of the Minister Delegate for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, awarding grants totaling nearly $ 1 million to three manufacturing companies, namely Matelas René ($ 242,411), Milkomax, dairy solutions ($ 389,560) and Rovibec ($ 354,581), for the realization of their technological innovation projects, which total more than $ 3.2 million.
“Innovation is the basis of modern and competitive economies,” said Yves-François Blanchet. “This is why it is essential to support innovation, research and creativity within our manufacturing companies. By supporting the innovative projects of these three daring and dynamic businesses in the Center-du-Québec region, we are promoting the development of the manufacturing sector, we are stimulating the emergence of entrepreneurship essential to the region and we are ensuring the consolidation of 110 jobs in the region. It is also an example of the various tools made available to Quebec entrepreneurs in addition to those clearly reserved for the region. &quot;
Minister Élaine Zakaïb reiterated the importance of innovation to ensure the competitiveness of Quebec companies and praised the avant-garde of the three companies concerned. “We are proud to support business projects that are committed to staying at the cutting edge of technology. Innovation is, moreover, one of the three axes of Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017. Our manufacturing sector creates jobs throughout Quebec: it is essential to support its modernization and innovation efforts. &quot;
Founded in 1947, Matelas René specializes in manufacturing high-end mattresses for its Boutique auLit stores and targeting the commercial and medical markets. The René Matelas project, valued at $ 913,627, aims to reinvent the suspension of the mattress. It will consolidate 42 jobs within the company&#39;s facilities located in Nicolet.
“We are continuously making efforts to improve the quality and comfort of our mattresses,” said Matelas René&#39;s general manager, Mr. Régis Veillette. “The support from the Government of Quebec will allow us to design and manufacture new suspension technology for the benefit of our customers. &quot;
Founded in 2008, Milkomax, dairy solutions designs and markets milking robots for so-called restrained cows. To date, around 25 milking robots are in operation. His project, which totals $ 1,023,200, is to upgrade the current milking robot to make it a mobile robot that can milk cows more efficiently.
The project will also help maintain 10 jobs at the company&#39;s plant, located in Sainte-Monique.
&quot;Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we will be able to design a second generation product that will meet current agricultural needs,&quot; said Nicolas Rousseau, Sales Director of Milkomax, Dairy Solutions. “In a fiercely competitive market, automation enables farmers to increase their productivity. With the improved version of our milking robots, we want to consolidate our position in the market for automated products and thus help our agricultural businesses to become more modern. &quot;
Founded in 1976, the Rovibec company designs and manufactures equipment for feeding dairy herds. Rovibec distributes a wide range of products, from simple and efficient design feed equipment to fully automated high-tech equipment. Its project, valued at $ 1,323,772, aims to develop a high-capacity feeding robot to respond to changes in local and international markets in the agricultural sector.
“More than ever, our family business is banking on the increase in new technologies to ensure its competitiveness and allow the development of the agricultural sector,” said Rovibec General Manager, Mr. Martin Rousseau. “Our project will also consolidate the 57 current jobs at our facilities located in Sainte-Monique. Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we will therefore be able to materialize a project with significant economic spinoffs for the Center du-Québec region. &quot;
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
