Bromont - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced the allocation, through Investissement Québec, of financial support totaling $ 13 million to the The company Teledyne DALSA and its subsidiary Teledyne DALSA Semiconducteur to support the completion of a $ 67.3 million investment project comprising two components. In all, 300 specialized jobs in the fields of digital imaging and semiconductors will be created in the Montreal and Montérégie regions, while 425 others will be consolidated.
“Our government is working to make Quebec a high-knowledge society by promoting investments in technological fields that are promising for our economy,” said Élaine Zakaïb. “Our support for the projects of Teledyne DALSA and its subsidiary Teledyne DALSA Semiconducteur will lead to the training and hiring of highly qualified engineers, researchers and technicians who will promote Quebec know-how internationally. Creating quality jobs and attracting strategic investments for Quebec, these are the foundations of the Priorité emploi economic policy! ”
The government assistance consists of a grant of $ 3 million, which will be awarded to Teledyne DALSA Semiconductor for the first part of the project, valued at $ 35 million, aimed at increasing the production capacity of MEMS (microelectromechanical systems) chips. ). A loan of $ 10 million, repayable by royalties, will be paid to Teledyne DALSA for the second part of the project, valued at $ 32.3 million, which consists of designing and setting up a production line for manufacturing infrared sensors.
Teledyne DALSA is the Canadian division of the American multinational Teledyne Technologies, a leader in the fields of digital imaging and semiconductors. Specialized in the research and development of technological products, Teledyne DALSA employs 90 people at its Montreal plant, while its subsidiary Teledyne DALSA Semiconducteur located in Bromont has 335 employees.
MEMS chips are used in the manufacture of a host of consumer products, particularly in the automotive and telecommunications sectors. In recent years, the MEMS market has grown considerably. As for infrared sensors, they can be used in the composition of cameras and infrared sensors that Teledyne DALSA hopes to eventually be able to manufacture in Quebec. This market is also experiencing strong growth.
&quot;The completion of our investment project will promote our growth in Quebec,&quot; said Brian Doody, President and CEO of Teledyne DALSA inc. “The development and full production of cameras and infrared sensors will consolidate our leading position in the rapidly growing digital imaging and semiconductor industry. In addition, improving our production capacity for MEMS chips will enable us to meet the strong demand for microsystems, which are increasingly essential in many environments. &quot;
&quot;Quebec must strengthen its status as a high-knowledge society,&quot; said Minister Zakaïb. “Initiatives like the one announced today highlight the breadth of our technological expertise and our great potential in this area. The Québec industrial policy is also focusing on greater integration of future technologies within companies in order to increase the competitiveness of the manufacturing sector. &quot;
For information on the Priorité emploi economic policy, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueeconomique.
To learn more about Quebec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, visit www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
