Montreal, March 23, 2018 - The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, accompanied by the Member for Rimouski and spokesperson for seniors, Harold LeBel, announced that Ms. Lisette Lapointe is joining the team of the official opposition in order to refine the commitments of the political party to support seniors in Quebec.
An important addition
“I am proud to see Lisette Lapointe come back among us; this is fully in line with our objective and our desire to unite by October 1. His in-depth knowledge of issues affecting seniors will be very useful to us in order to build the best possible proposals, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
The Leader of the Official Opposition also highlighted the experience and expertise of Lisette Lapointe; among other things, he recalled that she had contributed to the creation of the Secretariat for autonomous community action and social initiatives, in the Office of Prime Minister Jacques Parizeau, without forgetting that she was spokesperson for seniors when she was a member of Parliament for Crémazie.
“I am happy to bring my energy and my ideas to enhance the important work that Harold LeBel is doing to improve the living conditions of seniors. The challenges are numerous: home care, the development of our towns and villages, transport, housing… We must provide a vision and concrete and daring proposals. This is what I&#39;m going to do! “, For her part assured Lisette Lapointe.
Harold LeBel agrees: “Every day, the news presents us with seniors living in difficult, even unacceptable, conditions. We also realize that our infrastructures are often unsuited to the aging of the population, and the lack of local services in rural regions. We must act. At the same time, we admire all these people, retired and in good health, who volunteer in associations or groups, who continue to work in their community, who become mentors, family caregivers, sponsors or godmothers in education, family supports. We must show them our gratitude! He insisted.
“In Quebec, seniors experience different realities, but each of them represents an asset for our society and for our children. Let us listen to them. Let us offer them a society where we can live and grow old with dignity. Thank you, Lisette, for helping to improve our commitments to these women and men who built Quebec, ”concluded the leader of the official opposition.
