Lac-Simon - The Minister for Native Affairs and Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Est, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, today met with the head of the Council of the Anishnabe Nation of Lac-Simon, Ms. Salomé McKenzie, to discuss several issues, particularly in terms of natural resources and land use, health, social services and public security. She took advantage of this official visit to announce the allocation of financial assistance of $ 430,500, from the Native Initiatives Fund II, which will be invested in two structuring projects for the community.
On September 9, the community of Lac-Simon made the first groundbreaking for a brand new multifunctional center. An amount of $ 240,000 will be allocated for the renovation of the old community center so that it can be used in particular to house a youth center. “It is essential that young people aged 12 to 17 have a comfortable and safe place to meet, while being supervised by professional animators. This promotes their fulfillment and the development of their interpersonal skills, and acts as a protective factor in the face of the dangers associated with delinquency, consumption and violence, ”declared Ms. Larouche.
The center can also be used by organizations in Lac-Simon to hold meetings, conferences or other similar activities. The renovated center will include a fitness room, a room equipped with five computers connected to the Internet and a large room equipped with a pool table as well as multipurpose tables that can be used for various games. Computer training can also be provided there.
In addition, a sum of $ 190,500 will be invested for the implementation of a public transport service, offering the availability of shuttles between Lac-Simon and Val-d&#39;Or, with the possibility of adding destinations to the need. This initiative will facilitate the population&#39;s access to the various services offered in the region, as well as to training and employment. “This transport system had become essential for the economic and social development of the community. Workers, students and the general population will be able to benefit from it, especially young Anishnabes who will have better access to the job market, ”said Minister Larouche.
The public transport service, which will be provided by the Transport Wabak cooperative, will create five direct jobs. Currently, more than 50% of households in the community of Lac-Simon do not own a car.
The financial assistance granted to the community of Lac-Simon comes from the Native Initiatives Fund II? Community infrastructure component, of the Secrétariat aux affaires autochtones. The objective of this fund is to support projects that could have significant spin-offs on the development of Aboriginal communities in Quebec, whether on the economic, social or community level.
