Montreal - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, today launched the call for candidates for the selection, across Quebec, of 300 successful SMEs, or 100 gazelles (high growth companies) and 200 promising companies likely to become gazelles. This initiative is part of the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy made public by Ms. Zakaïb last October. Interested SMEs can submit their qualification form online from today until March 28, 2014.
Ultimately, 300 gazelles will be selected over the next three years, at a rate of 100 per year. This selection will be made according to rigorous and objective criteria. Gazelles will receive an integrated service offer from the government, in partnership with several recognized organizations. In addition to the 100 gazelles, 200 promising companies will be selected this year and a distinct and advantageous support will be offered to them so that they too can propel their organization and eventually rise to the rank of gazelles.
“Our industrial structure is based on SMEs, the majority of which are small businesses,” said Élaine Zakaïb. “To reach its full potential for productivity, innovation and exports, Quebec&#39;s manufacturing sector must have more medium-sized, more structuring companies. Thanks to this strategic measure of Quebec&#39;s industrial policy, gazelles will be able to grow quickly and surely to become our new flagships. &quot;
Personalized support for gazelles and promising companies will be offered jointly by the regional offices of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, the regional branches of Investissement Québec and the local development centers (CLDs), within the framework of the regional plans. intervention in business. Other organizations such as Export Québec and Emploi-Québec will also be involved. The chambers of commerce and industry will also have a role to play, in particular in making the program known to their member companies. Gazelles will also have access to cutting-edge training, many of which will be given by the École d&#39;Entrepreneurship de Beauce.
Companies wishing to apply must meet certain conditions, such as being part of the manufacturing or tertiary sector with high added value, have been in business for at least three years and have fewer than 250 full-time employees.
Companies will be evaluated according to criteria grouped into the following categories: economic influence of the company; improved productivity; performance and financial capacity; dynamism of the management team and predisposition to growth. The selection of gazelles and promising companies will be carried out by a national committee made up of people recognized for their experience in entrepreneurship. The composition of the committee is presented in the appendix.
“To prosper, our entrepreneurs need personalized support and effective coordination between the various stakeholders,” said Yves Maurais, President of the Association of Local Development Centers of Quebec (ACLDQ). “Together with the Government of Quebec, the ACLDQ and its 120 CLDs will use their expertise in support for the benefit of promising businesses, in addition to contributing to the integrated service offer for gazelles. The ACLDQ and its members are proud to be part of this important process for the future of entrepreneurship in Quebec. &quot;
The notion of gazelles is not new. It dates from the end of the 20th century and is used both in America and in Europe. In addition to their strong growth, gazelle companies are often characterized by great adaptability, a solid organizational base and open leadership. But each of them follows its own path. &quot;We are convinced that specific support, adapted to their reality, will ensure rapid and solid growth for our gazelles, and that they will become the real economic linchpins of their respective regions,&quot; said the Minister. “I invite all successful SMEs in Quebec to apply and seize this unique opportunity to become a flagship of the Quebec economy. &quot;
To learn more about the selection of gazelles and promising companies, visit www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/gazelles.
To learn more about Quebec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, visit www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
ANNEX
Composition of the national committee:
