Quebec - The Member of Parliament for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Ms. Jeannine Richard, announces, on behalf of the Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, of Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, and the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation of government assistance of $ 52,944 to Merinov , the Quebec Aquaculture and Fisheries Innovation Center, for an innovative project aimed at testing optimized baits for lobster fishing.
The objective pursued by the Merinov project, which is carried out in collaboration with the Association of Fishermen and Owners of the Magdalen Islands, is to reduce the quantity of bait traditionally used, namely whole herring and mackerel. The decrease in stocks of these two species in the Gulf of St. Lawrence is hurting the profitability of lobster fishing companies, which have to pay large sums to obtain them. Merinov will compare six optimized baits to the main traditional baits and evaluate their effectiveness with regard to lobster catches.
“Here is a concrete example of the sector&#39;s capacity to find innovative solutions to pursue its growth by promoting the sustainable development of its activities. This initiative is in line with the objectives defined in the Food Sovereignty Policy and with the priorities of the 2013-2018 action plan for the commercial fishing and aquaculture industry, since it opts for sustainable development and focuses on the competitiveness of fishing companies, ”said François Gendron.
The results of the Merinov project, which will be made available to the entire Quebec lobster fishing fleet, could well represent an interesting solution both to reduce the operating costs of the businesses concerned and to alleviate pressure from the market. fishing on species used for baiting. The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and the Ministry of Finance and the Economy respectively grant $ 33,562 and $ 19,382 for the realization of this project.
&quot;Our government is pleased to financially support the commercial fishing industry in its desire to innovate and contribute to the economic development of the maritime regions, in particular the Gaspé and the Magdalen Islands,&quot; said Ms. Élaine Zakaïb.
&quot;This project is further proof of the enthusiasm and passion that drive our fishermen and that encourage them to ensure the sustainability of their industry while preserving the marine resources that are so important to the community,&quot; concluded Ms. Jeannine Richard. .
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, we invite you to regularly consult the blog (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) and the website (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA) of the Ministère de Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
