Grand-Métis - On tour in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, classified the Reford Gardens and the Villa Estevan as a heritage site and building heritage, under the Cultural Heritage Act. He also unveiled the results of the first call for cultural heritage projects, which will total $ 649,500 for the implementation of 28 structuring projects for Quebec.
Minister Kotto today formalized the classification of the Reford Gardens as a heritage site and of the Villa Estevan as a heritage building, considering that these properties are of heritage interest both for their historical, landscape and ethnological values. and architectural.
&quot;It is one of the most interesting horticultural and historical heritage in Eastern America that we place today under the protection of the Law, a place of interpretation whose fame extends far beyond our borders. I want to salute the exemplary work of those who work for the transmission of the heritage of the Reford Gardens and who plead for their conservation as treasures of our national heritage, ”said Minister Kotto.
Classification is a legal status attributed to a heritage asset such as a building, a site, a document or an object and aims to guarantee its protection permanently while preserving its heritage values. The classification also ensures knowledge and promotion of the property to the community.
The Minister took the opportunity to announce the results of the first call for cultural heritage projects. In December 2012, following the entry into force of the Cultural Heritage Act, this first call for projects was launched with the aim of encouraging local, regional and national organizations as well as municipalities and RCMs to actively participate in its implementation and highlight the distinctive elements of cultural heritage.
“All of the projects selected represent an excellent version, because they embody the right balance of originality and experience, shared vision and community participation. Its diversity now corresponds to the new realities of our national heritage ”, declared Minister Kotto.
The Ministry of Culture and Communications received a total of 135 requests for financial assistance, of which 28 were accepted. Several of the projects will highlight the new dimensions covered by the Act, namely intangible heritage, heritage cultural landscapes and historical figures, events and places.
Financial assistance from the Ministry of Culture and Communications comes from component 5 of the Quebec Cultural Heritage Fund. The fund aims to provide the means to preserve the witnesses of a rich and unique history, for the benefit of present and future generations. It acts as a powerful lever, making it possible to support more projects to safeguard and promote our collective heritage.
The next call for cultural heritage projects will be launched on September 9, 2013. All the information is available on the website of the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications, at www..mcc.gouv.qc.ca.
Additional information on the Reford Gardens and the Villa Estevan, as well as on all the heritage elements listed in the Cultural Heritage Register, is available on the Quebec Cultural Heritage Directory (RPCQ) website, at www.patrimoine-culturel .gouv.qc.ca. This dissemination tool from the Ministry of Culture and Communications makes it possible to discover the richness and diversity of Quebec&#39;s cultural heritage by making it accessible to all. Part of the content of the RPCQ can now be found on the Government of Quebec&#39;s open data portal, at www.data.gouv.qc.ca.
