Quebec - On the occasion of the 350th anniversary of the founding of the Séminaire de Quebec, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, designated this national historic event under the Cultural Heritage Act.
“The founding of the Séminaire de Québec is now one of the events registered in the Quebec Cultural Heritage Register. Indeed, this institution laid the foundations of higher education in our nation and contributed to the preservation and dissemination of French culture in America ”, declared Minister Kotto.
The Séminaire de Québec was founded on March 26, 1663, by Mgr François de Laval, apostolic vicar of New France and future first bishop of Quebec. Its foundation is today designated as a historical event, because it marked the history of Quebec. Indeed, the Seminary is at the origin of the creation of the network of classical colleges which extended to French Canada and the founding of Laval University in 1852. It has survived the centuries and still persists today in its educational mission.
Additional information concerning the founding of the Séminaire de Québec as well as all the heritage elements registered in the Register of cultural heritage of Quebec are available on the site of the Directory of cultural heritage of Quebec (RPCQ), at www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv. qc.ca.
New tools for disseminating cultural heritage have been added to the RPCQ, making it possible to discover all of its richness and diversity, by making it accessible to all. In fact, part of the RPCQ&#39;s content can now be found on the Government of Quebec&#39;s open data portal, at www.data.gouv.qc.ca, as well as on the social network Pinterest, in the form of virtual exhibitions, atwww. pinterest.com/rpcq.
Online training is also available at www.formation-patrimoine.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. Composed of video capsules and learning activities, it presents the basic concepts of the Cultural Heritage Act and explains the roles and responsibilities of each to promote the knowledge, protection, enhancement and transmission of Cultural Heritage.
