Québec, April 16, 2020 - The deputy for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and Parti Québécois health spokesperson, Joël Arseneau, calls on the Minister of Health and Social Services, Danielle McCann, to extend protection of whistleblowers in the health network. More specifically, it calls for more entities to be recognized as public bodies within the meaning of the Act to facilitate the disclosure of wrongdoing with regard to public bodies.
IN SHORT
Currently, the Act to facilitate the disclosure of wrongdoing with regard to public bodies applies to public and private institutions under agreement within the meaning of the Act respecting health services and social services. However, non-contracted CHSLDs, such as CHSLD Herron, escape this law; therefore, whistleblowers are not protected against possible retaliation. This must change. “All workers in the health sector must be able to benefit from legal protection. Often, they are the first to notice system failures, or neglect. They should not be afraid to denounce, ”said the member for Îles-de-la-Madeleine.
Here are the entities which, according to the Parti Québécois, should be recognized within the meaning of the law on whistleblowers:
With this proposal, the Parti Québécois believes that more problematic or inadmissible situations will be brought to light. “We have to encourage people to talk, assure them that they are not risking anything. For example, if CHSLD Herron staff had been protected by the law on whistleblowers, it is likely that the situation would have been known well before, ”argued the deputy.
Moreover, under current law, a wrongdoing must present &quot;a serious risk to the health or safety of a person&quot; in order to be publicly denounced, after the information has been transmitted to the police. The Parti Québécois is also proposing to broaden the scope and interpretation of this provision, so as to prevent any form of reprisal against, for example, a nurse or an attendant who denounces inadequate care.
Joël Arseneau calls for immediate action from Minister McCann. He recalls that last January, she declared that “the omertà in the health sector is over and it is unacceptable. Employees must be able to express themselves freely without the risk of reprisals ”. &quot;I ask him to reiterate his position clearly, so that it is heard by all. In the private as in the public, the law of silence has no place; people&#39;s health, safety and dignity are at stake and must take precedence over any other consideration, ”he insisted.
