Quebec City, May 30, 2017 - The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and Labor Critic Marc Bourcier, note the inability of the Liberal government to build consensus and arrive at negotiated solutions - whether we are talking about the construction sector, the file of state lawyers or that of government engineers. Although they tried to improve the bill in order to make it acceptable, faced with the Liberal refusal to return to reason and balance, the members of the official opposition voted against the special law.
IN SHORT
“The government has failed on all fronts. First, he was unable to avoid the conflict. Then, to settle it, he had to pass a special law. An unbalanced law, moreover, because it does not return the parties to their obligation to negotiate and to reach a satisfactory conclusion. It would have been possible for the government to do otherwise, but it preferred to persist, ”lamented Jean-François Lisée.
Moreover, in the eyes of the Leader of the Official Opposition, the law passed last night is possibly illegal, but certainly arbitrary, too. “By the Saskatchewan decision, the Supreme Court ruled that without being able to benefit from a right to strike, employers and employees must have access to a system which allows their disputes to be resolved fairly, efficiently and promptly; in short, that they must be on an equal footing when the right to strike is withdrawn, which is absolutely not the case here; the liberal government gives itself the right to dictate to the arbitrator the subjects of arbitration ”, he illustrated.
“Indeed, the Minister of Labor, who represents a government which is the main contractor, the main employer of construction employees, will be able to decide on the subjects on which the arbitrator should look, added Marc Bourcier. It has never been seen. The minister arrogates to herself a right that is outlawed. Yesterday, we tabled amendments to make the law acceptable, in order to truly allow negotiated agreements to be reached, but the minister refused to change the substance of her bad law; so we couldn&#39;t approve it. &quot;
