Quebec City, July 4, 2017 - The official opposition spokesperson for health, access to care and home support, Diane Lamarre, expressed the official opposition&#39;s support for the doctors at CHU Sainte -Justine who ask the Liberal government to correct the error of 2015, when the Minister of Health had cavalierly forced an administrative centralization of the CHUM and the CHU Sainte-Justine.
IN SHORT
“We are committed to canceling this decision, which does not benefit the children and parents of Quebec. After two and a half years of Barrette reform, the decision-making centers in the network are more distant than ever from patients and the directives that come from above are often absolutely not adapted to the reality of patients and professionals in the field. This baseless centralization is particularly damaging for an establishment with such a special mission as the CHU Sainte-Justine. Its autonomy must be restored in order to retain its specificity which has made the establishment a center of excellence in global pediatric medicine, ”said Diane Lamarre.
Wrong reason
“The only argument put forward by Minister Barrette is the transition to adult care. However, the CHU Sainte-Justine treats children from all over Quebec and the transition must therefore be made with each of the major Quebec centers for adults for further treatment. It cannot be done only with the CHUM, that is a false reason! », Said the spokesperson.
“Mother-child care is already an important transition between two crucial periods of life: pregnancy and childhood. Elsewhere, the specific expertise required is recognized. In Toronto, the Hospital for Sick Children has its own autonomy, expertise and research. The CHU Sainte-Justine has unique expertise, international influence, a foundation dedicated to mother-child care and a research center that I had the privilege of visiting recently, ”he said. she continued.
&quot;It is not a question here of rejecting the CHUM, but of taking note that these two establishments have very different missions and that the preservation of the unique mission of the CHU Sainte-Justine requires complete autonomy, both clinical and administrative. Sainte-Justine must once again become an institution totally dedicated to the health of the youngest and not be reduced to being an institution integrated into a larger whole. All that the administrators of the establishment must have in mind is its mission to provide cutting-edge care to children and mothers in Quebec, ”added Diane Lamarre.
Optilab Already, the laboratory technicians of the CHU Sainte-Justine are administratively attached to the CHUM, because the laboratory analyzes will be transferred from the first to the second. Removing these analyzes and delaying the results through unjustified centralization is an obstacle to research and quality care. The consequences of certain health problems on the pregnant woman and her unborn baby as well as the vulnerability of newborns are often forgiven for delay.
