Quebec - “The parliamentary committee on homelessness that took place today confirms one thing: the Liberal government&#39;s action plan is not working. Quebec urgently needs to adopt a real homelessness policy ”.
This is what the member for Saint-Jean and official opposition critic for employment, social solidarity and the fight against poverty, Dave Turcotte, declared as part of the mandate of initiative. to take stock of the government&#39;s homelessness action plan. Dave Turcotte was accompanied by the deputies of Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Martin Lemay, Marguerite-D&#39;Youville, Monique Richard, and Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, to hear the Minister for Social Services, Dominique Vien, the Assistance Network for Single and Homeless People of Montreal (RAPSIM) and the Réseau Solidarité Itinérance du Québec (RSIQ).
The hearing of Minister Vien in parliamentary committee will have made it possible to see to what extent she seeks to deny the facts. &quot;While the Minister affirms that 80% of the 70 measures of the Interdepartmental Action Plan on Homelessness have been carried out or are in the process of being implemented, we are seeing a significant increase in demand for shelters for the homeless,&quot; continued Dave Turcotte. .
The member for Saint-Jean pointed out that the number of overnight stays increased by 3,477 between 2009-2010 and 2010-2011 in men&#39;s shelters in Montreal. With regard to women&#39;s shelters, the situation is similar. Every day, women&#39;s shelters in Montreal must refuse access to dozens of them.
Bike racks to reduce homelessness! In the document tabled today, the government maintains that in its fight against homelessness, several colleges and universities have implemented healthy menus at the same price or lower than other menus, they have encouraged active travel (by installing bicycle racks, pedestrian corridors, for example).
“What is curious and embarrassing is how the Liberal government is trying to improve its record with things that have nothing to do with the phenomenon of homelessness. How does the addition of bicycle racks in CEGEPs and universities and the implementation of healthy menus help reduce homelessness? Dave Turcotte asks himself.
For the Parti Québécois, we must work upstream by strengthening intensive follow-up initiatives in the community with people suffering from chronic mental health problems, in order to promote their social and economic integration and reduce the risk of new hospitalizations and roaming. &quot;The Parti Québécois program proposes a real policy on homelessness and that is exactly what Quebec needs to effectively fight homelessness,&quot; concluded Dave Turcotte.
