Québec– Jean-François Lisée, the member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, as well as the member for Verchères and spokesperson in Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, ask the Minister for Rehabilitation, Youth Protection and Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, to make public the agreement she signed with the federal government , confirming its abandonment of the Quebec approach to the fight against homelessness.
“In this agreement in principle, Minister Lucie Charlebois completely reneged on the Quebec approach to the fight against homelessness. Two-thirds of the money will be allocated under the “Housing First” approach, a federal approach that addresses only one facet of the homelessness phenomenon. Of course, housing is one aspect of the problem, but devoting the majority of project funding to it is a denial of Quebec&#39;s strengths in the fight against homelessness, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
Minister Lucie Charlebois must renegotiate the agreement
“We are not simply asking the Minister to respect her Prime Minister&#39;s commitment to transparency by making public the agreement in principle. It must go and renegotiate the agreement with the federal government. Community organizations that currently have to submit their projects are, despite themselves, forced to come to terms with Ottawa&#39;s limiting vision. This is not how we will be able to effectively support people facing precariousness. The Quebec approach has proven itself; Minister Charlebois must do everything to preserve and enforce it, ”added Stéphane Bergeron.
“While Quebec successfully uses a variety of approaches, Ottawa has imposed that 65% of the sums be devoted to a single variable, housing in the strict sense. The government&#39;s abdication from Ottawa will ensure that thousands of people - women, men, seniors, young people, families, even - who experience homelessness, who find themselves on the streets, without resource, will lose the support they receive from our community organizations, ”added the Member for Rosemont.
Jean-François Lisée also recalls that the signed agreement explicitly contravenes the unanimous motions voted by the National Assembly on April 30, 2013 and September 24, 2014 on the necessary respect for the Quebec approach to homelessness.
