Quebec - Rosemont MP and official opposition spokesman for social services, Jean-François Lisée, regrets the government&#39;s refusal to study Bill No. 44, An Act to Strengthen tobacco control, which he himself filed.
&quot;I am very disappointed that the Liberal government refused to adopt our motion, tabled this morning in collaboration with the other parties, asking the government to announce the holding of hearings in parliamentary committee on this important bill&quot;, declared Jean-François Lisée.
A letter signed by several associations and groups, calling for the rapid study and adoption of Bill 44, has been sent to the government. Among the signatories are the Quebec Coalition for Tobacco Control, the Quebec Lung Association, the Association for the Rights of Non-smokers, the Quebec Student Sport Network, the Quebec Council on Tobacco and Health. , the Canadian Cancer Society, and the Heart and Stroke Foundation. &quot;Their message is clear and calls for action: as long as the law does not tighten, each week, 250 new young people will be introduced to tobacco,&quot; added the deputy.
“The deadlines are so stretched that it is the groups themselves who are calling for the auditions. All say they are ready to intervene, ready to come to a parliamentary committee. All that is missing is the government&#39;s appeal. Currently, we are wasting precious time; two weeks have passed since we requested the hearings. What is bothering the government? Is it being pressured by the tobacco industry? Are there any reservations within the Liberal caucus, particularly in the context of the by-elections in Jean-Talon and Chauveau? The government must move, answer the questions that its hesitation raises. We must start the work now, before the adjournment of parliamentary business for the summer, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
The text of the motion rejected by the government reads as follows:
&quot;That the National Assembly ask the government to call immediately for consultations on Bill 44, An Act to strengthen the fight against smoking, in order to prevent 250 new young people from learning to smoke every week.&quot; during the beginning of the summer;
&quot;That it recall the availability since the day of the presentation of the bill, at the same time of the opposition groups, the Commission of the health and the social services and the other groups concerned to hold the particular consultations before the adjournment of the work of the National Assembly next June. &quot;
