Quebec - The Minister responsible for Government Administration, President of the Treasury Board and Government House Leader, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, in the presence of the Minister of Public Security, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, today tabled a bill on integrity in public contracts. The proposed legislative changes are intended to ensure that companies wishing to do business with the state demonstrate their integrity by obtaining authorization to contract.
“The confidence of the population is shaken. It is urgent to give a big boost to ensure that contracts are awarded to companies with integrity, which deserve the trust of all citizens. It is time to restore healthy competition in public contracts. All types of contracts will be subject to the law, whether they are contracts for construction, procurement of goods or services. This same requirement will apply to public bodies, municipalities and Crown corporations. Our objective is clear: it must pay off to be honest, ”said Stéphane Bédard.
Towards sound management of public contracts Thus, any business wishing to contract with a public body, state corporation or municipality will have to demonstrate that it and its officers demonstrate integrity and that it deserves the trust of the public. The Autorité des marchés financiers (AMF) will be responsible for issuing and withdrawing an authorization to contract from any company wishing to do business with the State.
&quot;The AMF, which already exercises powers with regard to money services businesses, will render its decision on the advice of the Permanent Anti-Corruption Unit (UPAC)&quot;, underlined Minister Bergeron.
This authorization to contract will be valid for a period of three years and the AMF must keep the list of companies authorized to contract with the State up to date. In addition, UPAC will monitor this list and may, at any time, send a notice to the AMF in order to revoke an authorization, if necessary. Any public body wishing to conclude a contract, or any company wishing to conclude a subcontract, must refer to this list in order to ensure the integrity of the companies.
“Obtaining a public contract is not a right, but a privilege. The State has a duty to require companies to prove their integrity before they can bid for a public contract, or even before continuing to execute a contract, ”added Minister Bergeron.
Transparency and fairness for all The President of the Conseil du trésor indicated that currently, state corporations are not considered as contractors within the meaning of the Act respecting contracting by public bodies (LCOP) and have a large margin maneuver in carrying out their contracts.
Making Crown corporations subject to all of the provisions of the LCOP will enhance transparency in their contractual processes. We will thus ensure that the information relating to contracts entered into by government corporations is public, as it is currently for all public bodies, both for the health and education networks and for government administration.
“Our government&#39;s objective is clear: to have work carried out at the best possible cost, by companies that have demonstrated their probity and integrity. With this bill, we want to act at the source, by curbing access to public contracts for companies that do not have the necessary probity. This is how we can regain the trust of citizens, not only in the contracting process, but also in their public institutions. Let us also hope that this is the will of all political parties, ”concluded Minister Bédard.
