Quebec - Jean-François Lisée, the member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, wants everything to be implemented by the government so that the bill aimed at strengthening tobacco control can be quickly adopted. He also indicates that his political formation will bring, mainly, two amendments.
“The long consultations promised yesterday in the National Assembly by the Prime Minister worry us, because this is precisely what the tobacco industry wants; with its capacity for mobilization, it hopes to limit the will of the government. She has often succeeded in doing so. However, we believe that the consensus on the essentials of the proposed measures is quite broad, including among smokers, and that we have sufficient time, by the end of the session, to conduct the consultations, discuss the bill and pass it. We are offering all our cooperation so that this bill is sanctioned before the summer, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
The member also presented the amendments that the Parti Québécois will be proposing. “There are two important omissions in this bill; we are therefore going to table amendments to ensure that these gaps are filled. First, there is nothing about plain packaging. However, Australia, Ireland, the United Kingdom and, more recently, France have passed laws making plain packaging mandatory. The packages should not be attractive or encourage young people to learn tobacco. Remember that every week, since the last revision of the law, 10 years ago, 250 young people start to smoke. Minister Lucie Charlebois said she was in favor of this measure this morning; why, then, not to have added it in his bill? He asked.
“The second amendment seeks to impose a moratorium on new tobacco products. Before marketing a new product, tobacco companies should obtain authorization from a committee of the Ministry of Health. This would prevent us from having to revise, in a few years, the law on tobacco to subject new products to it, and would make it possible to curb the very great creativity of the industry, which tries to attract young people to its products ”, concluded the hon. member for Rosemont.
