Quebec - The Minister of Public Security, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, and the Mayor of Montreal, Mr. Denis Coderre, accompanied by the Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée announced today that the Squad protection of the municipal integrity of the City of Montreal, commonly known as EPIM, will be integrated into the Permanent Anti-Corruption Unit (UPAC).
“For our government, the fight against corruption is a priority at all times. Many laws have been passed and new powers have been granted to UPAC. Today, we are taking a new gesture, which responds to the concerns and the will expressed by the mayor of Montreal upon his election, by integrating the EPIM, which is currently under the responsibility of the Police Department of the Ville de Montréal, at UPAC, ”declared Minister Bergeron.
Thus, the 20 EPIM resources, 15 of which have investigative powers throughout Montreal, will be integrated into UPAC. This integration will limit the overlaps in the processing of certain files and will also create an appreciable distance between the EPIM and the authorities of the City of Montreal.
“Today&#39;s announcement demonstrates beyond any doubt that the fight against corruption, collusion and embezzlement is a priority for my Administration. It is important for EPIM to join UPAC so that all investigation and verification forces work in a coordinated fashion. Montrealers all want allegations of corruption and collusion to be a thing of the past, and the integration of EPIM into UPAC will certainly help, ”said Mayor Coderre.
Let us recall that on the evening of the municipal elections at the beginning of November, the new mayor of Montreal, Mr. Denis Coderre, mentioned the importance, for the metropolis, of regaining all the respect that is due to him.
The establishment of UPAC has generated many positive effects, in particular through the strengthening of rules, the tightening of controls associated with the management of the awarding and execution of public contracts, both in terms of governmental than municipal. Now, EPIM&#39;s contribution to this constant struggle will be more than beneficial for Montreal.
Since coming to power, the government of Quebec has adopted several measures to ensure integrity in the municipal sector, in particular with the adoption of the Law to temporarily relieve an elected municipal official from his duties and the adoption of Bill 26. on transitional municipal financing measures. In addition, in recent months, the government has supported Montreal with, among other things, the Act respecting integrity in public contracts and the report of the advisory committee on the granting and management of municipal contracts to the City of Montreal. Today&#39;s announcement follows on from the actions taken by the Government of Quebec.
It should be remembered that UPAC has largely demonstrated its effectiveness since its inception and that it has had a dissuasive effect on all the actors associated with illicit systems. The numerous strikes sent a strong and clear message to everyone: practices of corruption, collusion and embezzlement are unacceptable and cannot be tolerated in Quebec.
At the government level, this is a new step aimed at consolidating investigative efforts by promoting consultation and optimizing the coordination of all stakeholders involved in the fight against corruption.
“The Government of Quebec can only applaud and encourage such a willingness on the part of the City to get involved in the fight against corruption, collusion and embezzlement. We are convinced that this new approach will further promote reporting and denunciations and that in the long term, Montrealers will benefit from this new strike force against crime, ”concluded Minister Lisée.
