Quebec - The member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, said today, along with representatives of the Réseau Solidarité Itinérance du Québec (RSIQ), the first anniversary of the National Policy to Combat Homelessness. On this occasion, he also denounced the attitude of the Minister for Rehabilitation, Youth Protection and Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, in the homelessness issue. MNAs for Joliette, Véronique Hivon, and Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, were also present to support their colleague and the RSIQ.
“The Minister launched an action plan last December, but all those involved in the fight against homelessness agree that the accompanying resources are insufficient. In addition, the secret signing on Christmas Eve of an agreement concerning the Homelessness Partnership Strategy weakens hundreds of community organizations in all regions of Quebec. This agreement is also in total contradiction with the spirit of the policy launched a year ago, after extensive consultation with all stakeholders in the field. It is unfortunate, because the policy had obtained the support of all and raised a lot of hope ”, declared Jean-François Lisée.
The member also recalls that facing Ottawa, Minister Lucie Charlebois has completely abandoned the Quebec approach to the fight against homelessness; in fact, she agreed to put all her eggs in the same basket, that of the accommodation.
“Ignoring the particularities of Quebec, which in the past relied on diversified prevention, reintegration and support programs, a&quot; wall to wall &quot;approach decided by Ottawa will be applied in Quebec this summer. However, Quebec should be able to decide for itself to use a variety of approaches rather than just one, given that homelessness is a complex problem with many faces, ”added Jean-François Lisée.
Threatened organisms
In Quebec itself, many homelessness organizations are threatened because they do not offer housing exclusively. As a result, many will see their funding cut and will no longer be able to provide the essential services they currently provide.
For example, half of the 36 organizations in the Quebec City region that help hundreds of people experiencing homelessness find themselves on a tightrope. Think of the day center at Maison de Lauberivière Rendez-Vous Center-Ville, Rue Action Prévention (RAP) Jeunesse, the Projet Intervention Prostitution Québec (PIPQ), to name a few.
“This is nonsense! The minister, face down in front of the federal government, has ceded everything to him. The National Homelessness Policy, however, advocates a multitude of approaches and focuses on prevention. By abandoning the defense of the interests and needs of Quebec in front of Ottawa, the Liberal government is abandoning aid organizations and those receiving aid. Once again, unfortunately, it will be the most vulnerable in our society who will pay the price, ”concluded the member for Rosemont.
