Quebec - The Minister of Justice and Minister responsible for the fight against homophobia, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, is pleased to make public the results of the vast media awareness campaign to fight homophobia, launched by the government of Quebec last March.
At the end of the campaign, the SOM polling company was commissioned to measure the impact of this government campaign on the perceptions and attitudes of Quebecers towards sexual diversity.
“We made the daring bet to surprise without shocking and to make each of us question our degree of personal openness. This questioning constitutes the basis for real and lasting change for a Quebec that is more open and richer in its diversity, a Quebec for all ”, underlined Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud.
The awareness campaign to fight homophobia included the airing of two television commercials in French and one radio message in English. In addition to the messages, an interactive website invited visitors to assess their ease with regard to sexual diversity and to learn more about the different faces of homophobia and the resources available, as well as to react to scenarios.
The evaluation of the Department of Justice&#39;s awareness campaign to fight homophobia shows very good results, particularly with regard to the campaign&#39;s penetration: more than three-quarters of Quebec adults (76%) have been joined by one or other of its components. This success is mainly attributable to television commercials; In this regard, let us note that the male version of the ad was more noticed than the female version.
Among Quebeckers exposed to the campaign, about one in five say the ads have prompted them to think about their own attitudes towards sexual diversity, thus meeting the goal. More than a third of Quebecers have discussed the advertisements with their relatives or work colleagues.
In addition, 4% of Quebecers exposed to the campaign say they have changed their opinion about homosexuality after seeing the advertisements. This proportion is significantly higher, among others, among those who said they were little or not at all open to sexual diversity (14%). Knowing that the majority say they are personally very or fairly open to sexual diversity, we can say that these changes in opinions and attitudes among the individuals concerned are positive.
“If the government chose to invest to carry out this campaign, it is because there are still homophobic attitudes and behaviors in Quebec society. With this awareness campaign to fight homophobia, the first of its kind in Quebec and with few equivalents elsewhere in the world, the Quebec government has laid the foundations for future actions to counter this scourge, ”a declared Minister Bertrand Saint-Arnaud
Remember that this campaign is one of the flagship measures of the 2011-2016 government action plan to fight homophobia. This plan provides for a second phase of this awareness campaign in 2014-2015.
The campaign evaluation report is available online: www.justice.gouv.qc.ca/homophobie.
