SALABERRY-DE-VALLEYFIELD, QC, Nov. 5, 2013 / CNW Telbec / - Beauharnois MP Guy Leclair is pleased to announce on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the granting of financial assistance of $ 55,915 to the regional county municipality (MRC) of Beauharnois-Salaberry. This subsidy, paid as part of the financial assistance program for the maintenance of the Route verte, aims to ensure the maintenance of the quality of this bicycle development in the territory of the MRC de Beauharnois-Salaberry.
Eligible bicycle lanes on the territory of the Beauharnois-Salaberry MRC in 2013-2014 currently total 39 km. The grant awarded will cover half of the maintenance costs of this section of the road. Remember that the Route verte route offers 387 km of bicycle lanes throughout the Montérégie region.
“The Route verte is the largest cycle route in North America and I am happy to confirm the government&#39;s desire to maintain the quality of this infrastructure. Many cyclists can thus continue to enjoy the typical landscapes of your beautiful region, ”Sylvain Gaudreault, Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, declared.
&quot;With this announcement, we are thus contributing to the economic development of the Beauharnois-Salaberry MRC, but we are also encouraging the practice of easy-to-access physical activity for people of all ages,&quot; said Mr. Leclair.
As a reminder, on October 24, Mr. Gaudreault announced the creation of a financial assistance program for cycling and pedestrian infrastructure. Accordingly, a sum of $ 7 million will be granted for the year 2013-2014. In addition to allowing the completion of the Route verte and ensuring its sustainability, this 3-year program aims to support municipalities in their desire to set up transport infrastructures that promote travel. active.
The Route verte is an original idea of Vélo Québec Association, produced in collaboration with the Government of Quebec, in particular the Ministry of Transport, and regional partners.
