Trois-Rivières - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, as well as the Member for Champlain, Ms. Noëlla Champagne, applauded the return to the region of the Sommex Bedding Corporation, a company specializing in the manufacture of mattresses. They were reacting to the recent announcement of the takeover of the company, sold to a Toronto group in 2003, by its founder, who intends to relaunch its activities and bring the head office back to Trois-Rivières. This transaction, which will maintain some 50 jobs at the local plant and create 15 new ones, was facilitated by a loan of $ 750,000 from Investissement Québec.
&quot;In an economy facing deep upheavals, it is essential to be able to support a strong and diversified manufacturing sector in the regions of Quebec,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. &quot;This is why our government is supporting the project of Mr. Ricard, a courageous and responsible entrepreneur who did not hesitate to leave retirement to acquire the business he sold ten years ago and thus avoid the closure announced, while ensuring the maintenance and creation of jobs in Trois-Rivières. This is also why we have made public an industrial policy, implemented precisely to support this sector. &quot;
&quot;The takeover of the Sommex Bedding Corporation, by the same entrepreneur who created the Sommex brand in 1974, is certainly a guarantee of success for the pursuit of this important manufacturing activity,&quot; said Champlain MNA Noëlla Champagne. “Mr. Ricard&#39;s knowledge and vision will not only maintain current jobs, but also create new ones. &quot;
&quot;The announcement of the sale of the company and, above all, the possibility that the Trois-Rivières plant could close its doors were decisive elements in my decision to make an offer to buy the assets of the company&quot; , said the president of the Corporation de bedie Sommex, Mr. Normand Ricard. &quot;The participation of Investissement Québec was of the utmost importance to ensure the financing of this project, which means that we were able to maintain all trademarks and licenses, movable assets as well as inventories, in addition to &#39;to be able to continue the work in progress,&#39; he added.
Investissement Québec&#39;s mission is to promote the growth of investment in Québec, thereby contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The Company provides businesses with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity investments, to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, she is responsible for administering tax measures and prospecting for investments abroad.
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
