Baie-Comeau– The MNA for René-Lévesque, Chief Government Whip, responsible for the Côte-Nord region, Marjolain Dufour, announced today, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, that government investments of $ 3,788,005 would be granted this year to ensure that the buildings of primary and secondary education institutions in the riding of René-Lévesque are maintained in good condition. This amount will allow the Estuaire School Board to carry out the following projects:
“I am proud today to inform you of significant investments in the riding of René-Lévesque, which aim to keep our school infrastructure in the region in good condition. This is great news for our children. Almost $ 3.8 million will be invested in our schools, mainly Boisvert school, which must be partially rebuilt, ”said Marjolain Dufour.
For 2012-2013, some $ 386.6 million will be invested to carry out infrastructure projects in all school boards in Quebec. These projects, which will be carried out under the Building Maintenance measure, aim to carry out repair or overhaul of components on buildings used for educational or administrative purposes, such as the repair of roofs and exterior facings, replacing doors and windows, improving heating and ventilation systems or renovating sanitary facilities.
It should be remembered that the investments made to improve school infrastructure are part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. In the school board network only, this plan provides for investments aimed at preserving school heritage and reducing the maintenance deficit of the building stock.
&quot;The investments announced today demonstrate the importance that the Government of Quebec attaches to taking action to preserve our real estate heritage and ensure that the school continues to be a healthy living environment, conducive to learning,&quot; welcoming and safe. The students who attend our schools and the staff who work there deserve it, ”said Minister Malavoy.
