Quebec - In the wake of the sale of Rona to Lowe&#39;s, the leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the Parti Québécois spokesperson for the economy, Alain Therrien, as well as the spokesperson for the Finance and Revenue, Nicolas Marceau, called on the Liberal government to come out of its economic inaction and implement measures to protect the head offices in Quebec.
“The Prime Minister said last August that he would not give the opposition or our political party an inch to defend the interests of Quebec. I would like to respond to him that as far as we are concerned, we will not give him half an inch. We will continue to denounce its poor economic performance and its refusal to defend the head offices located in Quebec. The Parti Québécois government commissioned a report on the issue, and the Prime Minister must implement it, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“Dominique Anglade began his career as Minister of the Economy by declaring that the sale of Rona to the American company was beneficial for Quebec. The Liberal Party is the only one who thinks that losing one of our flagships can be a good thing. The minister told us that she had had guarantees. What guarantees have been put on paper regarding suppliers, jobs in stores and at head office? These guarantees of which the Minister speaks have now become expectations, ”added Alain Therrien.
Quebec Business Protection Working Group
Nicolas Marceau recalled that the report of the Task Force on the Protection of Quebec Businesses indicated that “when a Quebec business is acquired, we see: a decrease in the number of jobs following the transformation of the role of the head office ; elimination of shared financial services activities; reduction in the number and volume of Québec products distributed by the company; a decrease in the purchase of professional services from Quebec suppliers. &quot;
“With the sale of Rona, it is yet another decision-making center that we will lose, as well as the well-paying jobs that go with it. Hundreds of SMEs are falling into uncertainty since at the moment, Rona makes half of its purchases in Quebec, which is obviously not the case for Lowe&#39;s. History has shown us that the sale of a Quebec business involves much more risk of losing jobs than chances of winning them. There are solutions in the report, what will the government do with it? Asked the member for Rousseau.
“Several states have been protecting their businesses for a long time, and with very good investment results. Can the Prime Minister tell us why what is good for several countries would be harmful for Quebec? Philippe Couillard compared the protection of our head offices to the construction of a wall around Quebec. So there is a wall around the United States, France, Germany, Holland and around Canada that has a foreign investment law? We believe in protecting our businesses. What about the Prime Minister? », Concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois.
