Quebec - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announces major changes to the composition of the board of directors of the Conservatoire de musique et d&#39;art dramatique du Québec. Monique Goyette becomes president of the organization, and six new members join as directors.
Monique Goyette has extensive experience in management and governance, mainly in public administration and academia. Until recently, she was vice-rector of administration at the University of Quebec. She also worked as director general of administration at the Bibliothèque et Archives nationales du Québec, as well as at Télé-Québec.
The six new members, Louis Babin, Denis Bernard, Louise Fugère, Marie Gignac, Véronyque Roy and Vincent Tanguay, also have solid experience which will help develop a vision for the future for the Conservatory.
The Ministry of Culture and Communications and the Conservatory are working together to revive the institution, which is part of an environment that has changed a lot in recent years. In order to update its range of services, Marie-Claire Lévesque, former President and CEO of the Conseil des arts et des lettres du Québec, will conduct a consultation over the coming weeks.
This approach will make it possible to hear the point of view of those concerned by the offer of training in theater and music with a view to finding possible solutions adapted to local and regional particularities. Several people and organizations will be invited to participate in the working sessions, including students, professors and Conservatory staff.
“The Ministry and the Conservatory wish to develop a promising vision for this institution. This consultation will ensure the sustainability of the Conservatory, which is an important training school for Quebec, a place that generates talents recognized on the national and international scenes. I am confident that the president and the administrators who join the board of directors will be able to give new impetus to the Conservatory, which is facing major challenges in terms of its governance and its service offer as well as financially ” , said Maka Kotto.
