Montreal - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the Minister for Indigenous Affairs, Élizabeth Larouche, announce the designation of katajjaniq, or the practice of Inuit throat singing, as part of intangible heritage, under of the Cultural Heritage Act. This is the first element of intangible heritage to be designated since the entry into force of the Law.
“Today we are making the first designation of an element of intangible heritage, that of the katajjaniq. This Inuit tradition is still very much alive today. By designating throat singing, we also wish to pay tribute to the entire Inuit nation and to its unique and immemorial culture, ”said Minister Kotto.
“In the Inuit nation, elders protect and perpetuate the cultural experience. With all their wisdom, these elders ensure the transmission of the traditional values of their people to younger generations. Throat songs are a prime example. Over time, they have become an identity landmark for Nunavimmiut, ”added Minister Delegate Élizabeth Larouche.
Throat singing is a traditional game played in all fourteen Inuit communities in Quebec. This playful practice bears witness to a long oral tradition of the women of Nunavik. From generation to generation, they have passed on knowledge about nature and the environment and the technical know-how associated with throat singing. For Nunavik, this traditional practice constitutes a component of its cultural heritage and has a highly symbolic value.
This designation confirms the interest of Quebeckers for this rare, even unique, form of expression. It highlights the richness and plurality of the Quebec identity and is a source of pride for the Inuit.
Charlie Arngak, president of the Avataq Cultural Institute, said he was honored by the fact that throat singing is the first designated element of the intangible heritage of Quebec and considers this event as a step towards the inclusion of indigenous peoples. in the definition of Quebec identity.
The intangible heritage is made up of living elements that can be passed on by bearers of traditions, from generation to generation. It is about know-how, knowledge, expressions, practices or representations.
Additional information concerning the katajjaniq as well as all the heritage elements registered in the Register of cultural heritage of Quebec are available on the site of the Directory of cultural heritage of Quebec (RPCQ), at www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca.
New tools for disseminating cultural heritage have been added to the RPCQ, making it possible to discover all of its richness and diversity, by making it accessible to all. In fact, part of the RPCQ&#39;s content can now be found on the Government of Quebec&#39;s open data portal, at www.data.gouv.qc.ca, as well as on the social network Pinterest, in the form of virtual exhibitions, atwww. pinterest.com/rpcq.
Online training is also available at www.formation-patrimoine.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. Composed of video capsules and learning activities, it presents the basic concepts of the Cultural Heritage Act and explains the roles and responsibilities of each to promote the knowledge, protection, enhancement and transmission of Cultural Heritage.
