Quebec - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, releases his action plan for the network of Quebec museums. This approach follows the publication of the report of the Task Force on the Future of the Quebec Museum Network, chaired by Claude Corbo.
“This action plan is the result of an approach that I undertook in the fall of 2012, with the aim of maximizing the scope of our interventions in this sector. I want to ensure the relevance, consistency and regional anchoring of the museum network. This action plan brings together measures that will help boost our museum network, both structurally and financially, ”explained the Minister.
The ministerial action plan is structured around six major orientations:
“I am convinced that these orientations will meet the expectations and needs of museum institutions as they were expressed during the consultations held by the Task Force on the Future of the Museum Network. They are also in line with the recommendations contained in the Corbo report, which was well received in the community, ”added Mr. Kotto.
The chairmanship of the regional consultation worksite will be entrusted to Claude Corbo, who has agreed to continue his work for the future of the museum network. This work will begin this spring and will aim to obtain the broadest consensus in the community. Each regional table will be invited to formulate hypotheses regarding the choice of a regional resource museum and a regional theme of identity interest.
It should be remembered that in May 2013, the Task Force on the Future of the Quebec Museum Network received the mandate to consult the national and regional players concerned by museology and to make recommendations to the Minister. Consultations were held in six cities. In total, 68 organizations were heard, and 127 briefs were filed.
&quot;To carry out this action plan, I am counting on the collaboration of all stakeholders in the museum network and in particular the Société des Musées du Québec, which has unique expertise that can help make this action plan a success. . The members of the SMQ will also be consulted at each stage, ”concluded the Minister.
