Chandler - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the MP for Bonaventure, Sylvain Roy, announce an agreement in principle of $ 104,040 for the project to bring the main building of the Pabos archaeological site up to standard. In addition, $ 25,000 will be paid to the Corporation du Bourg de Pabos for an archaeological excavation project on the site.
“The protection of Quebec&#39;s cultural heritage is vital. Through this support for the Pabos archaeological site interpretation center, the government is showing that it is contributing, together with all stakeholders in the community, to preserving this heritage which belongs to the history of the Gaspé ”, declares Maka Kotto.
The Pabos Archaeological Site Interpretation Center includes a main building that houses an exhibition hall that makes the link between the history and archeology of Pabos. In addition, an archaeological trail allows visitors to explore the excavation site.
“The archaeological excavation project will allow the organization to enrich its interpretation offer by increasing knowledge of a new portion of the archaeological site. For visitors, this excavation process will add to the richness of the current collection on the Gaspé maritime universe, ”adds MP Sylvain Roy.
This agreement in principle will make it possible to continue to define the project and determine the financial package in order to carry out work to bring it up to standard. As for the site, signage will be reviewed, and non-integrated furniture used for museum interpretation will be restored. This work is necessary so that the organization can continue to carry out its mandate under the best possible conditions.
The total amount of the upgrading project, estimated at $ 148,000, breaks down as follows: $ 104,040 is paid by the Ministry of Culture and Communications (MCC) under the Capital Assistance program, $ 39,180 comes from from the Corporation du Bourg de Pabos and $ 5,000 is provided by the Société d &#39;aide au développement des collectifs de Rocher-Percé (SADC).
As for the archaeological excavation project, it is estimated at $ 33,528. The MCC grants $ 25,000 under component 5 of the Quebec Cultural Heritage Fund, the Corporation du Bourg de Pabos contributes $ 7,028 and the SADC agrees to provide $ 1,500.
Additional information concerning the archaeological site of Pabos as well as all the heritage elements registered in the Cultural Heritage Register are available on the site of the Quebec Cultural Heritage Directory at: www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca/
