La Sarre - Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Premier of Quebec on September 4, 2012. Her government&#39;s first year in office is marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain their pride. The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, and the pride of living together. The Parti Québécois government will therefore take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger. In the riding of Abitibi-Ouest, the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Ouest, Mr. François Gendron is proud to present the results of the first year of the Parti Québécois government.
The Minister of Public Security, Stéphane Bergeron has confirmed that the new Amos detention facility will finally be built, after several years of waiting. This is an investment of $ 126 million, which will create 250 jobs during construction and 70 permanent jobs thereafter. “This establishment was a necessity in the region, but unfortunately the old government only announced it ad nauseam, never moving a single stone. It is now official: in the spring of 2014 construction will begin, ”says Mr. Gendron.
A new agricultural drainage program will increase crop yields and develop land with potential for recultivation. “I was well aware of the difficulties faced by agricultural producers in the region with regard to agricultural drainage. I made a commitment on this subject during the last election campaign. That is why I announced a $ 3 million program to support drainage work in Abitibi-Témiscamingue and in Nord-du-Québec. I couldn&#39;t sit idly by. I enthusiastically consider the region&#39;s agricultural potential and I will never stop supporting its development, ”says Mr. Gendron.
Since 2009, the Cégep de l&#39;Abitibi-Témiscamingue has been offering the Technical delinquency intervention program at its Amos campus on a temporary basis, with undeniable success. To meet the demand for this type of graduate, on June 27, the Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Ouest and Minister, François Gendron, announced, on behalf of his colleague Minister of Higher Education, Research and Science and Technology, Pierre Duchesne, that the program would henceforth be permanent. &quot;This is excellent news for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, for future graduates as well as for the Amoss region, which sees consolidating the college&#39;s activities in its territory for the future,&quot; said François Gendron at the time of this announcement.
The Saint-Dominique-du-Rosaire sewer and aqueduct system file, the repair of which was initially announced in 2009, was finally resolved this year. The bill of $ 6.9 million will be borne entirely by the Government of Quebec and the municipality, the Government of Canada having refused its participation, citing the increase in costs linked to inflation and to the modifications of the project. “I am happy for the municipality and for the citizens that we managed to complete this file. We were blocked for a long time because of a government which refused to recognize the legitimate evolution of the costs of the project. Our government has therefore assumed its responsibilities and decided to take on the federal government&#39;s share. Ultimately, it is yet another demonstration of the pressing need for Quebec to fully assume its role, ”concluded Minister Gendron.
The Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Maka Kotto, was proud to give the Théâtre des Eskers a grant of $ 2.4 million to be used for the restoration of its facilities. &quot;Offering the population a varied program, this Mecca for the dissemination of culture is a must here, and we are proud to be able to support the cultural vitality of the region&quot;, declared Minister Gendron.
The Macamic CHSLD can count on the support of the Government of Quebec, through the Minister of Health and Seniors, Mr. Réjean Hébert, to renovate all of its facilities. This work will significantly improve the functionality of the premises. “Taking care of our seniors is a priority for the Parti Québécois and we are taking action by making it possible to offer a quality place to live for the residents of this establishment,” said François Gendron.
All these projects are concrete proof that the Parti Québécois government is in action and that it is meeting the expectations of the population. “We are far from the liberal era which was marked by inaction and where projects never saw the light of day. For my part, I say what I do, and I do what I say, ”concluded Mr. Gendron.
