Québec, October 20, 2020 - The deputy for René-Lévesque and parliamentary leader, Martin Ouellet, today presented the various issues that the members of the Parti Québécois will bring to the National Assembly. &quot;As our leader and our parliamentary leader, Paul St-Pierre Plamondon and Pascal Bérubé, have said, we have kept the formulas that work and have not hesitated to innovate to continue to improve,&quot; he said. .
IN SHORT
MNA for Îles-de-la-Madeleine, Joël Arseneau, will deal with mental health and loneliness. MNA for Matane-Matapédia, Pascal Bérubé, will defend issues related to municipal affairs, culture and communications. The MNA for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, obtains the important mandates related to work and to the Treasury Board. The MNA for René-Lévesque, Martin Ouellet, will deal with issues relating to Aboriginal affairs, a reality he knows well and to The member for Gaspé, Méganne Perry Mélançon, inherits among other issues the economy, recovery and the fight against racism.
“The movements in our shadow cabinet are timely and meaningful,” continued the House leader. Our leader was open and attentive to the priority issues for my colleagues and I, and he was able to balance things between consistency and innovation. &quot;
This is how certain major files have retained their spokesperson for the past few months, in particular health (Joël Arseneau), justice, education and family (Véronique Hivon), environment and the fight against climate change (Sylvain Gaudreault), French language. (Pascal Bérubé), seniors and caregivers (Harold LeBel).
“However, our team wanted to put more emphasis on issues that have become unavoidable, such as loneliness and mental health. This is how Joël Arseneau inherits these files, in addition to the others he carries with flying colors, such as transport and maritime strategy. Within the caucus, there is also an obvious desire to make room for young people: given her immense interest in the matter, Méganne Perry Mélançon becomes spokesperson for recovery, the economy and SMEs. These issues are in addition to the more social part of its mandate - status of women, youth, immigration and the fight against racism.
Among the other notable changes, let us mention that Sylvain Roy, Member of Parliament for Bonaventure, adds the ropes of fisheries and regional development to his bow, and that the Member of Parliament for Duplessis, Lorraine Richard, now officially holds the reins of the question of the reform of the DPJ. Martin Ouellet, for his part, obtains a file that may also continue to occupy the space, that of public security. &quot;I want to help rebuild the bond of trust between Quebecers and their institutions,&quot; he said.
