Quebec - Attached is a statement from the Leader of the Official Opposition and Member of Parliament for Saint-Jérôme, Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“In accordance with my declaration of October 8, 2014, I have today set up a blind mandate with regard to the shares I own in Quebecor inc. and in Les Placements Péladeau inc., a company that I control and which owns shares of Quebecor inc.
The person who will act as a blind representative is Société Placements St-Jérôme inc., A company incorporated under the laws of Quebec whose directors are:
· Claude Béland, director of various organizations and President and CEO of Desjardins Group from 1987 to 2000.
· André P. Brosseau, President of Marchés des Capitaux Avenue BNB inc. and a former executive at a major Canadian chartered bank.
James A. Woods, Senior Partner at Woods LLP
Due to regulatory requirements, the entry into force of this mandate is conditional upon the approval of the CRTC and Industry Canada.
On October 8, 2014, I declared that although the code of ethics and professional conduct of the National Assembly of Quebec does not require me to do so, I intended to place the shares I hold in Quebecor in a trust or a blind mandate if I was chosen by the activists of the Parti Québécois as party leader.
I reiterated this commitment when the Parti Québécois activists chose to elect me as leader when the vote was held on May 15, 2015.
I also signed this morning, in accordance with my declaration of October 8, 2014, a declaration on my honor, which will be sent to the Ethics and Professional Conduct Commissioner, which I will not intervene, just as I will not. I have never made, in the editorial choices made by the information departments of the various media that are owned by Quebecor.
Throughout my previous professional activities, I had the concern to endow Quebecor with the best management team as well as the best board of directors.
I am deeply convinced that these values will be able to be maintained by virtue of the principles that I inherited from the teaching of my father, Pierre Péladeau, founder of Quebecor and great builder of modern economic Quebec ”.
