Montreal - Participating in the march for independence in Montreal with more than a dozen of its deputies, the leader of the official opposition and member for Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, strongly denounced the recent maneuvers of Stephen Harper&#39;s conservatives against Quebec. &quot;If I am participating in the march today, it is because I am convinced that Quebec must become a country and every day when I see the Conservatives taking action to weaken Quebec, my conviction redoubles&quot;.
“Since the May 2 election, actions to weaken Quebec have multiplied. When I see Quebec being excluded from the naval strategy contracts to favor Vancouver and Halifax, when I see the appointment of an auditor general and unilingual English-speaking judges, when I see Quebec&#39;s weight in the House of Commons decrease, I know why I am walking today for the independence of Quebec ”, declared Pauline Marois.
Other actions taken by Stephen Harper also outraged the Leader of the Official Opposition. “The abolition of the firearms registry is another example of the intransigence of the Conservatives who have just served as an end to Quebec. Not only does Ottawa want to abolish the firearms registry, it also wants to destroy the data so that Quebec cannot establish its own registry, despite the unanimity of the National Assembly, ”she added. , recalling that Quebecers paid for the establishment of the register.
Bill C-10 is another gesture by Stephen Harper&#39;s Conservatives that goes against the values of Quebecers. “The conservative justice strategy is inspired by the worst practices of the American right. Federal ideology outright rejects the Quebec model of youth justice, which results in Quebec having one of the lowest crime rates in America. Ottawa is drowning some good measures by trying to swallow others that go totally against our values and the consensus of the National Assembly, ”said the leader of the Parti Québécois.
Pauline Marois also denounces the conservative measures announced to affirm the Canadian identity. &quot;By adding the word &#39;royal&#39; to the navy and the air force, by replacing works by Pellan with the queen&#39;s photo, by commemorating the War of 1812 and above all by making someone who is liable to two years in prison. will object to the Canadian flag being flown, the Harper government is hitting Quebec values head on. This is totally unacceptable, ”said the leader of the official opposition.
“Quebeckers can only count on the Parti Québécois to defend them against the conservatives of Stephen Harper. Jean Charest has long since given up standing to defend the interests of Quebec, François Legault promises not to fight against the federal government and the NDP has remained completely silent for six months to defend Quebecers in the face of these conservative maneuvers against Quebec. », Concluded Pauline Marois, adding that the Parti Québécois will always be there to defend the population against the intransigence of Ottawa.
