Marsoui - The Minister for the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, of the Regions and Land Occupation, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, a second phase of rock work on Route 132, in Marsoui. &quot;These works are intended to continue securing a historically very busy section of Route 132, mainly in winter and during storms or high tides,&quot; said Mr. Lelièvre.
This work consists of reinforcing the pavement structure of Route 132 over 5.5 km, including raising the road over 3.6 km. This project, valued at less than $ 5 million, aims in particular for a harmonious integration of the stone work carried out over the past two years. “I am convinced that this second phase will reduce the visual impacts of the work already carried out in addition to improving Route 132 at this location. This project will also take into account the expectations of the community and regional particularities on the north side of the Gaspé, ”said Minister Lelièvre.
In addition, in recent years, the Gaspé region, particularly the area on the north side, has been strongly affected by storms and high tides which have resulted in increased bank erosion. The Ministry of Transport will therefore set up a site for observing bank erosion. &quot;The observation site will allow both residents of the region and tourists to learn more about this phenomenon which significantly affects the Gaspé region and continues to grow,&quot; added Minister Lelièvre.
“This project will make it possible to preserve the benefits of the intervention already carried out and ensure the maintenance of the unique link with the north side of the Gaspé Peninsula as well as the integrity of the road in the long term. I am particularly proud of this project which, in addition to improving user safety and ensuring traffic flow, incorporates a tourist and educational dimension, ”Minister Gaudreault concluded.
