Trois-Rivières - As part of Energy Efficiency Week, the Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, presents the residual forest biomass program, which offers financial assistance for the conversion of heating systems or industrial processes .
“The residual forest biomass program encourages the conversion of heating systems in industrial, commercial and institutional settings and promotes the creation of 1,600 jobs in the regions. With this program, companies will be able to make significant energy savings and reduce their operating costs. Quebec must more than ever take advantage of new emerging markets linked to forests: a great opportunity for economic development for the regions, ”said Martine Ouellet.
With a total envelope of $ 50 million, this program will allow a significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, ie 70,000 tonnes of CO2, the equivalent of removing 20,000 vehicles from the road network.
The Analysis component helps determine the technical and economic feasibility of using a thermal energy production system using residual forest biomass as an energy source to replace fossil fuel. This component also allows a study to be carried out on the supply of residual forest biomass. Financial assistance is $ 25,000 for each study for a maximum of $ 50,000.
The Implementation component focuses on energy conversion projects using residual biomass for heating or processes. Conversion projects must make it possible to reduce the consumption of fossil fuel for an already developed site. This component also encourages projects aimed at using different forms of residual forest biomass for sites under construction. A maximum of 75% of expenses are eligible, up to a maximum amount of $ 5 million.
“The residual forest biomass will help support the forestry sector and help support forestry-related jobs in a region like the Mauricie. I am delighted with this initiative, which strengthens one of the economic engines of our region, ”declared the Member of Parliament for Champlain, Ms. Noëlla Champagne.
Remember that the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise brought together, on November 21 and 22, more than 250 participants from the wood industry in Saint-Félicien. These are investments of $ 675 million over three years that have been announced by the government for the forestry sector, responding to the demands of the various partners.
For more information, see lerendezvousdelaforet.gouv.qc.ca
Consult the press releases issued during the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise
Visit the Parti Québécois blog and read Pauline Marois&#39; post: &quot;A big step towards the future for the Quebec forest&quot;
