Quebec - The Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, will be on an official mission to the Republic of Korea to participate in the 22nd edition of the World Energy Congress (WEC), which will take place in Daegu from October 13 to 17.
“Quebec stands out abroad for its expertise in green energy. I will have the opportunity to speak alongside energy leaders in the high-level session on the future of transport from a green growth perspective. In particular, I will highlight Quebec&#39;s priorities and initiatives in terms of transport electrification and what the Quebec government will do in terms of energy development, on the eve of the unveiling of a new energy policy, ”explained Minister Martine Ouellet.
In addition, Minister Martine Ouellet will speak on the occasion of the second Concertation of Energy Ministers of La Francophonie. Under the theme &quot;The supply of tomorrow&#39;s energy today&quot;, this meeting will, among other things, be an opportunity to report on the progress of the recommendations resulting from the meeting in Montreal in September 2010 and to share the reflections carried out. by the Institut de la Francophonie pour le développement durable (IFDD) and the International Organization of La Francophonie (OIF) on the issue of energy transition. It will also make it possible to make government expertise in renewable energy known to the member states and governments present at the consultation.
The Minister will also participate in the ministerial round table of the World Energy Congress. Under the chairmanship of Korea&#39;s Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy, the conference will deal with the balance in what is now known as the “energy trilemma” (Balancing the Energy Trilemma ) - energy security, social equity and the reduction of environmental impacts - and the repercussions of the development of shale gas (Impact of Shale Gas).
The World Energy Congress is the world&#39;s largest energy industry event. It allows participants to address energy issues on a planetary scale. It brings together more than 3,500 global energy leaders from industry, governments, international organizations, media, academia and energy associations.
