Matane - The Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, and the Minister for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Sain-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Matane-Matapédia, Mr. Pasca Bérubé, participated in the announcement of the opening of a new Innoventé factory in Matane.
“Innoventé is a producer of renewable energy that provides communities with a green and innovative solution to the management of organic waste. I salute their efforts to significantly pursue the objective that Quebec has set for itself: that of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, ”said Minister Martine Ouellet. The Matane plant will be housed in the former RockTenn cardboard factory which has been closed for over a year. Around 100 jobs will be created over the next few months as the company proceeds with the conversion of the facilities estimated at $ 20 million. During the operational phase, nearly forty jobs will be created.
From left to right: Pascal Bérubé, Minister responsible for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Sain-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Matane-Matapédia Richard Painchaud, President of Innoventé, Martine Ouellet, Minister of Natural Resources and Claude Canuel, Mayor by Matane / (c) Geneviève Héon- MRN
“I am very proud of this innovative project allowing the revival of equipment with high potential for the economic development of the City of Matane. The creation of sustainable businesses and jobs in the regions of Quebec inevitably requires green technologies. Our government supports this path for the future, which creates wealth, ”said Minister Pascal Bérubé.
Recall that Innoventé&#39;s unique and patented process was developed by the Institute for Research and Development in Agri-Environment (IRDA) and partially funded by the Ministry of Natural Resources to the tune of $ 2.5 million in the framework of the Technoclimat program and the 2006-2012 action plan on climate change.
Located in Quebec, Innoventé produces renewable energy by providing communities, thanks to its technology patented in Canada and the United States, a green and sustainable solution to the management of organic residues. Innoventé&#39;s shares are listed on the TSX Venture Exchange under the symbol IGE (TSXV: IGE). To learn more, visit www.innovente.ca.
