La Prairie– Martine Ouellet, Member of Parliament for Vachon and Minister of Natural Resources, is proud to announce the granting of financial assistance totaling nearly $ 15,000 to Complexe Le Partage ($ 10,000), Égide (2,000 $), at Café - Liberté 50 in Saint-Philippe ($ 2,000) and at the Club optimiste de La Prairie ($ 500).
“We are pleased to support the work of four community organizations in La Prairie. Their work is important and there is no doubt that its effects are just as important for the entire community, ”said Martine Ouellet.
LeComplexe Le Partage is a community organization that offers underprivileged families in the Kateri sector mutual aid, support, training and integration services in a perspective of social solidarity and individual and collective support. The financial assistance of $ 10,000 will allow two projects to be carried out, namely to provide full breakfasts to the children of the Jean XXIII school ($ 5,000) and to help less well-off families in the region to prepare for the back to school ($ 5,000).
L&#39;Égide comes to the aid of women victims of domestic violence and their children.
As for the Café-Liberté 50 in Saint-Philippe, it is a meeting place for people aged 50 and over wishing to discuss, learn and have fun.
The Optimist Club of La Prairie organizes various activities for young people, thus promoting their development and their integration into the community.
Martine Ouellet also wishes to underline the involvement of volunteers who give of their time to make a difference. “It is reassuring to see this solidarity that is exercised through community organizations. I would like to thank the volunteers who, through their involvement, commit themselves with conviction for more dignity and humanity, ”concluded Martine Ouellet.
It should be noted that the financial assistance of nearly $ 15,000 that is given comes from the discretionary envelope of the Minister of Natural Resources. Today&#39;s announcements are part of the government&#39;s desire to improve equal opportunities for all.
