Quebec - The Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, today released the final study report of the strategic environmental assessment on the development of hydrocarbons in the Anticosti, Madeleine and Bay basins des Chaleurs (EES2) as well as the results of the public consultation carried out in autumn 2011.
&quot;I will make sure that the government has all the tools and all the information necessary to measure the environmental impacts and put in place all the means of mitigation for the environment as well as to measure the social impacts and assess the economic benefits. for all Quebecers. This is how we can together make an informed decision, in full knowledge of the facts, ”said Martine Ouellet.
The purpose of carrying out the ESA2 was to take stock of the situation and obtain a better understanding of the Anticosti, Madeleine and Baie des Chaleurs basins. All of the study&#39;s recommendations will be analyzed by the Ministry. The Minister of Natural Resources has already indicated that she wants to follow up on this report. Indeed, Martine Ouellet wants to put in place a structured and rigorous approach in order to deepen the question of the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the marine environment given the important issues it raises.
“The Ministry of Natural Resources plans to continue documenting the subject and put forward initiatives aimed at better defining the social and environmental impacts of the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the marine environment, as well as the overall economic benefits. Two expert committees, among others, will be formed to analyze more specifically the economic and technical aspects, ”added Martine Ouellet.
Remember that the moratorium prohibiting all oil and gas exploration and exploitation activity in the Gulf of St. Lawrence remains in effect.
An online consultation on ESS2 is open at the following address: hydrocarbonsmarins.gouv.qc.ca. Citizens are invited to provide their comments on the report.
Martine Ouellet launched on July 4 the Commission on Quebec&#39;s energy issues - From greenhouse gas reduction to Quebec&#39;s energy independence. Hearings are currently being held in the regions of Quebec. Based on the comments received, the government will table the new energy policy for Quebec in 2014.
To consult the schedule of sessions: consultationenergie.gouv.qc.ca.
