Quebec - The Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, welcomes the adoption by the National Assembly of the draft mining law. This is an important victory for Quebeckers, who will finally be given modern mining legislation.
“The adoption of a new mining law is a historic step forward that will allow the responsible development of our mineral resources for the benefit of all Quebecers. The adopted law incorporates most of the provisions of Bill 43 that I tabled this fall, while incorporating the relevant adjustments. Our proposals concerning transparency, transformation as well as environmental protection and dialogue with communities have made it possible to reach a point of balance, the very one that will allow us collectively to meet the next challenges we face. », Declared Martine Ouellet.
The production of an economic and market opportunity study for ore processing in Quebec before granting a mining lease is now required. On the other hand, the government can, on reasonable grounds, demand the maximization of the economic spinoffs of the operation of a mine, such as the processing of ore in Quebec.
In addition, the new mining law will allow regional county municipalities to delimit, in their development plan, territories incompatible with mining activity. By thus giving the power to act to municipalities, the law finally gives citizens the ability to control the development of their territory.
The new mining law allows for the establishment of a monitoring committee to promote the involvement of local communities in all of each of the projects.
In addition, it provides for a new chapter concerning consultations with indigenous communities.
Public consultations conducted by the Office of Public Hearings on the Environment will be held for all projects for mines or ore processing plants of more than 2,000 metric tons or more per day, as well as for projects of exploitation of rare earths. For other projects, a consultation must be held by the mining company, according to guidelines set by the government. All of this will ensure that mining development is carried out with respect for the environment and local communities.
The new mining law provides more transparency throughout the operation of a mine. From now on, for each of the mines, the quantity and value of the ore extracted as well as the royalties and all the contributions paid to the State by the miners will be made public.
“The adoption of the mining law sends a very positive signal to citizens, municipalities and businesses. Indeed, it will ensure economic, environmental and social stability. This is why I am delighted with this important victory for Quebecers, ”concluded Martine Ouellet.
