Quebec - The Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, announces the establishment of the Regional and Forestry Development Program. This new program will promote regional cooperation and the implementation of projects in the forest environment.
“In addition to creating jobs and wealth for our communities, the amounts associated with this program will be used for projects that showcase forest products and promote the integrated management of our resources,” said Martine Ouellet.
With the Regional and Forestry Development Program, the regional conferences of elected officials will promote regional partnerships. Regional consultation activities, such as the coordination of local tables for integrated land and resource management and the coordination of regional commissions on natural resources and land, will continue to be supported financially.
With the help of selection committees made up of several regional stakeholders, the regional conferences of elected officials will contribute to regional development and the development of forest resources by financing structuring projects. Three categories of projects are eligible: projects for the development of woody material and non-wood forest products, structuring recreational tourism projects in a forest environment and integrated resource management projects (forest, wildlife and land).
Implementation of the new program
To ensure better predictability of activities, the Regional and Forestry Development Program, for which the government allocates $ 23 million per year, will be implemented for two years, namely 2013-2014 and 2014-2015. The regional conferences of elected officials remain designated by the government of Quebec for its implementation.
&quot;With the announcement of this new program, our government is reiterating its support for regional stakeholders, workers and communities who make a living from the forest,&quot; added Martine Ouellet.
The establishment of the Regional and Forestry Development Program for the period 2013 to 2015 replaces the Program for the enhancement of the integrated and regionalized approach as well as the Program for the enhancement of forest resources - Part II.
