Terrebonne - Following the recent rumor of a departure or a change of party, the member for Terrebonne, Mathieu Traversy, wants to correct the situation. He also wishes to say that no one checked the facts before going to press the article which appeared this morning in Le Journal de Montréal.
“First of all, it was with surprise that I learned of the rumor. It is not because we have good discussions internally and that I bring different points of view to the caucus that I intend to run for a possible party of François Legault. I am taking advantage of these exchanges with my colleagues from the Parti Québécois to put forward ideas in order to change things within our party, to continue to represent the population well and to improve; I don&#39;t work for another political option at all! », Affirmed Mathieu Traversy.
The member for Terrebonne is sorry that some may have misperceived his attitude of wanting to make corrective measures and positive changes within the party. &quot;It is very bad to know myself to think that I can join a political movement that does not even advocate sovereignty!&quot; &quot;
He adds: “Today&#39;s Quebec must make effective choices and get out of the Canadian federal straitjacket. In this regard, the Parti Québécois proposal on sovereignist governance is the best in my opinion. It will allow us to govern Quebec, to appropriate more powers and to promote our option until Quebeckers want to vote on the issue. Simple provincialist governance devoid of promotional actions for the achievement of our country project does not interest me ”.
“Even if François Legault is a politician whom I respect, no approach has ever been made and I have never tried to approach him to be part of his coalition,” he corrected.
Mathieu Traversy remains convinced that the Parti Québécois, by virtue of its history and its convictions, is the only party that can do things differently to advance Quebec, in particular through its desire to make it sovereign. &quot;The freedom of a people is the best gift we can offer it, and that is what the Parti Québécois will allow us to do,&quot; concluded the member for Terrebonne.
