Montreal - Visiting Saint-Émile School in Montreal, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Marie Malavoy, and the Member of Parliament for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve , Carole Poirier, today announced the allocation of a total amount of $ 2,705,971 for schoolyard beautification work across Quebec.
“The good thing about this measure is the collaboration it generates between the community and the school boards. In these initiatives intended to improve the living environment of Quebec children, the government acts as a catalyst and the establishments, as project managers. The realization of such projects is the mark of a community mobilized to ensure a quality future for its children. It must be so, ”said the Prime Minister.
The financial assistance announced today is granted as part of the Schoolyard Improvement measure of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. By allowing school boards to carry out various development projects in partnership with the community, this measure aims, among other things, to ensure a stimulating, safe and conducive environment for the practice of physical activity. A total of 142 projects, for a total cost of $ 10,490,328, will be carried out this year in some fifty school boards.
Minister Malavoy took advantage of this announcement to make public the amounts allocated in the Montreal region. The Montreal, Marguerite-Bourgeoys and English-Montreal school boards will share a sum of $ 134,880 for the realization of eight schoolyard beautification projects. The selected projects can be found in the appendix.
“By investing in our schoolyards, we are offering schoolchildren a safe and welcoming place, where the pleasure of being active and socializing form a happy mixture. It is also one of the means by which the Government of Quebec ensures the preservation of school heritage. I am happy that we are making this one of our priorities and that we are demonstrating it with today&#39;s announcement, ”added Minister Malavoy.
Speaking about the project that will be carried out at Saint-Émile school, where the press conference was being held, the MP for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve was delighted for the students who attend the establishment and for the families in the area. “The schoolyard is of particular importance; it is synonymous with pleasure. Because you know, school is much more than a place of learning. The more pleasant this living environment, the more students will develop a sense of belonging to the school. They will want to prepare their plans for the future and succeed there. Isn&#39;t that what we want for our children? », Carole Poirier concluded.
