Quebec - Gaétan Lelièvre, MP for Gaspé and official opposition spokesperson for municipal affairs and regional development, and MP for Abitibi-Ouest, François Gendron, held a press briefing. morning, in the company of members of the Touche pas à ma région! coalition mobilization committee. Abitibi-Témiscamingue; together, they once again denounced the devastating impacts of liberal austerity measures on this region.
“The government does not seem to realize how counterproductive what it is asking the regions and their local actors is. He says to them: abandon your ways of doing things, even if they work, and adopt the unique model we are proposing. Fortunately, stakeholders in the field and citizens are particularly mobilized to safeguard and recognize regional consultation and development bodies, ”said Gaétan Lelièvre.
This morning, members of the mobilization committee of the Touche pas à ma région! Abitibi-Témiscamingue, Gilles Chapadeau, Paul-Émile Barbeau, Émilien Larochelle and Martin Ferron, came to present to the National Assembly a petition signed by more than 6,000 people from Abitibi-Témiscamingue. This petition reaffirms the importance of maintaining the tools and resources available to the regions as well as the dangers of centralizing decision-making powers.
“Abitibi-Témiscamingue, like the other regions of Quebec, refuses to be imposed a framework that does not suit it. For more than 50 years, in consultation, it has developed its own model to stimulate its economy and its development; this one has been proven and it works. It is essential that we can keep it. The government must stop knowingly weakening us! », Added François Gendron.
“The Parti Québécois unreservedly supports the people of Abitibi-Témiscamingue and all regions of Quebec. Government action there is devastating; their development initiatives are downright demolished. Today, Abitibi-Témiscamingue is launching a cry from the heart to the government. He must not only hear it, but listen to it with openness, ”concluded Gaétan Lelièvre.
