Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, met this morning with the Prime Minister-elect, Philippe Couillard, to proceed with the official handover of powers.
During this meeting, the Premier discussed four priority topics with Mr. Couillard:
As is tradition, the Prime Minister-elect accepted the appointment of three collaborators of the Prime Minister. Two of them return to the civil service, a third is appointed for the first time. They are Marc-André Beaulieu, Stéphane Dolbec and Patrick Lahaie.
Marc-André Beaulieu holds a graduate degree specializing in public policy and management of organizations from the University of Paris I, a master&#39;s degree in political science from the University of Montreal and a diploma from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. Mr. Beaulieu has an impressive track record in international relations, particularly within the permanent representation of the International Organization of La Francophonie to the United Nations in Geneva and as adviser and charge d&#39;affaires ad interim at the Quebec Office. in Munich. He worked in many ministries as an advisor and then as an executive, between 1990 and 2009, before becoming advisor to Pauline Marois, first in the office of the leader of the official opposition and then in the office of the Prime Minister. .
Member of the Quebec Bar since 1998, holder of a bachelor&#39;s degree in law from Laval University, Mr. Stéphane Dolbec was chief of staff to numerous ministers between 1989 and 2002. He also worked for the Chief Electoral Officer, as director of research, modernization and international cooperation, from 2007 to 2009. He subsequently became advisor to Pauline Marois then director of content in the Prime Minister&#39;s office in 2012.
Holder of a postgraduate degree in international economic law from the Institut des Hautes Études Internationales of the University of Paris II, and a master&#39;s degree in political science from the University of Montreal, Patrick Lahaie has held many positions at the within political cabinets as well as at the Quebec Federation of Municipalities. He has been an advisor to Pauline Marois since 2007.
The decrees of these appointments will be adopted today by the Council of Ministers.
