Quebec - On the sidelines of the federal-provincial-territorial meeting of ministers responsible for tourism held in Whitehorse, Yukon, on September 12 and 13, 2013, the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, reiterated the position that Quebec argued during this meeting.
“Quebec considers tourism to be a major economic development sector since it generates $ 12.4 billion in tourism revenue creating more than 140,000 direct jobs and contributes to the diversification of the economy in several regions of Quebec. In this context, all our resources must be put to use and all the players linked to the tourism industry from the different levels of government must act consistently to ensure that Quebec can take full advantage of the significant growth forecasts of the international tourism ”, declared Mr. Bérubé.
During the meeting, the Quebec delegation headed by the Associate Deputy Minister for Tourism, Ms. Suzanne Giguère, reported on Quebec&#39;s priorities for the development and promotion of the Quebec destination.
Quebec took the opportunity to present its own initiatives in the development of tourism products and discuss promising approaches in this area.
Quebec has also expressed its concerns about the impact of the reform of the employment insurance program on the tourism industry, since this reform creates a climate of uncertainty and threatens the stability of nearly 30% of its workforce.
With regard to the promotion of the Quebec destination, the Associate Deputy Minister underlined Quebec&#39;s concern regarding the reduction in the budget of the Canadian Tourism Commission. This decrease has led to a lesser presence of this organization on the American market, a priority market for the Quebec tourism industry. Quebec has asked the federal government to continue its efforts to facilitate the visa application process for Mexican tourists. The importance of air transport for the tourism development of Quebec was also underlined and, more particularly, its desire to see the establishment of a direct air link between China and Quebec.
The meeting also allowed Quebec to present the content of its Tourism Industry Development Plan 2012-2020 An itinerary towards growth, to demonstrate the importance of tourism in the economic development of Quebec, to publicize its new image of brand, Québec.Original and to underline the efforts made jointly with all tourism stakeholders to implement its Plan.
