Îles-de-la-Madeleine– The Member for Îles-de-la-Madeleine, Ms. Jeannine Richard, had the pleasure of welcoming her colleague and Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, during her visit to the Îles-de-la-Madeleine. -Madeleine. It was at her invitation that the Minister traveled to meet elected municipal officials as well as major players in the region, from different sectors, in order to listen to their concerns.
“We came to the Magdalen Islands to listen to the citizens and the main players in the region, from political, socio-economic, environmental and institutional backgrounds, and to collect their suggestions as well as their comments concerning their environment. We believe that Quebec must define a vision as well as clear directions for its future energy development. The Magdalen Islands will be an integral part of this great collective reflection which is beginning in Quebec ”, declared Martine Ouellet.
“Martine Ouellet&#39;s presence today in the Magdalen Islands is significant and demonstrates more than ever that the regions are at the heart of our government&#39;s concerns. The Madelinots can count on the support of the Parti Québécois to promote the development of the Magdalen Islands, ”said Jeannine Richard.
Martine Ouellet met with elected officials from City Council, the management of the Municipalité des Îles-de-la-Madeleine as well as members of the Table de concertation sur les hydrocaralités and the Commission on Energy Issues in Quebec. They had the opportunity to share their concerns with him about the region&#39;s energy issues. The issue of the end of life of the Hydro-Québec thermal power station, which currently supplies energy to the archipelago, was discussed and alternative energy supply solutions were presented to it. The exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Gulf of St. Lawrence was also on the agenda. Note that Martine Ouellet will visit the Hydro-Québec thermal power plant this afternoon.
Martine Ouellet announced, in the presence of Jeannine Richard, that the Commission on energy issues in Quebec will stop in the Magdalen Islands on September 23. This date is therefore added to this important tour of the commission, which will travel to all regions of Quebec from September 4 to October 9, 2013. The Minister of Natural Resources declared that she wanted the Madelinots be more likely to express their opinion, share their expertise and make suggestions to respond to the main energy issues that concern the Magdalen Islands and Quebec.
Martine Ouellet also had the opportunity to discover the environment, culture and economic activities of the Magdalen Islands. In this regard, the Minister met with the ZIP Committee, which presented her with the various issues concerning flora and fauna as well as the history of the Magdalen Islands archipelago. The practices and issues related to lobster fishing were presented to him.
“The Magdalen Islands are without a doubt among the most beautiful islands in the world. The archipelago is not only rich in its culture and its history, but in its people and its landscapes, ”said Martine Ouellet.
At the end of her visit, Martine Ouellet paid tribute to the work of her colleague Jeannine Richard, who does all the work of representation for her region. She also wanted to thank the Madelinots for their warm welcome as well as their great hospitality.
