Montreal - “Every day, more than 70,000 nurses take care of Quebecers in hospitals and CHSLDs or offer services at home or elsewhere. Together with other health professionals, they are the cornerstone of our public health system. It is with them that we will take the health turn that we are proposing. This is what the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, declared after a meeting with the president of the Interprofessional Health Federation of Quebec, Régine Laurent.
“Home care is the first axis of our health shift. To do this, nurses must be able to assume more powers, such as prescribing medications related to the treatment of certain wounds. Thus, nurses, who are true experts in this type of care, will be able to prescribe, within a well-defined framework, drugs for the home treatment of wounds. By treating wounds more quickly, we avoid complications, we free up time for physicians so that they can meet more patients and we relieve emergency rooms, ”underlined Pauline Marois.
The leader of the Parti Québécois was also in favor of nurses having increased responsibilities; for example, they might order x-rays or laboratory tests. “The goal is to make maximum use of the skills of nurses because they are in the best position to take care of our world and because our public health system must be more efficient and more accessible. We have supported pharmacists in their shift towards the first line, we will do the same with nurses, ”assured Pauline Marois, stressing that giving nurses more responsibilities will at the same time make life easier for the patient.
Privatization of health care is not a solution to improve access to care. The most eloquent example is that of the use of private nursing agencies in the public health network. Not only is it costing the state 20% more, but in the long run, these agencies are contributing to the exodus of nurses to the private sector.
“The private health sector is not the solution. Our shift to health will take place within a universal, efficient, accessible public system that offers quality services, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
