Quebec - The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister of the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, as well as Jeannine Richard, Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, defended the interests and priorities of Quebec fishermen and aquaculturists at meetings of the Canadian Council of Fisheries and Aquaculture Ministers and the Council of Atlantic Fisheries and Aquaculture Ministers which end today in Quebec City.
Gathered in the nation&#39;s capital, provincial, territorial and federal fisheries ministers discussed issues of concern to the commercial fishing and aquaculture industry. Mesdames Maltais and Richard took the opportunity to highlight both the concerns and the priorities of the Government of Quebec with regard to the many issues discussed during these two days of meeting, in particular with regard to insurance reform. -employment and the difficult situation experienced by the Atlantic lobster industry in 2013.
Minister Maltais took advantage of the meeting to inform Federal Minister of Fisheries and Oceans, Ms. Gail Shea, of the Quebec government&#39;s deep concern about the repercussions of the federal employment insurance reform on sustainability. economic impact of the commercial fishing and aquaculture industry and on the populations of the maritime regions of Quebec. She insisted that the federal reform risks unfairly penalizing the fishing and aquaculture sector.
“The federal government is turning a deaf ear to Quebec&#39;s demands. By abolishing the pilot project for five additional weeks of benefits and forcing seasonal workers to accept lower-paid jobs, it is destabilizing the Quebec fishing and aquaculture market. This is an irresponsible reform since it does not recognize that it is the jobs that are seasonal and not the workers, ”said Ms. Maltais. The Minister recalled that 74% of employment insurance beneficiaries in the Gaspé and the Magdalen Islands and 56% of beneficiaries in the Bas-Saint-Laurent are among the frequent beneficiaries particularly targeted by the reform.
Ms. Maltais asked the Federal Minister to make representations to her colleagues in the federal government so that the anticipated harmful consequences of this reform on resource regions and seasonal workers are taken into account and that this reform be suspended until that the federal government demonstrate that it will have no negative effects on Quebec.
For her part, the parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Jeanine Richard, defended Quebec&#39;s position on lobster fishing. “The current situation in the lobster fishery is weakening businesses and the economy of the maritime regions. We cannot stand idly by. The industry is experiencing significant structural problems in large part because the federal government is not modernizing its fisheries management mechanisms to take into account new market and industry realities, ”said Ms. Richard. She also recalled that the Quebec government had to put in place urgent financial assistance measures to prevent the financial situation of certain lobster fishing companies from deteriorating further and jeopardizing the pursuit of their activities.
With regard to aquaculture, Quebec has indicated its intention not to apply the new draft federal regulation to its aquaculture industry. Aquaculture in Quebec is very well supervised by the Quebec legislation and regulations already in force, which cover the environmental impacts on which the federal government intends to legislate. The ministers also discussed proposed federal regulations to address aquatic invasive species. Quebec has indicated that it already has its own regulations in this area, but that it is ready to discuss with the federal government and neighboring provinces for better collaboration and better alignment of their interventions to fight against establishment and spread of these species Any regulatory duplication between the two levels of government would, however, be detrimental to the industry.
Remember that commercial fishing contributes significantly to the economy of the maritime regions of Quebec. A little over 3,000 fishermen and fisherman&#39;s helpers carry out catching activities in Quebec. These activities generate average landings of nearly 54,000 tonnes of marine products each year. The value of shipments of commercial fishery products exceeds $ 340 million. Quebec&#39;s aquaculture industry includes nearly 130 companies, provides approximately 300 jobs annually and generates sales estimated at nearly $ 12 million.
