Quebec - On the eve of the meeting between the heads of state of Canada, the United States and Mexico, the leader of the official opposition and member for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, the member for Bonaventure and spokesperson for the Party Quebecer in forestry matters, Sylvain Roy, and the member for Verchères, spokesperson for Quebec-Canada relations, Stéphane Bergeron, wanted to support the Quebec forest industry in the softwood lumber file. The agreement on this subject having expired in October 2015, the timber trade must be part of the discussions of the international meeting.
“The Liberal government of Philippe Couillard has finally decided to express support for our forest industry. For our part, we would like to reiterate our own once again. It is important that the federal government listen to our workers, not just those in western Canada. In my region, Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean, this important industry must receive good news, especially since in another issue affecting this sector, the surtax on overcalendered paper continues to cause uncertainty. especially for the Dolbeau and Kénogami plants, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
“This unfair tax imposed by the United States raises fears of the worst for our forestry workers, already strongly affected by the inaction of the Liberal government in the sector. Since 2005, more than 20,000 direct jobs have been lost in wood processing. The government slashed the budget dedicated to silvicultural work by $ 38 million. Some 286 factories have closed. Minister Laurent Lessard must be clear and firmly support our industry against the federal government, ”added Sylvain Roy.
Stéphane Bergeron, for his part, recalled the many promises of the Liberal government of Justin Trudeau towards Quebec. “After courting Quebeckers during an election campaign, the federal Liberal caucus is completely silent on issues concerning Quebec, particularly softwood lumber. The least we can say is that MPs and federal ministers don&#39;t seem to care too much! We must constantly come back to the charge; contrary to what Philippe Couillard asserted, his soft and non-demanding federalism has never resulted in the slightest benefit for Quebec. It is high time that Prime Ministers Trudeau and Couillard came to the defense of Quebec&#39;s interests, as they had committed to, ”he concluded.
