Toronto - Mr. François Gendron, Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food of Quebec, and Ms. Kathleen Wynne, Premier and Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ontario , met today to discuss topics of common interest related to the Quebec-Ontario Trade and Cooperation Agreement.
The ministers of Quebec and Ontario gave an update on their respective initiatives in the area of local purchase of agri-food products. They notably discussed the Foodland Ontario program (Ontario, nourishing land), the Act respecting reserved designations and enhancement terms in force in Quebec, Aliments du Québec and the local food bill which is currently being drafted. study in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario.
“For Quebec, the future food sovereignty policy will aim in particular to increase the presence of Quebec foods in consumers&#39; diets. Through our efforts, we hope that more and more Quebeckers will ask for local products from their grocers or restaurant owners, ”said the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron.
“The Ontario government is showing an interest in moving forward with a local food purchasing strategy that will expand our markets at home and abroad. With passionate local food consumers in both provinces, there is great opportunity for our two governments to work together, ”said Ontario Premier Kathleen Wynne.
During this meeting, the ministers agreed to explore certain avenues of collaboration with regard to the promotion of the local purchase of agrifood products. They also expressed interest in working with the federal government to ensure that federal regulations are appropriate to the efforts being made.
Three quarters of producers in Quebec and Ontario benefit from supply management in Canada, in the milk, poultry and egg sectors. The ministers affirmed that supply management is essential and that it provides quality local food to consumers.
It contributes to the economic strength of the agriculture and agrifood sector in both provinces. The ministers united their voices to ensure that the interests of producers under supply management continue to be defended by the federal government in all trade negotiations.
The two ministers also mentioned that supply management must itself keep pace with its evolution and they committed to working with the industry to capitalize on mutually beneficial market opportunities.
The ministers highlighted the recent successes of the collaboration between the two provinces in the promotion activities aimed at the export of products as well as in the field of innovation. They are committed to continuing these collaborative efforts for the benefit of the agricultural and agrifood sectors of the two provinces.
Remember that Ontario and Quebec provide nearly 38% of Canadian agricultural production and that they support nearly two-thirds of food processing in Canada. In September 2009, the Premiers of Quebec and Ontario signed the Quebec-Ontario Trade and Cooperation Agreement, which establishes common commitments in matters of cooperation, regulatory harmonization and innovation.
