Toronto - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, took part in a working session of the Council of the Federation which took place today, in Toronto, in order to defend the interests of Quebec on various issues. economic priorities.
The Prime Minister notably expressed her concerns in the matter of manpower training, while the federal government persists in wanting to impose its Canada job subsidy. Ms. Marois took advantage of the meeting with her Canadian counterparts to once again denounce this attempt at federal interference in areas of provincial jurisdiction.
“This program would jeopardize the Quebec system in place, although everyone recognizes its effectiveness in meeting the needs of our labor market. Ottawa must back down. If, unfortunately, the federal government persists, it must allow governments that so desire, such as that of Quebec, to withdraw with full compensation. This is the wish that the prime ministers have once again expressed with one voice today, ”said Pauline Marois.
Discussions also focused on rail safety. The Lac-Mégantic tragedy demonstrated the need for the federal government not only to tighten the rules in force, but also to put in place concrete measures to increase the safety of rail convoys transporting hazardous materials. And, although the work has started, much remains to be done on the side of the federal authorities, as Ms. Marois wished to remind her counterparts.
“The federal government must take the necessary steps to ensure that a tragedy like the one we have experienced never happens again. I hope that he will assume his responsibilities, with the same determination as that shown by our American neighbor, and that he devote more resources to ensure that not only the regulations are strengthened, but that they are beautiful. and well applied, ”said the Prime Minister.
The Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union, for which an agreement in principle was recently reached, was also discussed. “The diversification of our export markets is always good news for Quebec. Nevertheless, it is clear to my government that prior to its ratification, the federal government must have put in place a mechanism to compensate for the negative impacts that this agreement will have, in particular for our dairy and cheese producers. We will ensure that the federal government fulfills its commitment, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
