Lake Louise– Following today&#39;s meeting of the Canadian Council of Ministers of the Environment (CCME) in Lake Louise, Alberta, the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Faune et des Parcs, Mr. Daniel Breton, made known Quebec&#39;s position on the subjects that were the subject of discussions.
The Minister spoke in particular on the implementation of a pan-Canadian air quality management system (SGQA). Thus, although he is in agreement with the objectives of the system and the need to coordinate action in order to combat air pollution problems, including transboundary pollution, the minister indicated that he could not adhere to the system proposed by the CCME or commit Quebec to implement it.
“Quebec already has the tools necessary to ensure good management of the air quality in its territory, in particular through the Regulation respecting the purification of the atmosphere and other sectoral regulations that standardize atmospheric emissions. on its territory. In addition, the Air Quality Policy currently being drafted will complement the various regulatory measures put forward in recent years. The adoption of a federal regulatory safety net would then duplicate Quebec regulations, ”the Minister indicated.
Despite its reservations, the Government of Quebec intends to continue to collaborate on air quality management within the framework of CCME activities. In fact, certain measures are of interest to Quebec, particularly with regard to integrated management by airshed, which introduces new tools to address transboundary air quality problems.
In addition, in response to a request from ministers to act to reduce packaging in Canada, members of a working group made up of government and industry representatives agreed on measures under which the industry is committed to reducing the ecological footprint of packaging by optimizing it. The ministers were called upon to vote on the wording of these commitments.
&quot;The initiatives taken by the industry correspond to several of the measures contained in the Québec Residual Materials Management Policy and will help reduce the quantity of packaging on the market, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase proportion of recycled materials in packaging. These voluntary measures are certainly a step in the right direction. However, in order to further reduce packaging waste in Canada, we believe that the CCME should continue its work within the framework of the pan-Canadian action plan for extended producer responsibility, ”said the Minister.
Finally, Quebec approved the pan-Canadian approach for the management of municipal biosolids from wastewater treatment, since it is not binding and is consistent with its own policies. This approach encourages the recovery and proper management of municipal biosolids waste, municipal sludge and treated septic tank sludge as useful sources of nutrients, organic matter and energy.
