Niagara-on-the-Lake, Ontario - Premier of Quebec Pauline Marois is happy with the annual meeting of the Council of the Federation.
This morning, the Prime Minister submitted a proposal calling on the federal government to ensure greater safety in rail transport, a proposal that was unanimous among her counterparts. It speaks in particular of a system for tracking rail convoys transporting hazardous materials that should be put in place by the federal government. This system would provide real-time data on the location and content of these trains.
“The railroad is very present in Quebec and in Canada. I am delighted that my colleagues have agreed with us on the importance of knowing in advance what passes through our villages and towns, and the need for strengthening in the application of regulations, ”said the first minister.
This proposal also calls on the federal government to take the necessary measures to ensure that liability insurance requirements are sufficient.
In addition, this discussion was an opportunity to take stock of the efforts made by the Government of Quebec in the wake of the fatal derailment in Lac-Mégantic.
In addition, yesterday, the Prime Minister was delighted to note that her colleagues from the provinces and territories reiterated the consensus to demand that governments that so wish to be able to withdraw with full compensation. federal initiatives in the field of manpower training. This echoes the consensus of the Quebec partners involved and of all the parties in the National Assembly as to the importance of the Quebec government continuing to exercise its project management in the area of workforce training. artwork.
“Our unanimity on this issue sends a strong message to the federal government. Its initiative of the Canada Job Grant would take Quebec back more than fifteen years and we do not intend it to apply in our territory, ”continued Ms. Marois.
Finally, the Premier spoke of the Quebec experience in the fight against violence and intimidation. She recalled that new technologies, cyberbullying and cybercrime are evolving rapidly, that this development must be closely monitored and various solutions considered to put an end to it.
The Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Alexandre Cloutier, for his part clarified that &quot;Quebec is in favor of making adjustments to the Criminal Code, on the understanding, however, that&quot; it must be consulted before the entry into force of these provisions ”.
