Quebec - While the media cases related to the trafficking of young girls are increasing in Quebec, the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on the status of women, Carole Poirier, as well as the spokesperson for public safety, Pascal Bérubé, call on the new Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Lise Thériault, to find out what she intends to do to prevent and fight against the sexual exploitation of young girls.
To follow up on the adoption, in December 2013, of a motion to put in place measures to combat human trafficking, the Parti Québécois government began preparing an action plan against human trafficking. sexual exploitation. The motion also asked the government to start thinking about returning sex education classes to schools.
“When he was in government, the Parti Québécois took action. We conducted consultations with the organizations concerned in several regions of Quebec; between September 2013 and February 2014, 261 groups were heard. We set up a ministerial committee that made recommendations to the government, particularly on hypersexualization, prostitution and trafficking in women inside and outside the country. The time has come to implement the action plan against sexual exploitation, ”insisted Carole Poirier.
“Unfortunately, it seems that nothing has changed for almost 2 years. We are worried, especially since the government has reduced the amounts allocated to the prevention of sexual exploitation and the recruitment of young women into street gangs. We are asking the Minister responsible for the Status of Women to tell us when her government will act on the motion adopted by parliamentarians. We hope for the rapid implementation of the action plan, as well as measures in terms of prevention, prosecution, but also protection of victims and physical, psychological and social recovery, ”added Carole Poirier.
“Lise Thériault is the former Minister of Public Security. She must tell us what she did, when she was in this position, to counter the exploitation of young girls. In addition, as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, she must imperatively urge her colleague Martin Coiteux to act in this matter, ”concluded Pascal Bérubé.
