Quebec - The MP for Vachon and official opposition spokesperson for mines and shale gas, Martine Ouellet, said she was little surprised by the results of a recent poll conducted by the firm Léger Marketing for the Journal of Montreal, where Quebecers feel that they are not getting enough benefits from the exploitation of their resources.
In this survey, 59% of Quebecers consider that the fees collected are insufficient. For Témiscabitibiens, this proportion climbs to 73%. “When three out of four citizens of a mining region want the state to get more out of it, it&#39;s because they&#39;re tired of seeing so much money slip into the pockets of mining companies. That should give a government pause, ”said the member for Vachon. She recalls in passing that 10 out of 19 mining companies did not pay any royalties in 2010. The Parti Québécois wishes to have the principle of a royalty on the gross income of mining companies adopted, as is the case for sand and gravel pits.
A majority of Quebecers also believe that Quebec could derive more benefits from its mineral resources if the government insisted on secondary and tertiary processing projects in Quebec. “Transforming our resources here creates three times more jobs than just extraction. With the same tonne or the same ounce, we could put thousands of Quebecers to work with structuring and value-added jobs, ”argued Martine Ouellet.
For the Parti Québécois, mining companies must take responsibility and contribute more for the restoration and redevelopment of an exploited territory. “Gone are the days when a company emptied the basement and left the site abandoned. We need cleaner and more responsible mining development, ”said the MP. In this sense, she does not understand the refusal of the Liberal government to make public the restoration plans and the guarantee payments. “Currently, Quebec must assume a bill of $ 1.2 billion for orphan sites. It is the least of things that this bill is shared with the mining companies, the main beneficiaries of our resources. The Liberal government strongly objects. Why is he trying to defend the mining companies before Quebecers? », Asks Martine Ouellet.
“While the study of Bill 14 continues, this survey once again confirms our positions. It should also make Minister Serge Simard bend, who systematically refuses any proposal to enrich Quebecers, ”said Martine Ouellet.
