Saint-Jérôme– The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, accompanied by the member for Labelle, government official for the Laurentides region and chair of the government caucus, Sylvain Pagé, and the general and artistic director of Diffusion En Scène Rivière-du-Nord, Gaétane Léveillé, announces financial assistance of $ 14,603,400 for the construction of a large-scale performance hall in Saint-Jérôme.
“The venues for the presentation of the performing arts contribute to the cultural vitality of Quebec and its regions since they promote the appropriation of the arts by all citizens. Today&#39;s announcement is the result of concerted action between various partners who rely on culture as a fundamental vehicle for the affirmation of identity and the socio-economic development of an entire community, ”said Minister Kotto.
“This news, which has been awaited for several years, is something to rejoice the citizens of Saint-Jérôme and the Laurentians. Culture and the arts are essential tools for the social, economic and tourist development of the regions. I salute the elected municipal officials, the board of directors and the staff of Diffusion En Scène Rivière-du-Nord as well as the population of Saint-Jérôme for their commitment and perseverance, which made this project a reality ”, added the deputy Pagé.
The current Saint-Jérôme performance hall is located inside its high school. Built in 1968, its obsolete facilities no longer provide the best possible broadcasting conditions. In view of the scale of the improvements required in order to meet the scenographic and technical requirements of a state-of-the-art venue, it seemed more fruitful to build a hall. Located in the city center, it will contribute to the revitalization of this sector and will be easy to access. Designed to accommodate nearly 900 spectators, it will serve more than 200,000 people from the MRCs of La Rivière-du-Nord, Argenteuil, Pays-d&#39;en-Haut and Mirabel.
The City of Saint-Jérôme has appointed Diffusion En Scène Rivière-du-Nord as project manager and venue manager. This organization, which is celebrating its twenty-fifth anniversary this year, is recognized and supported as a multidisciplinary performer in the performing arts by the Ministry of Culture and Communications. It is one of the most dynamic presenters in the region and even beyond. Its varied program attracts around 60,000 spectators each year.
The total cost of the project is estimated at nearly $ 21 million, 70% of which comes from the Ministry of Culture and Communications through its Capital Assistance program. The City of Saint-Jérôme is the second major financial partner.
