Sherbrooke– The Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Seniors and Minister responsible for the Estrie region, Doctor Réjean Hébert, and the Member of Parliament for Sherbrooke, Mr. Serge Cardin, today inaugurated the new premises the Estrie Dependency Rehabilitation Center (CRDE), following expansion work aimed at bringing together all of its services at a single address.
In fact, the building located at 1930 King Street West, in Sherbrooke, and which houses the head office, the users&#39; center as well as the activities of the CRDE dependency program, has undergone major renovation work. expansion over the past year. The main objective of these was to allow the repatriation of the clients and activities of Maison Saint-Georges, where its mental health program was implemented.
&quot;By bringing together its activities under one roof, the Estrie Dependency Rehabilitation Center has opened the door to better integration of its services, for the direct benefit of its clients struggling with a double addiction problem. and mental health. This work not only makes better use of space, but also makes more efficient use of the diverse expertise of its clinical staff, ”declared Minister Hébert.
The works consisted of an extension of 1,715 m2 on two floors, as well as certain redevelopments of existing spaces. In addition to offering a more practical and safer environment for customers, both externally and in accommodation, the new premises encourage the pooling of certain human and material resources.
For his part, Mr. Cardin said that “the Estrie addiction rehabilitation center plays an important role in the region. By supporting its expansion project, our government has reiterated its confidence and recognition in it, while reaffirming its desire to fully support it in the accomplishment of its mission to the population. &quot;
Remember that this real estate project, carried out at a cost of $ 4,625,138, was funded to the tune of $ 2,610,000 by the Estrie health and social services agency and $ 2,015,138 by the establishment. .
