Montreal - On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the MNA for Rimouski, Irvin Pelletier, announces an agreement in principle of $ 254,000 with the City of Rimouski for the relocation of the Bic library.
The agreement in principle will allow the City of Rimouski to complete the studies and the definition of the relocation project for this library. The latter&#39;s objective is to offer a larger surface area to this important cultural site, because the current building no longer meets the needs of the citizens of Bic.
“I am proud to support this project, which will provide people at Bic with access to an enriched collection of literary works, but also to a large number of diversified activities at the very heart of their community. We know the role that libraries can play as a place of meetings, exchanges and dissemination of our culture. The population of Bic will now be able to fully benefit from it, ”said Minister Kotto.
“This project will certainly contribute to increasing the number of visitors to the public library, in addition to providing better access to entertainment activities and cultural products. I am enthusiastic about this announcement, because the economic, social and cultural health of our regions depends on local services and quality community life, ”continued Mr. Pelletier.
The old town hall of Le Bic was chosen to house the library. This building, which has become surplus, located very close to an early childhood center, a playground and a residence for the elderly, will therefore be recycled. The population will thus benefit from a larger space, a larger collection of books, various exhibitions and access for people with reduced mobility. This project will help improve the offer of cultural services in the area.
The agreement in principle is made possible thanks to the Capital Assistance program of the Ministry of Culture and Communications. The City of Rimouski is a partner in this project by also contributing up to $ 254,000, ie the second half of the total amount for its realization estimated at $ 508,000.
