Quebec - The member for Jonquière and leader of the official opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the member for Vachon and the Parti Québécois spokesperson for transport, Martine Ouellet, denounced the willful blindness of the Liberal Prime Minister regarding allegations of irregularities in the management of contracts with the Ministère des Transports du Québec (MTQ).
“The Prime Minister invoked in his own way the maxim of the three monkeys: I do not see, I do not hear, I do not speak. And this, until his breakfast on Wednesday morning. But there is clearly something wrong. As early as December 2015, La Presse revealed the existence of the internal audit report that the Prime Minister himself tabled in the House last Wednesday, the famous report which was missing pages and for which the conclusions have been changed. So either Philippe Couillard was wrong on Wednesday, or he hadn&#39;t known anything since December. However, in both cases, it is a serious fault. The Prime Minister could not not have known, ”declared Sylvain Gaudreault.
Liberals refuse to shed any light
In addition, the member for Vachon denounces the refusal of the Liberal government to give its agreement to the motion that she tabled and which proposed to hear the stakeholders concerned in a parliamentary committee, a motion that however supported the CAQ, QS and the independent deputy for Arthabaska. “After the Charbonneau commission blames the MTQ, Quebeckers have a right to expect a change in culture within this ministry. Yet we learned last week that it is not. Even the former minister faced resistance when he asked a former UPAC employee to shed some light on the situation! We regret that the government refused to continue the work undertaken before the Committee on Public Administration by mandating the Committee on Transport and the Environment to hear the key players in contract management within the MTQ ”, concluded Martine Ouellet.
Here is, in part, the motion that was defeated by the Liberals:
&quot;That in order to shed light on the allegations of the former Minister of Transport and deputy for Marguerite-Bourgeoys about irregularities in the management of contracts of the Ministry of Transport, the Committee on Transport and the Environment proceeds when hearing the following people:
The former Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Marguerite-Bourgeoys; The Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Verdun; Mr. Jean-Louis Dufresne, Director, Prime Minister&#39;s Office; Mr. Juan Roberto Iglesias, Secretary General and Clerk of the Executive Council; Ms. Annie Trudel, analyst hired by the former Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Marguerite-Bourgeoys; Ms. Louise Boily, former Director, Department of Internal Investigations and Audits of the Ministry of Transport; former Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière; Former Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Louis-Hébert; Former Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Laviolette; Mr. André Caron, Associate Deputy Minister at the Ministry transports. &quot;
