Quebec - The Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée, concluded this Saturday, in Burkina Faso, a one-week mission to West Africa during which he was accompanied by more a hundred business people and institutional circles, civil society and international solidarity. “The results of this first multisectoral mission, the most important to date carried out by the Government of Quebec in Africa, are very positive. In total, 44 commercial or institutional agreements have been concluded. Some companies have established themselves here, others have entered into partnerships or contracts that will allow them to take root on the continent.
“Strong ties already unite Quebec and French-speaking Africa. We are now ready to move up a gear, we are in the era of results. The diversity of our delegation is proof of this, the favorable economic and political situation prevailing in Africa creates numerous business and partnership opportunities that correspond to the commercial and institutional capacities of Quebec, ”declared the Minister.
Nineteen new commercial and institutional agreements were signed during this visit to Burkina Faso. A second Expansion Quebec office in Africa was also inaugurated in the capital, Ouagadougou. &quot;Like the one in Dakar, this office will have the mandate to support Quebec companies wishing to do business in Burkina Faso and West Africa, by offering them personalized commercial support and fully equipped workspaces&quot;, added M. Lisée.
Minister Lisée also met with President Blaise Compaoré. “I discussed with President Compaoré the possibilities of putting forward various cooperation projects in the coming months. In training, among others for trades related to the mining industry, energy projects, particularly solar, telecommunications, including access to the Internet in more remote areas, collaboration between Quebec and Burkina Faso is called to grow. It was also a question of collaboration with the Chief Electoral Officer for the support of the Chief Electoral Officer for the establishment of a permanent administrative structure for the Independent National Electoral Commission (CENI) of Burkina Faso ”, specified Minister Lisée. .
APPENDIX- Summary of commercial and institutional announcements made during the visit of the Quebec delegation to Burkina Faso.
Kariliss Laboratories inc. (partnership)
Marketing of skincare products, micro-finance project.
Géothentic Inc. (partnership)
Implementation of computerized vehicle fleet management services.
Effigis Geo Solutions (partnership)
Memorandum of Understanding on Scientific and Technical Cooperation.
Xit Group (tripartite partnership)
Setting up of a pilot project for a telecommunications infrastructure.
Cégep de Trois-Rivières (2 announcements of partnerships)
Genivar (implantation)
Opening of an office in Ouagadougou located inside the Expansion Quebec office.
CMPC Burkina SA (location)
Creation of a Quebec-Burkinabé joint venture CMPC Burkina SA working in the goods and services sector in the mining sector.
Windiga Energy
20 MW solar project in Burkina Faso, the first project under the Clean Development Mechanism which allows green projects in developing countries to generate certified emission reduction credits, equivalent to one tonne of CO2. These credits are traded and sold to industries in developed countries that have signed the Kyoto Protocol to meet their emission reduction targets.
Géodem (partnership)
Establishment of a partnership to provide cutting-edge training in the mining valuation sector as well as technology transfer in the small-scale mining sector in West Africa.
Paul Gérin-Lajoie Foundation (partnership)
With the Quebec organization CEFRIO, the creation of a partnership with the St-Viateur school in Ouagadougou for research and innovation in organizations, using information and communication technologies.
CRC Sogema (3 contract announcements)
Expansion Quebec (establishment)
Opening of an office twinned with ERAI to help companies and facilitate the development of their business in Burkina Faso and West Africa.
Cégep du Vieux-Montréal (partnership)
Agreement with the Higher Institute of Image and Sound (ISIS) of Burkina Faso to develop training modules in animation cinema and create a new training course.
Global Consultex (partnership)
Contribution to the organization of the 3rd edition of the International Renewable Energies Fair (SIERO) in Ouagadougou which will be held from March 26 to 30, 2014.
Plano Group and the Canadian Center for International Studies and Cooperation (CECI) - (partnership)
Project aimed at strengthening and diversifying the capacity and quality of production of shea butter and setting up of an electricity production unit based on renewable energy.
Consortium Uniterra (Canadian Center for International Studies and Cooperation and World University Service of Canada) - (partnership)
Partnership to build the capacities of members of the Association of Burkinabé Suppliers of Mining Goods and Services (ASBM).
