Quebec– The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today announced the gradual roll-out of newborn screening for sickle cell anemia in the Montreal and Laval regions. In implementation since November 4, this new screening is in addition to those carried out under the Quebec Neonatal Blood and Urinary Screening Program.
Sickle cell anemia is the most common variant of serious hemoglobin disease. This blood disease is hereditary and particularly affects populations of African and Caribbean origin, but also certain populations around the Mediterranean and Asia. Each year, an estimated 40 newborns suffer from severe variants of this disease in Quebec.
“Our decision to gradually add sickle cell anemia screening to the Quebec Neonatal Blood and Urine Screening Program is mainly based on the recommendations of a report produced by the Institut national de santé publique du Québec in 2010. It was also taken in light of our ability to better integrate clinical services for this disease, as well as the demonstrated benefits, which clearly outweigh the disadvantages, ”declared Minister Hébert.
In fact, neonatal screening allows the preventive administration of antibiotics to affected infants. A very appropriate precaution, since children under three years of age with sickle cell anemia have a higher risk of suffering from infections that can lead to death. In addition to infections and pain attacks, which are the health problems most frequently encountered by sufferers, this chronic disease can also cause various very severe complications, such as stroke or paralysis. Care organized around pediatric university centers and better education of parents about the disease can reduce the risk of complications in children.
“The regions of Montreal and Laval have been privileged for this gradual deployment, because there are approximately 80% of births at risk of developing the disease. This addition to the Program will also be an opportunity to gradually revise all the information tools in order to limit parents&#39; concerns and provide more effective tools to the health professionals concerned, ”concluded Minister Hébert.
For more information about sickle cell anemia or the newborn screening program, the public is invited to visit www..msss.gouv.qc.ca/depistage-neonatal
