Quebec - The Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, announces the adoption of a decree allowing the cession of the Notre-Dame-du-Lac and Saint-Juste-du-Lac docks, owned by the federal government, to the intermunicipal board of port infrastructures of Lac Témiscouata. This intervention is a major step in order to proceed with the call for tenders for the repair of this equipment and to put the Le Corégone ferry back into service in 2014.
The Minister also recalled the financial assistance of $ 79,000 granted to the Corporation de La Traverse du Lac Témiscouata. This financial support was allocated to the project since it will help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The aid also enabled work to be carried out to bring the vessel up to standard with the intention of returning it to service.
“Bas-Saint-Laurent is characterized by a remarkable regional concertation force. I would therefore like to underline the combined efforts of the community and stakeholders in the region and I welcome the adoption of this decree which will allow the repair of the docks and the commissioning of the Le Corégone ferry. Restarting this service is important, especially for access to the Lac-Témiscouata National Park, ”said the Minister for Tourism, Pascal Bérubé.
“This financial support fully corresponds to the desire of the Government of Quebec to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, particularly in maritime transport. The work to bring the Le Corégone up to standard will promote intermodality between the various means of transport and improve the fluidity of travel for the region&#39;s population, ”declared the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault.
“We are pleased to be able to proceed with the public call for tenders which will allow us to carry out the repair work on the docks between mid-January and mid-March. We are delighted with the collaboration that has been granted to us to date at all levels of intervention, ”commented the president of the Intermunicipal Board of Port Infrastructures of Lac Témiscouata, Mr. Gilles Garon.
As for the work to bring the vessel up to standard, it consisted of the complete overhaul of the engines, the approval of the safety equipment, the performance of the stability test and potential upgrade work.
“The maritime service has been interrupted since 2010, due to the need to upgrade the ferry. This announcement is therefore very good news for the region and will allow the creation of three new jobs. The Whitefish is ready to operate and all employees have obtained their diploma in order to be able to operate for the year 2014, ”added the president of the Corporation de la Traverse du Lac Témiscouata, Mr. Jean-Jacques Bonenfant. .
The financial assistance of $ 79,000 allocated to the Corporation de la Traverse du Lac Témiscouata breaks down as follows: an amount of $ 23,500 comes from the Bas-Saint-Laurent Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement, the signatories of which are Tourisme Québec , Tourisme Bas-Saint-Laurent, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy as well as the regional conference of elected officials of Bas-Saint-Laurent. An amount of $ 22,500 comes from the PAREGES program, an assistance program aimed at reducing or avoiding greenhouse gas emissions by implementing intermodal projects in maritime and rail transport, from the Ministère des Transports. Also, amounts from departmental discretionary budgets total $ 33,000.
