Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and responsible for the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec region, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, is pleased to announce , on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that a subsidy of $ 164,434 is granted to the Société de transport de Trois-Rivières for the replacement of three minibuses.
This subsidy is paid within the framework of the government assistance program for public transit intended for the development of public transit.
“Our government encourages and supports the development of public transit, which makes it possible to optimize the use of the road network while increasing the fluidity of travel, reducing the level of congestion and reducing pollution attributable to the consumption of hydrocarbons. . Today&#39;s announcement will allow the Trois-Rivières region to benefit from an efficient public transit service while being part of a sustainable development perspective, ”declared Minister Blanchet.
Today&#39;s announcement will allow the Trois-Rivières region to make public transit more attractive and significantly increase its use.
&quot;By participating in the financing of public transit, we are investing in sustainable development and the mobility of people, a social, environmental and economic issue that is at the heart of our government&#39;s mission,&quot; added Mr. Blanchet.
Public transit is one of the cornerstones of the next Québec Sustainable Mobility Policy. Currently being developed, this policy will take over from the Québec Public Transport Policy. The new policy will place the user at the heart of his concerns and will guide the actions that will be undertaken by 2020 with a view to improving the public transport service offer throughout Quebec. The preparatory documents as well as some of the briefs filed during the consultation can be viewed on the website of the Ministère des Transports at www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca.
The parameters of this program can be viewed on the website of the Ministère des Transports at www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca.
