Quebec - While the Dubuc plant at Rio Tinto Alcan, in Chicoutimi, has just lost its most important customer, which represented 80% of its order book, there are fears for its survival. The Parti Québécois spokesperson for the economy and exports, Alain Therrien, as well as the deputy for Jonquière and spokesperson for municipal affairs and decentralization, Sylvain Gaudreault, ask the Minister of the Economy to intervene to ensure the future of the company.
“Once again, an industrial gem in the region is threatened. Minister Jacques Daoust and his government absolutely must intervene in the matter, starting today. The Novelis factory was relocated without government intervention, as was the Jonquière cardboard factory. The government must wake up. The industrial environment in the region is seriously crumbling, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
The Dubuc factory is a production unit specializing in technology developed for the aeronautical industry. It manufactures an alloy used by Bombardier, for example, to build the fuselage of its C Series. The alloy for Bombardier will therefore now be manufactured outside Quebec.
“It&#39;s surprising to see the government investing $ 1.3 billion in Bombardier, but not ensuring that the production chain remains here, in Quebec and in our regions. Will Quebecers pay this amount out of their own pockets, once again, when the majority of jobs in the supply chain will be found outside? “Asked Alain Therrien.
“It is time for the government to act. We were given fine words at the regional summit in June and during the unveiling of the aluminum strategy. It is time for boots to follow their lips and for action to be taken for this high added value factory. Let us also remember that this is the region of the Prime Minister; how come there are more closures than openings? », Added Sylvain Gaudreault.
“The Liberal government is incapable of having a vision. The absence of an economic policy has demonstrated its effects since April 2014: job losses, factories closing all over the region, loss of our innovative technologies… The government is asleep on gas. Let him come out of his torpor and seize the Dubuc file in Chicoutimi! », Concluded Alain Therrien.
