Quebec - The Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean François Lisée, will visit the People&#39;s Republic of China from October 14 to 18, accompanied by some 75 representatives of Quebec businesses, institutions and organizations.
This ministerial mission, which will support the efforts of the Quebec delegation on the Chinese market, will allow the Quebec government to strengthen its ties with the Chinese authorities. The mission includes stops in Jinan, capital of Shandong, Beijing, seat of the central government and Shanghai, economic and cultural metropolis of China.
“The importance of emerging markets like China for Quebec&#39;s economic development is well established. China is at the top of Quebec&#39;s international priorities and many Quebec companies - small, medium and large - can today testify to the evolution of our relations since the opening of our offices about fifteen years ago. years in Beijing and Shanghai. We are pleased to note today that these efforts were not in vain and we are staying the course, ”said the Minister.
Among the public activities planned in the Minister&#39;s program, let us mention the inauguration of a Quebec showcase on green construction, the participation of a dozen Quebec brands in the prestigious Shanghai Fashion Week and the presence of a delegation of performing arts at the Shanghai International Performing Arts Fair (SPAF), a show bringing together more than 100 Chinese and international presenters and programmers.
&quot;For a small market like ours, the export of Quebec expertise, products, services, talents and know-how to Asia, particularly China, is one of the keys to ensuring a future prosperous. The Government of Quebec is proud of the work accomplished to date and the outlook is promising, ”added the Minister.
In 2012, trade in goods between Quebec and China amounted to $ 11.3 billion, which represents an increase of 3.3% compared to 2011. In 2012, China ranked # 1 among Quebec&#39;s trading partners in Asia, ahead of Japan, and # 2 in the world, behind the United States.
