Québec, October 28, 2014 - Véronique Hivon, the MNA for Joliette and official opposition spokesperson for higher education, asks the Minister of Higher Education, Yves Bolduc, to pull himself together and refuse to devalue college education. She urges him in particular to reject the possibility of creating a graduation discount for students who have not successfully completed their compulsory general education.
&quot;Minister Bolduc sowed consternation last week by not excluding, in the name of&quot; the good of the student &quot;, to put aside the uniform French test. After the sad episode in the books, Minister Bolduc does it again; through his words and his lack of leadership, he devalues the importance of our common language and does not send the signal necessary to motivate all CEGEP students, namely that French is an essential basis for a stimulating civic and professional life. », Declared Véronique Hivon.
In addition to making amends on this issue addressed in the Demers report, made public last week, Minister Bolduc must reject the hypothesis, made in this same report, that a new &quot;certificate of college studies&quot; (CEC ) may be awarded to students enrolled in technical programs but who have failed to meet the general education requirements for obtaining a Diploma of College Studies (DEC).
&quot; Let&#39;s be clear; the Minister of Higher Education is currently evaluating the possibility of making compulsory training in Quebec CEGEPs for technical diplomas optional. However, this common core is the basis of our college system and the diversified training that we wish to provide there. This is totally unacceptable, ”said the spokesperson.
“Big trade schools”? Last August, Minister Bolduc rejected the proposal of young people in his party advocating the abolition of CEGEPs and the return to “big trade schools”. “It is ironic that today he is opening the door to optional general education for technical diplomas. We have the impression that the minister was finally quite in agreement with the young people of his party and that he wants to return to trade schools, but within the walls of CEGEPs! », Denounced Véronique Hivon.
“The mission of CEGEPs should not be reduced to training workers. The general education program, which aims to train citizens capable of expressing themselves, thinking and developing critical thinking, must remain for all CEGEP students. To begin to provide for exceptions and to reduce the requirements is to embark dangerously on the slope of graduation on the cheap. This is certainly not the way of the future, ”concluded the member for Joliette.
