Quebec- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, highlights World AIDS Day which will be held on December 1 and whose theme, inspired by the World Health Organization, is, for a new year, “Objective zero: zero transmission, zero prejudice, zero deaths”. He takes this opportunity to reiterate the importance of preventing the transmission of HIV and of continuing to fight against prejudices against people living with AIDS.
“In Quebec, thousands of people are currently living with HIV, and nearly a hundred of them die from it each year. Although the death rate from this infection has decreased appreciably thanks to medical advances and the many efforts made to date, it is essential to continue our work of prevention, detection and awareness, ”said the doctor. Hébert.
Indeed, World AIDS Day is a special time to raise awareness of the reality of people with this infection. Awareness is the best way to combat unfounded fears, prejudices, worries and ignorance which too often lead to situations of discrimination as well as stigmatization. Prevention campaigns also continue to be carried out, particularly among young people.
&quot;It is also essential to continue research in order to find new screening methods, which are faster and more efficient, and to reach the most vulnerable people thanks to the invaluable collaboration of community groups and all health workers. and social services. Earlier screening makes it possible, with the help of appropriate medical treatment and rigorous medical monitoring, to considerably extend the life expectancy of those affected and to seek the support necessary to face this ordeal, ”explained the doctor Hébert.
World AIDS Day has been celebrated on December 1 of each year since 1988, and many countries are committing to continue the fight against HIV through awareness-raising activities aimed at reminding people of the existence of this scourge. global health.
It should be remembered that the use of condoms during sexual relations and the use of sterile preparation equipment for injecting or inhaling drugs as well as for tattooing or piercing remain the most effective means of preventing AIDS.
