Quebec - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, today released the Report of the Working Group on Health Cooperatives. The working group was created by the Minister last November with the mandate to examine the model of health cooperatives as it exists in Quebec, and to formulate recommendations so that they contribute to the accessibility of health services. First line. It was chaired by Mr. Pierre Roy, former Deputy Minister of Health and Social Services and former President and CEO of the Régie de l&#39;assurance maladie du Québec.
Nearly forty health cooperatives are in operation and offer first-line medical services in Quebec. These cooperatives bring together approximately 180 physicians and are located in around ten regions, particularly in Mauricie-Center-du-Québec, Montérégie and the Outaouais.
The report stresses the need to make health cooperatives full partners in the regional health network and makes several recommendations aimed at better framing this particular model. However, the working group highlights the problems that the cooperative model can pose in terms of universality and accessibility to care. Thus, the authors of the report indicate that: “The business model of health cooperatives is affected by a possible pitfall in respecting universal accessibility. As this problem does not affect the only health cooperative model, but can also occur in other business models, it seems relevant to clarify the legal framework in force ”. To this end, the working group recommends that the legal framework and the fees that may be required from the user be clearly specified.
“This report raises several important questions about the cooperative model. We will carefully consider the recommendations of the task force. This analysis will allow us to think about the best means of supervising and setting out guidelines for this model of care, in particular by making legislative changes. We intend to implement the necessary measures to ensure that health cooperatives can contribute to the development of an accessible first line, ”said Minister of Health and Social Services, Réjean Hébert.
Consult the Report of the Working Group on Health Co-operatives.
