Rimouski - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, accompanied by the Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Minister of Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, and the Member for Rimouski, Mr. Irvin Pelletier, today authorized the Rimouski-Neigette Health and Social Services Center to prepare a strategic presentation file relating to a major expansion project of the Rimouski Regional Hospital. “This large-scale initiative will primarily affect the operating theater, intensive and coronary care, as well as psychiatric services will have significant impacts for Rimouski. This will be a major project that will have significant repercussions on the quality of care for all of Eastern Quebec, ”said Dr. Hébert.
The Minister confirmed that a maximum envelope of $ 1.8 million could be made available to the establishment in order to finance the required studies, which will make it possible to define more precisely the clinical, real estate and financial parameters of the project. . This amount is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan.
“Our government attaches great importance to this project, as illustrated by the envelope granted today. This announcement will allow the project to move on to subsequent stages. This is undoubtedly excellent news for our region, ”declared the Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Minister of Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé.
Dr. Hébert also confirmed that the Rimouski-Neigette Health and Social Services Center has seen its fleet of specialized medical equipment increased, thanks to a funding of $ 515,000 from the Agence de health and social services in Bas-Saint-Laurent. The establishment can thus acquire:
This investment will also allow the addition of a third room for gastroenterology. The Agency will provide a recurring budget envelope of more than $ 280,000 for the operation of this new room.
&quot;The acquisition of these cutting-edge devices will support the work of the medical teams and testify to the shared desire of the establishment, the agency and the Ministry of Health and Social Services to offer the population of our region health care of the best possible quality, ”concluded Rimouski MNA Irvin Pelletier.
