Quebec - The Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, begins a mission in London today. This first mission on British soil aims to establish contact with interlocutors from Quebec in the United Kingdom.
“Initially nourished by a common history, our relationship with the United Kingdom has grown over decades of exchanges and partnerships to the point where this country is today a priority market for Quebec abroad. This economic and financial center is a hub of world trade and provides access to a multitude of national and international companies. London is therefore a platform of choice for attracting foreign investment, promoting the creativity of Quebec products and services in addition to being a strategic entry point for doing business in emerging economies, ”said the Minister.
As part of this mission held under the theme &quot;London at the heart of emerging markets&quot;, Minister Lisée will meet with around ten representatives of the business community as well as several opinion leaders.
The Minister will meet in particular with the Secretary General of the Commonwealth, Mr. Kamalesh Sharma, to explain to him the orientations and priorities that the Government of Quebec wishes to put forward in the countries of Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific. Indeed, the development of exchanges between the International Organization of La Francophonie and the Commonwealth Secretariat aims to strengthen the integration of Southern countries into world trade.
Mr. Lisée will also meet with the President and CEO of the Climate Group, Mr. Mark Kenber, to highlight the actions that the Government of Quebec intends to support for the development of a greener industry, in particular through the creation of &#39;&#39; a $ 200 million fund that will be used for the development of clean technologies and the electrification of transport. Minister Lisée will thus have the opportunity to demonstrate Québec&#39;s commitment to the fight against climate change and to share the most recent initiatives in this area.
Finally, the Minister takes the opportunity to underline the reopening of the offices of the Quebec Delegation in London following the renovation work carried out recently. Just over 150 London guests from cultural, political and business backgrounds have confirmed their presence at the event.
