Montreal - The Minister of Health and Social Services, and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today participated in the inauguration of the new emergency department of the Sir Mortimer B. Davis Jewish General Hospital, an integral part of the first phase of construction of the new Critical Care Pavilion, Pavilion K.
“This is the achievement of an important step in this major project, the beneficial effects of which will benefit both patients and members of the staff of the establishment. The former will benefit from an environment conducive to safe and high-quality care, while the latter will operate in spaces that are both more spacious and better organized, and therefore much more functional, ”declared Minister Hébert.
The new emergency has five resuscitation rooms and 53 stretchers, mostly in individual rooms to allow better control of nosocomial infections. In addition to taking advantage of decentralized workstations, which facilitate the opening and closing of sections of the emergency according to traffic, the new emergency has separate traffic corridors for visitors and for care teams, and this , from a functional, organizational and preventive perspective.
&quot;The construction of this new emergency makes it possible to fill a need for space, but also, and above all, modernizes the critical care unit of the Hospital by integrating the most recent trends in terms of organization and dispensation of care, ”Minister Hébert also indicated.
Announced in November 2010, the first phase of the construction of Pavilion K was completed at a cost of $ 121,246,200. In addition to the emergency, this new adjoining wing on the north-west side of the Hospital will include the intensive care unit, the operating theater, the birthing center, the neonatal unit, as well as the day hospital. It will be linked to the existing facility by an atrium on the ground floor, as well as by walkways upstairs. The contribution of the Government of Quebec amounts to $ 95,275,000 for the realization of this first phase, the balance of $ 25,971,200 being assumed by the Hospital Foundation.
