Quebec - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today announced the creation of a National Committee on Prehospital Emergency Services. The mandate of this committee will be to analyze the overall functioning of the prehospital system in Quebec in the context of the aging population and recurring requests for additional ambulance services throughout Quebec.
“More than twelve years after the report of the National Committee on the Revision of Prehospital Emergency Services, chaired by Mr. André Dicaire, it appears essential to draw up a new inventory of the prehospital system set up in the early 2000s and &#39;&#39; update the legislative framework, if necessary. That is why I am announcing today the establishment of a National Committee on Pre-Hospital Emergency Services. This approach will make it possible to obtain informed recommendations, taking into account in particular technological advances, with the aim of optimizing the delivery of these services to citizens and adapting it to the reality of the aging population of Quebec ”, added Minister Hébert.
This announcement stems from the report of the team of experts responsible for analyzing the situation of pre-hospital emergency services in the Outaouais, which identified certain problems in the functioning of the pre-hospital system in Quebec. In fact, in addition to the recommendations specific to the Outaouais region, the expert group informed the Minister of observations and recommendations of a national nature.
Analysis of this information led Minister Hébert to conclude on the relevance of extending the work carried out in the Outaouais to all of Quebec, in order to have a global portrait of pre-hospital services across the territory.
The organization of ambulance services requires a solid, reliable and efficient structure. Thus, the working group will have to take an interest in all the mechanisms underlying the Quebec prehospital system.
The national committee will have the mandate to analyze:
The Minister has also asked the Ministry and the National Directorate of Emergencies, Trauma Services and Prehospital Emergency Services to play their role more actively, starting now. To this end, it will have to develop and put in place operational policies and protocols in line with ministerial orientations.
The committee will be chaired by Mr. Marc Ouellet, who until recently held the position of Assistant Auditor General to the Auditor General of Quebec. The other members of the committee are Dr. Jean Lapointe, who chaired the group of experts in the Outaouais region and who agreed to participate in the work as special advisor, Mr. Nicola d&#39;Ulisse, president and CEO of the Corporation d &#39; urgences-santé, and Dr. Wayne Smith, regional medical director of prehospital services at the Estrie health and social services agency.
The committee will conduct fairly broad consultations with the various stakeholders and partners, including unions and various municipal stakeholders. The committee will have to table recommendations to the minister by spring 2014.
