Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, is proud to announce that the expansion of Mont-Saint-Bruno National Park is now official. The area of this national park is increasing by more than 50% from 578 to 884 hectares.
“This considerable increase in the area of the national park is primarily aimed at preservation areas devoted to nature protection. There will therefore be more space to better protect fragile ecosystems or endangered species in Mont-Saint-Bruno National Park, which is the busiest in our network. In a region where the pressures on natural environments are increasing, in particular due to the densification of the population, this expansion represents a major contribution to ensure a balance between development and environmental protection ”, declared the Minister. Blanchet.
The acquisition, by the MDDEFP, of private land and other large-scale properties that belonged to the City of Saint-Bruno-de-Montarville, the Canadian Department of National Defense and the Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food of Quebec, was carried out at a cost of $ 1,220,000. In the immediate term, the management and application of park regulations will be facilitated since several properties acquired were hitherto enclosed in the territory of this national park without being part of it.
Among the various natural components that will henceforth be better protected, let us mention that the five lakes, which were privately owned when the park was created in 1985, are now included in the perimeter of Mont-Saint-Bruno National Park. In addition to the Lac des Atocas bog and the wetlands located in the southwest section of the park, two new areas benefit from increased protection measures. It is a maple hickory and a red oak and sugar maple grove, each considered to be an exceptional forest ecosystem in Quebec.
“The expansion of Parc national du Mont-Saint-Bruno responds to the desire expressed by many citizens of the region for several years. This is a gain for the quality of the living environment of citizens who reside near the national park, but also for the region as a whole. Our government will continue to work to protect the Montérégie hills, which form an important conservation nucleus in the regions of Montreal, Montérégie and Estrie, ”Minister Yves-François Blanchet emphasized.
