Quebec - The Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, will carry out a mission from June 20 to 26 that will take him to Germany, Belgium and France. He will meet in Munich, Dresden, Brussels and Paris several key interlocutors of Quebec in Europe.
Mr. Lisée will first lead on German territory, along with the parliamentary assistant to the Prime Minister, responsible for the electrification of transport, Mr. Daniel Breton, an economic mission in the field of electromobility. He will be at the head of a delegation of ten directors of Quebec companies and organizations working in this sector where Quebec seeks to stand out.
The Minister and the Quebec delegation will visit, in Munich and Dresden, the facilities of automobile manufacturers recognized among the most innovative in the electric vehicle sector and will have discussions with key stakeholders in the field. They will also participate in workshops aimed at exploring the prospects for collaboration with the research community, companies and other potential partners from the Länder of Bavaria and Saxony. At the same time, Mr. Lisée will take part in political talks in Bavaria and Saxony, two of Quebec&#39;s leading partners in Germany. It should be noted that Quebec was chosen as an international partner of these Länder within the framework of the regional showcases in electromobility program of the German federal government.
In Brussels, the meetings on the program will allow discussions on bilateral issues as well as on European issues. Finally, in Paris, the talks on the agenda, including several with members of the French government, will focus on themes such as economic development, professional mobility, youth, culture and the Francophonie. The Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, will also be present in the French capital to participate in events marking the National Day as well as to meet with many economic and political partners in Quebec. .
