Sherbrooke– The Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Seniors and Minister responsible for the Estrie region, Réjean Hébert, accompanied by the Member for Sherbrooke, Serge Cardin, today announced the accreditation of a family medicine group (GMF) in the Estrie region. This is the Belvédère-Galt Family Medicine Group, which thus becomes the fourteenth GMF in the Estrie region.
“Consolidating the FMG network is one of our government&#39;s priorities in order to improve the accessibility of front-line services and the continuity of care and health services to the population. This model of family medicine practice in an interdisciplinary team has been proven and is very stimulating for physicians, ”said Minister Hébert.
The many advantages of the GMF model lie, among other things, in the professional collaboration between nurses and family physicians. People registered with a family doctor at a FMG have access to a full range of first-line services, including medical consultations with and without an appointment. Patient care is more comprehensive and adapted to the needs of people whose state of health, as assessed by their doctor, requires special modalities of access to services, for example people suffering from chronic diseases.
The Belvédère-Galt Group of Family Medicine has thirteen doctors. Its service offering has been developed with partners in the health network, in particular with the Center for Health and Social Services - Sherbrooke University Institute of Geriatrics.
“I would like to congratulate and thank the thirteen physicians of the new GMF for their collective commitment to the citizens of Sherbrooke. This announcement testifies to the sincere desire of the health actors to work together to respond ever better and ever more effectively to the needs of the population ”, for his part said Serge Cardin.
“By consolidating their practice, the physicians in the family medicine group promote continuity of care, rapid access to medical follow-up, as well as comprehensive management of the health status of users. I therefore welcome this collaboration, which constitutes a great contribution to the health care offer in the region, ”concluded Minister Hébert.
