Saguenay– Stéphane Bédard, MP for Bourget and Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and MP for Chicoutimi, Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region, announce the award of a grant of $ 3,378,500 for the redevelopment project, in Saint-Luc church, of the Florence-Fourcaudot dance school. The municipal councilor and president of the Chicoutimi borough, Jacques Fortin, the representative of Fabrique Sainte-Anne, Jean-Yves Boivin, and the president of the board of directors of the dance school, Johanne Tremblay, participated in this event. press conference.
“The realization of the Florence-Fourcaudot school development project in the Saint-Luc church will become a source of pride for the entire Saguenay population. Maintaining the unique heritage of Saint-Luc Church, which will house the school under its roof in addition to retaining its primary vocation as a place of worship, has a sustainable development value that should be emphasized ”, declared the Minister. Minister Kotto.
The project consists of fitting out premises for the school within the Saint-Luc church. Five studios will be available there as well as a waiting room and offices for administration. The worship function will however be maintained in the choir section.
Remember that this dance school, which welcomes nearly 550 students each year, is supported in operation by the Ministry of Culture and Communications.
“Today&#39;s announcement is good news for the dance community in Saguenay. I would like to thank the team of the Florence-Fourcaudot dance school, the people of the community, the Fabrique and the elected officials who, through this project, affirm that the cultural development and the protection of the religious heritage are values which inhabit them ” , added Minister Bédard.
The cost of the work, estimated at nearly $ 4 million, is broken down as follows: $ 3,378,500 comes from the Department and $ 397,500 from the City of Saguenay. The School agrees to provide the remainder of the funding, ie $ 199,000.
The Department&#39;s contribution is paid under the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan, made public in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 2 billion for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make informed choices.
Taking advantage of his stay in Saguenay, Minister Maka Kotto accepted the invitation of the Superior of the Augustines of Mercy of Jesus of Chicoutimi, Sister Jeanne-d&#39;Arc Guillemette, to come and visit the chapel of the Oratory-Saint-Joseph. from Chicoutimi. Remember that the chapel and several of its movable property were classified on October 18, 2012, under the Cultural Heritage Act. This property is now protected by the provisions of the Act and registered in the Quebec Cultural Heritage Register.
&quot;My wish is that the classification of the chapel of Saint Joseph&#39;s Oratory also protects all the memory of the work of mutual aid and compassion of the Augustinian community and makes it possible to understand their sincere contribution to the development of the region. of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean and of Quebec society, ”added Minister Kotto.
Additional information concerning the chapel of Saint Joseph&#39;s Oratory in Chicoutimi as well as all the heritage elements registered in the Cultural Heritage Register is available on the website of the Quebec Cultural Heritage Directory (RPCQ), at www.patrimoine-culturel .gouv.qc.ca. This dissemination tool from the Ministry of Culture and Communications makes it possible to discover the richness and diversity of Quebec&#39;s cultural heritage by making it accessible to all. Part of the content of the RPCQ can now be found on the Government of Quebec&#39;s open data portal, at www.data.gouv.qc.ca.
