Quebec - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, highlights the adoption today, in the National Assembly, of the Act to amend the Civil Code and other legislative provisions in the field of research . More specifically, this law amends certain articles of the Civil Code of Quebec and of the Act respecting health services and social services, in particular in order to clarify certain concepts and to relax various conditions relating to consent to research when the risk for the health is minimal or absent.
“Research is essential to the advancement of knowledge and, consequently, to the well-being of the population. However, this has evolved a lot in recent years and it was necessary to revise certain provisions in order to adapt them to new realities. The adoption of this law will ensure a framework that is both better defined and more conducive to the development of research, without any compromise for the protection of Quebeckers, ”said Minister Hébert.
In terms of protection, the new law replaces the concept of &quot;serious risk&quot; by that of &quot;proportionality&quot;, in the sense that the risk incurred must not be out of proportion to the benefit that can reasonably be expected from it. research. This risk assessment must also take into account the state of health and the personal condition of the incapacitated minor or adult.
In addition, the Civil Code will henceforth impose, like the requirements applicable at the national and international level, that research involving able-bodied adults be evaluated by a research ethics committee (REB). For the protection of minors or incapacitated adults, the competent REBs are designated by the Minister or instituted by him, and their composition as well as their operating conditions must be published in the Official Gazette of Quebec.
For the purpose of clarification, the new law also replaces the term “experimentation” by “research likely to undermine its integrity”, since the research covered by this law is that which could potentially harm physical or psychological integrity. some participants. It should also be noted that the very scope of the Civil Code is thus unchanged.
With regard to consent, some flexibility has been made for research projects where the health risks are minimal. Thus, the law allows a minor aged 14 and over to consent, alone, to a research project if, in the opinion of an REB, the project involves only a minimal risk to his health and the others circumstances justify it.
The new law also provides that, for an incapacitated adult who is not represented by a mandatary, a tutor or a curator, the consent can be given by the person authorized to consent to his care if, in the opinion of the REB, the project involves only a minimal risk to the health of the person concerned. Likewise, for the use, for research purposes, of a part of the body taken in the context of care provided to a person who has since died, consent may be given by the person who could, or could have consented to the care required by the deceased. The new law also ensures that consent to a research project can be given other than in writing if, again in the opinion of the REB, the circumstances justify it.
Finally, the Act respecting health services and social services will be amended so that not only the users of the establishments can avail themselves of their complaint-handling mechanism, but also the people participating in the research.
“The amendments made by the Act to amend the Civil Code and other legislative provisions in the field of research will make it possible to better reconcile the interests of research and the rights of participants. If the supervision was already adequate to a large extent, it is now more so, in addition to better correspond to the new realities of research and to be more consistent with the standards in force at the national level and international, ”concluded Minister Hébert.
