Quebec - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announces the establishment of a working group on the future of the museum network in Quebec. The chairmanship of this group is entrusted to Claude Corbo, policy officer for academic and strategic affairs and former rector of the University of Quebec. He will be accompanied by two collaborators, Marie Lavigne, corporate director and former president and CEO of the Société de la Place des Arts de Montréal, and Laurier Lacroix, curator, museologist and associate professor in the Department of History of the art from the University of Quebec in Montreal.
Mr. Corbo will be able to count on the support and collaboration of a panel of experts made up of directors of museums and exhibition centers from across Quebec, as well as elected municipal officials and representatives of regional organizations. will ensure the territorial analysis of the works.
“The museum environment is facing major challenges, particularly its technological upheavals and its growing financial needs; hence the imperative to include in the reflection all the actors concerned. I would also like to thank all those who will collaborate on this working group and who will develop short, medium and long-term solutions to help museology. The future of the museum network is a ministerial priority and I have the will to make it a government priority, ”said Minister Kotto.
“As a citizen and as an academic, I attach great importance to the presence and roles of museums in our society. I warmly thank the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, for his confidence. I feel very privileged to be able to contribute, with two colleagues particularly well qualified for our mandate, Ms. Lavigne and Mr. Lacroix, to the formulation of solutions to ensure the future of the museum network in Quebec, in a perspective of public interest ” , added Corbo.
The museum community has been demanding greater support from the Quebec government for nearly ten years. This working group will focus in particular on the roles of museums, exhibition centers and places of interpretation in Quebec society, the optimization of the organization and operation of the museum network, the issue of funding as well as the role of public authorities.
The working group will seek to consult the national and regional players concerned by the future of the museum network and to formulate recommendations on which the Ministry of Culture and Communications (MCC) can rely to maximize the scope of its interventions. The final report, which will outline a vision for the future that could pave the way for updating museum policy, will be submitted to Minister Kotto in the fall of 2013.
Representatives of the MCC and the Société des musées québécois have jointly defined the mandate of the working group and will monitor the progress of the work.
The MCC reaffirms its support for Quebec museum institutions which play a fundamental role in the conservation and enhancement of our heritage. Places of production and dissemination of knowledge, tourist attractions, vectors of transmission of the Quebec identity, they actively contribute to the vitality of the territories they serve. With more than 13.4 million visitors in 2012, they are an essential element in the cultural landscape. This is why the museum network continues to benefit from significant support from the MCC, which currently devotes nearly $ 72 million to it per year, both through its state museums and through the financial assistance granted to museum institutions spread over the region. entire Quebec territory. Remember that the museum sector employs nearly 4,000 people in Quebec.
Mr. Marcel Blouin General and artistic director Expression- Saint-Hyacinthe Exhibition Center
Ms. Nathalie Bondil Director and Chief Curator Montreal Museum of Fine Arts
Mr. Alessandro Cassa Director Montmusée, Montérégie Museum Network
Mme Christine Cheyrou Director-curator Musée des Ursulines de Québec
Mr. Michel Côté Director General The Museums of Civilization
Mr. Patrice Corbeil Director Society for the Interpretation of the Marine Environment of the Haute-Côte-Nord
Ms. Francine Lelièvre Executive Director Pointe-à-Callière, Montreal Museum of Archeology and History
Mr. Alexander Reford Director Les Jardins de Métis
A group of elected municipal officials and representatives of regional organizations will also contribute to enriching the reflection by providing a territorial analysis of the work.
