Quebec - The Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, will lead a mission to Japan, from January 19 to 24, accompanied by some forty companies, universities and Quebec and Japanese organizations.
This visit by Minister Lisée to Japanese soil will be an opportunity to mark the 40th anniversary of the Délégation générale du Québec in Tokyo. “Quebec&#39;s sustained presence in Japan for 40 years is of great value to us. In the current global context, where trade is tending to liberalize, we attach paramount importance to the continuity of these relations. It is important to educate political decision-makers and the Japanese business community about new Quebec priorities in terms of economic development and the business opportunities that arise. », Declared the Minister.
Indeed, this mission is in line with the pursuit of the objectives of the Québec Economic Policy launched by the Marois government last October and will help create a favorable business environment to develop and strengthen international partnerships.
Minister Lisée will take advantage of this visit to Japan to present to representatives of the central government and Japanese economic circles the National Research and Innovation Policy, the Foreign Trade Development Plan, the Industrial Policy and the Electrification Strategy. transports. The mission will also be an opportunity for Quebec universities and research institutes to develop partnerships in social and human sciences as well as in the field of transport electrification and green energy.
Third largest economy in the world and seventh largest customer of Quebec in the world, Japan is a highly competitive market and a world leader in science and technology which presents numerous business opportunities for Quebec companies, mainly in niche sectors such as information technology, green construction, three-dimensional animation, aeronautics and life sciences. In terms of investments, Quebec has about fifty Japanese subsidiaries currently generating some 6,000 jobs, while Quebec exports to Japan increased by 23% in 2012, totaling $ 1 billion.
