Matane– The Minister for Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, today launched the SME Tourism Fund. With a capitalization of $ 5 million, of which $ 1.7 million comes from the Government of Quebec and $ 3.3 million from Filaction, the Fund aims to stimulate investment by tourism SMEs and promote the emergence of innovative projects.
Sensitive to the financial issues facing small and medium-sized tourism businesses in Quebec, in particular difficult access to financing due to factors related to the nature of tourism activity, the government has put in place measures aimed at maintaining conditions and financing modalities adapted to their needs.
The SME Tourism Fund, set up in the form of a limited partnership, is proving to be a complementary financing tool to existing levers. It also favors an approach to support promoters in carrying out their project.
“Today, we offer the possibility to small and medium-sized tourism businesses starting up or expanding to finance projects in the form of a loan or loan guarantee up to a level of $ 250,000. The establishment of such a fund will undoubtedly generate investments which will finance original and structuring projects likely to contribute to the renewal of the tourist offer and which will be beneficial for all the regions of Quebec ”, declared Minister Bérubé.
&quot;The creation of the SME Tourism Fund is a natural part of Filaction&#39;s mission to continue our contribution to the economic development of each region of Quebec, in collaboration with Tourisme Quebec, a partner who is familiar with the various regional realities&quot; added Filaction CEO Milder Villegas.
This new investment fund will finance projects that will help improve Québec&#39;s tourism offer by attracting new clienteles and extending the period of activity of the targeted businesses. More specifically, the financial interventions of this Fund may be directed to support projects related to the diagnoses produced by Tourisme Québec in nature tourism, Aboriginal tourism, hunting and fishing outfitters, cultural tourism and agritourism and to those aimed at developing attractions around cruise stopovers. Priority will also be given to projects surrounding the Tremblant, Saguenay and Gaspésie national parks.
“This initiative, in partnership with the private sector, is part of our strategy for implementing the Tourism Industry Development Plan. It will help improve the level of competitiveness of companies, stimulate the development of entrepreneurship, focus on innovation in addition to triggering investment projects essential to renewing the offer and increasing tourism revenue. of Quebec, ”concluded Minister Bérubé.
For complete conditions relating to the PME tourism fund and to obtain the guidelines to follow for the presentation of a project, consult one of the following pages: PME tourism fund or Quebec tourism.
