Montreal - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is pleased to announce a maximum non-repayable financial assistance of $ 2,560,000 over two years to the Research Consortium and innovation in medical technologies in Quebec (MEDTEQ). Established in 2012, the Consortium&#39;s mission is to accelerate the development of the innovative medical technology industry by facilitating collaboration between companies and public research establishments.
“More than 600 companies and nearly 15,000 employees work directly in the medical technology industry in Quebec. It is a booming sector. The development of a life science technology sector is also a government priority. MEDTEQ will make it possible to crystallize sustainable and quality research partnerships bringing together forces from industry, hospitals and public research. Its actions and activities will help establish a culture of open innovation in the life science technology sector, in addition to enabling member companies of the grouping to increase their competitiveness in their respective markets or in new markets ”, said Minister Duchesne.
The grant agreement covers the financial years 2012-2013 and 2013-2014 and aims to finance collaborative research projects involving at least two member companies of the grouping and a public research organization. The aid is granted within the framework of the Promotion and Transfer Support Program, Component 4 - Support for sectoral industrial research groups. This program aims to bring together businesses, universities, colleges, college technology transfer centers and public research centers around collaborative projects.
“We are very pleased with the financial support from the Department, which is giving significant impetus to a strategic business sector in Quebec. This assistance thus underlines the high caliber of the industrial, academic and clinical members of the Consortium, who will make it an essential center of excellence for the development of innovative technologies and solutions in the health sector, ”said Ms. Diane. Côté, President and CEO of the MEDTEQ Consortium.
The sums invested will generate a minimum of $ 4.25 million in research projects carried out in public institutions. In addition to these, several large international companies present in Quebec are already members of MEDTEQ, not to mention several Quebec SMEs. The general management of the consortium is supported by a board of directors of fifteen members. A governance committee made up of five officers oversees the application of the decisions of the board of directors, thus ensuring the transparency and fairness of decisions. About a third of MEDTEQ&#39;s total budget is provided by member companies. The other sources of funding come from federal and provincial granting agencies, such as the programs of the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada, the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, as well as the Fonds de recherche du Québec - &quot;Nature and technologies ”and“ Health ”.
Through its policies and actions, the Ministry supports the development of higher education, research, science and technology, in particular by promoting the coordination and consultation of the various actors working in these areas of expertise. The MESRST also encourages an increase in the level of education of Quebecers and facilitates access to the highest forms of knowledge, among other things through programs relating to financial aid for studies. It also supports and promotes excellence and innovation with a view to scientific development and sustainable development.
The last thematic meeting will take place in Rimouski, on the subject of the contribution of institutions and research to the development of all of Quebec, on January 31 and February 1. Like the first three meetings, various partners are called upon as part of a call for contributions launched by Minister Pierre Duchesne. The thematic booklet for this meeting is available online at aumesrst.gouv.qc.ca.
The final stage of the Summit will take place on February 25 and 26, at the L&#39;Arsenal art center in Montreal. The terms of the Summit will be made public shortly.
