Saint-Nazaire– The Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance and Member of Parliament for Lac-Saint-Jean, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Sylvain Gaudreault, announces the contribution of $ 1.6 million from the Government of Quebec for the construction of phase II of the Oasis des Bâtisseurs in Saint-Nazaire.
The construction of this 4-storey building, which will be attached to the building completed during the first phase, required an investment of nearly $ 3.7 million, of which $ 1.6 million was granted by the Government of Quebec, through the AccèsLogis Québec program of the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ). It will allow the addition of 23 housing units to this complex which will eventually have 35 housing units.
“I am very proud to announce the contribution of $ 1.6 million from the Government of Quebec which will allow the construction of phase II of the Oasis des Bâtisseurs retirement home. Thanks to this project, seniors in Saint-Nazaire will be able to evolve in a quality environment adapted to their needs, while remaining in an environment that is dear to them. This project therefore responds to a real need in the community and that is why our government is very happy to be associated with it, ”said Minister Alexandre Cloutier.
In addition to the SHQ subsidy, community partners have invested more than $ 687,000 in this project. Of this amount, some $ 568,000 comes from the Municipality of Saint-Nazaire and more than $ 46,000 has been granted by the Office of Energy Efficiency and Innovation of the Ministry of Natural Resources to ensure that the building meets the standards of the Novoclimat program. Finally, the SHQ guarantees the mortgage loan taken out by the Saint-Nazaire Support Group, which will complete the financing of the project.
&quot;Thanks to the generosity of the population, to the SHQ as well as to all the people involved in this great project, our elders will remain in the community where they lived and to which they are attached,&quot; said Ms. Yolande Pilote, President of the Board of Directors of the Saint-Nazaire Support Group.
It should be noted that 12 tenants in the second phase of the Oasis des Bâtisseurs will be able to benefit from the Rent supplement program. Thus, these low-income households will pay a rent similar to that of a low-rental housing, or 25% of their income. Spread over five years, this additional financial assistance of nearly $ 207,000 is assumed 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the Municipality.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether it is by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000 people. households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
