Quebec - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, announces the tabling of the bill amending the Act respecting Héma-Québec and the Hemovigilance Committee, which aims to entrust Héma- Quebec the establishment of a public breast milk bank.
“This milk bank project enjoys massive support, both from neonatologists and pediatricians, the College of Physicians and many other groups and associations in the field of perinatal care in Quebec. This global consensus is notably attributable to the fact that human milk is universally recognized as the only method of feeding that meets all the nutritional and immune needs of babies under six months of age, ”declared Minister Hébert.
Héma-Québec would thus use its experience and expertise in the collection, preparation and distribution of products of human origin, including the application of measures aimed at ensuring the quality and safety of these products, to set up and manage a public breast milk bank for Quebec. To do this, however, it is essential to amend the Act respecting Héma-Québec.
“The current provisions of the law limit the attribution of new responsibilities to Héma-Québec other than those related to blood, blood products, bone marrow and human tissues. We therefore want to amend the law in order to be able to entrust Héma-Québec with the management and operationalization of a breast milk bank for hospitalized premature babies, thus making use of its expertise, its premises and its entire organization. benefit of premature newborns in Quebec, ”said Minister Hébert.
“The tabling of this bill is excellent news and results from a request submitted by Héma-Québec in March 2011. If the bill tabled today is ratified, Héma-Québec will be in a position, within a few months, to provide hospitals with pasteurized, safe breast milk of recognized nutritional value. This is a breast milk bank model adapted to the Quebec context, since it would be integrated into the activities of Héma-Québec ”, indicated Dr. Jean De Serres, President and CEO of Héma-Québec. .
It should be noted that the public breast milk bank project provides for the recruitment of around 260 donors, as well as the processing and qualification of a sufficient quantity of breast milk to meet the needs of premature infants aged 32 weeks and less who cannot be breastfed by their mother.
Some of the benefits of using breast milk include reduced infections, allergies, blood pressure, and improved bone development in newborns. Scientific literature also reveals that premature infants fed with milk from a breast milk bank have on average 3.3 times less risk of developing necrotizing enterocolitis than those fed with commercial formulas. Necrotizing enterocolitis is a neonatal disease that affects the intestines and can lead, in some cases, to intestinal perforation and even death in premature babies 32 weeks and younger. This disease is associated with mortality rates of 5 to 6% in neonatal babies.
In addition to the various health benefits and a reduction in the mortality rate among premature newborns, the establishment of a breast milk bank should result in annual savings for the health and social services network. , due to the anticipated decrease in certain conditions in premature babies and the savings made on the purchase of commercial milk for these children.
Note that the 2008-2018 Perinatal Policy suggests examining the establishment of a breast milk bank. This idea is particularly in line with national policies on the support and promotion of breastfeeding.
Also listen to the TVA Nouvelles report: http: //pq.org/video/le-parti-quebecois-cree-la-banque-de-lait-maternel/.
