Toronto - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, participated in the provincial-territorial and federal-provincial-territorial meetings of the ministers of health which were held on October 3 and 4, in Toronto.
Several topics were discussed yesterday during the provincial-territorial meeting, including the work of the Working Group on Health Innovation (GTIMS). The Minister assured that Quebec will continue to participate in the sharing of information and best practices, and that it remains ready to collaborate on any new initiative corresponding to its orientations and priorities in the field of health. “The issues of elder care and services, for example, resonated particularly with my counterparts. This file is one of our main priorities in Quebec, as evidenced by the state of work in progress on the autonomy insurance project, the consultations of which will begin on October 23, ”declared Minister Hébert. In addition, at the request of his counterparts, Minister Hébert provided an update on Bill 52 concerning end-of-life care, on behalf of his colleague Véronique Hivon, Minister responsible for Social Services and Protection of youth and minister responsible for the file Dying with dignity.
The importance of prevention for the future of health systems is also one of the topics discussed during the meeting. Minister Hébert also recalled that Quebec will soon make public a draft national prevention policy. “When it comes to health, people think first and foremost about treating and curing illnesses. But we must not forget that it is also possible to act upstream to prevent several health problems. Our draft national prevention policy, developed in collaboration with several ministries, will advocate the adoption of healthy lifestyles, such as a balanced diet, an active lifestyle and smoking cessation, ”added Dr. Hébert.
Today, the Minister also participated in the Federal-Provincial-Territorial Meeting of Ministers of Health, where he met for the first time the new Federal Minister of Health, Ms. Rona Ambrose. This was an opportunity for him to share with him certain concerns of Quebec, in particular concerning the application of the new program of access to marijuana for medical purposes as well as the financial impacts that the changes made to the system have on Quebec. Interim Federal Health Program, a matter of federal jurisdiction. Finally, Minister Hébert wished to reaffirm Quebec&#39;s determination to exercise its responsibilities alone with regard to the management, organization, planning and evaluation of the Quebec health system.
