Quebec - The Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, led an economic and tourism mission from June 23 to 26, 2013. During this mission, the Minister met more than 40 participants representing the media and economic development organizations , tour operators as well as influential players in the New York tourism community.
André Boisclair, Quebec Delegate General in New York, Kenneth Adams, President and CEO of ESD and Commissioner for Economic Development of New York State and Pascal Bérubé, Minister of Tourism. (source: CNW Group / Office of the Minister for Tourism)
Mr. Bérubé also participated in the reception organized by the Quebec Delegation on the occasion of the National Day and delivered a speech in front of more than 150 speakers.
“My presence here allowed me to see the strategic importance of the relationship between Quebec and New York State. The Quebec Original campaign is part of our desire to continue working on the American market to attract tourist clienteles to us and thus develop the economy of Quebec and its regions, ”said Mr. Bérubé.
In the context of this mission, many of the stakeholders we met confirmed their desire to include Quebec in their long-term plan for trade shows, business conferences, familiarization tours, investments as well as possible bilateral agreements.
The Deputy Minister met with Mr. Kenneth Adams, President and CEO of Empire State Development and Commissioner for the New York State Department of Economic Development, as well as with representatives of Tourism New York State. These discussions made it possible to confirm the economic potential and the privileged links between Quebec and the State of New York.
Discussions with the managers of NYCruise, the cruise development agency for New York City, as well as with the publisher of the specialist magazine Cruise Industry News, made it possible to explore avenues for the further development of international cruises in the Northeastern United States and St. Lawrence Corridor.
“Our presence in the United States is a strong symbol of our commitment to develop our target markets internationally. The government is committed to positioning the tourism industry as a lever for development, and we must increase our presence, as many other destinations are doing internationally. This mission also confirms the positive impact of promotional and marketing actions using our new brand image and the importance of making it known to consumers and networks specializing in tourism, ”concluded the Minister Delegate.
