Saint-Lambert - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announces financial assistance of $ 200,400 to the City of Saint-Lambert, to support the restoration work of the Marsil house, a heritage building classified under the Cultural Heritage Act. This announcement was made in the presence of the mayor of Saint-Lambert, Philippe Brunet.
“This French-inspired house reflects well the genius that the first arrivals had to show to adapt their architectural style to the specific conditions of our country. So much so that this house, more than two hundred years old, still stands today and reveals a part of the history of Saint-Lambert ”, declared Minister Maka Kotto, who said he was convinced that this restoration would soon make it possible to offer at Maison Marsil a new regional cultural vocation.
Built at the turn of the 19th century, the Maison Marsil, which notably housed the Musée du costume et du textile du Québec, is of heritage interest for its architectural value incorporating characteristic elements of French-inspired rural houses and elements associated with the house. Quebecois style of neoclassical inspiration, including the rolled-up gable roof, the covered gallery on the facade as well as the gabled dormers.
The $ 200,400 grant from the Ministry of Culture and Communications comes from the Quebec Cultural Heritage Fund and corresponds to 40% of the total cost of the project. This assistance will restore the metal roof, masonry walls, galleries as well as the doors and windows of the main building. For its part, the City of Saint-Lambert is contributing an amount of more than $ 300,000.
Additional information concerning [the Marsil0 house (http://www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca/rpcq/detail.do?methode=consulter&amp;id=92905&amp;type=bien) is available on the Heritage Directory site Culturel du Québec (RPCQ), at www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca. This dissemination tool from the Ministry of Culture and Communications makes it possible to discover the richness and diversity of Quebec&#39;s cultural heritage by making it accessible to all. Part of the content of the RPCQ can now be found on the Government of Quebec&#39;s open data portal, at www.data.gouv.qc.ca.
