Quebec - “There is no indication for the moment that mammography machines used in Quebec offer poorer performance. There is therefore no need to refer women to centers using another mammography technology, nor to repeat previous mammograms. This is what the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, said today following the publication of an Ontario study on mammography technologies in the journal Radiology. This study compares three types of devices used to perform mammograms, namely devices with film (classic), devices with film where the image is read by a sensor that scans it (CR), and fully digital devices (DR ). According to this study, based on the results of mammograms carried out on 688,418 women between 2008 and 2009, CR technology would detect 21% fewer breast cancers than DR or conventional technology.
&quot;Since 75% of mammography machines used in Quebec as part of the Quebec breast cancer screening program are of the CR type, these results deserve to be considered, but they must also be put into context&quot;, underlined the doctor. Hébert.
The minister insisted on the fact that the vast majority of CR devices in Quebec come from a different supplier from the devices studied in Ontario, and that their performance was found to be comparable to conventional type devices in another study. of great quality. In addition, following a comparative analysis of the two digital technologies (CR and DR), the Institut national de santé publique du Québec (INSPQ) published a report in 2012 clearly indicating that “the advantages of DR technology do not are, for the moment, not sufficiently important to justify the increase of the costs related to the acquisition and the operation of this technology compared to the CR technology ”. Finally, the PQDCS evaluation results do not show a decrease in cancer detection rates with the arrival of digital technology. The Minister then recalled that the Quebec breast cancer screening program benefited from excellent quality assurance mechanisms based on technical, organizational and professional standards.
&quot;However, we take this new information very seriously and the Department will make all the necessary verifications, in collaboration with experts from the National Institute of Public Health of Quebec and the National Institute of Excellence in Health and Social Services, in order to determine the real impacts of a technology transition on the performance indicators of the Quebec Breast Cancer Screening Program. In any event, it is of course recommended that women continue to participate in the Program, and no repeat mammography exam is necessary, ”Minister Hébert concluded.
Remember that mammography is the only screening examination recognized as being able to reduce mortality from breast cancer. All women who have not already done so are invited to learn more about the PQDCS by visiting www.pqdcs.qc.ca.
