Quebec - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today presented Bill 67 on autonomy insurance to the National Assembly. “In accordance with our commitments, we are moving forward by laying the foundations for a major and desired transformation of our health network. This bill expresses our desire to give real priority to the improvement of home care and to offer fundamental freedom to people in loss and in search of autonomy, ”said Dr. Hébert.
The parliamentary committee held from October 23 to November 20 clarified the project presented last spring in the white paper Autonomy for all. Other consultations will be held in parliamentary committee in the context of the study of the bill.
&quot;We see broad support for the central principles of our approach, principles which are now included in the bill: taking into account the choice of people regarding their living environment, the provision of services where people reside. and the protection of the funding of these services, ”continued the Minister.
The bill provides in particular for the establishment of an autonomy insurance plan. This special scheme will have a closed budget envelope, the Autonomy Fund, for which separate reporting is planned. It will consist of the sums allocated to long-term care and services and an additional investment announced by the government of more than $ 500 million until 2017-2018. In 2013-2014, more than $ 110 million were injected into improving home care and services across Quebec.
“Autonomy insurance is a responsible society&#39;s choice, at a time when the aging of the Quebec population is accentuated. The adoption of this bill will promote increased use of home support, in accordance with the wish of people with loss or in search of autonomy to remain as long as possible at home or in a familiar environment. This is entirely possible with the right support, while being less costly. Accommodation in a long-term care center (CHSLD) will continue to play an essential role in the network in order to accommodate people with severe loss of autonomy, ”explained Minister Réjean Hébert.
During the parliamentary committee, several groups submitted recommendations regarding the support to be provided to family caregivers. “Caregivers told us about the importance of being better supported and the need to be able to benefit from respite services. We have heard these concerns and have included respite as one of the services eligible for autonomy insurance. Caregivers are valuable partners and we want to provide them with improved support, ”continued Minister Hébert.
The implementation of the autonomy insurance is scheduled for April 1, 2015. In accordance with a wish expressed by the groups met in the parliamentary committee, it will be done simultaneously for the elderly with loss of autonomy, for people with disabilities. physical and for those with an intellectual disability or pervasive developmental disorder.
“We met more than 60 groups during the Parliamentary Commission, and we heard their comments and suggestions. With autonomy insurance, we want to implement activity-based financing in long-term care and services. This important change requires us to start the implementation in April 2015. We continue to put in place all the elements for its effective deployment, in particular by continuing to inject additional sums intended for the development of home care over the years to come, ”concluded Minister Hébert.
