Saint-Roch-de-l&#39;Achigan– The Minister of Finance and the Economy and Member of Parliament for Rousseau, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, is proud to announce on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy , Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the municipality of Saint-Roch-de-l&#39;Achigan will receive financial assistance $ 553,850 and that of Saint-Calixte, assistance of 4,257,130 $ bringing the total assistance for these two Lanaudière municipalities to $ 4,810,980 for major water infrastructure work. This financial support comes from the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
“I am very happy with the financial support announced today to the municipalities of Saint-Roch-de-l&#39;Achigan and Saint-Calixte for major water infrastructure work. Our government is aware of the need to renew and develop water infrastructure in communities across Quebec. This is why it works in partnership with the precious partners that are the municipalities, in order to provide access to quality public services for all, according to the principles of sustainable development, ”declared Minister Nicolas Marceau.
The Municipality of Saint-Roch-de-l&#39;Achigan&#39;s project aims to replace drinking water, wastewater and stormwater pipes under certain segments of Malo and Principale streets. Ultimately, 485 meters of water pipes will be replaced in Saint-Roch-de-l&#39;Achigan. Completion of this project requires maximum government assistance of $ 553,850 under component 1.5 of the PIQM.
As for the Municipality of Saint-Calixte, it will receive financial assistance for two projects. The first project involves the replacement of drinking water pipes under 6th row as well as under Alexandre, Beauchamps, Corbeil, Goyer, Jocelyne, Juteau, Hertel, Mainville, and Principale streets. The project also provides for the replacement of drinking water and wastewater pipes under Delorimier, Duvalière East and West, Lépine, Morin, Pratt and Sicard streets. In total, water pipes over four kilometers will be renewed in Saint-Calixte. Completion of this project requires maximum government assistance of $ 4,072,130 under component 1.5 of the PIQM.
The second project essentially involves replacing the drinking water treatment system and expanding the current building to house new equipment. Work on the drinking water reservoir is also planned. Under component 1.4 of the PIQM, the contribution from the Government of Quebec to the project is $ 185,000. For its part, the Municipality of Saint-Calixte is also investing $ 185,000 in its project, bringing the total amount of investments to $ 370,000.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for these projects is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make informed choices.
