Baie-Saint-Paul - In the wake of the launch of the Food Sovereignty Policy, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron, confirm the implementation of a local purchasing strategy specific to public establishments by December 2013.
“Taking the path of food sovereignty means acquiring tools that will allow Quebec biofood companies to increase their place within the institutional sector. Through this local purchasing strategy, they will be able to fully ensure the supply of our schools, hospitals, daycare centers and other government agencies in order to meet consumer expectations, ”said the Premier.
In collaboration with players in the Quebec biofood industry, the local purchasing strategy will aim to increase the place of local foods in Quebec institutional establishments. To do this, the Department will tackle four fronts: distribution, training, business ties and public sector calls for tenders.
More specifically, the strategy will aim to point out to the privileged partners who are the distributors that the biofood offer here is diversified and that it meets high quality and safety standards. In this way, the government will be able to encourage them to promote Quebec products to buyers in the institutional sector. The strategy will also aim to train and equip Quebec biofood companies so that they can access the network of public establishments, in particular through seminars and personalized support.
The strategy also targets the creation and reconciliation of business links between biofood companies, distributors and purchasing managers in the institutional sector. Finally, the government will speed up its work on the possible addition of new criteria in public calls for tenders, particularly with regard to sustainable development.
&quot;We intend to do everything in our power, while respecting trade agreements in which Quebec participates, so that all citizens who frequent our public establishments can benefit from the great diversity and quality of food here. . As I have already said, sourcing local products is above all about choosing yourself as a company, ”Minister Gendron concluded.
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, we invite you to regularly consult the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA), or yet to follow the Ministry on Twitter (https://twitter.com/mapaquebec).
Read the press release issued when the Food Sovereignty Policy was unveiled.
