Lac-Mégantic– The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, confirmed the payment of subsistence financial assistance to the entrepreneurs and self-employed workers affected, as well as the government&#39;s intention of Quebec to put in place a financial assistance plan to relocate several businesses and businesses hard hit by the disaster of July 6.
&quot;As of Wednesday, July 24, at the help and information office, contractors and self-employed workers affected will receive a lump sum of $ 5,000,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “We believe it is appropriate in the circumstances to provide this livelihood support in order to mitigate the repercussions and respond to immediate needs. Currently, I can assure you that we are working in close collaboration with the economic players in the area to implement, as quickly as possible, flexible and effective measures in order to allow the restart of economic activity. Our government&#39;s objective is truly to support our business people so that they can focus on resuming their activities and ensuring the sustainability of their business. &quot;
The sums paid will be drawn from the financial support provided for in the Emergency assistance to disaster-stricken businesses component. The terms and conditions of the financial assistance granted to entrepreneurs and self-employed workers affected by disaster are available at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca / megantic.
In addition, Minister Zakaïb specified that the Government of Quebec intends to financially support the temporary relocation of certain companies. Discussions are continuing in this direction.
“The reconstruction of the downtown area and the re-establishment of businesses and businesses remain major issues for the Municipality of Lac-Mégantic and we are fully aware of this,” added Élaine Zakaïb. “One of the solutions, in the short term, consists in fitting out temporary buildings, housing municipal and public services, to house several businesses, businesses and self-employed workers in the same place. I can confirm that our government is currently analyzing various options in order to offer this financial assistance. &quot;
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
