Îles-de-la-Madeleine– The Member for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (fisheries component), Ms. Jeannine Richard, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, announces the allocation of financial assistance of $ 150,000 to the Association of Fishermen and Owners of the Magdalen Islands (APPÎM ) for carrying out its project to identify live lobster caught in the Magdalen Islands during the 2014 season.
Financial support from the Ministère de l&#39;Agriculture, des Pêcheries et de l&#39;Alimentation (MAPAQ) will enable the Association to identify all the lobsters caught in the Magdalen Islands in 2014. This includes in particular the acquisition of identifiers which will be attached to one of the claws of lobsters caught in the archipelago. In addition, information sheets on lobster fishermen will be produced to feed the website www.homardsdesilesdelamadeleine.com.
“Thousands of Quebec consumers will now be able to recognize lobster from the Magdalen Islands among those that come from outside. They will now have the opportunity to &quot;always make the right choice&quot; by tasting a lobster from home and of exceptional quality. I congratulate APPÎM for this initiative, which will add value to lobster from the Islands and give new impetus to our industry, ”said Ms. Jeannine Richard.
By promoting the notoriety of the Quebec offer of aquatic products, the APPÎM project is consistent with the objectives set in the Food Sovereignty Policy and in the MAPAQ action plan for the development of commercial fisheries and aquaculture in Quebec. .
It should be noted that with investments of $ 2.3 billion and an annual food demand of nearly $ 34 billion, which generates 475,000 jobs, the biofood industry is an important engine of the Quebec economy.
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, we invite you to regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or to visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and of Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
