Quebec- On behalf of the Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, the Member of Parliament for Saint-François and Minister responsible for the Estrie region, Mr. Réjean Hébert , announces financial assistance totaling nearly $ 160,000 related to the implementation of the pilot program to support the multifunctionality of agriculture. Thus, five businesses and one organization in the Eastern Townships will be able to benefit from government support to jointly carry out the project “Enhancing agricultural heritage on the Route des Sommets”.
“I am very happy that these producers, who have the protection of biodiversity at heart, will be able to benefit from tangible government support. It is all the more beneficial because by acting in this way, collectively, we will contribute to the enhancement of our beautiful Estrie agricultural heritage, ”said Minister Réjean Hébert.
Among the companies participating in the implementation of this collective project, we find the company of Mr. Simon Couture, located in Frontenac, which obtains financial assistance of $ 23,600, and that of Mr. Raphaël Lacroix, established in Lac-Drolet, which receives a sum of $ 30,500. The Ferme Forestière Forand SENC, of Notre-Dame-des-Bois, and the farm of Mr. Jean Roy, of Saint-Augustin-de-Woburn, are both awarded $ 35,000. Also established in Saint-Augustin-de-Woburn, Ferme NS enr. receives a share of $ 22,000. Finally, the local development center of the regional county municipality of Granit, which is located in Lac-Mégantic, gets $ 12,300.
&quot;This collective project, which aims to showcase agricultural heritage, fits perfectly with the objectives of the Food Sovereignty Policy, since it promotes the dynamic occupation of the territory&quot;, clarified Minister François Gendron.
The Pilot Program to Support Multifunctionality of Agriculture encourages farmers to adopt practices that have positive benefits both for the environment and for communities. For more information on this program, visit the website www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca.
To learn more about the Food Sovereignty Policy, consult the blog (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or the Internetwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA) website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and &#39;Food. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
