Paris– As part of his mission to Paris, which takes place from December 5 to 10, 2013, the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, participated today hui with the signing of an agreement between the Corporation of industrial initiative of Victoriaville and PALME France (National association for the environmental quality and the sustainable development of the territories of activities), to create PALME Quebec. This partnership initiative aims to facilitate the transfer of expertise and experience in the design of environmentally friendly, economically prosperous industrial parks and concerned with the quality of life of the local population.
This agreement is in line with the sustainable development efforts undertaken by Quebec several years ago. In recent years, the City of Victoriaville has been working on the establishment of an industrial park entirely intended for companies operating in the field of sustainable development or adopting ecological standards. As it is the first industrial park of its kind in Quebec, the City of Victoriaville was inspired by similar projects already underway in Europe. “In terms of sustainable development, Victoriaville continues to innovate to meet the needs of its businesses. More than an open door to Europe, the creation of PALME Québec by the Victoriaville Industrial Initiative Corporation allows its companies to benefit from an industrial zone that meets best practices with regard to the environment and the sustainable development, ”said the mayor of Victoriaville, Mr. Alain Rayes.
The idea of a partnership to be formalized in terms of transfer of experiences was born following numerous meetings and study missions between PALME France and the authorities of Victoriaville. Under this agreement, PALME France offers its expertise in ecoparks and the City of Victoriaville will, in return, transfer its experience in the field of industrial ecology.
“The City of Victoriaville has always been at the forefront in the field of sustainable development. Its industrial ecopark and this agreement with France mark the beginning of a new stage in this major process. We have further proof that it is possible to combine economy and environment while respecting the quality of life of the local population. I am also convinced that several municipalities in Quebec will show a marked interest in this initiative, ”said Minister Blanchet.
Initiated in 1992, created in 1997, professionalized in 2002, PALME France has around a hundred members. In 2003, interested in the project, European players joined PALME. The Association works in the field of ecoparks and favors three main axes: sustainable development, land management and animation of business reception areas. The main mission of the Association is to capitalize on the experiences of its members and to share them with the whole community.
