Quebec - On his return from his mission, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, said he was satisfied with his visit to the Angoulême Francophone Film Festival, particularly due to the signing of the declaration of intent between the Government of Quebec and the Government of the French Republic on cooperation in the field of culture.
“There is a real sharing of tastes, interests and ideas in terms of culture between France and Quebec. France and Quebec see the works of their creators shining all over the world, which confirms that these two nations each deliver an artistic message that finds undeniable resonance. This Franco-Québécois cultural influence, through the dissemination of works in common forums, can become a spearhead of the Francophone character in the world and thus make it possible to conquer new markets, ”declared Minister Kotto.
By signing this first declaration of intent, the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications (MCC), the Conseil des arts et des lettres du Québec (CALQ) and the Société de développement des entreprises cultures (SODEC) will work with the &#39;Institut français in order to enrich the links in all Quebec and French cultural chains. Concretely, the MCC and the Institut français want, among other things, a better circulation of information concerning the priorities of each of the participants, the sharing of knowledge and expertise in all cultural sectors, and working in partnership to maximize visibility of actions.
The signatories of the declaration, Minister Kotto and the Minister Delegate to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in charge of La Francophonie, Ms. Yamina Benguigui, expressed the wish to further develop cultural exchanges, partnerships, co-productions or any other project and to pursue cooperative work in all cultural sectors, by exploring innovative initiatives and new approaches, by exchanging good practices and by promoting joint projects in Quebec, France or third countries.
This declaration of intent will be accompanied by an action plan for culture. Discussions will take place between representatives of the MCC, CALQ, SODEC and the Institut français, with a view to developing and implementing this plan. Among the actions envisaged, let us mention the facilitation of joint actions in the countries of the South, which are very often French-speaking, and the development of the circulation of Quebec and French films, particularly in the French-speaking world.
