Montreal - The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane De Courcy, today commented on the results of the last foreign recruitment mission that took place in France and Belgium from June 8 to 11. In total, 39 Quebec companies, including 21 from regions outside Montreal, took part in this 8th edition of Journées Quebec with a view to filling more than 625 positions in the fields of aerospace, accounting, engineering, finance, electric motor manufacturing, metallurgy, plastics, catering, healthcare, information and communications technology, transportation and machinery, and machining.
“The Journées Québec have very positive spinoffs and their popularity continues to grow. In addition to allowing Quebec companies to meet qualified people who meet their needs, these missions abroad allow us to position Quebec as a destination of choice for immigration. When they are recruited, these people arrive in Quebec with a job offer. They are young, Francophones or Francophiles, which allows them to contribute both to the vitality of French and to the economic development of our society, ”said Minister Diane De Courcy.
The last edition of the Journées Québec, which took place on June 8 and 9 in Paris and on June 11 in Brussels, had a record of participation with more than 12,000 people registered. As for the companies, they met nearly 1,300 candidates and carried out more than 2,200 job interviews. The previous edition of the Journées Québec, carried out in the fall of 2012, in Barcelona and Paris, had given rise to 11,700 registrations and some 216 hires have been made official so far.
Organized by the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities since 2008, the Journées Québec are very popular with Québec businesses. The turnkey formula gives employers the opportunity to devote themselves entirely to their main activity during the mission, namely the recruitment of a specialized and experienced workforce.
This initiative is made possible thanks to the collaboration of Emploi-Québec and the solid partnership that the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities has established with economic players from Quebec and Europe, among others, Montreal International, Quebec International , Sherbrooke Innopole, the Société de développement économique de Drummondville and Pôle emploi international (France).
The specialized workers recruited during these missions have a job as soon as they arrive in Quebec. Almost 1,000 hires have been made since the start of the Journées Québec in 2008. Including members of their families, more than 2,000 people have thus settled in Québec.
“Qualified temporary workers represent a solution to the pressing needs of Quebec businesses, needs that cannot be met by the local workforce. Their contribution is important because they contribute to the economic development of the regions in which the companies are located, ”concluded Minister Diane De Courcy.
