Quebec– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, was in Paris, from December 5 to 10, 2013, to promote Quebec government orientations in the area of biological diversity , fight against climate change and sustainable development.
The Minister first participated in the Pollutec Horizons 2013 exhibition, which was devoted to environmental technologies, energy and sustainable development. The Minister took advantage of his presence at this show to encourage the implementation of actions aimed at promoting the transition to a more sustainable economic model. “Our renewable energies, the &#39;greening&#39; of production technologies and our Foreign Trade Development Plan, which will promote technological and commercial partnerships with Europe, are assets that will enable us to meet the environmental, social and economic challenges facing us. we are facing it, ”said Minister Blanchet. Nearly 1,200 exhibitors were present at this Show, including the Quebec association Trimatec as well as Chamard &amp; Associés, Consumaj, Exp, G • STAS and Odotech, five companies from Quebec.
The Minister also had several bilateral meetings during this mission. He notably witnessed the signing of an agreement between the Corporation d&#39;Initiative Industrielle de Victoriaville, represented by its President, Mr. Gilles Lafontaine, and PALME France (National Association for Environmental Quality and Sustainable Development of Business Areas), to create PALME Quebec. This partnership initiative aims to facilitate the transfer of expertise and experience in the design of environmentally friendly, economically prosperous industrial parks and concerned with the quality of life of the local population.
During this mission, the Minister also visited the Haute Vallée de Chevreuse regional natural park in Île-de-France, which is considered a model in terms of sustainable architecture, education and the preservation of biodiversity. . This visit, carried out with the president of the park, Mr. Yves Vandewalle, enabled the minister in particular to inquire about the mechanisms for creating regional parks and to learn about concrete examples of approaches making it possible to reconcile economic and social activities. with conservation and environmental protection.
In addition, the Minister had the opportunity to meet with Mr. Alain Amédro, vice-president of the Île-de-France region, in charge of planning, interregional cooperation and rural contracts.
In the case of climate change, the minister was able to discuss with the senator of Loire-Atlantique Mr. Ronan Dantec and French officials to inquire about the objectives and challenges of the French side in view of the CoP21 which will take place in Paris in 2015. Mr. Blanchet took advantage of this meeting to share Quebec&#39;s experience in the implementation of a cap and trade system for greenhouse gas emission rights, one more tool. in addition, considered by the States as a preferred solution to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. “Because the quality of life of current and future generations is at stake, the Paris conference is crucial and should lead to a multilateral agreement on climate change. This is why I am happy to have been able to discuss with French experts on how our two governments can collaborate in the promotion of this economic mechanism in anticipation of the Paris conference in 2015 ”, he said. .
Finally, Mr. Blanchet took part in a round table on biodiversity conservation which brought together high-level representatives from the French Ministry of Ecology, Sustainable Development and Energy and partner organizations. It was an opportunity to present the new government orientations of Quebec in this area and to discuss the French and European approach to biological diversity in a perspective of sustainable development.
“The relationship between Quebec and France is unique. The mission that I had the privilege of piloting clearly demonstrates the potential of this affinity. We have encouraged business projects there, driven by this necessary reconciliation between economy and ecology. We have studied forms of development which allow at the same time the conservation of biodiversity, economic development and human habitat in already occupied sectors. We also considered common initiatives in terms of nature conservation and explored avenues of collaboration for the next international conference on climate change which will take place in Paris in 2015. Without a doubt, a dense and fruitful mission for Quebec, ”declared Minister Blanchet.
