Beijing - As part of a series of meetings held Tuesday and Wednesday in Beijing at the ministries of Foreign Affairs, Trade, Education and Science and Technology, Minister Jean-François Lisée called for a deepening of the economic, academic and institutional relations with China.
The Minister recalled that Quebec is by far the best established Canadian province in China. The progress of this relationship will benefit from the establishment, in 2011, of a Consulate General of China and, more recently last week, the opening in Montreal of a branch of the Bank of China.
&quot;However, we are missing an important tool to accelerate the strengthening of our relations: a regular direct flight between Beijing and the metropolis,&quot; said Minister Lisée.
The Minister insisted on the need to establish a direct air link during his speech at the General Assembly of the Canada-China Business Council in front of an audience of 350 Chinese, Quebec and Canadian business people.
The subject was also on the agenda of a meeting with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Canada, Mr. John Baird. The situation of the Quebec activist of Greenpeace, Alexandre Paul, imprisoned in Murmansk in Russia, was also discussed. MM. Lisée and Baird have agreed to coordinate their efforts in support of Mr. Paul. &quot;It is increasingly clear to the international community that the charges against Mr. Paul and his 30 co-defendants are clearly exaggerated,&quot; said Lisée.
The minister is leading a delegation in China of 80 people working in particular in the green building, fashion, performing arts and education sectors.
On the occasion of a reception marking the 15th anniversary of the Quebec Office in Beijing, the Minister attended the signing of agreements between Quebec and Chinese organizations (details in appendix).
With his Chinese government interlocutors, the themes of the environment, green building, electrification of transport, video games, personalized medicine and northern development were discussed.
With the Chinese Ministry of Education, it was agreed to set up a working group to maximize the presence of Chinese students in Quebec and Quebec students in China.
Likewise, the Minister and President of Beijing Foreign Language University, Mr. Yang Xueyi, agreed to encourage greater mobility for master&#39;s students.
The Quebec delegation will complete its mission to China in Shanghai, where it will be a question of promoting Quebec know-how in the fields of green construction, fashion and culture and where several agreements are expected.
