Washington, DC, United States - Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, met today at the Eisenhower Executive Building of the Maison complex Blanche, the chair of the White House Environmental Quality Council. Ms. Nancy Sutley is the principal advisor to the President of the United States, Mr. Barack Obama. Ms. Sutley is notably responsible for designing her administration&#39;s environmental policies and initiatives, including those relating to the fight against climate change. This is the first time that a Quebec Minister of the Environment has been received within the walls of the White House.
The fight against climate change was also at the heart of the talks between the minister and President Obama&#39;s advisor. Minister Blanchet reported on Quebec&#39;s many initiatives to reduce its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, in particular the implementation of the Quebec system of cap and trade of GHG emission rights. Quebec will link its carbon market with that of California on January 1, 2014 as part of the Western Climate Initiative and is actively working to expand this market, already the largest in North America with approximately one seventh of Canada&#39;s population and from the United States, to other partners on the continent.
The Minister also mentioned that the electrification of transportation was one of the Government of Quebec&#39;s priorities. Minister Blanchet and Ms. Sutley discussed the importance of reducing the dependence of their respective jurisdictions on fossil fuels, which are largely responsible for the climate upheavals that afflict our continent and the entire world.
The Minister welcomed the intention expressed by President Obama in his last State of the Union address to put the fight against climate change at the forefront of the American political agenda. “I expressed to Ms. Sutley our willingness to go further. We believe that a vigorous economy and a healthy environment go hand in hand and that they will be more and more inseparable: all economic indicators point to the need for a global and concerted fight against climate change ”, declared the Minister. .
Minister Blanchet said he was convinced that Quebec can play an important role in the fight against climate change: “In light of recent extreme climatic events that have occurred here in America, meetings like the one today demonstrate that Quebec&#39;s efforts are relevant on the international scene. It is by pursuing our efforts in accordance with our values that we make our contribution to what is the most important issue at the start of the 21st century.
