Shanghai - At the Shanghai stage of his mission to China, the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée, presided over the signing of a series of agreements between Chinese and Quebec partners and inaugurated the Quebec showcase under green construction in the offices of Expansion Quebec.
China intends to acquire one billion square meters of green buildings by 2015 and 30% of green constructions by 2020. “Quebec has all the assets to take advantage of the fantastic development of the building sector. ecological in China. Already, Quebec&#39;s green building industry has established itself as a privileged partner of the cities of Shanghai and Dalian, where pilot projects are already being carried out. The testimonies of our companies attest to this, in a society where political power is very much present in business decisions, the support of the Quebec government is decisive in moving matters forward, ”said Minister Lisée.
The green construction showcase was conceptualized by the Quebec firm Coarchitecture and presents the products and technologies of Nordic, Modulex, Soprema, IFCS, Bois DV and AmeriCan Structures until the end of November.
Several Quebec companies took advantage of the Minister&#39;s visit to accelerate the conclusion of a series of agreements with their Chinese partners:
American Structures
Letter of Intent with Beijing Enterprises (Dalian) Investment Group Co. for the construction of a 45,000 sq. Ft. Wooden resort house.
Coarchitecture
Memorandum of Understanding with Beijing Enterprises (Dalian) Investment Group Co. for the Design of an Eco-Friendly Wooden Resort in Dalian
Modulex International
Strategic partnership agreement with Shanghai TreemanWood Manufacture aimed at marketing prefabricated wood-frame panel houses manufactured in Quebec.
IFCS
Signing of a distribution contract for their building management software solutions in the Shanghai region with Shenteng Information Technology, a high-tech Shanghai company.
Soprema
$ 10M contract with Taizhou Pengxin Real Estate Development Company for the sale of waterproofing membranes for green roofs, most of the components of which come from Drummondville.
DV wood
In partnership with Bois Franc DV, HMS Canada, CLT Canada and Jiuyou Capital, an investment of nearly $ 5 million for the creation of a solid wood panels against glued laminate (CLT) plant in Ripon in 2014, followed by the &#39;establishment of a solid wood paneling center, and the opening of the first second-generation CLT manufacturing plant in North America at the end of 2014. About 30 jobs will be created in Quebec.
At the start of the day on Thursday, Minister Lisée offered his support for a Sino-Quebec agreement in the financial field. &quot;The agreement reached between Finance Montreal and the Shanghai Financial Association comes at the right time: the Chinese government is launching a major project in Shanghai to relax the rules governing financial transactions and Montreal intends to become a leader in transactions surrounding the yuan in America. of the North, ”declared Minister Lisée.
The Chinese State Council in August 2013 approved the creation of a pilot free trade zone in Shanghai, a move that will propel the city to the forefront of global financial, trade and logistics centers. The project is the first of its kind in China and is also a priority for the Shanghai government in 2013.
The day concluded with another round of announcements, this time in the context of a networking event organized in collaboration with the Canadian Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai:
ATMS (Accès Traceability Milieu Santé) Inc.
Memorandum of understanding with the Shanghai Ruidong Hospital according to which ATMS undertakes to integrate its traceability software within the sterilization department of the Hospital so that it serves as a showcase for other hospitals in the city of Shanghai and possibly from southern China.
ATMS (Accès Traceability Milieu Santé) Inc.
Cooperation agreement with the company SHENZHEN FTRD INDUSTRY Co., Ltd. aimed at integrating ATMS solutions within the sterilization departments of Shenzhen City hospitals.
SiliCycle
Agreement with Jia Wei on the creation of a joint venture for the establishment and registration of a Chinese entity at SiliCycle (SIliCycle-China).
Alchemic Dream
Declarations of intent with two Chinese partners with a view to concluding a sales contract for technical services in the multimedia field.
Alchemic Dream- City of Shawinigan&#39;s digital station
Collaboration agreement between the digital station of the City of Shawinigan and the Shanghai Multimedia Industry Association in order to promote the sharing of technologies and training, as well as the engagement of companies in the mobile and social video game sector in the markets Chinese and Quebecois.
Jesta I.S.
Announcement of the strategic alliance with CP Lotus aimed at integrating new modules into their integrated management systems.
Logic orient
Opening of the Logik Orient Chine office in Shenzhen to stimulate the export of high-end Quebec agri-food products to the Chinese market.
Norduyn
Contract worth over CA $ 1 million with China Southern Airlines for the supply of 350 baby cots to equip the airline&#39;s entire fleet of aircraft. The cribs will be manufactured in the Norduyn factory in Montreal.
Finance Montreal
Bipartite agreement with the Shanghai Financial Association in order to promote exchanges in terms of internships, training and activities in the field of finance between Montreal and Shanghai.
