Quebec, March 13, 2017 - From Barcelona, Munich and London, three key regions for SMEs in Europe, the leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the Parti Québécois spokesperson for the economy and for the Priorité PME team, Alain Therrien, retain several elements to enrich the PME program of the next Parti Québécois government.
“The Catalans have a population equivalent to ours; however, twice as many of their SMEs are involved in exporting, noted Jean-François Lisée, who was, among other things, Minister of Foreign Trade. Quebec needs to support its SMEs much better in the markets; there is significant potential for growth and wealth creation. The leader of the official opposition is also sorry to note that last year, Quebec exports to the United States fell, despite the weakness of the Canadian dollar and American growth. &quot;The current government has simply missed the American stimulus boat for our businesses and our jobs,&quot; he added.
In Barcelona, Alain Therrien was struck by the efficiency of the Eurocat organization, which concentrates all innovation aid for SMEs in a single window. The two elected officials also visited incubators for microenterprises, particularly technological ones, in the three cities, which benefit from public and private support. At a time when 42% of young Quebecers are thinking of starting a business, these experiences are instructive in creating conditions favorable to their success.
In addition, in both Munich and London, special emphasis is placed on identifying and supporting what in Quebec are called “gazelles”, companies that demonstrate rapid growth. The British government is indeed devoting a lot of energy to supporting these companies in their progress, because they are the main creators of new wealth.
Among the innovations that caught the attention of MM. Lisée and Therrien, let us mention an idea applied since November by the British Business Bank (the BBB, the equivalent of Investissement Québec) to increase the proportion of SMEs that obtain a loan: companies traditionally turn to their bank to obtain loans. ; if their bank refuses, their request is automatically sent to lenders accredited by the BBB, but who accept a higher risk. The result: more SMEs obtain financing for their growth.
These elements will be integrated into the reflection of the Priorité PME team of the Parti Québécois, also made up of entrepreneur MPs Mireille Jean (Chicoutimi) and Martin Ouellet (René-Lévesque). Moreover, at the same time as their colleagues&#39; European tour, they completed a series of meetings in Montreal and Quebec City with decision-makers from the business world in order to portray the challenges facing Quebec SMEs. Finally, over the next few months, the three members of the Priorité PME team will travel all regions of Quebec to collect testimonials from entrepreneurs about the regulatory and administrative burden they face.
