Quebec - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, will be on a mission in Angoulême, France, from August 23 to 25 to participate in the Angoulême Francophone Film Festival (FFA), which this year devotes a full component of its programming in homage to Quebec cinema.
“It is with joy that I take part in this major meeting of French-speaking cinema which pays tribute to Quebec. This is a mark of recognition and an exceptional showcase for our filmmakers who stand out abroad for the originality of their scripts and the quality of their productions. On behalf of the Government of Quebec, I would like to salute the exceptional work of our creators who know, year after year, how to dazzle and move audiences, ”said Minister Kotto.
At the same time, the Minister of Culture and Communication of France, Aurélie Filippetti, and Minister Kotto will meet to continue their discussions initiated during a previous meeting last November. In particular, they will discuss the follow-up to the International Colloquium on Culture and Sustainable Development, which was held in Paris in November 2012, and the major challenges facing the cultural industries of France and Quebec.
Minister Kotto will take advantage of his stay in France to materialize a partnership path that was mentioned during his first official mission, during an interview with the President of the French Institute, Xavier Darcos. Indeed, Minister Kotto and Minister responsible for La Francophonie, Yamina Benguigui, will sign the Declaration of Intent between the Government of Quebec and the Government of the French Republic on cooperation in the field of culture. This declaration aims to enrich and develop Franco-Quebec cooperation between the Institut français, the Ministry of Culture and Communications (MCC), the Conseil des arts et des lettres du Québec and the Société de développement des entreprises culturelles (SODEC). ) in all cultural sectors.
&quot;This is a happy ending for the consolidation of Franco-Quebec cultural ties which is consistent with the will expressed by the Premier on the occasion of the 17th Alternate Meeting of the Premiers of Quebec and of the French Republic in last march. We have every interest in continuing the bilateral dialogue by equipping ourselves with meeting spaces and tangible instruments to promote the Francophone character on the international cultural scene, ”added Minister Kotto.
Finally, the Minister will also visit the Pôle Image Magelis, one of the leading European centers for moving images, from cinema to animation and special effects. Several young French professionals working today in Quebec in these sectors were trained there.
The FFA is a major event recognized internationally as being a must for the various players in the French-speaking film industry. It attracts more than 10,000 people annually and promotes the promotion of French-language cinema and the emergence of young emerging directors.
Thus, ten works from the Quebec film repertoire, ranging from Léolo by Jean-Claude Lauzon to CRAZY by Jean-Marc Vallée, will be screened in addition to two films by Denys Arcand, The Decline of the American Empire and Les Invasions barbares, which will part of an outdoor screening. It should also be noted that two Quebec films were selected for the official competition, namely Gabrielle by Louise Archambault and Vic + Flo have seen a bear by Denis Côté, and that Guillaume Sylvestre&#39;s feature film, 1er amour, will be presented in the category Favorites of the general delegates. For the full festival program, visit the website: www.filmfrancophone.fr.
This cultural showcase was made possible thanks to a contribution from the Ministry of Culture and Communications, the Society for the Development of Cultural Enterprises and the General Delegation of Quebec in Paris.
