Dresden, Germany - At the end of the mission he led in Germany with the parliamentary assistant to the Prime Minister, responsible for the electrification of transport, Mr. Daniel Breton, and a dozen companies and Quebec organizations in the electromobility sector, the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, believes that Quebec must step up its technical, scientific and commercial collaboration with German partners.
“Germany displays a political will and has leading expertise which have made it an essential partner in fostering the development of the Quebec electromobility industry. Our long-standing relations with Bavaria and Saxony, in particular, will undoubtedly benefit the advancement of the electrification of transport in Quebec, a major project of economic development and sustainable development for our society, ”declared Minister Lisée. .
In Munich, the entire Quebec delegation attended a presentation of the activities of the car manufacturer BMW in the electric vehicle sector. A workshop with representatives of companies and other stakeholders in the field made it possible, among other things, to discuss the perspectives of collaboration within the framework of the program of regional showcases in electromobility of the German federal government. Note that Bavaria and Saxony have both selected Quebec as an international partner in this program aimed at developing the electromobility sector.
In Dresden, a tour of Volkswagen&#39;s facilities as well as a presentation of the company&#39;s activities in the electromobility sector were on the program. There was also a meeting with representatives of the Dresden Transport Company, which operates one of the largest tram networks in Germany. The Company is also engaged, with the government of Saxony, in a project to increase the quantity of hybrid buses in Saxon municipalities. Finally, the parliamentary assistant and the business delegation took part in an electromobility workshop at the Fraunhofer Institute, a research organization in applied sciences, to which several potential Saxon partners were invited.
“Quebec is well positioned to become a leader in the electrification of transportation. It has renewable electrical energy at its disposal and has expertise, for example, in the development of batteries and new powertrain systems and power electronics. However, in this highly competitive sector, our success also depends on our ability to establish business and scientific partnerships, ”said Mr. Breton.
On the sidelines of a meeting in Munich with the Minister of Federal and European Affairs of the State of Bavaria, Ms. Emilia Müller, Minister Lisée attended the signing of an agreement aimed at developing youth exchanges between Quebec and the Bavaria.
Through this agreement, the International Youth Offices of Quebec (LOJIQ) and the Bavarian State Chancellery wish to promote the participation of young Quebecers and Bavarians in joint exchange programs and international projects. These projects will aim to improve the professional qualifications of young people in Quebec and Bavaria by offering them the opportunity to live concrete experiences that will facilitate their integration into the labor market. LOJIQ and the State of Bavaria also intend to promote exchanges in the field of vocational training.
“By giving more prominence to young people today, our rich collaboration with Bavaria is more forward-looking than ever. I invite the young people of Quebec and Bavaria to seize these new opportunities which will undoubtedly contribute to enriching their professional and personal career ”, declared Minister Lisée.
Remember that Bavaria is one of Quebec&#39;s most important institutional partners abroad. More than 500 cooperation projects in the cultural, economic, scientific and educational fields, among others, have been on the program for almost 25 years.
The Minister also met with the Minister of Justice of Bavaria, Ms Beate Merk. They both participated in an activity celebrating the National Day of Quebec in the Bavarian capital.
In Dresden, Mr. Lisée met the Minister-President of Saxony, Mr. Stanislaw Tillich, as well as the Minister of Science and the Arts, Ms. Sabine von Schorlemer. Minister Lisée was also able to meet with the Secretary for External Affairs of Catalonia, Mr. Roger Albinyana, on a visit to the Saxon capital.
Germany is Quebec&#39;s most important trading partner in Europe. Already Quebec&#39;s first European customer in 2011, this country has been its main supplier of products from Europe since last year.
Minister Lisée continues his European mission in Brussels and Paris until June 26.
