London - Quebec Premier Pauline Marois today presented Quebec&#39;s new economic priorities in the City of London, the world&#39;s financial center, to members of the Canada-UK Chamber of Commerce.
“The incentives and measures that we have put forward as part of our economic policy help make Québec a particularly favorable place for investment. Today, I took advantage of the forum that was offered to me to send out a strong message to decision-makers and investors in the United Kingdom: Quebec is a key partner for their development in North America ”, declared the first minister.
The event allowed the Premier to present the broad outlines of the Quebec economy as well as the main themes of economic policy, including the Transportation Electrification Strategy. She pointed out the comparative advantages that Quebec has as a land of investment, in particular thanks to its energy surpluses and the overhaul of its mining regime.
This was Prime Minister Marois&#39; second appearance before the Canada-United Kingdom Chamber of Commerce. The objectives of this organization are to coordinate the activities of Canadian companies established on British soil and to promote exchanges between companies on both sides of the Atlantic. In recent years, several prominent figures have addressed members of the House, including Tony Blair and Bill Clinton.
During the day, Ms. Marois participated in two economic announcements. The first concerns the opening, in Montreal, of an office of White Star Capital, a fund that invests in the seed and start-up of companies in the information and communications technology industry, whose presence will promote this sector in Quebec. The Premier also announced the establishment of a Cinesite studio in Montreal. This project by London-based Cinesite VFX, which specializes in the production of visual effects, will create 200 jobs.
With nearly 150 British companies established in Quebec, the United Kingdom ranks third in the world for the number of foreign companies in Quebec. Conversely, around a hundred Quebec companies are located in the United Kingdom.
