Quebec– The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, will be on mission in France and Belgium from January 21 to 25. This visit will allow the Minister in particular to gather information on the health systems of these two countries, while benefiting from the French expertise and experience in autonomy insurance and funding methods focused on patients.
“While we are preparing to take structuring steps in terms of supporting autonomy and financing the health system, it is important to be able to benefit from the experience of our Belgian and French partners. I am convinced that a good number of measures in force in Europe would be adaptable to the Quebec context, and that in return, various elements of our health approach can be a source of inspiration for European decision-makers and managers ”, declared Minister Hébert. .
In France, Minister Réjean Hébert will meet with Minister of Social Affairs and Health, Ms. Marisol Touraine, as well as Minister Delegate in charge of Seniors and Autonomy, Ms. Michèle Delaunay. The Minister will also be heard by the Committee on Social Affairs of the National Assembly, where he will speak on the challenges of the health system in Quebec.
Activities are also planned with the French Hospital Federation, with the Sciences Po Health Chair, with the Brain and Spinal Cord Institute and with the Georges-Pompidou European Hospital. Minister Hébert will give two conferences on the challenges related to aging and the autonomy of the elderly, one at the National Foundation of Gerontology, the other within the framework of the Health Tribunes of the Sciences Po Health Chair.
In Belgium, Minister Hébert will meet with the Walloon Minister for Health, Social Action and Equal Opportunities, Ms. Éliane Tillieux, with the Flemish Minister for Welfare, Public Health and Family, Mr. Jo Vandeurzen, as well as with a representative of the European Commission. He will also visit the Saint-Joseph rest home in Temploux.
This mission by Minister Réjean Hébert to Europe follows the visit to Quebec by Ms. Michèle Delaunay, Minister Delegate to the French Minister of Social Affairs and Health, in charge of the elderly and Autonomy, in November 2012.
