Quebec - In reaction to statements by the president of Manufacturiers et Exportateurs du Québec (MEQ), Éric Tétrault, during an interview given last night on Radio-Canada, the member for Sanguinet and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on the economy and exports, Alain Therrien, and the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesperson for international relations, Carole Poirier, call on the Liberal government to stop harming our businesses that export. Mr. Tétrault gave this interview while participating in Prime Minister Philippe Couillard&#39;s economic mission to Mexico.
“Quebec manufacturers and exporters are worried about liberal austerity and the cuts that are suddenly affecting the representations of Quebec and therefore harm Quebec&#39;s competitiveness in the world. Obviously, Philippe Couillard and Jacques Daoust have no economic plan, no vision for Quebec. All they have is a pair of scissors. When will this government come up with a real economic plan? Can he minimally stop harming, if he doesn&#39;t help? », Declared the deputy of Sanguinet.
The member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve for her part recalled that foreign trade must be an integral part of Quebec&#39;s international policy. “For the sake of efficiency, consistency and vision, we chose to merge the ministries of International Relations and Foreign Trade because it went without saying that Quebec would gain. The Liberal government for its part decided, first, to divide these two functions again, and then to slash Quebec&#39;s diplomatic network all over the world. We can see what happened: poorly prepared economic missions, major diplomatic errors. Now, we are learning from the mouths of manufacturers and exporters that mission monitoring is deficient, which affects their chances of breaking into new markets. This government is deeply amateur! She said.
Invest in innovation
The president of MEQ also reminded the government of the importance of investing massively in innovation, an opinion shared by the Parti Québécois. “Our government launched a national research and innovation policy as well as a foreign trade development plan, a first in Quebec. The Liberals abandoned all of this for lack of vision and accounting ideology. They did not understand that investing in Quebec exports is investing in the development of Quebec. I ask Minister Jacques Daoust to get these policies back on track. It is the revival of Quebec that is at stake, ”concluded Alain Therrien.
