Beijing– In China since Monday, the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée, has seen the success and progress made by several Quebec companies on the Chinese market. Three Quebec companies active in the sale of consumer goods took advantage of his visit to Beijing to announce the opening of their first stores on Chinese soil.
“The emergence of a middle class with growing purchasing power opens up new niche possibilities for our distinctive products. China is thus becoming a market offering interesting prospects for our designers, our manufacturers and our distributors, ”said Minister Lisée.
Montrealer M0851, known for her original products, bags, coats and leather accessories, designed and manufactured in the metropolis, opened the ball with the inauguration of her first store in mainland China, in Beijing, in the heart of a commercial area in vogue, close to the city center.
For its part, Montreal-based jewelry leader Maison Birks is also announcing the upcoming opening of its first boutique in China, scheduled for early 2014, at Xanadu Plaza in Beijing this week. It was in the presence of Minister Lisée and numerous media representatives that the company made this announcement, the result of steps taken several years ago and for which the support of the Quebec government has proved crucial.
A third company, this time in the fashion industry, welcomed the opening of its first outlets in mainland China. Judith &amp; Charles, who will participate this week in the exclusive Montreal Collections fashion show in Shanghai, announced the opening of two stores in the cities of GuangZhou and WuHan, and is considering increasing the number of its stores in 2014.
&quot;We are witnessing an evolution in our trade relations with China: whereas not so long ago the model of&quot; made in China &quot;products prevailed, we are now seeing that it is also now possible to manufacture products destined for China. This should inspire some to get started, ”added Mr. Lisée.
This fertile day in Beijing concluded with a networking reception marking the 15th anniversary of the Quebec Office in Beijing. Three announcements were made on this occasion: Novalux will stage a new show in China, McGill University has entered into an agreement with the Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications in order to strengthen existing ties and set up a framework collaboration in research and training, and the Digital Alliance signed a letter of intent with the China Cultural Industry Association (CCIA), which reports to the Chinese Ministry of Culture, with a view to making the CCIA the guest of honor of the upcoming Montreal International Game Summit.
Monday in the capital of the province of Shandong, twinned with Quebec since 2008, gave rise to the signing of the minutes of the 3rd Quebec-Shandong Working Group. A total of six cooperation projects were selected in the fields of education, vocational training, urban land use planning, culture and the environment.
The development of political, cultural and business ties was at the heart of a fruitful meeting between Minister Lisée and the vice-governor of Shandong, who announced that he would see to the creation of a Quebec demonstration zone that will allow to make Quebec&#39;s know-how better known in Shandong.
Meetings were also held with the dean of the Institute of Economic and Environmental Law of the University of Shandong and the director of the Shandong Provincial Museum, with which the Musée de la civilization de Québec wishes to develop an exchange of exhibitions.
Quebec and Shandong, both members of the Conference of Heads of Government of Partner Regions, have since 2002 developed close cooperation links in various fields, including those of the economy, trade, research and innovation, training, education and tourism.
