Quebec - The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, today unveiled the composition of the expert group that will be responsible for studying the funding, administration, management and governance of school boards. This group will be chaired by Ms. Pauline Champoux-Lesage, who notably served as Deputy Minister of Education from 1996 to 2000 and Ombudsperson from 2000 to 2006.
To assist her in her task, Ms. Champoux-Lesage will be able to count on three other members:
In particular, the group will examine the equity and efficiency of funding as well as the financial situation of school boards and their establishments. The different sources of funding for school boards, their spending and the related government and citizen accountability will also be analyzed.
The group will also look into the organization and governance of school boards. It will examine the overall functioning of the structures in place, in particular the roles and responsibilities conferred on the different levels (national, regional and local). Finally, it will propose to the government scenarios for the organization, governance and financing of the school system.
In its analysis and recommendations, the expert group must take into account elements which, depending on the case, are specific to the situation of English-language school boards or special-status school boards. It will also have to pay particular attention to the government&#39;s desire to consolidate public finances without increasing the tax burden on taxpayers. The final report of the expert group is expected by the end of May 2014.
Remember that on October 1, following a meeting with representatives of the school boards, the Premier, Ms. Pauline Marois, and Minister Malavoy announced the creation of the expert group. They also announced that school boards should remit $ 100 million in school taxes to taxpayers over the next two years.
Minister Malavoy also tabled Bill No. 63 in the National Assembly today, which aims to:
&quot;Until we have other options, which will be presented by the expert group, we are taking the appropriate means to regulate the taxation power of school boards for the next two years, without compromising the student services, ”concluded the Minister.
