Quebec - The Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée, signed an agreement on social security between Quebec and India, represented for the occasion by the federal Minister of Indian Affairs Overseas, Vayalar Ravi. Minister Ravi has a mandate to serve the many Indian nationals living abroad: the Indian diaspora is estimated at nearly 25 million people, established in some 110 countries.
“The agreement signed today is historic since it is the first government-to-government agreement between Quebec and India, a country of some 1.2 billion inhabitants. It gives Quebec a significant comparative advantage in attracting Indian companies to its territory and facilitating the mobility of the workforce of our companies established in India or wishing to do so. In addition to being added to the tools of the Foreign Trade Development Plan which will contribute to the growth of economic exchanges and the diversification of Quebec exports to India, the conclusion of this agreement is a direct consequence of the exchanges we had with Minister Ravi during Quebec&#39;s last mission to India, ”declared Minister Lisée.
Basically, the agreement facilitates the mobility of workers by coordinating the social security systems of Quebec and India. In concrete terms, this agreement allows employers and workers to continue to contribute to the pension plan in their home territory without also having to contribute to the plan applicable in the host territory.
Quebec exports to India increased at an average annual rate of 8.9% between 2003 and 2012. Quebec companies present in India include Bombardier aerospace, CGI, Exfo, SNC-Lavalin, Fraco, Innovitech and Premier Tech. Likewise, several Indian companies are established in Quebec, including Tata Communication, Tata Steel, Tata Consulting Services, Piramal Healthcare Ltd, Les Technologies Hexaware, KBMS-Leadsoft and Arcelor Mittal (Anglo-Indian).
The signing of this agreement will also have a positive impact for the large Indian community present in Quebec: the national household survey conducted in 2011 indicates that it has nearly 50,000 people (born abroad, in Quebec, and non-permanent residents), 94% of whom live in the Montreal area.
Since 1979, Quebec has concluded reciprocal social security agreements with 32 countries. The purpose of these international agreements is in particular to ensure to nationals of another country who settle in Quebec as well as to persons residing in Quebec who will settle in another country the benefits of the benefits acquired or in the process of being established. &#39;&#39; be under the social security systems of their home state and their host state.
