Wickham– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, is pleased to announce, on behalf of from the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, financial assistance of $ 850,000 to Les Planchers de Bois-Francs Wickham for the modernization of its manufacturing plant. The latter specializes in the manufacture of hardwood slats used for flooring.
“The acquisition of new equipment for the modernization of the production chain will allow the company to ensure its competitiveness in a very competitive market. The project is well received in the region and helps consolidate current jobs, in addition to creating four new quality jobs. We are also very happy to be able to support the company in its international growth, ”said Minister Yves-François Blanchet.
The project, which totals investments of more than $ 4 million in state-of-the-art equipment, consists of the acquisition of a new suction board decanter, a classification system and cut-off optimization. (scanner), two optimized trimmers and new moulders. In addition to a new inlet and outlet system, the company acquired a new sandblasting machine and related equipment for the optimization of the coating line.
Les Planchers de Bois-Franc Wickham plans to invest $ 1.5M in the expansion of its current buildings over the next year, for a total investment of more than $ 5.5M. All in all, this project will allow significant productivity gains and will contribute both to reducing the production costs of slats and to supporting the very strong sales growth experienced by the company in recent years.
The company, which is very advantageously positioned on international markets, already exports more than 15% of its production, particularly to the Middle East, Mexico, Europe and the United States. While it had a modest turnover of $ 200,000 in its early days, its sales have grown significantly in recent years, now totaling more than $ 25 million annually.
“The support from the Quebec government, through Investissement Quebec, will modernize the manufacturing plant and make it more productive, profitable and competitive. This funding also supports our internationalization strategy and reinforces our offer at the local level ”, underlined the president of the company, Mr. Jean-Pierre Nittolo.
Les Planchers de Bois-Franc Wickham is a good local company that employs more than 110 people. Active since 1989 in the transformation of hardwood, it has its own dryers and its processing plant, which includes a finishing line. The company offers a full range of quality products. Its philosophy is focused on the total satisfaction of all its customers. To achieve this, it relies on qualified and competent employees who have its success at heart.
