Quebec - Tabled in the National Assembly today, the bill to amend the Charter of the French language strengthens the obligation, for all businesses, to provide customer service in French. All businesses with ten or more employees must also prominently display the main language rights of their employees. In addition, companies with 26 to 49 employees will have to ensure that French is indeed the normal and usual language in their workplace. Finally, these companies will have to respect the various requirements of the Charter of the French language in order to be able to obtain contracts from the Administration, that is to say from the government, state corporations, municipal organizations, etc.
According to the latest studies unveiled by the Office québécois de la langue française, 63% of workers across Quebec and 82% in Montreal use English at work. After progressing until 1989, French at work has experienced a slippage, which indicates to the government that it is time to act.
“Bill 101 gave Quebeckers the right to work in French in Quebec, but it is a historical achievement that is crumbling. Although it is normal to use other languages in certain circumstances, for example when doing business outside Quebec, it is worrying that English is used systematically in certain workplaces. We all have a responsibility to ensure the protection of French and I believe that it is entirely appropriate for small and medium-sized businesses to be called upon to generalize the use of French in the workplace in Quebec ” , said Diane De Courcy, Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language.
Once this bill is adopted, the employers concerned will have to adopt francization measures that could be inspired by a proposed model, in order to specify, among other things, the means of making the goods and services offered available in French. The same goes for the use of French in internal communications, as well as the description of positions which require knowledge of a language other than French. These companies will also have to inform their employees of the measures put in place. In the event of a discrepancy, consumers and workers will be able to file a complaint and follow the progress of their complaint online.
The new measures planned promote smart regulation by putting forward results objectives and leaving flexibility in the choice of means. The government will support employers in implementing francization measures that they must adopt when necessary and will promote a flexible approach. Employers can be supported in this process by their sectoral workforce committee or their associations, which are familiar with the specific features of their sector of activity.
Making French the language of work in Quebec makes it easier for immigrants to find employment, said Minister Diane De Courcy. “The unemployment rate for immigrants is a source of concern for the government. To explain their difficulties in the labor market, immigrants told me that the requirement of bilingualism as a hiring criterion was very harmful to them. We must remember that we promised these people that they would be able to live and work in French in Quebec. It is unacceptable that so many French-speaking newcomers have to take English classes in order to hope to find decent work. Our position is to say that for most positions, bilingualism should be an asset and not a basic requirement, ”explained the Minister.
The bill therefore includes the prohibition for an employer to require a worker to know a language other than French, unless the performance of his task requires it.
At the same time, even though nearly two-thirds of immigrants have a knowledge of French, progress remains to be made in this area. As of 2013, the Quebec government will modify the selection grid for skilled workers to give more importance to fluency in French. “We intend to consolidate and expand the network of francization partners abroad. We will also offer all selected people access to our online francization platform. The francization offered in Quebec will also be enhanced by the use of other media, ”added Minister Diane De Courcy.
Services offered abroad will also be used to make immigrants aware of the future prospects offered by cities and regions other than Montreal. In addition, from 2013, the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities and the Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity will further align their support for the integration of immigrants. &quot;For example, the newcomer who completes the one-week training offered by the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities will be guided on site by Emploi-Québec in his job search,&quot; said Ms. De Courcy, recalling that the integration of newcomers into Quebec society primarily involves their integration into employment and their mastery of the French language.
To find out more about this bill: spl.gouv.qc.ca/projetdeloi
