Montreal - At the end of the forum on creative industries organized by the Chamber of Commerce of Metropolitan Montreal (CCMM), which took place today in Montreal, the minister responsible for the Montreal region, Jean-François Lisée, insists on the importance of contributing to the development of this strategic sector for the city. A broad consensus emerges as to the need to support, by various means, the economy of creativity, artisans, entrepreneurs and businesses in this sector.
The metropolis has a very diverse pool of creative industries, a growing sector that brings together the fields of media, including television, film, video and publishing, arts, architecture, design. , advertising and multimedia. The economic weight of these industries in Greater Montreal is considerable, with more than 90,000 jobs and economic spinoffs of $ 8.6 billion in 2012.
“The creative industries contribute to urban revitalization and to the attractiveness of the metropolis, by attracting more talent, more companies and more investors. Quebec&#39;s prosperity is increasingly dependent on its ability to innovate and market the product of its creativity; we must support these industries to help them grow, make them more competitive and lead them to develop new international markets, ”said Minister Jean-François Lisée.
In this sense, the new Economic Policy Priority Employment of the Government of Quebec provides for measures to support the start-up and development of businesses and places the creative industries sector among those to be supported as a priority. One of the objectives is to help, through support, the most promising creators and small businesses to structure themselves and develop an entrepreneurial culture.
Montreal is a fertile ground for the creative industries with its cultural diversity, its “underground” culture conducive to the emergence of talent, its innovation incubators and its major knowledge institutions. Montreal talent represents a collective wealth in addition to being an important attraction for foreign companies and investors. Several companies and creators are experiencing unparalleled success and are, in this sense, ambassadors of Montreal on the world stage. Moreover, studies in this regard confirm that the metropolis is advantageously situated among the international creative poles.
In the context of global competition and strategic workforce mobility, creative talent, which is an economically profitable resource, is scarce and coveted. Attracting and retaining the best talent is a challenge for several sectors of this industry. All agree on the need to maintain concerted actions in this regard. There is also a consensus on the efforts to be made to develop the full potential of these industries, which are characterized by a high proportion of self-employed workers and very small businesses. In particular, it is important to act on skills development, to promote innovation and the protection of intellectual property, and to increase the number of companies of critical size. The networking between institutions and companies, the sharing and transfer of innovative practices are, in this sense, considered essential.
The creative industries forum concluded with a call for mobilization. “Quebec know-how enjoys great international recognition, as does its abundant creativity. This is the case in aerospace as well as in the performing arts, video games and advertising. The raw material of excellence - talent - is present here. We must go further, find business partners, convince them to participate in the development of the knowledge economy, in the marketing of our creative products. Our creative industries have the potential to shine even more, here as elsewhere, ”concluded Minister Lisée.
This strategic forum, held under the theme Creative industries, levers for the city&#39;s development and influence, brought together nearly 500 participants at the Palais des congrès de Montréal. About twenty speakers testified to their achievements and discussed the challenges to be overcome and the solutions to be put forward to promote the marketing and export of creative content. The activity was organized by the Chamber of Commerce of Metropolitan Montreal, in partnership with the Secretariat for the Metropolitan Region. The study Creative industries: a catalyst for wealth and influence for the metropolis, carried out by the CCMM and launched on December 2, draws a portrait of this sector.
For more information on the forum, consult the calendar on the website of the Chamber of Commerce of Metropolitan Montreal, at www.ccmm.qc.ca.
This body, which reports to the Minister of the Executive Council, advises the Government of Quebec on any question or measure having a significant impact on the metropolitan region of Montreal and on its development. It provides the secretariat for the Ministerial Committee for the metropolitan region, chaired by Minister Jean-François Lisée, as responsible for the Montreal region. The Secretariat is working to develop consultation with its various strategic partners in order to promote the coherence and convergence of all interventions, as well as the growth and dynamism of the metropolitan region.
