Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, denounces the lack of courage and frankness of the members of the Liberal Party of Quebec (PLQ) and the Coalition Avenir Quebec (CAQ) who use a new procedural maneuver to block the adoption process of Bill 37 aimed at establishing a moratorium on certain activities related to the exploration for or the exploitation of natural gas in the shale of the lowlands of the Saint Laurent.
The procedure used is unprecedented in the history of the National Assembly: after the unanimous adoption of the principle of the bill, the opposition parties refused to send it to a parliamentary committee, blocking well all the usual process. “Since it was no longer a question of knowing whether we heard the speakers before or after the adoption in principle, the pretext for the first attempt at blocking, it was necessary that after being against, then for, the Liberals find a way to be against without admitting it, adding the &quot;double-Philippe-flop&quot; to their repertoire. It is worrying that the CAQ has allowed itself to be drawn into this trickery game which no longer even hides the fact that, basically, Philippe Couillard and François Legault are quite simply against the moratorium demanded by the population of the lowlands of the St. Laurent ”, declared Minister Blanchet.
The Minister specifies that a first strategy of obstruction of Bill 37 had been to refuse the adoption in principle. However, not only did this strategy fail, but it forced the PLQ and CAQ deputies to reveal to the light of the great inconsistencies between the respective positions of each party during the speeches. No one expected the opposition parties to set a precedent by refusing to have the bill sent to parliamentary committee, or that it be a subsequent motion that determines the guest list, time and duration of the meeting. commission, as is the practice in the National Assembly.
“I appeal to the citizens of Lotbinière-Frontenac, represented by the Liberal Laurent Lessard, to those of Arthabaska and Drummond-Bois-Francs, represented by Sylvie Roy and Sébastien Schneeberger of the CAQ, but especially to the people of Nicolet- Bécancour, represented by Donald Martel, where opposition to shale gas is the strongest. These elected officials and Mr. Martel in particular will have to answer for their vote which prevents these consultations which they themselves demanded loudly just a few days ago. For our part, we are going to look for a way to move this bill forward because it responds to the very consensual wishes of the citizens of the St. Lawrence Valley and Montérégie, and because we are committed to it ”, concluded Minister Blanchet.
