The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, accompanied by candidates Nicolas Marceau (Rousseau), Alain Therrien (Sanguinet), Sylvain Barrette (Jean-Talon), Annie Morin (Charlesbourg) and William Duquette (Vanier-Les Rivières), has announced concrete measures to fight cartels and thus reduce prices, to put money back in the pockets of Quebeckers.
IN SHORT
“Quebecers do not have to be victims of the softness of the Competition Bureau of Canada, which allows companies to excessively increase prices. However, for Quebec households, a mere 2% drop in the prices of consumer goods would represent savings of around $ 1,000. There are many examples of collusion or even cartels; we only have to think of the mysterious price increases at the pump on Tuesday, in the greater Montreal area, or the price gouging of regional flights. There was even a bread cartel! ”, Argued Jean ‑ François Lisée.
“To remedy this situation, we will create the Bureau de la protection des consommateurs du Québec. Its mandate will be to fight against harmful or anti-competitive business practices by companies. We will also give it the responsibility of monitoring the state of competition. His first mandate will be to investigate gasoline prices, ”said Nicolas Marceau.
“The objective is to take control of the markets, to compensate for the legendary sluggishness and slowness of the federal government. This will increase competition in the Quebec economy. Results: lower prices for consumers, an increase in their purchasing power, therefore greater economic growth, ”continued Alain Therrien.
“What the Parti Québécois is proposing is to go even further in its desire to defend Quebeckers. In the same way as Lise Payette did, within the first Lévesque government, when she piloted the initial adoption of the Consumer Protection Act. We want to take another step to protect Quebecers, allow them to have more money in their pockets, while working to stimulate the economy, ”concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois. For more information: https : //pq.org/essence/
For our explanatory sheet: http: //fichiers.pq.org/envoisgc/Comm/Fiche_BPCQ.pdf
