Quebec - The Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation, Bernard Drainville, denounces the attitude of the Liberal Party, which today refused to give its consent for the National Assembly to debate a motion congratulating the author Djemila Benhabib. Let us recall that last October in Paris, the latter received the International Prize for Secularism 2012. “Ms. Benhabib received a prestigious prize which reflects on all of Quebec, but the Liberal Party preferred, once again, to prioritize its partisan interests and refused to allow the National Assembly to congratulate it, ”lamented the minister.
Here is the wording of the motion presented today by Bernard Drainville and the speech that was to accompany it:
May the National Assembly congratulate Ms. Djemila Benhabib, winner of the 2012 International Prize for Secularism.
&quot; Mister President,
Today this Assembly wishes to pay tribute to an exceptional woman: Ms. Djemila Benhabib. She also wishes to congratulate her on the 2012 International Secularity Prize awarded to her by the Secularism and Republic Committee, last October in Paris.
Ms. Benhabib, in your speech when you received this prestigious award, you recalled your complex identity.
To be convinced of this, it suffices to mention that you were born in Ukraine, of a Greek Cypriot mother and an Algerian father, and that you subsequently lived in Algeria, France and Quebec.
This precious and mixed heritage, at the same time North African, European and North American, places you from the start at the junction of several cultures. It is enriched by your commitment in favor of equality between women and men, and in favor of the secularism of public institutions.
This heritage allows you to take a multifaceted look at the realities of Western democracies and the challenges posed to them by religious fundamentalism in all its forms.
Your background also allows you to say things that, often, very few people dare to say with such passion in our societies, where a certain form of political correctness sometimes reigns.
You remind us with unwavering determination, and I will use your words here, that: &quot;dialogue is nothing where dignity is not. [….] When we take more account of the aspirations of women, of secular, linguistic, religious and sexual minorities, the dialogue will become effective. &quot;
It is essential to hear voices like yours in order to enrich the public debate and help us move forward.
As Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation, it seems necessary and desirable to me that, in a pluralist society like ours, we conduct a more in-depth reflection in order to assess how secularism, this structuring value of Quebec nation, can be more clearly affirmed and recognized in our law.
This officially declared value can thus be all the better identified and experienced in our society.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, Quebeckers are proud that Ms. Benhabib chose Quebec in 1997.
We are also proud that it bears the “beautiful” name of Benhabib.
We repeat our admiration to him.
We reiterate our support for him.
We repeat to her, above all, that the silent promise she made to herself, never to give up, is not in vain.
Thank you Mr. Chairman. &quot;
