Quebec - The Parti Québécois spokesperson for finances and revenue, Nicolas Marceau, and the spokesperson for Quebec-Canada relations and the Francophonie d&#39;Amérique, Stéphane Bergeron, deplore the Trudeau government&#39;s stubbornness in its plan for a single securities commission. MEPs were keen to respond to today&#39;s release of a draft Capital Market Stability Act.
“Justin Trudeau persists in a crazy project. He wants to force Quebecers to swallow a single securities commission. The Quebec business community has been united for several years against this project; why does Justin Trudeau not listen to Quebec, who does not want it? », Asked Nicolas Marceau.
The publication of this draft accelerates the process. The cooperative system, pushed by the federal government and Ontario, far from simplifying the supervision of the financial sector, rather duplicates the real system of cooperation already existing between the provinces, and which works very well. The federal project, in addition to encroaching on Quebec&#39;s jurisdiction, creates a double structure that would be nothing more than a waste of time and money for Quebec businesses.
“Where are the 40 Quebec members of the federal Liberal caucus? Why don&#39;t they defend the Quebec consensus against this idea of a single securities commission? They must stand up and defend our jurisdiction against this encroachment on the part of Ottawa. And to think that the Couillard government had the opportunity, during the last federal election campaign, to remind the leaders of the federal parties of Quebec&#39;s exclusive jurisdiction in matters of securities and to demand that they respect this exclusive jurisdiction. However, he chose not to do so and we must once again face this federal project, ”declared Stéphane Bergeron.
Remember that the National Assembly of Quebec has voted six unanimous motions on this subject since 2006. “The more things change, in Ottawa, the more the same. The wishes of Quebecers will always go behind those of the rest of Canada, ”concluded Nicolas Marceau.
