Beauharnois - The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports and Minister responsible for the Montérégie region, Mrs. Marie Malavoy, and the Member of Parliament for Beauharnois, Mr. Guy Leclair, announced, on behalf of the Minister of Sustainable Development, of the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, the allocation of financial assistance of $ 27,876,589 to the Intermunicipal Board for the valuation of organic matter in Beauharnois-Salaberry and Roussillon (Régie ) as part of the organic matter treatment program by biomethanization and composting (PTMOBC). This financial assistance includes a maximum contribution of $ 11,124,840 from the federal government, represented by the Honorable Senator Jean-Guy Dagenais.
“With the assistance granted, the Régie will be able to make a concrete contribution to collective efforts aimed at improving our management of residual materials, which involves many stakeholders. And without the support of partners in the field such as the Régie and the two RCMs concerned, the government would not have the means and the assistance required to move Quebec forward on the path of sustainable development, ”declared Minister Malavoy.
The Régie will be able to ensure the installation of anaerobic digestion and composting facilities in order to recover all the organic residues generated by the population of the Beauharnois-Salaberry and Roussillon RCMs, ie approximately 225,000 inhabitants. The project consists of treating organic matter sorted at source from the residential sector as well as from the institutional and commercial sector of these two RCMs. The new facilities will treat approximately 34,000 metric tonnes of organic matter per year, which will allow the RCMs served to achieve a high rate of organic matter recovery.
The treatment capacity of the biogas plant will be 35,000 tonnes per year, while the composting infrastructure will have a capacity of 36,000 tonnes per year. The treatment facility is designed and sized to treat the organic matter generated by all of the two RCMs, taking into account the population growth projected over 20 years. This project will result in a reduction of 8,014 tonnes of greenhouse gases per year.
“The financial assistance announced today will allow the Régie to implement a major project in the region. As a Member of Parliament, it is always a source of pride to see local expertise and know-how shine, particularly when the benefits will be felt across Quebec, ”declared Member of Parliament Leclair.
“I am delighted to see that more and more municipalities are choosing to invest in anaerobic digestion and composting initiatives. We have concrete proof that our awareness efforts are paying off. Within a few years, we want to make Quebec a waste-free society, where the only residual material eliminated is the ultimate residue. The Government of Quebec&#39;s 2011-2015 Action Plan, linked to the Residual Materials Management Policy, also aims to recycle 60% of residual putrescible organic matter by the end of 2015. The project of the Régie is another step in the right direction, ”said Minister Blanchet.
