Quebec - The Minister of Public Security, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, today unveiled the recipients of the Quebec Merit for Civil and Fire Safety. In total, two Merits, three Honorable Mentions, a Jury&#39;s Favorite and two Tribute Prizes were awarded during this ceremony, which took place within the framework of the Colloquium on Civil Protection and Fire, in Quebec City.
“I would like to warmly congratulate all the laureates who, through their exceptional actions, contribute to increasing our resilience and our security in the face of disasters. The diversity of applications received this year testifies to the mobilization of workers and the exemplary work that was accomplished throughout the year, not only in prevention and preparation, but also in intervention and in the recovery phase ” , said Minister Bergeron.
A Merit was awarded to the MRC de Charlevoix-Est and the Regional Emergency Measures Organizing Committee (COMUR) of Charlevoix-Est for the earthquake preparation exercise, La Grande Secousse de Charlevoix.
Two Honorable Mentions were awarded, one to the City of Quebec for the Faire face conference and the other to the Montreal Health and Social Services Agency for the Code orange 2013 project.
A Jury Coup de cœur prize was also awarded to the Municipality of Chesterville for its public safety survey initiative.
A Merit was awarded to the City of Lac-Mégantic for its exemplary management of the rail tragedy of July 6, 2013.
An Honorable Mention was awarded to the City of Magog for its intervention during the torrential rains of September 2.
The Hommage in civil security prize was awarded to Mrs. Hélène Denis while the very first Hommage in fire safety prize was awarded to Mr. Guy Lafortune. These distinctions aim to underline the considerable contribution of a person throughout his career in civil protection or fire safety.
Remember that the Quebec Civil Protection and Fire Merit ceremony is an opportunity to tangibly recognize the efforts made by businesses, organizations, municipalities and citizens who stood out in the Risk Management or Disaster Response categories. For the first time this year, projects and achievements from the fire industry were also eligible. Over the past 17 editions, no less than 193 recognition prizes have been awarded.
