Montreal - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announced that the priority of the Government of Quebec is the extension of the blue line of the Montreal metro by the addition of 5 stations, from Saint-Michel to Anjou. For the occasion, he was accompanied by the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport and Minister responsible for Montérégie, Ms. Marie Malavoy, the Minister of Families and Minister responsible for the Laval region, Ms. Nicole Léger, as well as the President and CEO of the Agence métropolitaine de transport (AMT), Mr. Nicolas Girard.
“By confirming the extension of the blue line today, the government is respecting its commitment made during the last election campaign. This choice is an important milestone in the major transportation electrification project launched by the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois. It will have a major leverage effect for the economic development of the eastern part of the city. It will also make it possible to respond to the challenges posed by demographic growth and sustainable mobility in this sector, ”declared Minister Gaudreault.
According to Minister Lisée, “the extension of the blue line will substantially improve accessibility to the network in the north-eastern sector of Montreal, will promote connection with the rapid bus service on Boulevard Pie-IX and will allow better service to the centers of economic activities already present in the Anjou district. &quot;
“This is the culmination of a project carried out for many years, the impact of which is major and will inject dynamism, a new impetus to the economic and social development of this entire sector. The extension of the blue line represents the fulfillment of our government&#39;s desire to significantly improve public transport services to the east of Montreal, ”said the Minister of Families and Minister responsible for the region of Montreal. Laval, Ms. Nicole Léger.
According to studies carried out by the Project Office, led by the MTQ and the AMT, the extension of the blue line will result in daily ridership of more than 80,000 users, a potential addition of more than 12,000 housing units and the creation of target of nearly 9,000 additional jobs.
An amount of $ 38.8 million will be granted to the AMT for the Project Office in order, among other things, to submit the initial business case for the extension of the blue line. In order to curb land speculation, the Quebec government, by adopting a decree, set up land reserves at the intersections targeted by the extension.
&quot;We are proud of the work carried out by the Project Office since it was set up in 2009,&quot; said Nicolas Girard, President and CEO of AMT. “A report published by the firm Secor-KPMG on the governance of major projects in 2012 also underlined the positive character, the rigorous and responsible management of the approach and structure of the Project Office set up within the framework of the metro extension project. We are enthusiastic about continuing the mandate given to us by the Government of Quebec for the completion of the initial business case for the extension of the blue line. &quot;
Once the work on the extension of the blue line is completed, the government announces that it will go ahead with the extension of the yellow line in Longueuil.
“Today&#39;s government announcement is a long-awaited response by the people of the South Shore and by municipal and socio-economic stakeholders. It is a clear message addressed to current and potential users of public transit on the South Shore, faced with major transportation challenges, that they have been heard. The studies leading to the future extension of the yellow line will help to plan more effectively the demographic and economic growth of our region, ”declared the Minister responsible for Montérégie and Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy.
From now on, the Project Office will also continue the studies necessary for the submission of strategic presentation files for the extension of the yellow and orange lines in accordance with the rules established by the Framework Policy on the governance of major public infrastructure projects.
“I would like to underline the important consensus that emerges from all the municipal partners, transport companies and organizations concerned. This close collaboration led to an agreement on the fundamental principles that should guide our choices for the construction of public transport infrastructure. It also enabled the establishment of a long-term vision, ”said Minister Gaudreault.
