Saint-Pierre-de-l&#39;Île-d&#39;Orléans, January 17, 2018 - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the member for Taschereau and responsible for the Capitale-Nationale region, Agnès Maltais, are proud to announce that Nathalie Leclerc will be the Parti Québécois candidate for the riding of Charlevoix – Côte-de-Beaupré.
“We are very happy that Nathalie has decided to solicit the support of the citizens of Charlevoix, Île d&#39;Orléans and Côte-de-Beaupré under the banner of the Parti Québécois. She joins our team because she believes that the State must be stronger and truly at the service of Quebecers, in particular by offering accessible and quality health care in Charlevoix – Côte-de-Beaupré, as well as by investing significantly in culture. I am convinced that this exceptional woman will gain people&#39;s trust by October 1! », Declared Jean François Lisée.
“The investiture will take place on Saturday, January 20, in Baie-Saint-Paul. This is the first investiture of the year; around ten are expected in the coming weeks, not to mention the many recently authorized by the national executive of the Party. The Parti Québécois will present quality candidates in all regions of Quebec.
“Joining Jean-François Lisée and the Parti Québécois team is joining the only party that can lead Quebec to its full independence. It means joining the party of pride and Quebec culture. I am strongly committed to the promotion of this culture with the Espace Félix Leclerc, a place of songs and memories. Moreover, being the mother of three boys, I understand what families are going through, their issues, their challenges. I have already started the dialogue with the population; I will pursue it until the elections, and beyond! “, Said Nathalie Leclerc.
“Among the important issues that we must monitor here, let us mention access to health care for our citizens, which must absolutely be improved. The Parti Québécois has a solid plan to do this, among other things by giving more responsibilities to health professionals: nurses, psychologists, optometrists, and so on. I will closely follow the La Malbaie Hospital file and that of the presence of a doctor in Isle aux Coudres. In addition, I will be alongside workers to support the forestry industry in the face of the American surtax, as well as with regard to employment insurance. The people of Charlevoix – Côte-de-Beaupré can count on me, ”she added.
“Today we present to you the first member of a solid team of candidates who will proudly wear the colors of the Parti Québécois in the greater Quebec City region. A woman of passion and culture, Nathalie lives in the riding of Charlevoix – Côte-de-Beaupré and has worked there for many years. We are very happy that she is joining us! », Concluded Agnès Maltais.
