Quebec City, January 29, 2017 - In this 27th National Suicide Prevention Week, the leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the Parti Québécois spokesperson for social services and youth protection, Dave Turcotte, as well as the spokesperson for health, access to care and home support, Diane Lamarre, are demanding that the Couillard government invest more in prevention and mental health.
“Already a poor relation of the health system, mental health has taken a hit since the Couillard government took office, and suicide prevention has not been spared. However, the State must be a key player in this field in Quebec. It is his duty to ensure that all Quebecers can find their place and develop to the extent of their talents, their ambitions and their dreams, ”declared the leader of the official opposition. .
“These are three people who, every day in Quebec, take their own lives. Three people who might have been saved through prevention or better mental health care and services. All this is without counting Quebeckers who, at one time or another, seriously considered taking their own lives. Suicide has been a particularly important social issue in Quebec for many years. A tragic issue that affects everyone. We must do more and better to prevent it, to understand its causes, ”continued Dave Turcotte.
“The Liberal government tells anyone who wants to hear it that austerity is behind us. Easy to say, after all the damage done! I remind him that the cuts he has imposed in health and social services have weakened the services offered in mental health, particularly in suicide prevention. However, this is absolutely unacceptable. Reinvestment is necessary, the needs remain glaring, ”added Diane Lamarre.
The MPs also wanted to underline the essential work of the professionals and the many volunteers who work in mental health, whether within the health and social services network or through a community organization. They also insisted on the importance for people in distress to seek help. They can do this by calling, for example, 1 866 APPELLE (277? 3553), a free, confidential help line, at the end of which they will find a listening ear, at any time of the day or night.
Finally, Mr. Lisée, Ms. Lamarre and Mr. Turcotte invite all those who want to affirm loud and clear that suicide is not an option to sign the Add my voice declaration, on the website of the Association québécoise suicide prevention program, at www.aqps.info/sengager.
