Montreal - The Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, and the Minister of Labor and Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Mrs. Agnès Maltais, announce the constitution of the National Review Board on Employment Insurance.
In effect since January 6, 2013, the most recent changes made to the employment insurance program by the federal government have raised many concerns and a significant wave of discontent in Quebec.
Implemented unilaterally, without consultations or impact assessments, this reform will have significant negative consequences on the Quebec economy, in particular for industries and seasonal workers. According to the federal government&#39;s own figures, Quebec has 40% of all seasonal workers in Canada.
As part of its plan to defend and promote Quebec&#39;s interests, sovereignist governance, the Marois government is announcing the creation of a tool to examine federal initiatives with major repercussions for Quebec: the National Review Commissions.
“From now on, when the Quebec government is opposed to a federal policy, as is the case with the employment insurance reform, we will give ourselves the means to evaluate Ottawa&#39;s interventions. The National Review Committees will be responsible for examining federal initiatives, consulting the groups concerned on their impacts, hearing and collating the views of experts and citizens and formulating recommendations that will be used to make advancing Quebec ”, defined Minister Alexandre Cloutier.
The first National Review Commission will focus on the impacts of the reform of employment insurance in Quebec, on the problems associated with the current federal program and on the needs of Quebecers and Quebec businesses with regard to an employment insurance plan. &#39;Employment Insurance.
On June 8 and November 13, 2012, the National Assembly of Quebec unanimously adopted motions asking the federal government to renounce making changes to the Employment Insurance Act that will have negative effects on businesses and Quebec workers.
Today, the Government of Quebec is going beyond unanimous motions and is taking concrete action by equipping itself with an additional tool to defend the interests of Quebecers. “Ottawa&#39;s attitude of closure in relation to the legitimate demands of Quebecers obliges the Marois government to take the necessary measures to defend Quebec workers and employers. Quebecers deserve rigorous reflection on this major issue for their economy, and that we establish a Quebec consensus on the best possible system for all workers and employers, ”added Minister Agnès Maltais. .
The first National Review Commission will focus on employment insurance reform. It will be co-chaired by a specialist in Quebec economic affairs, Ms. Rita Dionne-Marsolais, and by a great defender of Quebec interests, Mr. Gilles Duceppe. Renowned economist and administrator, Rita Dionne-Marsolais has held several ministerial portfolios in the government of Quebec, in addition to having been vice-president of the Société générale de financement. Gilles Duceppe, for his part, was a privileged observer of the successive reforms of the federal employment insurance system, having sat for more than 20 years in the House of Commons in Ottawa.
The co-chairs will be supported by two expert members, Mr. Michel Bédard, chief actuary of the federal employment insurance program from 1991 to 2003, and Mr. Yvon Boudreau, former deputy minister of the government of Quebec, who was notably responsible for Emploi-Quebec. Since 2004, Mr. Bédard has stepped up international missions to implement employment insurance programs on behalf of the Canadian International Development Agency and the International Labor Organization. Mr. Boudreau was appointed, in 2010, secretary general of the National Commission on the participation in the labor market of experienced workers aged 55 and over.
The four members will have all the independence necessary to carry out the mandate entrusted to them:
1) Identify and document the impacts of the reform of the employment insurance system in Quebec on workers and certain economic sectors (horticulture, tourism, construction, fishing, culture, education, etc.); 2) Document the advantages and problems inherent to the current system as well as the expectations regarding it; 3) Hold public hearings and consult the population, experts and the various players in the labor market; 4) Establish the parameters of an employment insurance plan that be consistent with the current and future needs of the Quebec labor market; 5) Propose changes to the federal employment insurance plan so that it better meets the current and future needs of the Quebec labor market.
The National Employment Insurance Review Commission will be mobile and will have a budget of $ 1.5 million. The submission of the final report to the authorities is expected on November 30, 2013.
“The National Review Committees are an unprecedented tool that we have given ourselves and, in the face of attacks from the federal government, the Marois government will never hesitate to take all means to defend the interests of Quebecers. This is sovereignist governance, ”concluded Minister Cloutier.
Consult the press releases issued by the Parti Québécois government concerning the reform of employment insurance
