Montreal - The leader of the official opposition, Jean François Lisée, and the Parti Québécois spokesperson for healthy lifestyles, recreation and sports, Sylvain Pagé, presented the bold measures that a Parti Québécois government will take in order to make the Quebec nation one of the fittest in the world.
The leader of the Parti Québécois believes that the statistics of the National Institute of Public Health of Quebec are alarming. For example, from 1981 to 2013, the obesity rate among young Quebecers fell from 1.8% to 9.4%. As for adults, one in three (34.6%) suffered from overweight or obesity in 1987; in 2010, this proportion had risen to one in two (50.5%). According to the National Institute of Public Health, obesity now costs nearly $ 3 billion per year in health care, drugs and disability in Quebec. “Despite this, the Liberal government is slow to act. However, he had everything in hand to quickly present a national policy on sport, leisure and physical activity, thanks to the work of Sylvain Pagé. The Liberals did nothing; today, it is high time for them to move, ”said Jean François Lisée.
“We have a vision, an exciting project for Quebec and Quebecers. We are now going to talk about &quot;sustainable development of people&quot;, a new health approach. The challenge for the nation that we are launching today will be one of the most beautiful social projects that we can afford: that of health! The Parti Québécois proposes to get Quebeckers moving, all Quebecers. Following the next election, we will table the most ambitious policies ever proposed to improve their health and their lives, a policy that will be accompanied by an action plan ranging from the CPE to the CHSLD. Businesses will also be put to good use. The objective is to make Quebeckers want to move, by allowing them to do so more easily, on a daily basis, in accessible and safe places, ”continued the leader of the official opposition.
Challenge of the nation The Parti Québécois is launching a challenge to the nation of Quebec: to move more, for better health, at any age. To do this, the national sports, leisure and physical activity policy that a Parti Québécois government will adopt will propose, among other things:
In order to ensure the implementation of best practices and the efficiency of innovative approaches for each age group in our society, and to measure their impacts, a research mandate will be entrusted to researchers and experts.
Sporting Events, Mentoring and Recognition Our policy will further support international sporting events. Increased support will also be given to our athletes as soon as they enter the “hope” category. In return, they will be associated with a primary or secondary school in order to present their path and promote physical activity. In addition, a promotional campaign will be deployed to promote awareness of the many benefits of physical activity and encourage Quebecers to get active.
Support the development of sports and recreational facilities In order to encourage Quebecers to move, the Parti Québécois wishes, through its policy:
In addition, in accordance with our main proposal tabled last weekend, we will, together with the municipalities, ensure the development of a safe and efficient cycling and pedestrian network, promoting active transportation. “It is now clearly demonstrated that the development of living environments can greatly contribute to improving the health of the population, in particular when they promote active modes of transportation. The new policy that a Parti Québécois government will adopt for a nation in good shape will therefore be deployed in parallel with a national land use and urban planning policy, ”added the deputies.
Finally, a Parti Québécois government will endow Quebec with a 21st century leisure policy in order to respond to new societal realities. This policy will ensure the training, supervision and development of hundreds of thousands of indispensable volunteers.
&quot;The benefits of physical activity are numerous: better academic success, reduced absenteeism, increased productivity at work, prevention of many diseases ... The whole of society wins,&quot; concluded Sylvain Pagé. .
