Quebec - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, accompanied by the president of the Parti Québécois, Raymond Archambault, the Parti Québécois finance spokesperson, Nicolas Marceau, the president of the national youth committee of the Parti Québécois, Ariane Cayer, and Special Advisor Paul St-Pierre Plamondon, presented the key measures of the program in terms of economic nationalism.
“The Parti Québécois has done a lot to modernize economic nationalism each time it comes to power. It is our turn to do so. And it presses. Because around us, on this continent, there are not only altar boys. And we will have to show muscle, defend our jobs, our market share over the coming years. There is a harmful naivety in the Couillard government in the face of the realities of the business world. A refusal to be firm and active, in the common interest of Quebecers. We must act; today we are presenting solid, clear, coherent measures, because economic nationalism has a house, the Parti Québécois, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
Our financial levers “There are two major economic tools in Quebec, which we can use more and better. First, the Caisse de dépôt et placement must find in its law, from 2018, the balance between performance and the economic development of Quebec. We will go further in this direction, by giving it an explicit economic development mandate. And, if it does major projects, it will do them with a Quebec content policy. Then, as depositor of the Caisse, the government pays 2 billion per year into the Generations Fund. We will determine how to use part of these payments to accelerate sustainable economic growth in Quebec, while reducing the relative weight of our debt, ”he continued.
Double mandate for Nicolas Marceau “Today I am giving two mandates to Nicolas Marceau. First, to propose, after consultation, the best ways to make more productive part of the sums that we deposit each year in the Generations Fund to make it an additional engine of economic nationalism. Second, to develop the most robust Quebec purchasing policy possible for our next government. I am convinced that Nicolas, supported by the economic team of the Parti Québécois, will propose promising and coherent measures to us, ”added Jean-François Lisée.
“To accomplish these mandates, we will consult economic players and experts, while studying what is being done elsewhere. The results will be known in due course; they will allow us to assert a strong, meaningful and promising economic nationalism for all Quebecers, from all regions. In many sectors of our economy, we are seeing the negative impacts of liberal inaction; we have to get out of it! This is what the Parti Québécois government will do, ”declared Nicolas Marceau.
Headquarters “Economic nationalism in 2017 means first of all recognizing the considerable importance of keeping our headquarters here. It is not true that companies are stateless. Local owners hire and invest more in their community. Acting resolutely to keep them, as several other states in the world are doing, including the United Kingdom and the United States, is a necessity. Elected in 2018, a Parti Québécois government will act quickly to ensure that the retention of strategic head offices is part of the mission of the Caisse de depot et d&#39;Investissement Québec. We no longer want to relive Rona, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
“The Quebec government is generous in its help to businesses to bring out champions in our country. We will continue to do so, but in a more efficient and targeted manner. In particular by giving the gazelles program all its resources, that is to say by targeting companies with the highest growth potential and by supporting them towards national and then international success. And the international headquarters of our future gazelles, do you know what? We will keep them at home! », Launched the leader of the Parti Québécois.
Conditional aid “With us, it will be over with funding research tax credits for companies that go abroad with patents designed with our money in their pockets. Our support will be conditional. It&#39;s with us, or you pay back, he continued. And if the idea of investing, say, a billion dollars in Bombardier occurred to us in the Parti Québécois government, do you think for a moment that we would forget to demand guarantees against relocations in return? Of course not. When I spoke of the nefarious naivety of the Liberal government, this episode is a shining example. &quot;
Increase Quebec ownership “When companies close their doors, our first instinct will be to sit down with the employees and executives who have been laid off to tell them: what if we relaunched the factory as a cooperative? What if, in your factory, you were masters at home? Ownership of agricultural land in Quebec is also an issue of economic nationalism. We are of the generation that must ensure that our lands remain in the hands of Quebec farmers, not in those of foreign or anonymous investment funds. We are committed to it, ”continued Jean-François Lisée.
The government of SMEs “Economic nationalism also means promoting entrepreneurship in all its forms. And, to begin with, stop harming. Our small and medium-sized businesses are crumbling under discouraging and counterproductive municipal, Quebec and federal paperwork. Ensuring product quality, employee rights, protecting the environment, yes, without compromise. But, in the digital age, how can we explain that Quebec and the municipalities have not computerized or simplified their relations with businesses? In power, in 2018, we will be the government of SMEs as never before. And one of our first actions will be to break the culture of racketeering at Revenu Québec, which has been denounced several times by the Québec Ombudsman. No, our entrepreneurs should not be presumed guilty. I, the son of an entrepreneur, can hear the discontent all over Quebec over the dubious tactics of Revenu Quebec. We are going to put an end to it, ”he added.
Tax havens “Economic nationalism is refusing that Quebec millionaires go hide their savings in tax havens. It is to stop stupidly applying the scandalous tax loopholes invented by Paul Martin and Stephen Harper to Quebec taxation. Privileges protected, again last fall, by Justin Trudeau, against the unanimous wish of the National Assembly. A government of the Parti Québécois will be intractable; it will make taxable the accounts in Bermuda of our citizens who have shamefully sought to avoid tax. We need the money they owe us to pay for home care, support for our children, healthy schools, CHSLDs where care is not rationed, ”illustrated the leader of the Parti Québécois.
Our fair share “Economic nationalism today means calling for justice as long as we are part of Canada. The fair share. The calculations are clear. If we received the Canadian average of productive federal investments in Quebec - no more than the average, just our share - our economy would benefit from an additional annual injection of up to 4 billion per year, creating 35,000 good direct jobs ”, to further affirm Mr. Lisée.
“The largest investment in Canadian history has begun,” he also recalled. One hundred billion dollars for warships. Our share of the bill for us, the Quebec taxpayers, is $ 20 billion. But justice did not go that way. Ottawa takes the $ 20 billion and gives us $ 600 million in Lévis. It is the greatest economic injustice to Quebec in Canadian history. I&#39;m telling you: we&#39;ll still be talking about it in 150 years! Listen carefully: nearly $ 20 billion in Quebec taxes will be used to create excellent jobs in Vancouver and Halifax. Do you think the Parti Québécois did well a few years ago by making the somewhat obscure concept of fiscal imbalance a major political issue? You have not seen anything yet. In 2018, our government will make the injustice of the warship program a central issue in defending our rights in front of Ottawa! &quot;
International nationalism “Nationalism is not about staying at home. It&#39;s being present in the world, in your own way, defending your interests. Ten years after the free trade agreement with the United States, Quebec companies had, more than any other in Canada, gained market share south of the border, created jobs in all regions, and this , without melting our social net. The agreement &quot;decanadianized&quot; the Quebec economy. Before, 60% of our North American exports went to English Canada. After that, 60% went to the United States, a complete reversal, ”he said.
“For an SME to be able to export, it must invest in its working tools, improve its products and better train its employees. It is a powerful and essential lever for increasing productivity. Right now, our overall productivity is increasing by 0.7% per year. To sustainably finance our social safety net, this rate should be doubled. This is why our main proposal offers innovative measures to significantly increase the number of our exporting companies, and, consequently, our productivity, our solidarity, our national wealth ”, added Jean-François Lisée.
Buy Québécois Act “The Quebec nation, which exports half of everything it produces outside its borders, must choose agreements on a case-by-case basis, accept those which are good and reject those which are not. There are people who believe that these agreements prevent us, everywhere and always, from promoting local purchasing, Quebec content. The United States signs free trade agreements and, on top of that, they have the Buy American Act. As soon as it is elected in 2018, the Parti Québécois government will introduce a purchasing policy for Quebec, for Quebec content, wherever possible. Economic nationalism also applies to culture. Francophone content and Quebec content must predominate in electronic windows which are today online cultural stores, ”he added.
Consultation “Consultation must trigger joint action to bring economic nationalism up a gear, at the national and local level. For example, here in Quebec City in the 1990s, our capital had reached the end of its economic model. Political and economic players have come together. They could count on the unifying leadership of a Parti Québécois government. Everyone had the development of Quebec at heart, they knew its enormous potential, the talent of its people. The assets were there. Together, they found the way. Result: Quebec went from &quot;Old Capital&quot; to &quot;Capital of Innovation&quot;. A creative and prosperous city, recognized throughout the world for its vitality, its culture, its beauty, its dynamism, for its quality of life and its full employment. The example of Quebec is all the more inspiring as the assets that have made it successful are present in all our regions: talent and creativity. With us, consultation will be back, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
