Quebec - The member for Taschereau, parliamentary leader of the official opposition and spokesperson for secularism, Agnès Maltais, calls on the government to act quickly and concretely on the religious neutrality of the state, equality between men and women as well as religious fundamentalism.
“The government has all the elements in hand to act now, in particular the Bouchard-Taylor report of 2008, the Ouimet report and the proposals of the former Member of Parliament Fatima Houda-Pepin. All the opinion polls show, moreover, that Quebecers want measures taken immediately to fight against the rise of fundamentalism and to prevent radicalization. It is desirable for the people of Quebec that at the end of their caucus, the Liberals finally present a clear position and a precise timetable concerning the neutrality of the State, equality between men and women as well as religious fundamentalism ” , said Agnès Maltais.
Let us recall that during the swearing in of ministers, in April 2014, the Prime Minister first entrusted the Minister of Justice, Stéphanie Vallée, with the responsibility of presenting a bill on the religious neutrality of the State, l supervision of accommodation and the fight against fundamentalism. During the opening speech, he announced a bill on these three aspects. A week ago, Minister Stéphanie Vallée said she wanted to act by the end of the session. Then the Prime Minister pushed back the deadline; we may have to wait until the end of the mandate. Finally, the issue of religious fundamentalism is now the responsibility of the Minister of Immigration, Diversity and Inclusion, Kathleen Weil.
“It is high time to clarify responsibilities and deadlines. Is the Prime Minister&#39;s latest statement the correct one? Will Minister Kathleen Weil be dealing with religious fundamentalism? Who will introduce a bill for the religious neutrality of the state and equality between men and women? When will this minister do it? The government must quickly provide answers to Quebeckers, ”concluded Agnès Maltais.
