Québec, July 20, 2016 - Véronique Hivon, the member for Joliette and Parti Québécois spokesperson for justice and end-of-life care, deplores the answers given by Minister Barrette since Monday. This is why she returns to the charge and urges him to cancel the directives sent by means of a letter which aims to modify the protocol for access to medical assistance in dying, provided for by the Quebec law on end of life care.
“The Minister must explain on the basis of what principle he believes he can amend a law that has been properly passed. The provisions of the Quebec law are the result of long consultation and a very broad consensus in Quebec, and the imposition of a fixed period such as 10 days, now introduced, had been expressly rejected. Despite this, the minister is not defending the validity of our law, which has been recognized by the courts and which has applied since last December. It is outright abdicating Quebec&#39;s jurisdiction in the area of health to submit to federal standards that do not relate to the framework of our law. We would also like to hear from the Minister of Justice, who has defended the Quebec law in court. Has she also decided that Quebec can no longer exercise its jurisdiction in the area of health? ”, The member for Joliette was indignant.
“We do not expect the Minister to import federal standards that are unnecessary, especially since they will increase the suffering and stress of people at the end of their life. Rather, he is expected to be the guardian of their well-being. For people at the end of their life who are suffering, every hour can be a real torture. In addition, with the addition of the signature of two witnesses when making their request, we impose an excessive burden on them, ”continued the spokesperson.
&quot;Can the minister tell us how the population can have confidence when no public announcement of these new requirements has been made, and if the letter had not been transmitted to the media, the population would still not be informed?&quot; How should the Commission on End-of-Life Care behave now? Should she trust the law or this letter? We are swimming in confusion. This is why we are asking that these directives be canceled immediately, ”concluded Véronique Hivon.
