Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister responsible for Industrial Policy and the Bank of Economic Development of Quebec, Élaine Zakaïb, announced the allocation of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 1.5 million to Jeux WB Montréal inc.
This private investment project, valued at $ 63 million over five years, aims to expand the company&#39;s video game studio in Montreal and equip it with new computer equipment. It also aims to create around 100 specialized jobs in the interactive video game sector.
&quot;Thanks to its dynamic and innovative companies, such as Jeux WB Montreal, Quebec is proving to be a major technological showcase for the video game industry, on an international scale,&quot; said Pauline Marois. My government is proud to support these flagships of our economy, which are true creators of wealth and jobs for Quebec. We are privileged to have one of the world&#39;s largest video game production companies with us. The WB Montreal Games investment project will contribute to the economic vitality of our metropolis, in particular through the creation of quality jobs. &quot;
The government announced the allocation of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 1.5 million to Jeux WB Montréal inc. // (c) François Gilbert.
&quot;The video game industry is currently going through a period of significant transition towards a new market, that of online games,&quot; declared Nicolas Marceau. In order to maintain Quebec&#39;s leadership position in this constantly evolving industry, our government recently announced an amendment to the tax credit for the production of multimedia titles, which will allow the eligibility of new positions related to the operation. games. This measure also aims to abolish the maximum eligibility period for production work. The announced bonuses will be available to all businesses and will undoubtedly benefit the WB Montreal Games studio. &quot;
&quot;By supporting this investment project, we are strengthening the positioning of Quebec and its metropolis as one of the most competitive interactive video game development centers in the world,&quot; added Élaine Zakaïb. The WB Montreal Games project is also in line with the direction our government has taken to encourage the growth of our expertise in this booming sector. &quot;
Founded in 2010, the WB Montreal Games studio inc. specializes in the development of interactive video games and digital entertainment products. The company, which is a subsidiary of the American company Warner Bros. Home Entertainment currently has 325 permanent employees.
&quot;In just three years, our Montreal studio has quickly established itself within the group for the quality of its productions,&quot; said the president of Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment, Martin Tremblay. Having a studio in Montreal, able to face the challenges of the industry, is a major asset for us. &quot;
“Thanks to the know-how and talent of our employees, our Montreal studio quickly made its place within the Warner Bros. group. Interactive Entertainment and the video game industry, supported the vice-president and studio manager of WB Montreal Games inc., Martin Carrier. Support from the Government of Quebec will allow us to consolidate our position of excellence in the interactive entertainment sector, in particular by expanding our studios and purchasing new computer equipment, in order to accommodate even more employees. talented and continue to deliver games that meet our high quality standards. The creation of a center of excellence in localization, on the fringes of the project, will ensure that our facilities will be essential for our colleagues around the world. &quot;
Information Bulletin 2013-9 describes in detail the changes made to the tax credit for the production of multimedia titles. It can be consulted on the website of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, at www.finances.gouv.qc.ca.
