Quebec, October 4, 2019 - During an interpellation, the member for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and Parti Québécois spokesperson for the French language, Joël Arseneau, was forced to note the refusal of the new minister responsible of the French Language, Simon Jolin-Barrette, to clarify his intentions and to undertake to implement concrete measures to strengthen the use of the French language in Quebec and ensure its sustainability.
IN SHORT
“We have said it over and over again: in the Parti Québécois, French is a priority. However, this week, in the OQLF&#39;s 2018-2019 Annual Management Report, we learned that the number of Quebec companies with 50 or more employees who obtained their francization certificate was decreasing. This report also confirmed to us that the equivalent of 4.7 full-time positions were cut within the organization. Me, all that worries me. We no longer meet the targets, resources are dwindling, we watch the train go by. For a year, the government has been thinking about and postponing the deadlines. Faced with the decline in French in Quebec, the time has come for action! It is a question of political will, essentially, and I ask the minister to act promptly, ”first launched Joël Arseneau.
In order for French to shine again in Quebec, the Parti Québécois has identified three measures that can be quickly and easily implemented. “We must first ensure that the law is applied, in particular Article 1 of Law 104, which says that the State must only communicate in French with legal persons. It has never been put into effect! Then, we must extend the scope of Law 101 to companies with 25 to 49 employees; indeed, why distinguish SMEs from large companies? », Detailed the deputy.
Mr. Arseneau then recalled the relevance of Bill 991, tabled by the Parti Québécois in 2017. “This bill clarifies Article 46 of Bill 101, that is to say the circumstances in which an employer may require knowledge of a language other than French for access to a position. Quebec would have every advantage in seeing it be re-tabled and adopted, ”he continued.
“Let&#39;s assert ourselves. Let us say that in Quebec, it is in French that it happens. I ask the government to show will and courage. Quebecers expect strong action this fall; we have an appointment with history, ”concluded Joël Arseneau.
