Quebec - The Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food, Mr. Gerry Ritz, and the Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, announce the implementation of the Animal Welfare Support Program at Slaughter. Funded through the bilateral Growing Forward 2 agreement, this program will facilitate the adaptation of the businesses concerned with respect to the requirements relating to the restraint of animals during slaughter activities, in order to eliminate the suffering of these animals and to take into account public concerns for animal welfare. The Program will benefit from a budget envelope of $ 450,000 spread over a three-year period, from 2013 to 2016.
“Canada has a strong track record in applying best practices in the slaughter industry. We are pleased to forge a partnership with Quebec to further encourage the establishment of practices that respect animal welfare, ”said Mr. Gerry Ritz.
“The implementation of this new program is excellent news and shows that the Government of Quebec continuously monitors animal welfare. As I mentioned before, we go to great lengths to ensure that animals are treated with respect and that they are given the best possible conditions, until slaughter. Today, we are concretely supporting the slaughterhouses in their investment project, ”said François Gendron.
It should be noted that establishments holding a category A provincial license, under permanent inspection, play a significant role in the establishment and development of short marketing circuits, in particular for the beef, pork, sheep and goat sectors. The establishment of such a program will promote the sustainability of these businesses.
In the spring of 2013, the federal, provincial and territorial governments signed the Growing Forward 2 framework agreement. In the process, the governments of Canada and Quebec signed a bilateral agreement that includes funding of $ 293 million. over a period of 5 years. This important measure aims to support, both for the benefit of the agricultural sector and for the benefit of the food processing sector, the implementation of strategic initiatives concerning innovation, competitiveness and market development.
Slaughter establishments holding a category A provincial license are invited to take advantage of the Program for the realization of their investment project related to the acquisition and installation of restraint equipment appropriate to the species. animal slaughtered. These establishments can submit a request by consulting the Internetwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/pabaa site.
In addition, to obtain more information on the Government of Quebec&#39;s Food Sovereignty Policy, interested parties can regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministère. of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
