Quebec - The Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron, today launched the Support Program for the Marketing of Quebec Foods (PACAQ), which will benefit from a budget envelope of $ 1.5 million spread over a period of 3 years (from 2013 to 2016).
The purpose of this new program is to facilitate the access of the products of Quebec biofood companies to the various marketing networks of the domestic market. More specifically, it aims to support the efforts of all players in the supply chain to offer and identify more Quebec foods.
“We are determined to increase the place of local products both on the tables of Quebec families and in restaurants, hotels, large retail chains and public and parapublic establishments. The Food Sovereignty Policy stems from this determination, because giving more space to food produced and processed at home in our purchases is to invest in our economy and to create wealth in all regions. of Quebec ”, declared Mr. François Gendron.
The PACAQ will help support initiatives aimed at making Quebec&#39;s biofood offer known to buyers from the province&#39;s various distribution networks, in particular through the creation and consolidation of business relationships. The Program is also called upon to support the development of strategic skills and improve the intervention capacity of businesses in the area of commercialization.
“It is essential to facilitate the access of Quebec businesses to the retail, hotel, restaurant and public establishment marketing networks. The spin-offs generated by the increased presence of local foods on the internal market could translate into new jobs or better paid jobs or even investments aimed at fostering competitiveness gains in businesses, ”the Minister concluded. .
The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (MAPAQ) invites associations, non-profit organizations, cooperatives, public and parapublic establishments to take advantage of the PACAQ; the invitation is also addressed to various groups of companies or institutions in the biofood sector. To learn more about this new program, simply go to the website www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/pacaq.
At the same time as the implementation of the new program, the MAPAQ is continuing its actions towards the general public in the context of the deployment of the “Aliments du Québec: Always the Right Choice!” Campaign. &quot;. It should be remembered that the purpose of this is to increase purchases of bio-food products on the internal market. More specifically, the objective pursued this year is to convince consumers to develop the reflex to always make the right choice, namely to opt for Quebec foods.
In addition, for more information on the Government of Quebec&#39;s Food Sovereignty Policy, you can regularly consult the blog www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or the pagewww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSAd on the Department&#39;s website. He can also be followed on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
