Montreal - The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane De Courcy, wishes to provide an update following the interventions on the new immigration rules and procedures which will make it possible to promote harmonious professional integration in French for immigrants.
“Some people wanted to suggest that the new rules that apply to immigrant investor candidates amounted to selecting these people through a lottery. This is absolutely not the case. On the contrary, it is more a question of putting in place a fair and equitable way of determining which requests will be processed by the Department. Subsequently, all these requests will be analyzed so that the selection of candidates is done with the same rigor as usual, ”recalled the Minister. In fact, among all the applications received from August 1 to 16, 2013, the Department will draw lots to determine which ones will be processed to reach the limit set at 1,750 new selection certificate applications in this category. The requests thus analyzed will not all be accepted, but rather examined according to the rules in force. This approach also helps to avoid the crush and jostling that the “first come, first served” formula created in the past. This new approach was welcomed by the financial intermediaries active in this immigration program. It should also be noted that immigrant investors who demonstrate an advanced intermediate knowledge of French will be able to submit an application even if the annual limit has been reached.
“The opposition wanted to believe that we had proposed these new measures on the sly, as if we had something to hide. I would like to remind you that I am talking about the improvements to be made to the immigration system since December 5, when I presented Bill 14 to the National Assembly. I also had the opportunity to talk about it again during my visits to the regions last spring and during many meetings that I had with the partners. We also made sure that potential immigrants know the details of the changes as soon as the ministerial orders are signed. Immigrant investors seem to have understood this well. Already, after the first day of the entry into force of the changes, our Hong Kong office had received some 380 applications in accordance with the new filing rules, ”the Minister stressed. The new immigration rules and procedures can be found on the Department&#39;s website since July 8.
The Minister also corrected the information conveyed on the Immigrant Investor Program. “The Immigrant Investor Program does not aim to present projects but rather to generate investments whose income makes it possible to finance programs that help immigrants and Quebec SMEs. I believe that the member for Jeanne-Mance-Viger probably meant the Immigrant Entrepreneur Program when she referred to projects. I will also have the opportunity to present to you the major improvements that we want to make, over the coming months, to the Immigrant Entrepreneur Program, in particular with a view to better meeting the needs of the regions ”, specified the Minister.
Ms. de Courcy reiterated that the new rules that came into force on August 1 represent a new step that leads to strengthening government action to promote the integration of immigrants. Other measures, including integration and francization, will be announced at the end of August. “We are convinced that aligning the selection of immigrants with the needs of the Quebec labor market is a pledge of harmonious integration, both in terms of fluency in French and in terms of professional skills. &quot;
For full details on the new immigration rules and procedures, see the Department&#39;s website at www.immigration-quebec.gouv.qc.ca/regles-procedures-immigration.
