Montreal – Mr. Pierre Duchesne, Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, and Mrs. Maryse Lassonde, Scientific Director of the Fonds de recherche du Québec - Nature et technologies (FRQNT), welcome the launch of the Interdisciplinary Research Center on the Operationalization of Sustainable Development (CIRODD), a new strategic group established at Polytechnique Montréal. Bringing together more than 70 researchers from 11 universities, three CEGEPs and a technology transfer center, this group aims to become the catalyst for research on sustainable development, a highly strategic sector for Quebec. The CIRODD will receive financial support from the FRQNT ($ 2.46M) and the Fonds de recherche du Québec - Société et culture ($ 420K) until 2019. This initiative is part of the new National Policy for Research and Development. innovation, unveiled last month by Minister Duchesne, which makes sustainable development one of Quebec&#39;s three priority areas.
Pierre Duchesne welcomes the launch of the Interdisciplinary Research Center on the Operationalization of Sustainable Development (CIRODD). // (c) Polytechnic
Minister Duchesne thus welcomes this initiative. “The National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI) identifies sustainable development as one of the priority areas that Quebec must face. Research carried out at the CIRODD will derive from the knowledge, processes and techniques that will allow the creation of durable goods and services, thus contributing to the achievement of Québec&#39;s objectives in this area, ”said the Minister. For Ms. Lassonde, the CIRODD and the multiple scientific expertise that it will bring together will make it possible to carry out innovative and intersectoral research that will serve to really operationalize sustainable development in Quebec. “A very interesting aspect of this new grouping will be to combine technological innovation and social innovation, which will help Quebec businesses and society to transition to a greener economy,” Ms. Lassonde enthusiastically declares.
At the back: Pr Daoud Aït-Kadi, Université Laval; Richard Hurteau, director of administration at Polytechnique; Valérie Becaert, Executive Director of CIRODD; Claude Pinel, Quebec Research Fund - Nature et technologies; Prof. Corinne Gendron, UQÀM. Front: Prof. Louise Millette, Polytechnique; Michèle Thibodeau-DeGuire, President of the Board of Directors of Polytechnique; Pierre Duchesne, Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology; Pr Réjean Samson, Director General of CIRODD; Maryse Lassonde, Quebec Research Fund - Nature and technologies. // (c) Polytechnic
Directed by Mr. Réjean Samson, full professor in the Department of Chemical Engineering at Polytechnique Montréal, the CIRODD will also be a transdisciplinary training environment for 450 students who will participate in the research projects of the group and will become Quebec&#39;s future experts in sustainable development.
The mission of the Quebec Research Fund - Nature et technologies is to financially support and promote university and college research, the training of highly qualified personnel and the mobilization of knowledge in the fields of natural sciences, mathematical sciences and engineering. Through its mission, it contributes to scientific development and innovation, as well as to the economic prosperity and sustainable development of Quebec.
