Quebec - In the company of representatives of the Regroupement des organizations de personnes handicapped in region 03, the member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention , Jean-François Lisée, denounced this morning the new cuts in the services offered by the Institute of rehabilitation in physical deficiency of Quebec (IRDPQ).
“For the past year, the Liberal government has been trying to make Quebeckers believe that its cuts will have&quot; no impact &quot;on services to citizens. The reality, especially at the IRDPQ, is however very different. This morning, we learned that in addition to having to endure cuts of $ 3 million and the abolition of 21 positions, as announced last week, the IRDPQ will have to deal with the elimination over the next few weeks. , 14 other posts. Not administrative positions, not managerial positions: rehabilitation assistants, orderlies, nursing assistants, daycare workers, and so on, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
“In total, there will be 35 fewer people to meet the needs of 14,000 citizens of the greater Quebec City region who come to the Institute to overcome their motor, visual, hearing or language impairments. However, these professionals provide direct services to children and adults with disabilities, people who really need them to improve their quality of life, ”he added.
The member is categorical: if there are fewer professionals, services will necessarily be reduced, and waiting lists will lengthen. “A stretcher bearer post was cut while he was helping patients to go to the bathroom at the IRDPQ; they are now being asked to wear a diaper. We also note that 851 requests are still pending at the IRDPQ, and that the longest delays affect people with a language impairment. However, positions for speech therapists and specialized educators are being cut. The minister must recognize the serious impacts of what he calls &quot;the reorganization&quot;. We ask him to step back, as he did for the rates in CHSLDs, and to respect his commitment not to cut services. He must announce the reinstatement of the 35 abolished positions, ”demanded the member for Rosemont.
