Quebec - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, invites pharmacists to continue negotiations in order to quickly find common ground concerning the financing of their new professional activities.
“Negotiations will certainly not advance any faster in the public arena. I am convinced that we can reach the signing of an agreement in the coming days and thus prevent the population from being taken hostage, ”declared Minister Hébert.
The Minister also recalled that the Quebec Association of Owner Pharmacists (AQPP) has known since its signing of a letter of understanding with the Ministry on August 17, 2012, the ministerial position regarding the funding of new activities. This position was also clearly stated during the first meeting of the joint committee uniting the representatives of the Ministry and the Association, on February 6, 2013.
“I have already publicly mentioned the hypothesis of coverage of new activities by the Régie de l&#39;assurance maladie du Québec for all Quebecers. But after an in-depth analysis, it is nevertheless preferable to respect the mix of our public-private system, especially since numerous legislative changes would be necessary in order to regulate the whole of the private sector ”, also indicated the Minister Hébert.
Since the universal drug insurance plan in Quebec is mixed, and the public plan covers approximately 40% of the population, the private sector must also necessarily be called upon to offer their insureds coverage for new services if they so wish.
Let us recall that the new Law on the pharmacy was adopted unanimously in the National Assembly on December 8, 2011, and that it aims in particular to allow pharmacists to extend or adjust a prescription and to prescribe drugs for the treatment of minor or undiagnosed conditions. Like the advances made recently in the activities of other health professionals, and for many without an increase in their remuneration, these changes aim to promote better complementarity between the different fields of practice in order to provide Québec with a stronger and more accessible first line of care.
Many of the new activities are in fact tools made available to pharmacists to gain autonomy and more easily resolve existing clinical situations that have been at the heart of pharmacy practice for a long time. It should be noted that the monitoring of drug therapy is an activity reserved for pharmacists and that this reality predates the recent legislative changes which will allow pharmacists to exercise new activities. The clinical situations confronting the pharmacist are the same, only the means available to them now differ.
Some of the new activities provided for by the Act have been added at the very request of pharmacists, in order to facilitate their work, increase their autonomy and achieve productivity gains. For example, pharmacists could already adjust a prescription, but were required to obtain permission from the doctor, which they will no longer have to do.
In fact, only three acts constitute an additional burden for pharmacists and justify an increase in remuneration. These three acts help to promote accessibility to primary care and services.
In addition, the clinical situations that can be resolved thanks to the new activities are already taken into account in the fees paid to the pharmacist for the filling of a prescription.
