Montreal - The deputy and candidate of the Parti Québécois in the riding of Marie-Victorin, Bernard Drainville, is worried about the revelations of the newspaper La Presse this morning on the F. Catania Foundation. “While the Liberals claimed it was a wet firecracker, we instead learn that our Monday revelations appear to be the tip of the iceberg of another scandal involving friends of the Liberal Party. A large part of the sums resulting from the sale of land acquired from the Riverside School Board by the F. Catania Foundation would have ended up in the pockets of the directors of the Catania company. &quot;
According to La Presse this morning, at the end of the fiscal year ending July 31, 2011, $ 85,537 was donated by the Foundation, while $ 370,290 was advanced to someone close to the Foundation.
“Michelle Courchesne and the Liberal Party have been saying for two days that the Foundation&#39;s money was donated to charity. However, what we learn in La Presse is that the Foundation&#39;s money would have been used for relatives rather than for charities. The Liberals are still trying to manipulate public opinion, ”said Bernard Drainville.
In addition, the Parti Québécois is questioning the company that decontaminated the land. “The Liberals must tell the people who decontaminated the land. Is it necessary to recall that decontamination was at the heart of the Faubourg Contrecœur scandal which directly involved the Catania company and some of its managers? The citizens of Brossard and Quebecers have the right to know, ”added Bernard Drainville.
“Instead of threatening me with a gag order to silence me, La Pinière&#39;s liberal candidate, Fatima Houda-Pepin, should instead explain her links with Paolo Catania. Did he play a role in his fundraising campaign in 2008? She must explain the funding made to the Liberal Party by several members of the Catania company and the F. Catania Foundation and by people involved in the resale of the land, who paid a total of over $ 40,000 in 2008. In the Liberal Party, when it comes to integrity, it is always threats and intimidation towards those who ask questions, ”said the Parti Québécois candidate in Marie-Victorin.
“The central question of this case remains unanswered. Why did the government of Jean Charest authorize the F. Catania Foundation to sell the land when the community center project was abandoned? Why did the liberals and Fatima Houda-Pepin let their friends get rich at the expense of the community? », Concluded Bernard Drainville.
