Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces the issuance of a certificate authorizing the City of Saint-Tite to carry out its construction project. emergency construction of a new water intake in Lake Éric, at Grandes Piles.
“In view of the situation, it was necessary to remove the City of Saint-Tite&#39;s project from the environmental impact assessment and review procedure and issue it with a certificate of authorization. The emergency work will increase the reliability of the City&#39;s water supply system, in addition to improving the quality of the water at the source, ”declared Minister Blanchet.
The City of Saint-Tite&#39;s drinking water and fire safety intake is located in a shallow area of Lake Éric, in Grandes Piles. For several years, the lake&#39;s water level during the low-flow period has reached extremely low thresholds which limit the supply of quality water to the City&#39;s water intake. During the summer of 2013, the levels reached even forced the City to install a temporary pump in a deeper sector of the lake. However, this system is not viable in the medium term, among other things because its reliability leaves much to be desired and because it is not suitable for operation in winter conditions. The fall precipitation allowed a sufficient rise in the lake&#39;s water level to restore flow to the city&#39;s water intake. However, the water level remains critical at the onset of winter and the City of Saint-Tite maintains its fear of a break in the water supply, which could cause a major health or public safety problem. .
The installation of the new water intake but also the possible construction of a new drinking water treatment plant to be carried out by the City of Saint-Tite will make it possible to sustainably improve the problem of water quality. water for residents.
The decree concerning the issuance of the certificate of authorization and the environmental analysis report can be consulted on the website of the Ministère du Développement durable, de l&#39;Environnement, de la Faune et des Parcs.
