Quebec - On the eve of Quebec negotiator Pierre Marc Johnson&#39;s appearance before a parliamentary committee, the Parti Québécois is asking the Liberal government to demonstrate that Quebecers will emerge as winners from the future economic agreement between Canada and the European Union.
“The Parti Québécois is generally in favor of free trade agreements, but we still need to have access to the text and that the negotiations be open and transparent so that we can make an informed judgment. The Liberal government gives no guarantee on the gains and losses that Quebec could record in the context of these negotiations, ”declared the member for Lac-Saint-Jean and official opposition critic for international relations. and Francophonie, Alexandre Cloutier.
“Since the start of negotiations in May 2009, it has been impossible to have access to the mandate and the instructions given to the Quebec negotiator by the Council of Ministers. There is no parliamentary consultation process and no parliamentary committee is planned before the agreement is ratified, ”lamented Alexandre Cloutier.
The agreement currently under negotiation will have major consequences in the lives of Quebecers, for the government, businesses and our regions. The Parti Québécois recalls that in order to convince the Europeans to negotiate this agreement, the provinces and the Government of Canada have agreed to put on the table access to the public markets of the provinces, municipalities, school boards and hospitals. After two and a half years of negotiations, the Charest government still refuses to say that crown corporations will be excluded from the agreement, particularly Hydro-Quebec.
This agreement raises many questions that remain unanswered, including:
-Will Quebec be able to continue to promote local purchasing and Quebec economic development and to favor social enterprises in the awarding of public contracts? -Will market access for dairy products, protected under the supply management system, be sacrificed in order to promote the export of Alberta beef or maritime fishery products? - In terms of culture, what is the nature of the discussions on the scope of the cultural exception that the European Commission seems to want to undertake? Is Quebec&#39;s broader definition of the cultural exemption, which excludes this area from international trade negotiations, being called into question?
“Quebec&#39;s balance of power within Canada has been considerably weakened by the softness of the Quebec Liberal government. The actions taken recently by the Harper government are eloquent testimony to this, whether through its contempt for the Quebec consensus in the issues of sentences for young offenders and the firearms registry, or even by the fact that Quebec shipyards do not will not receive a dollar of the $ 33 billion that the federal government will devote to the purchase of ships. Premier Charest got Quebec into this major trade negotiation with Europe, but today we see that it is the federal government that will decide, based on Canadian national interests, what will or will not be conceded to Europeans ” , underlined Nicolas Marceau, Member of Parliament for Rousseau and spokesperson for the official opposition in matters of finance and economic development.
&quot;Let us recall that at the time of the negotiations of the free trade agreement between Canada and the United States, in the 1980s, the federal government of Brian Mulroney negotiated with much more transparency than today. . The government of Quebec and the Members of the National Assembly were informed and had access to the documents. Why does the Harper government not agree to negotiate with more transparency? I am particularly worried about the situation, because the Charest government has shown that it is incapable of influencing the decisions of the Harper government in our favor, ”said Nicolas Marceau.
&quot;How can the Charest government guarantee us that the arbitrations and compromises that the federal negotiator will make will not favor certain Canadian provinces to the detriment of Quebec?&quot; In this context, we demand that all parliamentarians of the National Assembly have immediate access to the draft agreement as well as to the impact studies of this project on the Quebec economy, ”demanded MP Marceau.
