Montreal - The government of Quebec welcomes the conclusion of an agreement in principle with the Regroupement des ressources residential autochtones du Québec (RESSAQ-CSD). The RESSAQ-CSD has 2,818 resource-members in its ranks, making it the association that represents the most resources in Quebec.
&quot;I salute the culmination of significant work and negotiation efforts that led to the conclusion of an agreement in principle that will help ensure the quality of the services provided by thousands of resources in Quebec,&quot; the Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Véronique Hivon.
The Minister recalled that the negotiated agreement in principle testifies to the government&#39;s recognition of the resources and improves their operating conditions. “Adult residential resources share their own living environment with network users. With this agreement in principle, these self-employed workers obtain access to various protection plans for retirement, maternity leave and work-related accidents and an increase in their compensation, ”added Véronique Hivon.
The Minister of Health and Social Services, Réjean Hébert, is also satisfied that this important step has been taken. With this last agreement in principle, the government succeeded in reaching an agreement with all the associations representing resources subject to the Act respecting the representation of resources.
The Government of Quebec wishes to salute the work of Mr. Normand Gauthier, who was an important player in the outcome of these negotiations. As mediator and facilitator appointed by the Ministry of Labor, he brought the parties to a tentative agreement to the satisfaction of all parties.
Quebec has nearly 8,825 intermediate resources (IR) and family-type resources (RTF). They are essential partners in the health and social services network. They offer room and board, board, support and assistance services to some 36,000 users of the network, generally young people in difficulty, elderly people with loss of autonomy or people with physical, intellectual or struggling disabilities. with mental health issues.
