Quebec - The member for Verchères and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of Quebec-Canada relations, Stéphane Bergeron, reiterated the historic position of the Parti Québécois with regard to the post of lieutenant-governor: he purely and simply wishes it to be &#39;abolition. However, aware that it is currently impossible to abolish the position of lieutenant-governor, because of the provisions of the amending formula enshrined in the Constitutional Act which was imposed on Quebec in 1982, he demands that the federal government henceforth appoint as holder of the post of lieutenant-governor, the person whom the National Assembly will itself have democratically designated.
The member for Verchères pointed out that the Parti Québécois, in doing so, is in line with the motion adopted by the National Assembly on November 20, 1996. “The office of lieutenant-governor is archaic and essentially symbolic; it is a residue of the colonial past of Quebec and Canada. It must go, because it is completely unsuited to modern reality. It is nothing more than the vestige of a bygone era, ”he said.
“Unfortunately, the signature of the lieutenant-governor appointed by Ottawa remains necessary for the implementation of the laws adopted by the National Assembly of Quebec. It would therefore be the least of things for this person to be chosen by our National Assembly. It is completely incomprehensible that the Liberal government is so obsequious towards the federal government by blissfully endorsing the fact that the lieutenant-governor in Quebec City is appointed by the Canadian Prime Minister, ”continued Stéphane Bergeron.
The official opposition spokesperson for Quebec-Canada relations also criticized the Liberals&#39; position on another odious facet of this issue. “While the Couillard government, obsessed with austerity, is cutting services and is attacking families, students in difficulty, patients in hospitals, regions and the middle class, all for to be able to offer tax cuts to the better-off on the eve of the election, he fully maintains the budgets granted to the lieutenant-governor, who can therefore continue to hold social events, serve small fours and strike medals in his effigy . With this Liberal government, it is austerity for the most vulnerable, but not for Her Majesty&#39;s representative! », Concludes Stéphane Bergeron.
