Chapais– The deputy for Ungava and parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Nordic affairs section), Mr. Luc Ferland, on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault announced today, in Chapais, measures that will ensure the sustainability of certain road links in Nord-du-Québec. On this occasion, he was accompanied by the Minister of Natural Resources and responsible for northern development, Ms. Martine Ouellet.
The objective of the Municipal Road Network Improvement Assistance Program is to support municipalities in the management of road infrastructure under their responsibility. Thus, over the next three years, the City of Chapais will be able to count on financial assistance of $ 400,000 from the Government of Quebec. This assistance will be used to carry out certain works on the municipal road network.
&quot;This grant will allow the city of Chapais to be adequately supported in the planning and carrying out of its road network improvement operations,&quot; declared Ungava MP Luc Ferland.
The government of Quebec recently decided to transfer the management of the R-1005 road, connecting Lebel-sur-Quévillon and Matagami, to the Ministry of Transport. Everything was formalized yesterday, by the publication of the decree in the official Gazette of Quebec. “The maintenance and repair of the &#39;&#39; crossing &#39;&#39; between these two towns will henceforth be the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport. The expertise of the MTQ employees and the equipment will ensure the necessary interventions are carried out on this road, ”said Mr. Ferland.
Over the next few months, the Department will conduct surveys to assess the general condition of the road. Subsequently, the rehabilitation measures will be determined in order to ensure the sustainability of the infrastructure and the safety of users.
In addition, the 2013-2015 program of the Ministère des Transports provides for investments of more than $ 150 million for the period 2013-2015 in the territory of Nord-du-Québec, of which more than $ 30 million will be devoted to conservation. pavements. The list of the main projects selected is available on the Ministère&#39;s website at www..mtq.gouv.qc.ca.
