Longueuil - The Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, and the Chief Operating Officer of the mining company Les Diamants Stornoway, Mr. Patrick Godin, gave an update today on their close collaboration which led to the opening of the Route 167 to the Otish Mountains, from the Renard project mining road and to the creation of a new aerodrome.
“The collaboration between the Stornoway company and the Government of Quebec made it possible to extend the Route des Monts Otish on time. With the renegotiation of the agreement, the government saved Quebecers $ 125 million. The opening of the diamond mine will create nearly 1,200 jobs. This is a concrete example of the new approach favored by the Government of Quebec with regard to the construction of infrastructure in the North, ”said Martine Ouellet.
“By having entrusted Stornoway with the responsibility of continuing the work leading to the Otish Mountains road, it will also have helped our entrepreneurs in the region. The expertise of Chantiers Chibougamau was also called upon for the manufacture of wooden bridges. The construction of the road leading to the Otish Mountains will not only allow mining development, but will also facilitate access for the Cree communities to their trapping territory. This clearly demonstrates our government&#39;s desire to make northern development a priority, ”declared Luc Ferland, Member of Parliament for Ungava and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources, northern development component.
The Otish Mountains road is a public infrastructure over its entire length (240 km), between Témiscamie and the Renard diamond project. The first section, the extension of Route 167 (143 km), is under the responsibility of the Government of Quebec. The second section, the Renard mining road (97 km), is the responsibility of Stornoway. The latter was built mainly by companies in the James Bay region, in particular those associated with the Crees of Eeyou Istchee. Remember that this new infrastructure is public and will benefit both northern and aboriginal communities and mining companies wishing to establish themselves in the region.
The construction of the Renard mining road cost about 10% less than expected. The Que? Bec government accepted that the balance of the loan that had been granted? for route 167 at the company Les Diamants Stornoway be used for the construction of a new airfield. In accordance with? willingness? government, this project is based on a shareable infrastructure approach. This will have the advantage of minimizing their number and reducing their environmental impacts. Thus, the Otish Mountains aerodrome will be accessible to other users, in particular to the Crees and Jame? Siens, and this, at? fair pricing. It will also serve as a diversion track, thus ensuring better safety for regional air transport.
The construction of the airfield will allow local contractors and workers who participated in the construction of the Otish Mountains road to extend their employment.
Its operation, which should begin in 2016, will create 432 direct jobs and 740 indirect jobs for the first 11 years. An investment of $ 800 million is planned for the construction of the mine.
“The development of the North Que? Bec-Priorite constitutes a strategic element of the economic policy of Que? Bec-Priorite? employment. The potential of the North of Que? Bec must be developed? responsibly in order to maximize the benefits for all local communities and Quebeckers. With its Renard project, Stornoway is demonstrating that it is possible to carry out responsible mining development, in partnership with the communities and the government, for the benefit of all Quebecers, ”concluded Martine Ouellet.
