Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, and the Minister for Indigenous Affairs, Élizabeth Larouche, today welcomed the President of the Makivik Corporation, Jobie Tukkiapik, as well as that the President of the Kativik Regional Government (KRG), Maggie Emudluk, to proceed with the signing of the Agreement on the financing of measures aimed at reducing the cost of living in Nunavik.
“We are concerned about the consequences of the high cost of living on the families of Nunavik. This is why we consider it appropriate to put in place immediate measures, while continuing to work together on corrective measures to be made in the longer term. I am happy to note that our work has resulted in an agreement between the parties, in the context of a nation-to-nation relationship. I salute the work carried out by the mandated representatives. I am optimistic that these measures will make it possible to tangibly improve the quality of life of Nunavimmiut, ”declared the Premier.
“Our government believes that it is important to act now to improve the situation of Nunavimmiut. The signed Agreement provides for granting the KRG a temporary grant of $ 33 million over three years to reduce the high cost of living in Nunavik. In addition, on the sidelines of the Agreement, the government improved the component relating to northern villages of the solidarity tax credit. As of January 1, 2014, the amount granted annually as the basic amount per adult and as an additional amount for a spouse will be increased from $ 810 to $ 1,620, which will double the annual cost of this measure, increasing it to around $ 7 million. This tax measure and the subsidy therefore represent, over a three-year period, combined assistance of $ 54 million, ”added Pauline Marois.
The cost of living in Nunavik has been a hot topic for over twenty years. Due to a series of factors, including the remoteness of the communities, the absence of roads and the harsh climate, the costs of goods and services in Nunavik are considerably higher than elsewhere in Quebec. Fuel, food and transportation are just a few examples.
Remember that it was during a meeting between the Prime Minister and the leaders of the Makivik Corporation and the KRG, held on June 21, that it was decided to form a working group to consider on the high cost of living in Nunavik. To this end, a special mandate from the Prime Minister was given to the Secretary General of the Government, Jean St-Gelais, and the two parties had agreed to reach the signing of an agreement by December 31 of the l &#39;current year.
