Quebec - Following the publication of an investigation report by the Québec Ombudsman, in which disturbing facts that took place at the Harricana accommodation center in Amos, the member for Richelieu and spokesperson from the Parti Québécois pour les Seniors, Sylvain Rochon, and the MNA for Taillon and health spokesperson, Diane Lamarre, call on the Minister responsible for Seniors, Francine Charbonneau, as well as the Minister of Health and Social Services, Gaétan Barrette, so that they can finally show leadership to ensure the well-being of seniors in Quebec.
“Once again, unfortunately, the Québec Ombudsman has brought to light patent cases of neglect of elderly and vulnerable people. How is it that an employee of the Center has been able, for so long, to ignore the rules and act as she pleases, using methods contrary to all good practice? In a society that we say and want to be progressive, this idea is revolting, ”said Sylvain Rochon.
The Member for Taillon underlines for her part that the report points directly to the structural reform initiated by Minister Barrette. &quot;The report says it clearly:&quot; the administrative reorganization initiated by the adoption of Bill 10 has contributed to weakening the management leadership exercised in the Center &quot;&quot;, she specified.
“Seniors are completely abandoned by the government. The Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, has a good game: he awaits the complaints one after the other, requests individual investigations and protests in the media. When will he realize that his obsession with structures does nothing to improve the daily lives of our seniors? Currently, it does nothing to detect and globally prevent such tragedies. The network is bogged down in the management of a centralizing reform that is moving away from the field, while a good Minister of Health would concentrate his efforts on getting closer to people, in particular the most vulnerable, ”continued Diane Lamarre.
The member for Richelieu launched an appeal to his Liberal counterpart, Francine Charbonneau. “With the departure of Marguerite Blais, the seniors of Quebec no longer have a voice in the government of Philippe Couillard. The Minister responsible for Seniors must act, and ensure that parliamentarians begin the next stage of the mandate of initiative on CHSLDs, which provides for visits to establishments. This mandate, I remind you, was taken over at our request. For the well-being of our seniors, we must take the situation of the Harricana Accommodation Center very seriously and, more broadly, carry out a deep collective reflection on their living conditions, ”he concluded.
