The speech made is authentic
Do you find things are going better in Quebec?
I think so too.
I was also very, very anxious to see you again. I couldn&#39;t wait for us to come back to our first year in government. Let us remember how eager we were to move Quebec forward. To apply the program that we had imagined together.
We couldn&#39;t wait to have a sovereignist government in Quebec!
We quickly realized that we had to fix the broken pieces first. Do you remember where Quebec was the day after our election?
It took some tough decisions and some courageous action. What did we do? - We took back control of public finances - We held a Summit on higher education and we agreed on the future of our universities - We moved into the financing of political parties and in the granting of contracts.- We have put order in the great house of Quebec!
…
We were a new team. We sometimes needed to adjust a little ... But we always stayed the course on our commitments.- We pulled Quebec out of nuclear power and asbestos.- We abolished the health tax for the less wealthy families.- We have allowed young people to vote on campus - We reinvested in home care - We adopted a wood charter, developed wind power in the Gaspé, initiated a new dialogue with the First Nations - We sent the message that corruption would no longer be tolerated.
After a year in government, I don&#39;t hesitate to say it: with the Parti Québécois, Quebec is doing better!
Not bad better than with the Liberals, anyway.
But, if we play politics, it is certainly not to compare ourselves to the Liberals.
Anyway, the only thing that can be compared to Jean Charest&#39;s liberals is Philippe Couillard&#39;s liberals!
…
We in the Parti Québécois want to go much further. We don&#39;t want to be the government of a province. We want to be the government of a country!
This is what we work for. This is why, after spending a year repairing Quebec, we were eager to tackle a new stage. This fall, we are there.
We are on all fronts.
The party is healthy.
We promote sovereignty. And we will be there, in Viau, for the by-election.
We will all be behind Tania Longpré!
…
We are also working hard in the government - We are strengthening Quebec, - We are strengthening our identity, - We are strengthening our solidarity, - We are strengthening our economy - We are strengthening ourselves, to build a freer Quebec!
The first of our projects to strengthen Quebec is that of identity.
In the Parti Québécois, we have always made a point of defending with pride what sets us apart as a people.
This people has a unique collective story. He teaches us that the greatest conquest in our history is to understand that it is by making our own choices that we can surpass ourselves.
So that all young people in Quebec can build on our rich past to build a brilliant future, we are taking action. The teaching of history will be reinforced from September 2014!
…
In Quebec, too, we have values. Values that are dear to us. Values which are universal, but which, illuminated by our particular background, take on a very Quebecois color.
There is the protection of our language and our culture, the religious neutrality of the state and equality between men and women. We take these values from those who built Quebec and we want to pass them on to those who will follow us and to those who will join us.
Our nation is rich in its diversity and it will continue to grow. We therefore believe that it is necessary to give ourselves rules to live in harmony. Rules for the future.
For this reason, we are going to adopt a charter of secularism!
We promised to act during the last campaign. We kept our word. We made proposals to Quebeckers, we consulted them and we listened to them.
And, in that regard, I want to salute the extraordinary work of a member of our team. He was from all quarters, he listened calmly to all opinions, he showed courage. Bernard Drainville, I am proud of the bill we have introduced!
Our proposal is now before the National Assembly. During the parliamentary committee, citizens and groups will be able to express themselves again. I hope that the opposition parties will show themselves responsible and that they will agree to discuss in a calm and constructive manner.
Note, however, that I do not have many expectations of the Liberals ... With them, it&#39;s always the same.
When it is time for Quebec to assert itself, the Liberals are missing subscribers.
In 1977, they voted against Bill 101. In 2010, they submitted to the Supreme Court in the case of the gateway schools. Today, they oppose the strengthening of Law 101. Whether it is with Jean Charest or Philippe Couillard, the more things change, the more the same. The Liberals prefer Pierre Elliott Trudeau&#39;s constitution to Camille Laurin&#39;s charter!
…
It is the same with secularism. The Liberals are completely isolated on this issue. They go less far than the Bouchard-Taylor report, which proposed to demand religious neutrality from people in positions of authority. In short, Philippe Couillard is for the neutrality of the State, as long as it does not mean anything!
Yes, the Liberals&#39; position is radical. She is radically soft!
…
We will move forward.
We will proceed with openness, we will proceed responsibly.
And, one day, as we are doing now with Bill 101, we will talk about our charter of secularism as a great gesture to live better together.
We are going to live together, in a more proud country!
The second of our projects to make Quebec stronger is solidarity. That too is part of our identity. This solidarity is that of our ancestors who stood together to get through the longest winters. It is the brotherhood of the great social struggles, those for the defense of workers or women&#39;s rights.
It was again manifested in the pain felt by all Quebecers when a crazy train hit the heart of Lac-Mégantic.
We have inherited this solidarity. It was she who brought me into politics.
I know what I mean. It is thanks to the Quebec model of solidarity, thanks to access to studies, that I am standing before you today.
And that I can tell you that, under my government, we will continue to take care of our world!
Solidarity has always been at the heart of the great history of our party. We have given Quebec some of its most avant-garde policies, such as the Act respecting occupational health and safety, the Pay Equity Act or prescription drug insurance.
Under the Liberals, it was the reign of the individual and for social confrontation. Even the granting of daycare places had been diverted from its purpose to reward party friends.
Even today, do you know of a single proposal from Philippe Couillard to improve the lives of families in Quebec? Can you name a single idea for me, only one? He never talks about it!
Nothing has changed in the Liberal Party. With Charest or Couillard, the only family that matters is the liberal family!
We, despite a difficult budgetary context, have acted. We did so by continuing to manage with rigor, because the health of our public finances is essential to protect our services. This is to be responsible.
I am very proud of the policy that we have just presented: “Solidarity, a wealth for Quebec” It will be supported by considerable resources, ie 2.9 billion by 2017.
Several of your ministers have worked very hard on this. I also want to salute the one who played the role of conductor of this team. Agnès Maltais, you did a wonderful job!
With this policy, we help the most vulnerable, we help those who help them and we prepare for the future - We will increase social security benefits for single people and we will fight against prejudices against the most disadvantaged .- We will better support community groups, too. They do a great job of helping young people, seniors, vulnerable people. We will help them too. We will increase their funding, we will give them resources to improve their premises and offer better conditions to their employees.
…
We will also give more resources to new Quebecers so that they can integrate. With Diane De Courcy, we will help them learn French and find a job!
And we don&#39;t stop there. Réjean Hébert is also working on a new health prevention policy. Its big project, autonomy insurance, is moving forward. We are going to offer seniors the choice of aging at home!
…
Driven by this same desire to allow Quebecers to live long and healthy lives, Sylvain Pagé is preparing our policy on leisure, sport and physical activity. He is supported by Marie Malavoy, who announced the development of the first national policy to fight against early school leaving.
…
Earlier this fall, together with Sylvain Gaudreault, we passed the first framework law on the social economy.
Bertrand St-Arnaud, for his part, is working to increase access to legal aid.
There is also the Dying with Dignity bill, which is submitted to a parliamentary committee. It is based on a very broad consensus within the Quebec population and it is carried, with great humanity, by Véronique Hivon!
…
In a completely different vein, you know how important it is to me to offer the best start to our little ones. I salute Nicole Léger, who is in the process of creating 28,000 new childcare spaces, including 3,500 in underprivileged areas!
…
These initiatives will make the lives of Quebecers better. These are ideas that come from Parti Québécois activists, ideas that are dear to us. Because in the Parti Québécois, we believe that solidarity is not an expense.
Solidarity is an asset for Quebec!
To have the means to achieve our ambitions, we must of course work for the prosperity of Quebec.
This is our government&#39;s third project this fall.
I told you earlier about the efforts we had to make to regain control of our public finances. Nicolas Marceau and Stéphane Bédard have done a remarkable job. While Philippe Couillard proposes to increase consumption taxes, we control our spending. Not only are we meeting our targets for increased public spending, but we are also doing better. The Liberals never succeeded in doing it.
I am proud to tell you: my government is the first government in ten years to control its spending! It&#39;s demanding, it requires constant effort.
Especially since we are seeing that growth is not as strong as we had anticipated… It&#39;s like that in Ontario, it&#39;s like that in the rest of Canada, it&#39;s like that in the United States. United as well. We are starting to see encouraging signs, however. We feel that confidence is returning.
The decision-makers see that in Quebec City there is a government that looks after the economy, a government that has a vision. - And, in fact, in October, our economy created more than 34,000 jobs! - During this time, the rest of Canada lost 20,000. For 2013, if we compare with the same period of 2012, that gives us 53,300 more jobs for Quebecers.
I know these numbers do not please the Liberals. For lack of an economic team, they have no choice but to denigrate Quebec&#39;s economy and sow concern.
With their fear campaign and their alarmist remarks, they create uncertainty and they hurt families in Quebec. For Philippe Couillard, partisan interest comes before Quebec&#39;s interest. Tax anxiety is a liberal problem!
In government, we will stay the course. We will remain rigorous in controlling our spending. We will also act resolutely to stimulate the economy in the short term and develop it in the long term. Our plan is jobs. Even more paying jobs, for Quebecers in all regions!
…
We have already taken action to stimulate our economy.
We have recognized the agri-food industry as a sector of the future. A sector that grows jobs and cultivates pride. Thanks to François Gendron and his food sovereignty policy, we are going to put more of Quebec on our plates!
We also support the regions. For more than ten years, the National Policy on Rurality has recognized the diversity of Quebec&#39;s territories. It was an achievement of a Parti Québécois government. This fall, we announced phase 3 of this policy. With Gaétan Lelièvre, we will invest $ 470 million over ten years to support our regions.
We also recognize the importance of the forest for our economy, our territory and our identity. In order for this renewable resource to remain a flagship of our economy, we will be holding, in two weeks, a major forum on the future of Quebec forestry. It will be chaired by Denis Trottier and it will take place in the most forested region of Quebec. It will take place in Saint-Félicien, in the riding of Roberval!
But we are aiming much wider. We have a very ambitious vision. This vision is the Economic Policy Priority Employment! It is deployed around four axes - To create manufacturing jobs, it first includes our industrial policy. With Élaine Zakaïb, we will help our companies to become more productive and greener.- We also presented the National Research and Innovation Policy. Thanks to the work of Pierre Duchesne, Quebec will once again become a champion of the knowledge economy! - We also have a foreign trade development plan, under the responsibility of Jean-François Lisée. We are going to use our diplomacy all over the world to create jobs everywhere in our regions! - I also want to tell you about a project that is very close to my heart. With Daniel Breton, we are making Quebec a world leader in transport electrification! It is a project of pride, a project likely to unite Quebecers from all walks of life. From chambers of commerce to environmental groups, from our metropolis to our regions, our transport electrification strategy has been welcomed by all stakeholders. Almost all, in fact ...
As you can imagine, the Liberals are against this economic development project. To the Liberal Party, they prefer asphalt contracts!
This project, I believe in it. It inspires me. As with aeronautics or multimedia, Quebec has everything it takes to become a leader in the transportation of the future. It will allow us to develop our economy and create cutting-edge jobs. We are going to do so, while getting closer to our ambitious targets for reducing our greenhouse gas emissions.
This project leads us towards energy independence and, thus, towards political independence!
…
Yes, we have a vision to implement, a program that we all designed together. Ideas that were announced during the election campaign. Commitments that bind us to Quebecers.
Unfortunately, we encounter obstacles in applying them. Opposition parties block priority bills, projects that are dear to Quebecers.
They do it out of pure partisanship. There is :
…
Again this week, the moratorium on shale gas was blocked by opposition parties. Do you realize? A project that is almost unanimous in Quebec. A necessary gesture to reassure the citizens of the lowlands of the Saint Lawrence.
Even Quebec solidaire abstained on the subject of the moratorium. They also did it for the mining bill. So, Québec solidaire fought to have its place in the National Assembly and is silent when the time comes… It is nothing to understand!
I am speaking to the opposition parties. My government has shown itself to be responsible. Be it too! The bills you block are expected by Quebeckers. Stop blocking the government. Stop blocking the development of Quebec!
…
Dear activists, dear activists, I know that you are anxious that we can follow our ideas to the end. I can&#39;t wait too. For now, we will continue to govern Quebec responsibly.
I am very proud of what we have achieved so far. We worked hard. Look where we are.
Our ideas are clear. We know where we are going. We are building a stronger Quebec. A more proud people. A more united society. A richer nation.
Yes, since the election of the Parti Québécois, Quebec has been improving. Quebec is already stronger!
Now imagine what we can do when we have a majority. Imagine what we will do when we have our country!
Thank you!!! Good national advice!
Watch Pauline Marois&#39; speech at the national thematic council “Let&#39;s make Quebec a rich country”.
