The pronounced version is authentic.
What a great weekend we had!
Two days during which I saw you as I know you, Parti Québécois activists.
I saw you studious, animated by this curiosity which characterizes you. I saw you eager to learn more, to share your ideas. I saw you passionate. This passion is the passion of Quebec!
Yes, we have a passion for Quebec. We love it so much, this immense territory, we love the people who live there so much that we cherish a very big dream for them. We want Quebec to be a free and independent country!
René Lévesque said that we would soon see a new country appear on the map.
In fact, if Quebec were a country, it would be the 18th largest in the world. It would still be endowed with a territory rich in resources and with a population that is among the most educated and most creative in the world.
…
Eleven days ago, last October 30, it was the 18th anniversary of the 1995 referendum. Eighteen years since Quebeckers could have said yes.
You saw it yesterday with the presentation of Marcel Leblanc. Quebec has even more the means to become a country today than in 1995.
In short, we are collectively richer.
And you have undoubtedly noticed that the major part of these advances took place under a government of the Parti Québécois.
That&#39;s it, strengthening Quebec to make it a country!
…
If Quebec were a country, it would be 19th in the OECD in terms of gross domestic product per capita. It is a comparable level to UK, France or Japan.
We would be 9th in terms of the proportion of our population that is employed.
Listen, it&#39;s not just me saying it. Jean Charest also recognized it in Paris, in 2006: Quebec has the means to become sovereign!
Me, I go further. I am convinced that Quebec would have a lot more resources if it were independent.
You are undoubtedly numerous here to have read the work “Un Gouvernement de trop”, by Stéphane Gobeil. In his book, he presents a careful analysis of the public accounts of Canada, to check whether Quebec is getting its money&#39;s worth in the federation. His answer is that it costs us a lot to stay in Canada.
Staying in Canada means continuing to finance a state that spends more in our neighbor and main competitor than in all the other provinces combined. In fact, it is in Ontario that the federal government concentrates its ministries, its agencies and its research centers. So many organizations that spend on salaries, goods and services.
When Ottawa invests 10 billion in the auto industry, there is 2 billion coming from Quebec. When Ottawa gives contracts worth $ 25 billion for the construction of ships in Halifax, $ 5 billion comes from here.
Me, I say that it would be better to keep our taxes in Quebec and to make our own choices, according to our priorities!
…
I sometimes hear people say that it is risky to have sovereignty. I think staying in Canada is risky. It is risky to be subject to the decisions of Ottawa. It is risky to stay in a country that is moving in the opposite direction to ours.
It is not just a question of money. It is a question of values. There are many examples.
…
I sometimes hear people say that sovereignists talk too much about the constitution and do not care enough about the economy. Do you want me to tell you about the economy? Do you want me to tell you about the federal government&#39;s desire to create a securities commission? Do you want me to talk to you about the effect of their decisions in the employment insurance file on the economy of our regions?
When the federal government reappropriates workforce training, it concerns the economy. When the federal government is dragging its feet to replace the Champlain Bridge, the main access to our metropolis, it concerns the economy.
When we speak of constitution, we speak of economy!
Quebec&#39;s freedom is another thing that bothers the federal government. By what right does he interfere with our own choices? He even allows himself legal action aimed at denying the right of the Quebec nation to dispose of its future.
However, everyone agrees on this in Quebec. Democracy is 50% + 1 !!!
…
I would like all party leaders in Quebec to show their solidarity when the time comes to defend our values.
In the National Assembly, only the Parti Québécois defends the interests of Quebec!
Yes, we will defend Quebec.
With Alexandre Cloutier, your Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs and Sovereignty Governance, we are on the offensive. We are taking action on all fronts.
Earlier this year, we created the National Employment Insurance Review Board.
We also do not hesitate, when it is in our mutual interests, to consult with the other provinces, as we have done with regard to transportation safety and with regard to the workforce.
We have also seen that Stephen Harper has chosen to appoint a judge from the Federal Court to the Supreme Court, rather than a judge from the courts of Quebec.
We will use all the remedies we have to defend our prerogatives.
…
The federal government is under pressure to get active on the Champlain Bridge file.
It is the busiest bridge in Canada and has been neglected by Ottawa for too long.
We will continue to demand that it be fitted out to accommodate our light rail transport system, an innovative electric mobility solution.
And, above all, we refuse to allow the federal government to make Quebec pay the price for its own inaction. Ottawa must be fair to Quebeckers.
We will not allow the federal government to impose a toll on us on the new bridge!
…
You see, the conflicts between Ottawa and Quebec are very numerous and cost us dear. Not just in money, in energy too.
Since Confederation, how much time have we wasted in constitutional rounds, in federal-provincial meetings, in meetings of officials?
My friends, the day when there will be no more conflicts between Canada and Quebec, we risk not seeing it in our lifetime. Unless we make the right choice. If we choose to end the quarrel and look to the future.
I have always been convinced that the nations of Quebec and Canada would get along better if they were two friendly countries rather than two rival governments.
The only solution to the Quebec-Ottawa conflicts is to choose to give yourself a country!
This is our vision at the Parti Québécois. It is the project that is the basis of our political commitment.
I am fully aware that we still have work to do to convince our fellow citizens to choose sovereignty. We are working on it every day.
But there is one more thing that I am sure of. It is because there are many more people in Quebec who identify with our sovereignist project than with the unconditional federalism of Philippe Couillard!
Philippe Couillard adopted the constitutional strategy of Jean Charest. A strategy that ensures that Quebec is never answered no to any of its requests. This strategy is simple: it consists of never asking for anything!
It is passive federalism. It is the federalism of renunciation.
When the federal government attacks labor-sponsored funds, Philippe Couillard is silent. On Senate reform, he&#39;s hiding. He even says he agrees with the idea of leaving the collection of our taxes to the federal government, as long as Quebec manages the form.
It&#39;s a softness… A radical softness!
…
We, our only loyalty, it is known. It goes to the people of Quebec.
The project we are offering him is to
Yes, my friends, this is the road we are walking on. That of daring.
We have the means to do it.
We can do all of this, on one condition. That of telling us yes!
This is what we dedicate ourselves to every day in government.
When we came to power, we had to repair Quebec. Now, we are strengthening Quebec to give Quebecers confidence. We give ourselves the means to achieve our ambitions.
With your work, with that of the entire Parti Québécois government team, we will get there. At the next electoral meeting, we will be in the majority!
And, at that moment, we will finally see it appear, the country of Quebec.
This country will be ours.
A freer country. A more welcoming country. A more proud country. An independent country.
Thank you!
