Here is the speech by Pauline Marois, Premier of Quebec, at a business dinner organized by Groupe Les Affaires:
The pronounced version is authentic.
“I am very happy to be with you today to talk to you about our government&#39;s vision for the future for the Quebec economy. This is mainly based on resources. Our natural resources, of course, but also and above all on an inexhaustible resource.
“I&#39;m talking about Quebecers themselves, their creativity, their sense of innovation and their taste for excellence!
“Before elaborating on this ambitious vision for our economy, let me go back very briefly to the past few months.
“Since our election on September 4, we have focused on integrity and finances. Balanced public finances mean the freedom to invest in our future, rather than paying for the past. By aiming for financial excellence, Quebec will give itself a very important comparative advantage. While our neighbors are still reducing their deficit, we will be able to invest in the future
“For Quebec, financial rigor is an act of freedom!
“We have also made the fight against corruption a priority. The pursuit of excellence also applies to integrity. We want Quebec to once again become an example of integrity in the world. We have been and will be again!
“Quebec also had to stop relying mainly on public investment to stimulate the economy. By tabling his budget in the fall, Nicolas Marceau has therefore given himself the mandate to accelerate economic growth by focusing on private investment.
“So far, Quebec is doing very well. In the first five months of our government, more than 50,000 jobs have been created, mostly in the private sector.
“It&#39;s not about giving us credit for it. What I want to stress is that it shows the confidence employers have in our economy. It must be said that to accelerate economic growth, we have taken important steps.
“We created a ten-year tax holiday for strategic investments over $ 300 million. This measure will start to bear fruit in the coming months.
“Moreover, the private investors I met in New York, Davos and London assured me of their intention to consolidate and even increase their investments in Quebec.
“We have also put in place important levers. I mention four investment funds:
“These funds are levers that will attract private investments of several billion dollars. But above all, these are tools that are made available to our entrepreneurs. They are the ones who create wealth and jobs in Quebec. They can count on their government.
“This spring, we will table the bill creating the Banque de développement économique du Québec. It will be present in all regions and entrepreneurs will know which door to knock on. We want to support local businesses. Help small businesses grow, and medium-sized ones to become the future flagships of our economy.
“Restore finances, restore integrity and focus more on private investment; these are projects that we must complete. But we must also prepare for Quebec&#39;s long-term economic future. This future is largely based on creativity and innovation. It is by building on these strengths that Quebec will be able to stand out in the world.
“And we have to have ambition. Mine is to put in place the conditions that will allow Quebec to become one of the most prosperous places in the Americas. It is not a question of putting ourselves in a mode of catching up with the others. We must strive for excellence.
“What I want is for the others to try to catch up with Quebec. We can do it.
“In the past, we have succeeded in making Quebec, and especially Montreal, one of the world poles of the aerospace industry. If anyone had announced this goal in the first place, there would have been voices to reduce this ambition.
“However, we did it and we continue to support this flagship of the Quebec economy.
“We have also succeeded in making Quebec a stronghold in the life sciences. This sector has experienced difficulties in recent years, but we have acted quickly.
“The budget improved tax credits for biopharmaceutical research, which now stand at 27.5%. We have also created a $ 125 million matching fund to support pharmaceutical research projects.
“Despite the slippages experienced by the Montreal mega-hospital projects, the MUHC and the CHUM, we must be delighted to have these two formidable research tools. With two large university hospitals, we have a strong base to ensure not only the consolidation, but also the development of this economic center.
“Montreal must more than ever assert itself as a North American metropolis for the life sciences.
“In the 1990s, under the leadership of Bernard Landry, the Parti Québécois government put in place the conditions to create, from almost nothing, a multimedia industry in Quebec.
“We have succeeded: Quebec has become a hub in the creation of video games, but also in a series of areas of the digital economy.
“In London, I announced the arrival of the Framestore company in Montreal, which will create 200 more jobs in multimedia. I spoke with the executives of this company that creates special effects for big budget movies in Hollywood. Among the reasons that prompted them to come and settle here, there were government programs, but especially the creativity of Quebeckers in this area.
“All this to say that we are capable of creating economic poles. We have done this in the past. We will do it again in the future. We continue to support areas of excellence. We also intend to create new ones by launching a major project. A project that will mobilize all of Quebec for many years to come.
“The electrification of our transportation is what, for me, must become the project of the 21st century for Quebec. This project offers extraordinary potential for all of Quebec.
“First, you have to know that our trade deficit is very high. We import $ 30 million worth of crude oil every day, mostly for our transportation. This money comes out of Quebec, whereas it could be invested here.
“Imagine if, instead of using this imported fuel, our transportation used a form of energy that is clean in Quebec: electricity. This means billions of dollars more invested with us every year.
“Ultimately, for Quebecers, for our businesses, this means very significant savings, electricity being much less expensive than gasoline.
“Electrifying our transport means betting on local businesses, which already manufacture trains, subways, buses or batteries for electric vehicles. It also means the creation of new businesses.
“We will have to invent new technologies, innovate in our ways of doing things, in urban planning, design, energy.
“Electrifying our transport will allow us to considerably reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, and therefore atmospheric pollution.
“Our quality of life will be improved and our cities will become more attractive. And then, as you know, Quebec now finds itself with significant energy surpluses. We can turn these surpluses into an economic benefit. We will use them to stimulate investment and job creation in all our regions.
“We have created a fund of $ 200 million for clean transportation. This financial leverage will soon be available. The Minister for Industrial Policy, Élaine Zakaïb, is responsible for this.
“The ministers of Sustainable Development, Natural Resources, Transport and Municipal Affairs, the Minister responsible for Metropolitan France, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Science and Technology are also concerned.
“In fact, it is the whole government that I will be mobilizing over the next few months.
“Rather than importing oil, we will be able to export our know-how, our technologies, our equipment and our electric transport components. We have the energy, we have the will, we have the vision.
“For my government, it is clear: the 21st century project for Quebec is the electrification of our transportation.
“Obviously, it won&#39;t happen overnight. Until then, it will be necessary to continue to use hydrocarbons.
“Also, my government is determined to exploit Quebec&#39;s oil potential. But we will do it right, with best environmental practices and with respect for people. And, above all, oil production will have to enrich all Quebecers.
“In addition to the oil potential, Quebec has a very large pool of natural resources. We are going to exploit it but, again, we want to do it correctly, for the benefit of all, including the next generations. The new mining law and the new royalty regime will soon be presented.
“In addition to resources, the government must act on other fronts, deploying comprehensive policies and strategies. Pascal Bérubé, our Minister for Tourism, is deploying the Quebec Tourism Industry Development Plan. This industry is very important for Quebec, especially in Montreal. It allows new money to enter our economy. We have a very dynamic minister and I can assure you that we will maximize our tourism potential.
“The government is also finalizing a foreign trade development plan aimed at boosting exports and attracting international investment. We are betting on openness to trade. This is the case, for example, with the agreement between Canada and the European Union, which will give us greater access to a market of 500 million people.
“To help our SMEs in foreign markets, we provide them with the Expansion Québec offices. Companies will be able to rent space there to explore new markets and they will be able to call on specialists on site. They are now available to our companies. Within five years, Quebec will add 15 new offices for a total network of 42.
“We want to conquer the world.
“We have in the room several of our delegates from Quebec abroad. I invite you to meet them: do not hesitate to call on them, they work for you.
“We notice it more and more when we travel the world: Quebec is associated with creativity.
“I told you about the arrival of the Framestore company in Montreal, a decision that has a lot to do with the creativity of Quebecers.
“Cirque du Soleil has a business model based on creativity.
“We are recognized for our major festivals, for our avant-garde dance troupes, for our music scene, which resonates around the world.
“Our major aerospace companies - Bombardier, CAE, Pratt &amp; Whitney, Héroux Devtek - promote our expertise around the world. What can we say about Moment Factory, which makes us proud around the world? There is also Sid Lee who shines more and more. And this Quebec company, Beyond the Rack, which is on its way to becoming a major player in the Internet economy.
“We have to bet on that. We want to make this creativity the signature of Quebec in the world. We want people everywhere to automatically associate Quebec with creativity, innovation, invention, modernity!
“Creativity and innovation are therefore at the heart of our economic vision. It is the keystone of truly sustainable prosperity for Quebec. And all of this relies first and foremost on education.
“Which brings us to higher education, CEGEPs and universities. There should be no doubt about this. I tell you and I also say it to all Quebecers: our universities are one of our greatest collective assets, a precious asset that we must support.
“If there is one instrument in our history that has enabled Quebecers to surpass themselves, it is access to higher education. This aspiration must not divide us, it must unite us. This is the reason why we opened the dialogue and called a summit.
“Of course there are debates, in particular around the contribution of the students. But this debate on tuition fees should not obscure everything else. There are big issues on which there is broad agreement.
“For example, that higher education is one of the essential engines of our development as a society: we all agree on that.
“In the regions, this is palpable. In Rimouski, Trois-Rivières, Sherbrooke, Abitibi or Chicoutimi, universities are true cultural, economic and intellectual lungs. These universities are essential gems.
“In Quebec City, Laval University has been at the center of a diversification that has enabled the region to develop an extremely dynamic economy. And if Quebec is a pole in the field of insurance, we owe it in good part to the excellence of its actuarial department.
“As for Montreal, no Canadian city awards so many degrees. We have an extraordinary concentration of universities and two large teaching hospitals.
“I recently read that a British firm ranked Montreal 10th among the best university cities in the world.
“It is indeed the social, economic and cultural heart of our metropolis. Montreal is one of the continent&#39;s great university metropolises. And I can assure you: it will remain so!
“So these institutions which are essential to us, with Pierre Duchesne, we will do what is necessary to ensure that they continue to progress and that they remain accessible to all. This means that we will fund our universities in an adequate, sustainable and predictable way.
“We could indefinitely debate the level of funding for universities. Instead, I suggest that we focus on what unites us: we agree that university funding is a very profitable investment for the Quebec nation. On that too, we all get along!
“I am making a commitment to you today: over the next few years, the government will reinvest massively in our universities.
&quot;We are forecasting an increase of 3.3% in 2014, 8.5% in 2015 and so on, so that in 2018 government grants to universities will be $ 800 million higher than this year. This is $ 200 million more than what was planned by the previous government.
“I say it again and I commit to it: in 2018, our universities will have $ 800 million more per year.
“I cannot imagine a clearer signal from the government to illustrate how much we care about the success of our higher education institutions.
“On the student side, we have always said that we were guided by two principles:
“By reversing the exaggerated tuition hike - an 82% hike - we have achieved some of our goals. Quebec will remain the place in North America where higher education is the most accessible. Our young people will remain the least indebted students on the continent.
“We are determined to increase accessibility and reduce debt. Universities, students and all of Quebec will benefit.
“Rather than looking for what divides us, let&#39;s work from what unites us.
“It is time for everyone to make compromises and after the summit, we move on to another stage, that we all move forward together. Let us relaunch ourselves in the pursuit of excellence, creativity and the development of each of our young people.
“Balanced finances, lower debt.
“A significant increase in private investment. Responsible exploitation of our natural resources.
“The support of our SMEs and our entrepreneurs in all regions.
“A major project for the 21st century: that of the electrification of our transport.
“A brand image in the world that is based on creativity.
“And major investments in higher education, research and innovation.
“We have a very ambitious vision for Quebec. We strive for excellence in all areas. We want Quebec to become one of the most prosperous places in the Americas.
Thank you. &quot;
