Quebec - “The Liberal government is once again unable to come up with concrete solutions for the forest industry. This is what the member for Chicoutimi and official opposition critic for the economy, entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports, Stéphane Bédard, and the member for Bonaventure and spokesperson declared. Speaking in forestry, Sylvain Roy, following the government&#39;s announcement this morning of the creation of an interdepartmental committee whose mandate will be, among other things, to assess the cost of fiber.
“The Liberal government recognizes its failure and sees the decline of the forestry industry over the past 10 years and the associated job losses. Announcing an interministerial committee is once again delaying the implementation of solutions that are known, ”continued Stéphane Bédard.
“The government arrives with this announcement this morning, when no one has been consulted, while industry and workers should have been at the center of this committee. The government absolutely must involve industry players in this process, ”he added.
“In November 2013, there was a big forest meeting in Saint-Félicien, attended by Philippe Couillard; the problems were clearly exposed, immediate assistance was provided, and the reports from the work sites which followed the meeting identified concrete solutions to be implemented now. However, the government is delaying the implementation of these solutions by creating this committee, ”said Sylvain Roy.
“The minister has been in office for more than a year and, despite everything, each month, factories across all regions of Quebec are closing. Just last week, we learned that forestry activities on the North Shore risked being suspended if the Prime Minister did not intervene. Solutions are however known. The projects, launched during the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise, have identified some. The Minister must act to improve the business environment and allow workers to keep their jobs, ”concluded the Member for Bonaventure.
