Granby– The Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, has pledged to endow Quebec with a genuine national health prevention policy.
While in Granby, she was accompanied by the Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Saint-François, Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Doctor Réjean Hébert, by the candidate in Joliette and Minister responsible for Services social workers, Véronique Hivon, the candidate in Blainville, Gyslaine Desrosiers, the candidate in Taillon, Diane Lamarre, and the candidate in Granby, Joanne Lalumière.
“We will call on all stakeholders to achieve this great goal: to make Quebec one of the fittest nations in the world. Health is an individual and collective resource essential to the full development of Quebec society, because it helps ensure prosperity and social justice. This flagship commitment of the Parti Québécois will be a decisive lever for improving the quality of life and health of the population and for reducing social inequalities, ”said Pauline Marois.
“Over the past decades, the health and life expectancy of Quebecers have improved considerably. However, the prevalence of certain chronic diseases, such as diabetes or respiratory diseases, is increasing. Likewise, mental health problems continue to be an important issue for our community and require better management. Some disadvantaged groups in our society experience more health problems than others. To build a Quebec that is fairer, stronger and more welcoming to everyone, it is therefore important to make a shift towards prevention in health, ”added the Premier.
The policy will establish five general health goals:
Prevention represents a profitable investment for government and society. For example, a year after the passage of the Tobacco Act, in 1998, the percentage of smokers aged 15 and over rose from 24 to 18%. The total savings for the system then amounted to $ 240 million. By adding the indirect costs avoided, the benefits for Quebec society amount to some $ 500 million.
“Taking care of your health is a great way for a person to lead a fulfilling and fulfilling life. As a community, it is also a major project to which we must devote significant efforts. It is a way of reducing our health bill, strengthening our mobilization and our cohesion. We will soon be able to say, as I wished when I became Prime Minister, that Quebecers form one of the fittest nations in the world, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
