Bécancour– The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, and the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, Yves-François Blanchet, confirmed the participation of the Government of Quebec in the partnership agreement between RER Hydro, La Compagnie Boeing and Hydro-Quebec aimed at continuing the development of the industrial sector of tidal turbines in Quebec and the cost of which is estimated at $ 130 million.
As part of this agreement, the Government of Quebec undertakes to contribute financially for a maximum amount of $ 85 million in the form of equity and loans. The government&#39;s participation in the implementation of this project could eventually allow the establishment in Bécancour of a commercial-size tidal turbine manufacturing plant capable of producing around 500 units per year and allowing the creation of some 600 direct and indirect jobs.
“My government is actively contributing to the development of new sectors that are promising for Quebec&#39;s economic future, as we recently demonstrated with the presentation of our transportation electrification strategy,” said Pauline Marois. Now, our participation in this partnership agreement will promote the development of the industrial tidal turbine sector, which has great economic potential for Quebec, in particular because of the significant export possibilities. In addition to allowing us to produce renewable energy using innovative technology, this sector will generate the creation of sustainable jobs and major spinoffs for Quebec, among others for the municipality of Bécancour and the Center region. of Quebec. &quot;
The tidal turbine is a technology of the future that stands out for its performance and technical efficiency. It has global market potential in addition to being an alternative solution for supplying electricity to isolated areas, such as the autonomous networks in northern Quebec.
“By using the force of the current to generate electricity, RER Hydro does everything it can to provide clean, reliable and renewable energy. Thanks to its tidal turbines, RER Hydro will replace fuel oil in unconnected networks where there are rivers. I am also proud that this project received financial support for innovation from the Ministry of Natural Resources. Quebec is a world leader in green energies and we must rely more than ever on our expertise and know-how, ”declared Martine Ouellet.
The Prime Minister, Pauline Marois, takes note of the model of the RER tidal turbine. // (c) Thierry St-Cyr
“When the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant was closed, we made a commitment to revitalize the economy of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions, and this is what we did by putting forward a strategy concerted economic diversification for these regions, ”said Yves-François Blanchet.
&quot;Quebec is the cradle of hydroelectricity and particular know-how has been developed there,&quot; said Mr. Imad Hamad, President and CEO of RER Hydro. The tidal turbine is a turbine alternator group that does not require any dam. This new industrial sector will help to further transform Quebec&#39;s natural resources for the benefit of Quebecers. &quot;
“My government&#39;s priority is to preserve and create quality jobs that will contribute to the dynamism and growth of all regions of Quebec. To this end, the Priorité Emploi economic policy is a powerful development lever for all of Quebec. It will create 43,000 sustainable jobs and generate more than $ 7 billion in investments by 2017. Our participation in this partnership agreement between RER Hydro, La Compagnie Boeing and Hydro-Québec represents a further step towards achievement of our prosperity objectives for all Quebecers, ”concluded the Premier.
To learn more about the Priorité emploi economic policy, visit www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueeconomique.
The first phase of the investment project has already been successfully completed by the company RER Hydro, which specializes in the design and manufacture of tidal turbines in river environments intended for the production of electricity. RER Hydro currently employs 35 people at its head office in Montreal. This first phase concerned the experimentation of a first generation tidal turbine prototype (TRÉC-I) which was installed in 2010 in the St.Lawrence River, near the Concorde Bridge, and which has been operating continuously since. . Investments of $ 23 million, including $ 3 million allocated by the Government of Quebec, were required for this phase of the project.
The second phase of the project is estimated at $ 51.5 million, of which $ 25 million will be allocated by the Government of Quebec in the form of equity and loans with interest. It consists of setting up a technological showcase made up of six second-generation tidal turbines (TRÉC-II), with a total capacity of 0.75 MW, in the St. Lawrence River, still near the Concorde Bridge. This technological showcase will allow La Compagnie Boeing, with which RER Hydro has partnered to carry out this project, to complete technical tests. The implementation of this technological showcase will be spread over a period of three years and will create 15 direct jobs at the RER Hydro tidal turbine manufacturing plant in Bécancour and 10 others in the Montreal region.
The third phase will start in 2016 if the results of the second phase are conclusive. This portion of the project, estimated at $ 81 million and of which a maximum amount of $ 60 million will come from the Government of Quebec in the form of royalty loans, aims to set up a demonstration park made up of around forty marine turbines. &#39;&#39; a total capacity of 9 MW. This park will support the international marketing efforts of the industrial tidal turbine sector in Quebec by showing potential buyers how this new technology works on a commercial scale. This phase will consolidate 50 jobs at RER Hydro, in addition to creating 40 direct jobs and 80 indirect jobs with various suppliers.
Note that under the partnership agreement announced today, Hydro-Québec will purchase the electricity produced by RER Hydro or one of its subsidiaries, if applicable. In addition, the company&#39;s TM4 division will supply sub-assemblies for the manufacture of the alternator.
