Montreal - “It&#39;s a real change program with a long-term vision. This vision, for Quebecers, means more integrity, more identity, more ownership of our natural resources and more freedom. Quebec needs a serious boost and that is what we are proposing ”.
It is in these terms that the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, launched her party&#39;s new program today in Montreal. For the occasion, she was accompanied by the president of the national executive council of the Parti Québécois, Raymond Archambault, and several deputies and members of the Parti Québécois authorities.
The new program revolves around four major themes: integrity, Quebec identity, ownership of our natural resources and freedom. It includes several measures that will allow a possible Parti Québécois government to get Quebec back on track, to offer a long-term vision.
To restore integrity and confidence in political institutions, Pauline Marois undertakes, among other things, to create a commission of inquiry within the first 100 days of her mandate. “For Quebec to change and move forward, it is imperative to clean up. We have become convinced that organized crime has infiltrated the construction industry. It will take courage, it will not be easy, but we are going to clean up, ”said the leader of the Parti Québécois.
The Parti Québécois wants a government that will stand up to promote and defend the Quebec identity and the French language, in particular by eliminating bridging schools in the first 100 days. “We have very strong proposals to reverse the weakening of French in the public sphere, to give back all its place to culture and history and to clearly establish Quebec citizenship. The reasonable accommodation crisis has never been resolved; the Parti Québécois will resolve it. We have the courage we need, ”said Pauline Marois.
The Parti Québécois&#39; new program also contains a series of proposals aimed at giving Quebecers back control over their natural resources. Among these proposals for a richer Quebec, a Marois government, in the first 100 days of its mandate, will establish a royalty regime that will truly benefit Quebecers. It also maintains its commitment to impose a real moratorium on shale gas exploration.
“This policy of &#39;masters at home&#39; is part of a long-term vision inspired by the new generations. There is no question of ransacking our territory and jostling Quebecers at home. There is also no question of exploiting our resources without passing them on to future generations. Exploiting our resources, yes, but not in any way or at any price, ”added Pauline Marois.
Article 1 of the program, which is the raison d&#39;être of the Parti Québécois, remains the realization of the sovereignty of Quebec. More clearly, it is written that
“It&#39;s the primary objective that lives in me. This is the raison d&#39;être of my political commitment. Sovereignty is the most important change we have to propose, it is to profoundly transform Quebec by building a country, ”continued Pauline Marois.
In the coming weeks and months, the Parti Québécois will decline its proposals to Quebeckers. They affect and will affect all aspects of collective life in Quebec, such as health, education, wealth creation, the environment, agriculture and childcare services in particular.
“We are going to present our proposals for real change to Quebecers. People will realize that they are dealing with a new Parti Québécois, with new ideas, a new approach, a new team, a new program inspired by the new generations who have joined us, ”concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois. .
Watch the press conference.
