Baie-Saint-Paul– The Premier of Quebec and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix – Côte-de-Beaupré, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, announced today that the Charlevoix Health and Social Services Center is authorized to proceed with the selection of professionals as well as the development of the final business case for its construction project for the new Baie-Saint-Paul hospital, according to a of &quot;turnkey&quot; realization.
With the exception of a contribution of $ 20 million from regional envelopes for asset maintenance and minor functional renovations, this project estimated at $ 376,267,000 will be fully funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services, in under the next Quebec Infrastructure Plan.
“The construction of a new hospital in Baie-Saint-Paul is necessary to ensure the safety of staff and patients. At the same time, it is a promising project for the socio-economic development of the region and of Quebec. This is why we favor it within the framework of the Quebec Infrastructure Program, for which our government has made a commitment to make responsible choices, for the real benefit of all Quebecers, ”declared the Premier. .
For his part, Minister Hébert said that “the in-depth analysis of the project made it possible to develop an optimal scenario combining the most advantageous solutions, both geographically, technically and financially. Since studies show that the current building is technically and economically unrecoverable by upgrading work, and given the costs associated with a partial or total relocation of the hospital&#39;s activities during the work, we are happy to be able to confirm today for the population of Charlevoix that they will benefit from a new safe and functional hospital towards the end of 2018 ”.
It should be noted that the two sub-projects associated with the construction of the new hospital, namely the expansion and redevelopment of the Pierre-Dupré accommodation center and the reconstruction of the Residence with continuous assistance, will be carried out according to the “traditional method”. &quot;, Which consists in completing the detailed plans and specifications before proceeding with the public call for tenders, unlike the&quot; turnkey &quot;mode, which simultaneously entrusts the plans and specifications as well as the construction of the project to the same company or to the same business combination.
The new Baie-Saint-Paul hospital will include an emergency room, an operating theater with two operating rooms, outpatient clinics with 16 rooms, a short-term geriatric unit and an intensive functional rehabilitation unit with a total of 12 beds. It will also have 7 mental health beds, 28 acute care beds in medicine and surgery, and 103 beds in long-term care accommodation.
On the technical level, the project provides for the construction of a new 34,676 m2 building, an extension of 1,555 m2 and a redevelopment of 2,475 m2 at the Pierre-Dupré Accommodation Center in order to accommodate services related to the CLSC, as well as the move of the Residence with continuous assistance, with an area of 610 m2.
Finally, it should be noted that, in addition to the soil consolidation work, construction of the new building and the demolition of the current hospital, the overall amount of this project estimated at $ 376,267,000 includes, in particular, the costs relating to furniture and equipment. medical specialist and technological infrastructure, as well as all administrative costs and related financing costs.
