Quebec - The Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, is proud to announce today that the government is renewing its privileged partnership with the Maurice Tanguay Foundation, for a seventh consecutive year. Thus, Maison Tanguay will be designed according to the requirements of the new Novoclimat 2.0 energy efficiency program for the next three years.
“Maison Tanguay Novoclimat 2.0 implements higher requirements in terms of energy efficiency. In addition to improving comfort and construction quality, Novoclimat 2.0 certified homes allow occupants to save up to 20% of their energy bill, in addition to improving air quality. We are very proud to be a partner in this project that helps disabled children and their families, ”said Martine Ouellet.
With the Novoclimat 2.0 program, homeowners will be able to save 20% on energy costs, according to current regulations. The program is aimed at entrepreneurs and owners wishing to have a residential building certified. Evaluations will be carried out at various stages of construction to ensure that the technical requirements of the program are met. Homeowners will be able to benefit from financial assistance of $ 1,000.
Contractors certified by the Bureau de normalization du Québec will be able to count on quality training in energy-efficient construction, technical support for the design of plans and specifications as well as on-site support. Financial assistance of $ 1,000 will be paid to them for each Novoclimat approved house.
Since 1999, over $ 46 million has been awarded in financial assistance to over 22,000 homeowners who have been built to standards. This program has also enabled more than 16,000 housing units to be approved. This represents a reduction of 85,400 teC (tonnes of carbon equivalent [CO2]). In addition, more than 1,700 companies in the construction industry have been certified Novoclimat.
Quebec wants to establish itself as a leader in energy efficiency. More than $ 665 million were recently announced to support new energy efficiency programs, namely EcoPerformance and Technoclimat, Renoclimat, Chauffez Vert, Econologis, Novoclimat 2.0 and the Residual Forest Biomass Program.
“Such significant investments in energy efficiency are unheard of! These actions testify to our deep desire to contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, ”recalled Martine Ouellet.
