Quebec - On the occasion of Homeless Night, the leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, as well as several of his colleagues will take part in various activities organized to make the population aware of the reality of people in difficult circumstances. &#39;roaming. MNA for Taschereau, Agnès Maltais, MNA for Hochelaga? Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, MNA for Joliette, Véronique Hivon, MNA for Terrebonne, Mathieu Traversy, MNA for Richelieu, Sylvain Rochon, MNA for Bertrand, Claude Cousineau , and the member for Rimouski, Harold LeBel, in particular, will be there in their respective regions.
“This evening we are taking part in the Night of the Homeless. This should be an opportunity to appreciate the road traveled to get thousands of Quebecers out of homelessness. Unfortunately, this time, it is the setbacks that will have to be measured. The Liberal government&#39;s cuts, combined with its refusal to adequately fund community organizations, have disastrous impacts on the ground. And that&#39;s without counting the effects of Minister Charlebois signing an agreement with Ottawa, the Homelessness Partnering Strategy, which now deprives hundreds of organizations in all regions of funding. of Quebec ”, denounced the leader and the deputies.
HPS and liberal austerity: concrete impacts in the regions
The Parti Québécois again appealed to the government in the National Assembly to make it aware of the consequences of austerity and of its lack of leadership vis-à-vis the federal government on the HPS. “In Valleyfield, for example, the Community Food Service is going to close its doors. Why? Because the Liberal government signed an agreement with the federal government that diverted the funds necessary for its survival. In Granby, the agreement reduced the number of beds available at the Le Passant lodge by a third. In Montreal, layoffs had to be made at the Auberge Madeleine and at the Oeuvres de Saint-Jacques. In addition, a third of Montreal homelessness projects have seen their funding cut entirely. The list is long. Does the Liberal government recognize the extent of the damage it has caused by signing this unacceptable agreement with the Harper government? What will he do to restore the budgets of the organizations? Asked the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in social services, Jean-François Lisée.
A constant commitment, despite the cuts
The elected officials also paid tribute to the efforts made by the groups which, despite liberal austerity and the cuts, continue to mobilize to support thousands of the most vulnerable people on a daily basis. “Community organizations are doing the most important work, and we urge them to continue in this direction. Their action and commitment have a concrete effect on those who experience homelessness, and they prove to be invaluable partners in the fight against the phenomenon, ”added the deputies.
Finally, the Leader of the Official Opposition emphasized the fact that Véronique Hivon will receive the 2015 Pompon d&#39;Or Prize, awarded by the organizing committee of the Night of the Homeless in Joliette. “I am pleased that Véronique&#39;s exceptional commitment and leadership in the fight against homelessness is recognized today. It should be remembered that it was she who, among other actions, carried the very first National Policy against Homelessness. This honor is greatly deserved and I congratulate her on behalf of the entire Parti Québécois team, ”concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau.
