Quebec - The Minister responsible for Government Administration and Chairman of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, welcomes the results of the Survey on the Integration of the Internet into Business Processes. The report commissioned by the government as part of the Digital Economy Strategy was released today by the Institut de la statistique du Québec. It provides a portrait of the current situation of Internet access in Quebec and its use by businesses.
The survey reveals, among other things, that in 2012, 84.2% of Quebec businesses were connected to the Internet. High speed connection is the norm among connected businesses (94.8%) while very high speed is only present in 14.4% of connected businesses. We also learn that only 12.8% of connected businesses in Quebec sell on the Internet. This proportion is higher in very large companies with 250 or more employees (46.5%). Among establishments with five or more employees, 91.5% had an Internet connection in 2012. This proportion varies by region, from 85.7% in the Nord-du-Québec region to 95.5% in the Center-region. of Quebec.
The survey, which was carried out in two parts, that is to say among businesses and establishments, makes it possible to produce results on Internet access and its use for all of Quebec, for five business sizes and for 14 industrial groups, thanks to the business component. It also provides results on Internet access for the 17 administrative regions and for the six categories of rural-urban division thanks to the establishment component.
The Institut de la statistique du Québec also carried out the Québec survey on household access to the Internet in 2012. These surveys are among the first stages of the Québec government&#39;s digital economy strategy.
“Digital technology is an important lever for ensuring our economic development and, at the same time, for improving the quality of life of citizens. This is why our government intends to intensify its short-term efforts in order to provide Québec with a genuine digital plan that will meet the expectations and needs of the entire population, ”said Minister Bédard.
The report of the Survey on the integration of the Internet into business processes as well as the results tables are available on the Institute&#39;s website at www.stat.gouv.qc.ca. A few tables of results from the Quebec Household Internet Access Survey are also available, while the survey report and all the final results will be released later in September.
