Terrebonne - Following the moving reports broadcast last week on the appalling conditions in which young children find themselves in family day care, the Member for Charlevoix and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pauline Marois, and the Member for Iberville and family spokesperson, Marie Bouillé, today presented concrete proposals to ensure that parents and children have access to quality child care throughout Quebec.
&quot;If the number of child care spaces were sufficient, situations like those described in the media would not exist,&quot; said Pauline Marois. It is because parents are unable to find a place in the daycare network that children find themselves in an inappropriate environment. It is for this reason that the Parti Québécois makes a firm commitment to offer a place at a reduced contribution in early childhood centers and in a family environment for each child ”.
A Parti Québécois government is committed to ensuring that the childcare network can accommodate a total of 250,000 children. This is a commitment to create some 30,000 reduced contribution places. “As soon as the first term of a Parti Québécois government ends, each child will have a place,” Pauline Marois insisted.
Placing your child on a waiting list to obtain a reduced-contribution place is a real headache for many parents because not all subsidized childcare services participate in the centralized regional counters. &quot;To make life easier for parents, under a Parti Québécois government, all subsidized childcare settings will be required to register on the centralized waiting lists in each region,&quot; added Marie Bouillé.
“It is high time that we put an end to this situation which is causing confusion, waste of time and frustration for all parents in Quebec. No more maze and endless steps to register your child, a single call will be necessary to put the name of your child on the waiting list which will cover all the subsidized places in the region, ”explained Ms. Marois.
Families must return to the center of the concerns of the Government of Quebec. Creating an adequate child care network that meets the needs of parents and children is not an expense, but an investment. According to a study produced by the Research Chair in Taxation and Public Finance at the University of Sherbrooke, each dollar invested in these services brings in $ 1.05 for the government of Quebec and $ 0.45 for the federal government.
“Families have always been a priority for the Parti Québécois and they will continue to be at the heart of our action,” concluded Pauline Marois.
