Quebec - André Villeneuve, the member for Berthier and official opposition spokesperson for regional development and land use, tabled Bill 499 on dynamic land use and decentralization. This bill will bring ministries and public bodies to account for land use and decentralization.
“This clearly shows that the Parti Québécois is the party of the regions. Having been mayor and prefect, I consider that one of the best ways to promote the occupation of the territory is to distribute services equitably over the territory and to give local and regional actors the necessary tools to promote development. This is exactly what this decentralization bill allows! », Declared André Villeneuve.
This bill sets out the main principles that will guide our action:
-The right to accessible basic services in areas vital for the occupation of the territory (education, health, food, etc.) for any person residing in a rural municipality; -The compulsory modulation of government programs according to local and regional specificities; -Financial or fiscal transfers during the transfer of skills; -The fiscal autonomy of municipalities; -Subsidiarity; -The promotion of local and regional identities; -The rights of indigenous nations.
“To ensure that the right to basic services in rural municipalities is respected, we suggest that they be notified when the last establishment offering a service in its territory is considering abolishing it. In this way, with the support of the government if it proves necessary, the municipality will have the opportunity to take a step to avoid the abolition of the service or to propose an alternative ”, explained André Villeneuve.
“By forcing departments and agencies to adjust their programs, we are taking an important step towards putting an end to the“ wall to wall ”which, too often, does not correspond to the realities of the community. It is a question of respect for the regions which each have their realities, their colors and their identity, ”added the deputy for Berthier.
The bill also specifies that any transfer of powers will be accompanied by a transfer of resources equivalent to those previously devoted to it by the State. &quot;When we know that the legitimate fear of&quot; shoveling bills &quot;in the courts of municipalities sometimes turns out to be an obstacle to decentralization, we understand the importance of guaranteeing the transfer of financial resources,&quot; he said.
The Parti Québécois has always had the regions at heart. For 35 years, he has changed the face of the regions through his achievements and avant-garde reforms:
-Creation of regional county municipalities (MRC), -Law on land use planning and planning, -Recognition of indigenous nations, -Paix des Braves, -National policy on rurality, -Policy to support local and regional development and -Creation of local development centers (CLD).
“By introducing this bill today, we are taking another concrete step. This approach aims to give new tools to elected officials and community stakeholders allowing them to optimize their resources. In doing so, they will be able to go further in terms of dynamism and prosperity, ”concluded André Villeneuve, inviting the government to call for Bill 499.
