Baie-Saint-Paul– In the wake of the launch of the Food Sovereignty Policy, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron, announce a series of actions to preserve the agricultural zone.
More specifically, these actions will have the objectives of guaranteeing the integrity of the agricultural territory for future generations, ensuring access to land for agricultural businesses and the next generation, as well as promoting optimal and sustainable use of the territory and resources. .
“Our intention is to maintain and, above all, to strengthen our protection regime for agricultural land put in place by the Parti Québécois 35 years ago. The Food Sovereignty Policy that we have just adopted proclaims loud and clear that the agricultural zone is a collective heritage to be protected. It bears the imprint of our traditions, our history and our identity. It is our duty to preserve it and to ensure that our children and our grandchildren can benefit from it and make it prosper in turn, ”said the Prime Minister.
By June, the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food intends to table two bills amending the Act respecting the acquisition of agricultural land by non-residents and the Act respecting the protection of land and land. agricultural activities. These modifications, if they are approved by the opposition parties, will make it possible to tighten the access criteria and protect us against possible increases in land prices that could cause requests for the acquisition of agricultural land by foreign interests. . Other modifications could also better protect agricultural land from urban sprawl, promote their development and simplify certain administrative aspects.
In addition to the proposed legislative changes, the government wishes to extend the application of agricultural zone development plans (PDZA) to all the RCMs in order to promote optimal and sustainable use of the territory. The best way to preserve the collective heritage of agricultural land is to use it to its full potential.
“Although the phenomenon of speculation and land grabbing remains marginal even today, we cannot afford to remain inactive in the face of the interest shown by investors in this resource. Our agricultural zone covers only 4% of the territory and only half of this zone is suitable for agriculture; we must therefore take all the necessary means to ensure that we retain ownership of our land. Since our approach involves legislative changes, we must now hope that we can count on the support of the opposition parties, ”added Minister François Gendron.
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, we invite you to regularly consult the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA), or yet to follow the Ministry on Twitter (https://twitter.com/mapaquebec).
Read the press release issued during the unveiling of the Food Sovereignty Policy.
