Quebec, August 18, 2016 - While almost all of Bill 110 concerns the Labor Code, Sylvain Rochon, MP for Richelieu and Parti Québécois spokesperson on labor matters, as well as his colleague MP for René -Lévesque and spokesperson for municipal affairs, Martin Ouellet, noted the absence of the Minister of Labor, Dominique Vien, from the work of the commission. They also note the assumption by the Minister of Municipal Affairs and Land Occupancy, Martin Coiteux, of the labor relations negotiation regime within municipalities. &quot;It is the clear demonstration that the Minister of Labor was excluded from her file by the Prime Minister, who prefers to rely only on the Minister of Municipal Affairs&quot;, they affirmed.
“Several workers&#39; associations came to denounce, in parliamentary committee, the fact that the bill proposes that the Labor Code be taken over by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Land Occupancy. Should we remind Minister Coiteux that labor relations are the responsibility of his colleague, and that his role is to support the administration and development of municipalities, regions, the national capital and the metropolis of Quebec? Labor relations are the job of the Minister of Labor! However, where is Dominique Vien when complete sections of his law are modified? », Then asked Sylvain Rochon.
“Obviously, the Ministry of Labor has an opinion on the bill: it has produced opinions, as well as a brief, on the subject. Minister Vien remains stubbornly and completely silent, but can she at least make public the documents of her department so that we can get the facts straight? It remains that it is completely insane to modify the Labor Code without being able to hear the officials of the Ministry of Labor and their minister, ”added Martin Ouellet.
“The claim of the Minister of Municipal Affairs is to &#39;modernize&#39; labor relations in the municipal world, but he does the opposite. Martin Coiteux turns his back on the history of his party and the evolution of labor relations in Quebec, ”concluded the Member for Richelieu.
