Quebec - The member for Joliette and official opposition critic for culture and communications, Véronique Hivon, denounces the blind cuts of 20% of tax credits in the arts and culture sector. Cinema and television, dubbing, shows and publishing will go downhill.
“Culture is, along with our language and our history, the glue of the Quebec identity and the works of our artisans are a source of great pride for all Quebecers. It is to protect it that we have negotiated international agreements that exclude it from trade obligations, said Véronique Hivon. By giving us competitive advantages such as tax credits, we allow the production and dissemination of our culture. &quot;
The Minister of Culture and Communications said she was satisfied with the Leitão budget, insisting on a meager investment of $ 2.3 million and the realization of the digital strategy, a project prepared by the government of the Parti Québécois and cut by 40 million. $ by the Liberals. For his part, the Minister of Finance minimized the consequences of the cuts, while acknowledging that he had not conducted an impact study before entering them in his budget.
&quot;The announced cuts will have an effect on all sectors of culture, but the example of television and film production is convincing: $ 75 million less in this environment where every dollar counts, it is indeed a disaster!&quot; added the spokesperson. In all, $ 85 million is disappearing from the cultural sector, and the Minister is responding to this with an additional investment of $ 2.3 million? The account is not there! &quot;
The tax credits in question have allowed, among other things, the production of films by Xavier Dolan, celebrated in Cannes, or Daniel Roby, whose Louis Cyra shattered records at the box office, but also television series such as Unit 9 and All the Truth, or youth programs like 1, 2, 3… Géant.
“These productions shine, both for their quality and their popularity, and are our pride. They are an integral part of the lives of millions of Quebeckers, who worry about their potential disappearance. The Minister of Culture and Communications, however, declared at the start of her term that she wanted to be a fighter for culture, to fight for the money and for the producers. Where did this fighter go? How can the minister support her government&#39;s decision? ”, Concluded the member for Joliette.
