Montreal - Faced with the proliferation of violations of the rules of the pilot project committed by Uber and its drivers, the leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the transport spokesperson for the Parti Québécois, Alain Therrien, ask the Minister of Transport, Laurent Lessard, to apply clause 5 of the agreement he himself signed on September 9 with Uber and to put an immediate end to the pilot project.
“Up to now, the Liberal government and Minister Lessard have been very accommodating to Uber. Since mid-January, the minister has had a report on his desk. He could act, but he hasn&#39;t done anything yet. The government not only circumvented the usual procedure of the Commission des transports du Québec by decree, but it also refuses to apply the agreement in its entirety. However, clause 5 of the agreement signed by Minister Lessard and Uber provides that &quot;failure to comply with all the rules or with one or other of them [will result in] the agreement will terminate automatically and Uber will have to cease all of its operations in Quebec, without further notice &quot;, quoted Jean-François Lisée.
“We&#39;re not even at the stage where the minister has to invoke the clause; we are at the point where he must note the end of the agreement. It is abnormal that the pilot project is still in force, while the agreement that governs its operation has been violated for weeks, ”added Alain Therrien.
Indeed, according to the latest statistics from the Bureau du taxi de Montréal, dated March 10, no less than 473 Uber drivers had been checked in the territory of Montreal since the start of the pilot project, and 195 (41%) of between them were found to be non-compliant. More precisely and as of March 20:
“Uber even had the indecency to quadruple its rates to better exploit Quebeckers who were dealing with appalling weather conditions during the ice storm of January 24, which is a flagrant violation of clause 2.10 of the agreement. Minister Lessard must find his column and enforce the law, otherwise it is his own signature that no longer has any value! », Decided the leader of the Parti Québécois.
