Quebec, January 25, 2017 - Martine Ouellet, spokesperson for the Parti Québécois for the taxi industry, as well as Catherine Fournier, spokesperson for consumer protection, ask the Minister of Transport, Laurent Lessard, to stop &#39;&#39; to be complacent towards UberX and to impose respect for the agreement, reached last fall, by the application of the planned sanctions.
Indeed, yesterday morning, while the citizens of the greater Montreal area were dealing with appalling weather conditions, streets transformed into skating rinks and paralyzed bus services, UberX took the opportunity to multiply its usual rates by four. However, this is a flagrant violation of the agreement governing the pilot project, which limited such an increase in base fares to one and a half times, in the event of force majeure.
“Minister Lessard has shown unjustified indulgence towards UberX since taking office. Not only did he agree to negotiate with a company accused of tax evasion but, in addition, he amended the law to ensure the success of the pilot project, in particular to allow the company to bypass the entire process. hearings before the Transport Commission which, otherwise, would have been a necessary step for it. The Minister must pull himself together and protect consumers against abuse by UberX, ”said Martine Ouellet.
“On the one hand, the agreement on the pilot project provides for its termination in the event of non-compliance with the conditions by UberX. On the other hand, the directives provide for the imposition of fines for such violations. Minister Lessard therefore has all the necessary tools to intervene and enforce the law. It must sanction UberX for its infractions, ”added the spokesperson.
&quot;Faced with the proliferation of violations of the pilot project, recently revealed by inspections by the Bureau du taxi de Montréal, the least thing would be for the Minister of Transport to finally devote as much energy to defending the law and consumers as to accommodating Uber . It is unacceptable that after taxi drivers, consumers are now paying the price for UberX practices, as we saw yesterday! », Concluded Catherine Fournier.
