Quebec - This morning in the House, the member for Saint-Jérôme and leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, asked Prime Minister Philippe Couillard three times to commit not to ratify the Trans-Pacific Partnership if the management of the offer was not fully maintained. In vain.
“As part of the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations, the federal government, which has exclusive jurisdiction for signing international treaties, is preparing to make major concessions with respect to our economic model in agriculture. In particular, there is talk of Ottawa significantly opening up our market, which will weaken our agricultural industry and its entrepreneurs. We can then easily predict serious consequences for some 14,000 agricultural producers in Quebec, ”indicated the leader of the official opposition.
“The Prime Minister has a duty to prevent this from happening. However, this morning, three times, Philippe Couillard refused to answer my questions on this subject; I therefore understand that he would sign the agreement, even if this means and entails significant negative consequences for our farmers, ”he continued.
Wishing all the same to urge the government to act, the member for Berthier and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in the areas of agriculture, food, SMEs, entrepreneurship and innovation, André Villeneuve, tabled this after- noon, a motion calling on the National Assembly to speak with one voice to demand that the federal government maintain full supply management, as requested by Quebec agricultural producers.
“We hope, thus, to send a unanimous message to Ottawa. However, the government of Quebec must go even further and indicate, as of now, that if the federal government does not respect the will expressed by the agricultural producers here, Quebec will not be able to subscribe to the agreement ”, concluded André Villeneuve.
Finally, let us recall that the Act respecting the Ministère des Relations internationales provides that “[t] he government must, in order to be bound by an international agreement falling within the constitutional jurisdiction of Quebec and to give its assent to Canada expressing its consent to be bound by such an agreement, issue a decree to this effect ”.
