A joint Canada-Quebec investment of more than $ 26 million
Sherbrooke– The Honorable Senator Pierre-Hugues Boisvenu, Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Seniors, Minister responsible for the Estrie region and Member of Parliament for Saint-François, Dr. Réjean Hébert, on behalf of Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the Mayor of Sherbrooke, Mr. Bernard Sévigny, as well as the Principal of Bishop&#39;s University, Mr. Michael Goldbloom, participated in the official launch of construction work on the new Multisport and Health Center at Bishop&#39;s University, in the presence of dignitaries, students, professors, staff, Sherbrooke residents and visitors.
&quot;These upgrades will provide endless possibilities for students and residents to adopt an active lifestyle.&quot; In addition, the project will enrich the health and well-being of young people, families and all residents of the region, said Senator Boisvenu. Our government is proud to invest in important infrastructure projects like this one, as we focus on creating jobs, promoting growth and building strong and prosperous communities everywhere. in Canada. &quot;
“The future Bishop&#39;s University Multisport and Health Center will better meet the expectations of the university community as well as the needs of the population. Access to modern, high-quality sports equipment will promote the development of excellent sport at Bishop&#39;s University as well as the training and development of high-level athletes, in addition to improving Sherbrooke&#39;s competitiveness on the national and international sporting events market, ”added Dr. Réjean Hébert.
Originally built in 1975, the John H. Price Sports Center will be redeveloped into a multi-sport and health center. This project will transform the existing sports facilities in order to fit out combat and aerobic dance rooms, a “spinning” room as well as a reception room with kitchen, new changing rooms and an extended weight room.
The project also includes the expansion of the current gymnasium to fit out a double gymnasium with mezzanine, the construction of a new arena with 800 seats and a building connecting it to the sports center, including the development of an area. catering, sanitary blocks, changing rooms, teaching rooms, storage spaces, and administrative offices. The carrying out of landscaping works as well as the renovation of the offices of the health and well-being center are also planned in the project.
At the end of the Major Projects component of the Building Canada Fund-Quebec (FCCQ), the total eligible costs of this project amount to $ 29.5 million. The governments of Canada and Quebec will each provide a maximum contribution of $ 13.25 million. For its part, the City of Sherbrooke will invest $ 3 million in the project.
Economic Action Plan 2013 puts in place a new Building Canada plan to build roads, bridges, subways, commuter trains and other public infrastructure in collaboration with provinces, territories and municipalities. Thanks to the leadership of the Government of Canada, as well as the country&#39;s strong economic and financial foundations, the Canadian economy has recovered better from the global recession than most other industrialized countries. Canada has been a leader among the G-7 countries during the period of economic recovery, creating more than 898,000 net new jobs since July 2009. The new Building Canada plan, combined with other investments federal governments in infrastructure, maintains Canada&#39;s infrastructure advantage, which is a key catalyst for economic growth and job creation.
The Government of Quebec&#39;s contribution to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
