Quebec, October 14, 2020 - Gathered in a special caucus with their new leader, Paul St-Pierre Plamondon, the members of the Parti Québécois announced on Wednesday that the main parliamentary officers would retain their functions.
IN SHORT
MNA for Matane-Matapédia, Pascal Bérubé, will continue to act as parliamentary leader; MNA for René-Lévesque, Martin Ouellet, retains his duties as parliamentary leader; MNA for Rimouski, Harold LeBel, remains caucus chair and whip.
For two years, in a context not always easy, the officers have held the fort. The chief being of the opinion that one does not have to change a formula which works, he reiterated his confidence in them. &quot;We are happy to continue the work that has been started since returning to the House, and more broadly since the fall of 2018,&quot; said the member for Rimouski, who said he was also very satisfied with the respectful approach. and reasoned by Mr. St-Pierre Plamondon.
&quot;Our team is seasoned, its reflexes are very sharp, and I have no doubt that we will be able to continue to successfully relay the positions of the party and the questions posed by the population, to promote our ideas and proposals, and, thus, membership, ”said Martin Ouellet.
Warmly thanking his new leader, Pascal Bérubé for his part assured that the team of members of the Parti Québécois would continue to assert its nationalist values with the same ardor, in addition to playing its role of opposition and surveillance. “We want more transparency from the government regarding its management of the pandemic. We want real action to better protect the environment. We also want to show Quebeckers all the advantages of independence. We have a new direction, of course, but who we are is not changing, ”he said.
As for other parliamentary responsibilities and spokesperson files, they will be known later. “Paul intends to take the time to fully understand the priorities of the caucus and the issues that are close to his heart before making any decision whatsoever. Of course, we will keep you informed, ”promised the parliamentary leader.
