Saint-Jean-de-Matha– The Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, announces financial support of $ 457,000 to the organization Les Compagnons de Louis-Cyr for the development of the Maison Louis-Cyr project totaling an investment of $ 1,139,614.
The financial assistance confirms the granting of an amount of $ 304,000, in the form of a loan, within the framework of the Support Program for the Development of Tourist Attractions (PADAT). To this amount is added assistance of $ 100,000, in the form of a subsidy, from the Lanaudière Tourism Supply Development Fund (FDOTL) and an amount of $ 53,000 from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the territory (MAMROT).
“Cultural tourism is a promising product for all regions of Quebec. To this end, the support granted to the organization Les Compagnons de Louis-Cyr will help improve the offer of cultural tourist attractions in the Lanaudière region. I take this opportunity to invite entrepreneurs from the tourism industry in Quebec to present their development project and thus check the possibilities offered by PADAT. It is through initiatives such as this that Quebec will stand out both nationally and internationally, ”said Minister for Tourism, Pascal Bérubé.
For his part, the deputy for Berthier, Mr. André Villeneuve, welcomed this announcement for his region. “As parliamentary assistant to MAMROT, I am pleased that a substantial amount of $ 53,000 has been allocated to support this innovative project for the region. Its realization will constitute a major interior cultural attraction. There are few biographical museums in Quebec and the creation of an exhibition on the heritage of Louis-Cyr is therefore original and will, I am convinced, arouse enthusiasm for the destination of Lanaudière ”.
Deputy Villeneuve also took the opportunity to present the certificate of designation of the famous strongman who was named historical figure on the occasion of his 150th birthday, on October 10. The Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Maka Kotto, then made this announcement under the Cultural Heritage Act.
For her part, Ms. Évangéline Richard, president of Tourisme Lanaudière, paid tribute to the work carried out by the Compagnons de Louis-Cyr. “Louis Cyr is the strong man of Lanaudière. A national hero who is now taking back his rightful place; a museum in his name, in his own house. The FDOTL partners are proud to support this project which is doomed to great success. I am convinced that it will arouse great interest from the tourist clientele, for the benefit of the entire regional tourism industry ”.
Finally, the president of Les Compagnons de Louis-Cyr, Mr. Jérôme Landry, added that “this financial support will make it possible to achieve our objective, which is to“ bring Louis Cyr home ”. In addition to benefiting the people of the MRC de Matawinie, we are convinced that this project will promote the entire Lanaudière region and attract visitors from all over Quebec. With the collaboration of the network of Lanaudière Ma Muse museums and other regional players in Lanaudière, we will be able to have a significant impact on the region&#39;s tourist offer ”.
The project consists of renovating and enhancing the house, located in Saint-Jean-de-Matha, in which the famous Louis Cyr lived with his family and setting up an interactive permanent exhibition on the character of Louis-Cyr. In addition, the museum will include a space for temporary exhibitions on themes such as prominent personalities from the Lanaudière region and from all of Quebec.
Let us recall that launched in March 2013 by the Premier of Quebec, Mrs. Pauline Marois, the PADAT aims to offer Quebec tourism companies flexible financial solutions adapted to the realities of the tourism industry, by granting a term loan or loan guarantee. Stemming from the 2012-2020 Tourism Industry Development Plan, PADAT has an envelope of $ 85 million spread equally over five years. This envelope is available for existing, mature or growing tourism businesses in the form of a loan or loan guarantee. Financial interventions are between $ 150,000 and $ 2 million. Initiated by Tourisme Québec, PADAT is managed and administered by Investissement Québec, through its new Tourism division.
