Quebec - The Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, announces that the government of Quebec has adopted the Regulation concerning a 450 MW block of wind power. This regulation follows the announcement of May 10, in which the government indicated the continued development of the wind power sector in Quebec with the allocation of 800 MW for new projects. The Minister indicated that the conditions guiding the allocation of this wind energy block will favor projects involving the production of strategic components in Quebec.
“The Government of Quebec is making the necessary decisions to strengthen the Quebec wind industry. By supporting the manufacture of strategic components in Quebec, we are creating quality jobs in the regions. This is all the more true since these strategic components are even more likely to be exported than the traditional components, ”said Martine Ouellet.
To give concrete expression to the government&#39;s desire to pursue wind power development, a draft regulation was published on August 28 in the Gazette officielle du Québec. In response to the comments received, the government issued amended regulations.
Thus, as part of the call for tenders that will be launched by Hydro-Québec Distribution, 100 MW must be delivered by December 1, 2016 at the latest and 350 MW must be delivered by December 1, 2017 at the latest. price of the electricity supply, it may not exceed 9.0 ¢ / kWh, excluding the cost of balancing.
The regulation also provides that all the projects developed within the framework of this call for tenders must include a participation of the local community representing 50% or more of the control of these projects.
The government has also adopted, for the benefit of the Régie de l&#39;énergie, a decree of economic, social and environmental concerns with regard to the wind energy block which will be the subject of a call for tenders. In summary :
The government wants to promote projects involving the production of strategic components whose added value exceeds that of wind turbine parts currently machined in Quebec. This includes converters, generators, control systems, brake systems as well as speed multipliers.
Of the 450 MW allocated by call for tenders, 300 MW must come from projects from the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine regions and 150 MW must come from projects from the all of Quebec. In addition to this 450 MW block, a 150 MW block is planned for a project of the Mi&#39;gmawei Mawiomi group, ie the three Mi&#39;gmaqs communities of Listuguj, Gasgapegiag and Gaspeg. Finally, another 200 MW block will be built by Hydro-Québec Production.
On the occasion of this announcement, the Government of Quebec reiterates its commitment and support to the wind power manufacturing industry. It reiterates its desire to offer a clear development horizon until 2025, the year from which the renewal of the current fleet will begin.
