Trois-Rivières– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, provides an update on the site of the former Aléris Aluminum Canada SEC plant
“The Ministry has taken charge of all the work required to eliminate the risks to the health of the population. The liquid PCBs were eliminated in September 2012. Groundwater is pumped continuously, which limits contamination inside the site. Our priority is to ensure the safety of the population as well as the protection of the environment. Everything has been done to ensure that the work proceeds quickly, and we will continue to act in this direction, ”said Minister Blanchet.
It should be remembered that the former Aléris plant was closed in 2008 without the appropriate environmental protection measures being put in place. The 70 years of industrial activities at the site have contaminated buildings, soil and groundwater. Following the closure, the building and land were sold to Corporation de développement TR inc. (CDTR), which also neglected to put in place the appropriate measures to protect the environment. The risks reached a level which required the intervention of the Ministry.
The dismantling of the plant began in 2009 and was interrupted in February 2012 by the MDDEFP due to breaches of the Environment Quality Act.
Due to the environmental risks posed by the site, orders were issued between February 2011 and June 2013, three of which are still in force:
Ordinance # 581, served on CDTR in February 2011, requires the operation of a floating phase hydrocarbon recovery system and the characterization of soils and groundwater;
Ordinance # 609, served on May 17, 2012 on CDTR and Recyclage Arctic Béluga inc., seeks the elimination of hazardous materials present on the site and the cleaning of surfaces contaminated by these materials;
&quot;Inaction or improper management of the dangers posed by the site by the companies concerned in order to comply with the ordinances meant that the Department took charge of the work, a bit like in the cases of Pointe-Claire and Lac -Mégantic. He therefore performs, at the expense of the companies, the required work, such as operating the groundwater pumping system to ensure that contamination does not migrate off the site. Since June 2012, the Department has also awarded several contracts, in particular to eliminate all liquid PCBs present on the site, carry out an inventory of hazardous materials and safely store hazardous materials in containers, ”explained Minister Blanchet. &quot;The site has been stable since the Ministry took over the work, which has eliminated the risks for the population,&quot; he said.
In addition, given the inaction of the people concerned, a public call for tenders will soon be launched in order to award a contract for the elimination of residual and hazardous materials present on the site, the cleaning of buildings and the carrying out of a complete characterization study of the site. This study will make it possible to obtain a precise portrait of the contamination of the land and thus determine the rehabilitation work to be carried out subsequently. The MDDEFP will then take the necessary measures to ensure that the rehabilitation of the site is carried out by the responsible person (s), whoever they are, and at their expense.
&quot;I cannot go into more detail so as not to interfere with the proceedings in progress, but I can assure you that the Ministry&#39;s lawyers have the file in hand and that no appeal, whatever it may be, is being ruled out for allow the implementation of the necessary measures that will guarantee a safe environment for the local population, and enhancement of this site for the economy of Trois-Rivières, ”Minister Blanchet concluded.
