Carleton - The Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, announces the publication of a draft regulation concerning a 450 MW block of wind power. This draft regulation is published in the Gazette officielle du Québec for comments. It follows the announcement of May 10, 2013, in which the government indicated the continued development of the wind power sector in Quebec with the allocation of 800 megawatts (MW) for new projects.
“In the long term, we will maintain the manufacturing industry and its 800 jobs for the economic development of Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie. In Quebec, more than 150 companies provide wind turbine services or components and generate more than 2,000 direct jobs. Wind power and hydroelectricity are the best possible complementarity of green energy. By combining the diversification of energy sources and energy efficiency, we are preparing Québec&#39;s energy future, ”said Martine Ouellet.
The wind energy block that will be the subject of a call for tenders by Hydro-Québec Distribution will consist of 300 MW from projects from the Bas-Saint-Laurent or Gaspésie-Îles-de-la -Madeleine and 150 MW from projects from across Quebec. Of this total, 225 MW must be delivered by December 1, 2017 at the latest and the other 225 MW block, by December 1, 2018 at the latest. and additional power, may not exceed 9.5 ¢ / kWh in 2014 dollars indexed to the consumer price index for the energy block. In addition, the local community will hold a stake of more than 50% of the control of the projects.
“We want to support the manufacturing industry of wind turbine components in Quebec while also allowing the export of their products. The pace of implementation presented in the draft regulation will make it possible to achieve this objective. In addition, we have added a cap of 9.5 ¢ / kWh to avoid the excesses of recent years, ”said Martine Ouellet.
The wind industry supports several hundred families in Quebec and offers multiple economic benefits for manufacturers and service providers. The Government of Quebec is working to strengthen the industry and maximize regional economic spinoffs by working on medium and long-term predictability to attract the manufacturing of strategic components to Quebec.
The Government of Quebec confirms its commitment and support for the wind industry with the allocation of 800 MW. In addition, it ensures that the industrial sector remains strong in the long term and, in this regard, the 2024 horizon is decisive. In fact, from 2025, the renewal of the current wind farm will begin.
