Saint-Charles-Garnier– The Minister for Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, announces the development of the community wind project La Mitis in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region.
With a total capacity of 24.6 MW, this wind farm will have 12 Repower wind turbines of 2.05 MW each and will provide clean energy to 3,350 households in the region. The construction of this park, estimated at $ 70 million, should generate 70 jobs during the construction phase and will be commissioned in December 2014.
“As Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, I am delighted with this project. Wind energy is an important lever for economic development for our region and for that of Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine. In addition to the MRC de La Mitis, which is a stakeholder in the project, three companies well established in the Gaspé are participating in the project as suppliers of wind turbine components, ”said Pascal Bérubé.
Resulting from the third call for tenders for 500 MW of wind power launched in 2009 by Hydro-Québec Distribution, the La Mitis wind farm is the result of a partnership between the MRC de La Mitis and EDF EN Canada. La Mitis Renewable Energy Limited Partnership, which was created by this partnership, estimates that a minimum of $ 42 million would be invested in Quebec, including $ 14.7 million in the Gaspésie region and the MRC of Matane. only.
Renewable Energy of La Mitis also forecasts that in the operating phase, 30% of the profits generated by the operation of the wind farm will go to the municipality and the MRC. In addition, an annual voluntary contribution of $ 61,500 will be paid to the community by the promoter during the 20 years of operation of the park. Finally, a contribution of $ 200,000, granted when the park is commissioned, will be used to create a socio-economic development fund.
“Wind energy in Quebec helps consolidate nearly 2,000 jobs in the manufacturing sector, more specifically in the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie regions. In addition, the complementarity of our hydroelectric and wind power is a major asset for Quebec, ”said Martine Ouellet.
