Québec - Following the publication of the final report of the Ontario Energy Board on the impacts of the Energy East pipeline project, the member for Marie-Victorin and official opposition critic for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, as well as the member for Jonquière and spokesperson for sustainable development and the environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, once again urge Premier Philippe Couillard to defend the interests of Quebec in s opposing TransCanada&#39;s ambitions.
“The leader of the NDP is on the wrong track when he says the Energy East project can be a winner. It&#39;s wrong! Energy East is bad for Quebecers. The Ontario Energy Board report strengthens our position: it confirms that there is a glaring imbalance between modest economic impacts and significant environmental risks, ”said Bernard Drainville.
“A real BAPE must be set up. Quebeckers must have decision-making power; we cannot be content with a simple intervenor role at the National Energy Board. The assessment of the overall impact of the Energy East project on climate change was the subject of a unanimous motion by the National Assembly. The government cannot therefore ignore it and must modify the mandate of the BAPE. The Ontario report also indicates that any discharge into the Ottawa River or the St. Lawrence River, especially if it is large, must be the subject of special attention in terms of the supply of drinking water ”, added Sylvain Gaudreault.
“The Ontario Energy Board also corroborates the harsh judgment rendered by the Régie de l&#39;énergie in its report on the Energy East project: its realization would have a negative impact on the supply of natural gas and would result in a price increase for consumers, ”continued Bernard Drainville.
The Parti Québécois recalls that Ontario spent 15 months examining the project. “On the side of Philippe Couillard&#39;s government, we only gave the BAPE four short months to carry out the exercise. In addition, the latter will not have a complete impact study from the proponent at the start of the public hearings. By supporting the Energy East pipeline project, the CPC, the NDP, the PLC and the Liberal Party of Quebec are putting the interests of Alberta and Canada ahead of those of Quebecers, ”concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
