Quebec - The leader of the official opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the member for Terrebonne and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on sustainable development, the environment and the fight against climate change, Mathieu Traversy, demanded from the government the holding of a real BAPE assessing the overall GHG emissions and the economic benefits of the Energy East project.
“Yesterday, we put forward a motion to demand that an energy and economic justification for the Energy East project be submitted to the BAPE, and the government rejected it. However, in response to a civil action that demanded respect for the law, the Liberal government had finally decided to announce the holding of a full BAPE. However, a complete BAPE should measure overall GHG emissions and look at the economic benefits, which is not currently the case. It looks like the government is doing everything it can not to know and, worse, so that the population cannot know. Why does he refuse to hold a real BAPE and give it the mandate to assess the economic benefits of the Energy East project? », Asked Sylvain Gaudreault.
To illustrate his remarks, the leader of the official opposition spoke of the short 6-week (42-day) deadline granted to TransCanada to prepare its impact study. Typically, on average, this delay is 31 weeks (220 days). Moreover, the company has already declared that &quot;the reasonable and realistic timeframe&quot; for this stage would be 9 months (270 days). “Is David Heurtel trying to unduly favor TransCanada? A botched impact study will reduce the scope, thoroughness and transparency of the environmental assessment. To hear all the groups and citizens concerned, the deadline must be extended. It is a question of minimal respect towards Quebeckers, ”he continued.
The Parti Québécois is also questioning the arrangements made between the Government of Quebec, the NEB and TransCanada. The agreement reached on April 22, 2016 between the Minister of the Environment and TransCanada unduly favors the oil company by adjusting to the NEB schedule unveiled shortly after, on April 26, 2016. “What was agreed upon behind closed doors between Quebec, TransCanada and the NEB to accelerate the oil project? Quebeckers have the right to know whether the Liberal government has chosen to promote the specific interests of TransCanada to the detriment of the public interest. Minister David Heurtel must make public all documents relating to the details of this agreement, whether they come from the Department of the Environment, TransCanada or the NEB, ”added Mathieu Traversy.
The member for Terrebonne insists: whether she likes it or not, TransCanada needs Quebec&#39;s approval to build its Energy East pipeline on Quebec territory. “It&#39;s non-negotiable. The Environment Quality Act is very clear: no one can undertake the construction of an oil pipeline without following the Quebec environmental impact assessment and review procedure and obtaining a certificate of authorization from the government. . David Heurtel has become a master in the art of double talk: he suggests that his government has the last word, but refuses to support our motion which wants to affirm it. When he does not respect the law, it is environmental groups who force him to comply. We will remain vigilant: the Liberal government will have to show firmness in the face of pressure from the rest of Canada and TransCanada when the time comes to make a decision on Energy East, ”he concluded.
