Quebec - While the first hearings of the BAPE concerning the Energy East project took place last night, the leader of the official opposition and member for Saint-Jérôme, Pierre Karl Péladeau, lamented that Prime Minister Philippe Couillard persisted in not defend the interests and laws of Quebec.
Mr. Péladeau reminds that even if the Prime Minister recognizes that TransCanada does not respect the laws of Quebec, his government extended the environmental authorizations so that the company can carry out seismic surveys in the river. However, strangely, this extension was granted the day before the filing of the injunction application against TransCanada. “How can the Prime Minister explain that, with one hand, he gives authorizations and that, with the other, he files injunction requests concerning the same company, for the same project? He asked.
We should add that despite the legal steps taken to ensure that Quebec law is respected, TransCanada appeared at the hearings by invoking only federal laws. “Absolutely nothing was mentioned about the laws and regulations that should be imposed here in Quebec. We should not be surprised by the attitude of the company, which maintains that this is the agreement it had negotiated with the Minister of the Environment in the spring of 2015: the holding of a facade BAPE, for save appearances. The Prime Minister must quickly clarify the situation, given that his government has, on the one hand, filed an injunction request before the courts and, on the other hand, accepted that this BAPE be held outside the requirements set by the law ”, declared Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“Has a project notice been submitted by the company? The answer is no. Have impact studies been produced? Does this BAPE have to lead to a government authorization? The answer is always no. The Prime Minister, by letting this front BAPE continue, is harming his own cause. Why does Philippe Couillard not demand that the company respect our laws? Why isn&#39;t he launching a real BAPE? The proof has been made that what is currently taking place is only an exercise in public relations by the government and TransCanada, which insists on submitting neither an emergency measures plan, nor a project notice, nor a study. impact. Philippe Couillard must demand that the company provide all the information, to enlighten Quebecers, ”insisted the leader of the Parti Québécois.
