Quebec - The member for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, and the member for Jonquière and spokesperson for sustainable development and the environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, are greatly concerned about the words of the Union professionals from the Government of Quebec, who today affirms in the media that employees of the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment and the Fight against Climate Change fear for their careers, following the fiasco of the management of the file TransCanada.
“While the Prime Minister closes the Forum on the fight against bullying, David Heurtel leaves an unmanageable situation for his ministry. The bullying must stop. This law of silence and this complete lack of transparency are worrying for the public service and the population, ”declared Sylvain Gaudreault.
“The Prime Minister must now take the situation in hand and rebuff his minister who continues to refuse an independent investigation into the process for granting the certificate of authorization to TransCanada. What we see from this government is very worrying for the future; the ministers intimidate the managers and want to &quot;bring them in line&quot;. In order to put an end to this climate of fear, the Liberal government should commit to tabling a bill to protect whistleblowers, ”continued Stéphane Bédard.
The president of the Union has indeed made very disturbing remarks for the public service in the Journal de Québec: “There is a lot of nervousness in the air. People are afraid for their jobs. No one dares to speak. It is an omerta, the law of silence. He even added: &quot;Whoever steers himself pays the price. Whoever has acted in the direction of the political interest is rewarded. This is the cancer that is eating away at our public service. &quot;
“We asked for an independent investigation and it was refused by the government. What we are learning today is in addition to the major slap in the face given by the Superior Court to David Heurtel. He must listen to reason and initiate this investigation. We need to get to the bottom of it and find out what happened. The minister must stop being the minister of TransCanada to become that of Quebecers, ”concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
