Quebec - The Minister of Families, Ms. Nicole Léger, is pleased to announce that following the call for proposals launched in September 2013 and which ended on November 15, the Coopérative Enfance Famille was chosen to ensure the implementation and management of the One-stop shop for access to reduced-contribution places in educational childcare services in Quebec. The proposal of this organization was able to best meet the ministerial requirements. The Minister of Families made this announcement in the presence, in particular, of Mrs. Marie-Claude Sévigny, general manager of the Coopérative Enfance Famille.
The Childhood Family Cooperative will be responsible for setting up the One Stop Shop and managing all of its activities. The Guichet unique will become the only gateway for parents to register their children with childcare services offering reduced-contribution places in the various regions of Quebec.
“Parents looking for subsidized child care often have to knock on several doors, without the assurance of getting a place when they need it. Also, in order to simplify their procedures, I recently announced the creation of a one-stop shop for access to reduced-contribution spaces in subsidized childcare services across Quebec. Today, with the unveiling of the organization responsible for its establishment and management, an essential step has been taken in the realization of this large-scale project, which will allow us to better support families and make their lives easier ” , said Minister Nicole Léger.
The implementation of the Single Window will be carried out in several stages and will target, in a first phase, early childhood centers (CPEs) and subsidized daycare centers. The Childhood Family Cooperative will first have to integrate data from regional counters and waiting lists for providers not registered with one or other of the regional counters. The integration of this data will be made in respect of the rank occupied by the parent on the original list. From June 1, 2014 until December 31, 2014, the Single Window will take turns integrating data from the regional offices. From June 1, 2014, the first parent registrations can be made. As soon as the data from a regional window is integrated, parents in that region will have access to the services of the Single Window. As of December 31, 2014, the integration of regional counters will be completed.
“Throughout the process, we will inform parents of the different stages of the implementation of the Single Window and their implications in the steps they must take to register their child with a childcare center or subsidized daycare. In the end, parents will only have one step to take to register their child for a reduced-contribution childcare service in Quebec. And I would like to point out that they will be able to register at the Single Window and consult their file completely free of charge, ”said Minister Nicole Léger.
The establishment of a one-stop-shop for access to reduced-contribution places in educational childcare services in Quebec is in line with government orientations, on which the “solidarity” pillar, one of the pillars, is based. four pillars of government action, with integrity, prosperity and identity. These guidelines, made public on October 30 by the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, will guide the government&#39;s action in the implementation of measures aimed at improving the well-being of the most vulnerable individuals and families. The government thus wants to give new impetus to solidarity, a value inseparable from collective wealth.
