Quebec - In light of the latest demographic report published by the Institut de la statistique du Québec (ISQ), the member for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, notes that the demographic weight of Quebec within Canada continues to decrease. In order for decisions to be taken in the interest of Quebeckers and only by them, he reaffirms that Quebec must become a country.
In fact, we can see that the weight of Quebec went successively from 27.9% in 1971 to 26.4% in 1981, then to 25.2% in 1991, to 23.8% in 2001, to 23.3% % in 2011, to finally settle at 23.1% in 2014. The ISQ forecasts that in 2038, our weight should be between 21% and 22%.
“More than ever, this makes Quebec sovereignty necessary and advantageous. Being sovereign would mean that all decisions affecting Quebec would be taken by Quebeckers and only by them. Currently, half of the decisions that concern us are taken in the House of Commons, where Quebeckers are in the minority, ”emphasized Stéphane Bédard.
It should be remembered that Prime Minister Stephen Harper heads a majority Conservative government, despite the fact that he has elected only 5 members of Parliament in Quebec. “We have regularly seen that the government of Stephen Harper makes its choices without taking into account - sometimes even going against - the interests of the Quebec nation. The TransCanada pipeline and the Champlain Bridge toll cases, to name just a few, are concrete examples of the need for Quebec to be the only one to make decisions about what happens on its own. territory, ”added Stéphane Bédard.
“The demographic trend is heavy, and it is expected that our position as a minority nation within Canada will worsen and our influence over federal decisions will continue to be increasingly negligible. In addition, it is unfortunately to be expected that in the near future, other decisions opposing our interests will be taken by the federal government. Sovereignty would allow us to make choices in our own image, different from those of the rest of Canada. This is the best way to escape our minority status in Canada, ”concluded the Leader of the Official Opposition.
