Québec, November 8, 2017 - The official opposition spokesperson for finance and Québec-Canada relations, Nicolas Marceau, proposes a comprehensive solution to address the issue of tax unfairness in relation to trade online, and to compensate for the lack of courage of the federal government, which refuses to apply sales taxes to Netflix.
IN SHORT
“The Parti Québécois proposal responds to the only argument put forward by the federal government to exempt Netflix from all taxation, since it does not increase the tax burden on consumers. Tax fairness calls for measures to be implemented to ensure the collection of taxes by foreign companies doing business on the Web. However, in order not to increase the tax burden on taxpayers, we can consider reducing the GST and QST rates simultaneously, ”Nicolas Marceau summed up.
The spokesperson insists: the inequity - introduced by the “Mélanie Joly agreement”, concluded with Netflix - between Quebec products, taxed, and foreign products, not taxed, must not become a norm. “Quebec businesses are already suffering enough from this unfair competition. Almost three quarters of Quebecers&#39; online purchases are made on the portals of foreign companies. Obviously, there are consequences for our collective wealth and our job market. We propose to restore fairness, to allow our companies to play on a level playing field. We would all benefit from it, ”he argued.
The measure proposed by the Parti Québécois would also have a beneficial effect on the wallets of families, especially those with low incomes, known to make less use of electronic commerce. “The numbers show that the higher a person&#39;s income, the more likely they are to buy online. However, with our measure, not only would all purchases on the Web be taxed but, in addition, all families would benefit from a reduction in taxes on all of their transactions, whether electronic or traditional. Our solution is that of common sense; we invite the governments in Ottawa and Quebec to implement it without delay. It is encouraging that Carlos Leitão wrote to his federal counterpart on this subject; at the very least, this shows a desire to move forward, ”continued Nicolas Marceau.
As for the completely improvised and inapplicable proposal put forward by the CAQ this morning, namely that of not taxing the online commerce of Quebec companies, the spokesperson immediately discredited it. “In this way, any business could install computers in its premises, invite its customers to buy online and then collect their goods at the counter; thus, he would legally evade the application of sales taxes! Once again, we can see the amateurism of this party. Such a proposal, if implemented, would result in the loss of tens of thousands of jobs in the retail sector. The CAQ should avoid commenting on issues that it does not understand, ”he concluded.
