Quebec, May 4, 2017– The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of justice, Véronique Hivon, has difficulty in explaining the enthusiasm displayed by the Quebec Minister of Justice, Stéphanie Vallée, last Friday, at the exit of the Federal-Provincial-Territorial Conference of Ministers of Justice. Ottawa decided that our justice system should be satisfied with 4 appointments to the Superior Court of Quebec, while a unanimous motion from the National Assembly asked to fill a minimum of 14 positions.
IN BRIEF- The Parti Québécois considers that the 4 appointments to the Superior Court are insufficient to meet the urgent needs of the justice system.- Only one of the persons appointed has experience in criminal and penal matters; it is not much to resolve the crisis of unreasonable delays.- The enthusiasm of Minister Vallée during the meeting last Friday with her counterparts from Canada was not justified, considering the lack of results obtained today. **
“We learned today that the federal government has appointed only 4 judges to the Superior Court of Quebec. However, not only do these 4 appointments not even fill the 6 vacant positions - and this is not to mention that Quebec is calling for the creation of 8 additional positions - but, in addition, only one of the persons appointed has experience in law. criminal. In short, the needs remain glaring in criminal and penal matters. This decision, added to the government&#39;s inaction, keeps Quebec&#39;s judicial system in a state of crisis. Let us recall that by Minister Vallée&#39;s own admission, 95% of cases before the Superior Court of the district of Montreal are the subject of a request for a stay of proceedings, ”protested the member.
“We are far from the mark; 10 judge positions remain to be filled at the Superior Court. Minister Vallée, who nevertheless displayed enthusiasm last Friday, has obviously failed in the task of convincing her federal counterpart. How does she explain this failure today? », Asked Véronique Hivon.
