Montreal - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, and the President and CEO of Investissement Québec, Mr. Mario Albert, are proud to announce the opening of a Investissement Québec office in Seoul, South Korea, whose economic growth suggests fruitful collaboration for Québec.
“Over the past 20 years, South Korea has experienced economic growth which has placed it among the most dynamic players in today&#39;s global economy,” said Minister Élaine Zakaïb. “Korean companies are likely to carry out many expansion projects in Quebec because of the competitive advantages we can offer. The opening of this office in Seoul will allow Investissement Québec to attract quality investments in key sectors and thus contribute to Québec&#39;s prosperity. &quot;
The President and CEO of Investissement Québec today met in Montreal with the Consul General of the Republic of Korea, Mr. Donghwan Choi, and together they laid the foundations for a collaboration that promises to be diverse and promising.
“We are seeing an ever-increasing number of Quebecers who are interested in the Republic of Korea and who wish to do business with us,” said Mr. Choi, who is also Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the Council of the United Nations. international civil aviation. “I can clearly see productive links being forged in key sectors where we share specialized skills, such as the mining industry, aeronautics, land transport, information technology, biotechnology and Pharmaceutical industry. Quebec&#39;s expertise and Quebec&#39;s offer in these sectors are very attractive to manufacturers and investors in my country. &quot;
&quot;There are several global industrial groups of all sizes in South Korea, which we will target and who will discover that Quebec has the assets necessary to contribute to their success in North America,&quot; said Mr. Albert.
Mr. Dongho Lee was chosen as head of Investissement Québec&#39;s office in Seoul, which is located in the offices of the Quebec branch in Seoul. A native of this great city, Mr. Lee is a graduate of Georgetown University and has many years of experience on Wall Street and with major Korean companies, including Samsung and LG.
Investissement Québec&#39;s mission is to promote the growth of investment in Québec, thereby contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The Company provides businesses with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity investments, to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, she is responsible for administering tax measures and prospecting for investments abroad.
