Over the past few weeks, I have heard people from the literary world and literature education react to the change in the title of the Arts and Letters program. Offered in most of our colleges, this program is now called Culture and Communication.
This change is not unexpected. For three years, many people and committees have worked on this program in order to improve it and clarify its content. The Arts and Letters program had not been reviewed for over a decade. After numerous consultations, carried out in large part by teachers in Arts and Letters, the content of the program has been enriched. The language proficiency is enhanced and options are offered to deepen aspects of the student&#39;s training in preparation for his arrival at university. Among these options: arts, literature, cinema, languages, media, theater and a multidisciplinary option.
Thus, this college program in Arts and Letters will no longer be the pre-university program with the least number of teaching hours. This undervalued this field of knowledge for no reason. This sad situation had to be corrected. We have just added 30 hours of training to this program, which will now have more than 700, like the other pre-university programs.
From now on, a student who, for example, chooses the literature option, will spend more hours in class discussing with his teacher, analyzing literary texts, developing his critical sense and his knowledge in this field. I confirm that the work that was done by the officials of the ministry that I lead was well done, in a spirit and a relationship of respect with the teaching community and in a process of full collaboration with all stakeholders concerned.
Despite this good news for the “humanities”, several professors and intellectuals consider that replacing the title of Arts and Letters program with that of Culture and Communication announces an important ideological shift. This shift would, according to them, for only goal to marginalize the teaching of literature and to drop all the humanist heritage. By renaming this program, the secret objective would therefore be to throw away the great texts of the past, the classics and the poetry that has no age, to only enhance the instantaneity of communications, the short text, contemporary texting. At least that&#39;s what the respected Jean Larose suggested in a recent text.
This debate on the title of a program may seem theoretical to many who are not from the literary world. It is in fact symptomatic of what has happened in Quebec for nearly ten years. In this Quebec that I love deeply, another government has acted without consulting the vital forces in its community. Teachers, students, support staff, administrators, school directors have functioned without a minister and a ministry acting in symbiosis with them.
As elected and now minister, I never stop taking action to restore confidence between all players in the education community. The summit last February was one example. I therefore take advantage of this misunderstanding to recall that the arrival of a new government last September also means a new approach in the way of running the affairs of state. For my part, in the field of responsibilities entrusted to me by Prime Minister Pauline Marois, I intend, as the new Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, to promote our higher education institutions. In today&#39;s world, teaching a good general culture is more essential than ever. We are in a society of the ephemeral in terms of communication, do everything so that our colleges and universities, in their teaching, do not become so.
The arts and letters are part of the precious knowledge linked to the humanities. The message should be clear. And, in the same way, compulsory education in our colleges must be maintained and protected. It is not my intention to reduce the place given to the teaching of philosophy, French (literature), English, physical education. It is in this spirit that we will soon be adding a compulsory history course.
These subjects are the torches that illuminate the critical thinking of students enrolled in our colleges. By offering a solid general culture to both students enrolled in pre-university training and those in technical training, we are helping to train young adults who are more responsible, generous and critical, capable of having a grip on their future. Young adults who will know how to participate in the great debates and who will reject the prospect of resignation as the only avenue. Young adults convinced of being able to participate, beyond their individual development, in the collective well-being. Quebec, like any modern knowledge-based society, needs young minds open to the world and capable of protecting and enriching our democracy. And nothing is more vulnerable than a democracy.
On September 4, a new government took power. I am part of a new team that listens to its environment. Substituting Culture and Communication for Arts and Letters was not intended to devalue this field of teaching.
Yes, our society is changing. At a pace that sometimes seems frantic. Education, far from being isolated from it, can and must adjust to it, but never to be subordinated to any imperative other than those which preside over its mission, which is to form citizens free in thought, just in thought. actions and equal in luck.
While maintaining the openness and listening with which I have approached and conducted all the issues that have been incumbent on me so far, I have good hope that by reading this text, you will better understand my decisions.
The open letter entitled Changing the name of the program to &quot;Culture and communication&quot; was not intended to devalue this field of education, quite the contrary and signed by Pierre Duchesne, Minister of Higher Education, Research and Science. and Technology and deputy for Borduas, was published in the daily Le Devoir on June 27, 2013.
