Laval - The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to have taken part in the regional gala for the award ceremony of the competition of the National Order of agricultural merit (ONMA), held today at the Sheraton Laval Hotel. During this traditional celebration, he wished to highlight the exceptional know-how of farmers in the Laurentians, Montreal-Laval-Lanaudière and Outaouais regions, regions that formed the territory targeted by the 124th edition of the competition.
“I am happy to be here, among passionate men and women, and it is with pride that I pay tribute to their remarkable work and, above all, to their capacity to innovate. Because it is mainly thanks to these committed and dynamic people that our Quebec biofood industry is so flourishing and that it represents a powerful engine of the Quebec economy ”, underlined Mr. François Gendron.
This year, 82 competing groups applied: 40 came from the Laurentians, 19 from Montreal-Laval-Lanaudière and 23 from the Outaouais. Of these, nine were crowned national grand winners. Bronze, silver and gold medals, corresponding respectively to the decorations of knight, officer and commander of the Order, were awarded to them. The Minister also awarded specific mentions in the categories of young women, agrotourism and agricultural training for young people.
“The diversity of applications received this year is a good illustration of the richness and vitality of our agriculture. The work you do on a daily basis allows Quebeckers to eat fresh, healthy foods that come from here. Our government launched the Food Sovereignty Policy last May to allow you to occupy your rightful place in the market in Quebec, but also abroad. We have also announced concrete measures concerning agricultural succession, greenhouse production, protection of our farmland and access of Quebec food products to major distribution networks, ”added the Minister.
In addition to the Ministry, other partners of the competition highlighted the excellence of the participants with prizes. The Promutuel Group awarded the Promutuel Mérite de la prevention to the members of the competing group Les Gazonnières Montainview ltée, who have distinguished themselves by their efforts in prevention and safety on the farm. La Coop fédérée awarded the La Coop fédérée agroenvironmental prize to the owner of l&#39;Herboristerie la Clef des Champs inc., For the respect for the environment that it demonstrates in the conduct of its activities. .
Other partners made this 124th edition of the National Order of Agricultural Merit competition a success, namely, as collaborators, Saputo, La Terre de chez nous and Hydro-Québec as well as, as an associate, the Agricultural Show.
Remember that the National Order of Agricultural Merit is a real institution in the field of Quebec agriculture. Since 1890, it has recognized the work of the women and men who shape Quebec&#39;s biofood industry. For the purposes of the competition, Quebec, because of its size, has been divided into five territories grouping together one or more regions and each of the territories hosts the competition in turn, so every five years. This alternation not only makes it possible to judge the competitors within a reasonable period of time, but also to give them equal opportunities by preventing advantages linked to climatic conditions or to the particularities of the soils in a given area from distorting the results. results.
On November 1, the national winners will be invited to receive, from the hands of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, decorations and prizes on the occasion of &#39;a ceremony that will take place in the Legislative Council Chamber of the Parliament Building in Quebec City.
It should be noted that the official photographs of the awards ceremony and the rankings of the participating agricultural businesses will be published on the Department&#39;s website, at www..mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/onma, in the coming days.
To find out more about the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can consult the blog www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or the pagewww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSAd on the Ministry&#39;s website. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at twitter.com / mapaquebec.
