Quebec - The PQ member for Drummond and official opposition critic for immigration and language, Yves-François Blanchet, calls on the Government of Canada not to deport Paola Ortiz. The Government of Canada denies refugee status to this Quebecer originally from Mexico, married to a Quebecer and mother of two children born in Quebec, holding a job in Montreal, despite the violence suffered at the hands of her ex-husband in Mexico. “Once again, are we dealing with an extreme ideological position of the Conservatives in Ottawa? “Asked the deputy. The Parti Québécois recognizes that claims for refugee status are still under federal jurisdiction, but since Quebec has issued a Quebec selection certificate to Ms. Ortiz, Yves-François Blanchet insists: &quot;It would be the least that the Canadian government did. bows and suspends its eviction process. You can be right-wing and a little human! », Was indignant Yves-François Blanchet. The official opposition is worried about the silence of the Minister of Immigration, Kathleen Weil, who seems resigned to gazing passively at Ms. Ortiz being escorted to the plane, under the eyes of her helpless children and many civil society groups. “Ms. Weil&#39;s weakness is obvious. This eviction is contrary to all the values that it should defend: gender equality, since this woman was a victim of conjugal violence, family reunification, since we hate to divide a family already well integrated in Quebec. , a heartbreaking submission to federal authority and a simple inconsistency in the face of the expressed desire to receive immigrants whose integration requires work within the host society. I implore the minister to intervene energetically ”. &quot;I invite the citizens of Quebec to make their voices heard,&quot; concluded MP Blanchet. Thousands of emails, social media posts, open letters, open line calls, it all has to be rolled out. We will do it in the National Assembly. Ms. Ortiz has the right to live her new life in Quebec with her family and we hope that thousands of new Quebecers will be able to do the same ”.
