Quebec - The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, today kicks off the 125th competition of the National Order of Agricultural Merit (ONMA) . He therefore invites farmers from the Abitibi-Témiscamingue-Nord-du-Québec, Bas-Saint-Laurent, Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine, Saguenay-Lac- Saint-Jean and the Côte-Nord to register by May 1, 2014 to take part in this large-scale activity where the Government of Quebec recognizes their commitment, determination and know-how.
“This prestigious activity takes on a special character in 2014, since it is the 125th year that the Department has paid tribute to the women and men who embody our agriculture in its most noble aspects. These people have worked for years, sometimes even generations, to provide us with original and quality products that we can all be proud of. A competition like that of the National Order of Agricultural Merit highlights not only their talent, but also the extent of their contribution to the prosperity of the biofood sector, ”declared François Gendron.
Over the next summer, teams of seasoned judges appointed by the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food will appear on the premises of the agricultural businesses entered in the competition to carry out an evaluation. For farmers who want to progress even further and improve, the competition also represents a unique opportunity to open the doors of their business and submit their work to a team of experts in order to draw a clear portrait. .
La Coop fédérée and Groupe Promutuel, loyal partners, also contribute to the success of the ONMA competition, in particular by awarding special rewards.
&quot;The La Coop fédérée agri-environment award highlights the creativity and passion of local agricultural producers who strive to adopt good agri-environmental practices in the management of their operations,&quot; said Denis Richard, President of La Coop. federated.
“Promutuel is proud to maintain - for 23 years already! - its partnership with the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. The National Order of Agricultural Merit competition allows us to shine the spotlight on the remarkable work of Quebec farmers. Once again this year, to highlight the importance that Promutuel places on safety on the farm, we will be awarding the Promutuel Mérite de la prevention to farmers who have particularly distinguished themselves in terms of prevention in their daily activities &quot;, specified Mr. Omer Bouchard, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Groupe Promutuel.
We should also mention the participation in the competition of two sponsors and an associate, namely Saputo and La Terre de chez nous, as well as the Saint-Hyacinthe Agricultural Show.
Note in closing that the winners of the 125th competition of the ONMA, both regionally and nationally, will be honored during galas to be held next fall. In addition, the national winners will be decorated at a ceremony to be held in the Legislative Council Chamber of the Parliament Building in Quebec City.
To be able to register, farmers in Abitibi-Témiscamingue-Nord-du-Québec, Bas-Saint-Laurent, Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine, Saguenay-Lac-Saint- Jean and the Côte-Nord must own one or more agricultural businesses. As of May 1, 2014, they must carry out activities in their field or have carried out activities within the previous five years.
For more information, please contact your agricultural advisor or consult the website of the Ministère de l&#39;Agriculture, des Pêcheries et de l&#39;Alimentation at the following address: www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/onma.
