Quebec - This morning at a press briefing, Jean-François Lisée, MP for Rosemont and Parti Québécois spokesperson for social services, MP for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, and MP for René-Lévesque, Martin Ouellet, sounded the alarm about the lack of funding that threatens the sustainability of Maisons Oxygène, an aid resource for men in difficulty with children. The deputies were accompanied by Mr. Manuel Prats, president of the Maisons Oxygène Network, as well as the general managers of Maisons Oxygène from several regions of Quebec.
“Thanks to the work of dozens of people who support the Oxygene Houses, resources that come to the aid of men in difficulty with children, fathers have been able to take control of their lives. Unfortunately, by refusing to support them, as it does with the houses for women, the Liberal government is abandoning them. Consequence: the survival of the Oxygene Houses is in danger, and the 300 fathers they supported in 2015 find themselves without support, ”denounced Jean-François Lisée.
MEPs recall that only one Oxygen House out of the eleven in the network is recognized and funded. Some houses were supported by the CRÉs, and others will see their funding end in 2019, when the collective Avenir d&#39;enfants support project will end.
“The Oxygene Houses, like the Auberges du cœur, help support men in difficulty with children in order to prevent them from ending up in the street, promote the resolution of family conflicts and the reintegration into the family of men in rupture, or to help men recreate significant bonds that can stimulate them to invest in a life project. The financial instability which affects them is an obstacle to the maintenance of current resources and their potential development; we must remedy it ”, indicated, for her part, Carole Poirier.
“Maison Oxygène de Baie-Comeau, like many in Quebec, is currently in danger. Others have already had to close their doors or reduce their services. It is a serious problem in our region. There are families who need support, fathers in distress who must be supported in difficult situations. These people have the right not only to services, but to local services, established in their living environment, ”insisted Martin Ouellet.
“The community sector can count on the support of the Parti Québécois. The Oxygen Houses must be able to benefit from the PSOC and, to do this, the program must be enhanced, as the Liberal Party itself requested by voting in favor of a motion to this effect in May 2013 ”, have concluded the deputies.
