Quebec - The member for Lac-Saint-Jean and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of education, research and school perseverance, Alexandre Cloutier, takes note of the about-face of the Minister of Education, François Blais, in the fight against dropping out, and asks it to quickly implement its commitment to save the entire network of regional consultation bodies (IRC) on school perseverance and educational success.
“The Minister of Education came to his senses and made a commitment, in the National Assembly, to save“ the entire network ”of 20 regional organizations fighting against dropping out of school in Quebec. Although I welcome this about-face, time is running out. As we speak, almost half of the organizations have already closed their doors, while the rest have made significant staff reductions. The school year begins, and services are no longer offered to students and their parents. The minister must act quickly, ”insisted Alexandre Cloutier.
The member for Lac-Saint-Jean recalled that many partners - the Secrétariat à la jeunesse, regional conferences of elected officials, regional youth forums, school boards, CEGEPs, universities, etc. - participated in the financing of IRCs before being abolished or victims of the cuts by the liberal government. &quot;The Minister of Education must release the sums necessary to replace these contributions if he wishes to preserve the entire network and respect his commitment,&quot; he said.
The Parti Québécois, however, deplores the improvisation which has disturbed all those involved in educational success in Quebec in recent months. “We had to denounce the situation for the government to act. It was not until the closure of several organizations, the dismissal of dozens of employees and the intervention of the official opposition that the government finally realized that it was shooting itself in the foot by cutting the fight against dropping out. If the Minister of Education had listened more to people on the ground from the start, we would not be there, ”concluded Alexandre Cloutier.
