Montreal - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, and his special advisor Paul St-Pierre Plamondon, unveiled the 156 recommendations resulting from the Dare to rethink the PQ consultation which was held from November 2016 until April 2017.
This report is intended as a call to continue the renewal of the Parti Québécois, already underway since the arrival of the new leader: “We bet that openness and transparency would make it possible to recruit members under the age of 40. Since December 2016, 4,003 young people have joined the Parti Québécois, increasing their total from 12,680 to 16,683, an increase of 31% in less than six months. With our proposals, we are confident that we will continue in this direction ”declared Special Advisor Paul St-Pierre Plamondon.
In recent months, the Parti Québécois has formulated several constructive and unifying proposals to better integrate populations of diverse backgrounds into Quebec society. Dare to rethink the PQ also had a mandate to find ways to better integrate diversity within society, but also within the Parti Québécois. “The 20 measures for integration that we launched on February 6 are important for Quebec and we are not the only ones to think so since several measures have been taken up by different stakeholders. The report proposes to confirm this position with the establishment of the permanent monitoring committee on integration and the fight against discrimination and racism, so as to ensure firm monitoring. The Parti Québécois is categorical in its commitment to diversity, ”added Jean-François Lisée.
The report also proposes essential measures to support entrepreneurs, in particular by offering more help and support to businesses to ensure a successful start-up, but also facilitated growth through a leaner bureaucracy and more efficient transitions. SMEs are the backbone of our economy. The Priorité PME team, a trio of entrepreneurial MPs, aims to promote these initiatives and help make emerging Quebec companies major players in the Quebec and global economy.
The revival of the Parti Québécois in brief:
To download the PDF, seepq.org/osez
