Québec– Martine Ouellet, MP for Vachon and official opposition critic for transport, transportation electrification and maritime strategy, Stéphane, MP for Verchères and spokesperson for Canadian intergovernmental affairs Bergeron, and the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Metropolis, Jean-François Lisée, note the inability of the Minister of Transport, Robert Poëti, to defend the interests of Quebecers in the toll issue on the new Champlain Bridge.
Last Monday, Conservative Minister Denis Lebel opened the door to a toll not only on the Champlain Bridge, but also on the Jacques-Cartier and Mercier bridges. However, a study by Steer Davies Gleave, kept secret by Ottawa, as well as a report by the Parliamentary Budget Officer of Canada demonstrate the impact of the transfer of users on other bridges with, as an announced result, a monster traffic on those. -this.
“By opening the door to a toll on the three federal bridges on the South Shore, Ottawa has moved from an uncompromising position on the toll on the Champlain Bridge to an arrogant position towards workers on the South Shore. Meanwhile, the one who is supposed to be on the front line to defend the interests of Quebec, Minister Poëti, in all his flippancy, does not even deign to read the studies on the toll. This blind governance is disturbing, ”said Martine Ouellet.
“Minister Poëti himself says he does not need to read the studies on the toll, when they would give him ammunition to defend us. A responsible minister would not only have required the federal government to make all the documents public, but would also order a study on the impact of a toll on the three federal bridges to consolidate Quebec&#39;s position, ”added Jean-François Lisée. .
“Minister Poëti says he is against the imposition of a toll on the Champlain Bridge, but he obviously did not go from words to actions! For him, relations with the federal government boil down to taking beautiful photos with his counterpart and posting them on Facebook. Meanwhile, the federal government is taunting him by considering tolls on two other bridges! Obviously, the &quot;liberal effect&quot;, which seems to take the place of the minister&#39;s only strategy vis-à-vis Ottawa, not only does not have the expected results, but we can even speak of extremely damaging impacts for the greater metropolitan area. We are therefore asking Minister Poëti to pull himself together and find the tools that will allow him to adequately defend Quebec, ”concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
