Quebec - Official opposition spokespersons for transport, Martine Ouellet, and for the Metropolis, Jean-François Lisée, wish to reaffirm that Stephen Harper must change his position and back down on the question of the toll on the future bridge Champlain. They thus join their voices to those of the mayor of Montreal, Denis Coderre, and the population of the metropolitan region.
The Parti Québécois also calls on the Couillard government to clearly display the priority for Quebec that the absence of a unilateral federal toll on the Champlain Bridge represents.
“Minister Robert Poëti said he still has 4 years to find a solution. It is unacceptable that the government waits so long and lets go of the political opportunity that will present itself next year. It is now that it must act to support the coalition of local and regional partners and mayors as well as to build a significant balance of power, said Martine Ouellet. The toll on the future Champlain Bridge would have too many negative impacts to allow us to take the situation lightly. &quot;
The Liberal government must explain how it plans to defend the regional consensus and how it intends to make the federal government listen to reason. If he really shares the position opposing the toll, Minister Poëti must defend it vigorously and now.
Before and since their election, the Liberals have said they could move the Champlain Bridge file forward thanks to their &quot;special affinity&quot; with the federal government, they said. However, they received the same objection as all the other speakers before them.
“Courtesy meetings with Minister Lebel will not be enough,” explained Jean-François Lisée. The Couillard government must quickly indicate that, in the absence of a change in direction from Ottawa on this issue, it will make tolls a priority issue for Quebec in next year&#39;s federal election. &quot;
“The Champlain Bridge is a major transportation infrastructure for the economy and the GDP of all of Quebec. Imposing a toll there would clog all the other arteries of access to Montreal. The disadvantages are numerous; everyone agrees on that. The Liberal government must defend this consensus and act without delay, ”concluded the MPs.
