Québec, November 4, 2014 –While the mayors of the cities of Québec and Lévis agreed to ask Canadian National (CN) to finally assume its responsibilities in the Quebec Bridge file, the member for Taschereau and parliamentary leader for the official opposition, Agnès Maltais, asks the minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale region, Sam Hamad, to say what he intends to do, in concrete terms, to have the painting completed.
“Minister Hamad must tell us what the Government of Quebec intends to do in this matter. Work on the bridge must be completed; procrastination and legal proceedings have already gone on for too long. As the minister said on October 24, this is a matter of pride. He also said that we had to look, with the federal government and CN, to take care of repainting the bridge, ”said Agnès Maltais.
The judgment of last October 22 Let us recall that last October 22, after more than nine years of legal proceedings, the judgment fell in the case between CN and the federal government. Judge Louis Lacoursière ruled that the railway company will not have to complete the painting work on the Quebec Bridge, even if it is half completed. He considers that CN, owner of the structure since its privatization in 1995, has respected the terms of the maintenance program agreed with the provincial and federal governments.
Reacting to the ruling exonerating CN, and visibly of the opinion that the work must be completed, Minister Sam Hamad declared on October 24: &quot;Of course the Quebec Bridge needs painting. . It&#39;s clear. I have always said that paint has no effect on the structure. On the other hand, it is the entrance to Quebec, it is the entrance to Lévis, it is a historical monument of civil engineering. And it is an important monument for Quebec. So it takes someone to finish the job and paint it. Because we are proud people in Quebec ”.
“The minister must walk his talk and tell the people of the region clearly what he intends to do. He declares that the painting must be completed on the Quebec Bridge; Has he had any discussions with the Prime Minister or the Minister of Transport on this subject? Does he have a clear mandate to negotiate with the federal government and CN? Does the Government of Quebec intend to invest money in repairing the bridge? », Asked Agnès Maltais.
