Québec, April 20, 2020 - Sylvain Roy, the member for Bonaventure and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of higher education, calls on the government of Québec to put in place support measures for female students as quickly as possible. students from higher education institutions who are experiencing difficulties and who do not have access to support measures.
IN SHORT
For students, the COVID-19 crisis is hitting particularly hard. “In addition to living with uncertainty about their academic success or graduation, thousands of them are not eligible for financial assistance measures announced by governments. However, financial insecurity and indebtedness are not the paths that lead to peace of mind, ”first mentioned the Member for Bonaventure.
He is all the more worried as many students are going through special situations, which can further increase their stress level. “Some are parents; others, researchers or trainees. Many come from other countries, or have academic difficulties. In addition, the student reality varies greatly from one region to another, even from one institution to another. Far from large centers, resources are sometimes difficult to access, and there is often a gap between what is offered to private students compared to what is offered to public students. All of this causes anxiety; we have to intervene, ”he continued.
Anxious to reassure and support students in this time of crisis, the Parti Québécois asks the government to quickly implement the following actions, as identified by the student associations:
For Sylvain Roy, every effort should be made to reduce uncertainty and anxiety in the student community, which was already facing mental health issues before the COVID-19 crisis. “We need to be flexible enough to prevent students from dropping out of classes, and to assure them that they will have access to cash to get through the crisis. And it must be done with total clarity. If we do nothing, we will go straight towards the financial insecurity of thousands of promising young people, and towards record dropout rates; this would ultimately have disastrous consequences for all of Quebec society. I therefore ask the Minister of Education and Higher Education to put in place the measures we are proposing; it will thus ensure to support students in their academic career, so as to lead them to the other side of the crisis, ”concluded the Member for Bonaventure.
