Québec, October 8, 2020 - The member for Rimouski and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois for seniors and caregivers, Harold LeBel, announced this morning that he was sponsoring a petition calling for the holding of a commission of inquiry public and independent on the management of the COVID-19 pandemic in CHSLDs and private seniors&#39; residences (RPA); he of course invites all citizens to sign it.
IN SHORT
“Last week, during our interpellation, my colleague from Îles-de-la-Madeleine and I once again asked the Minister responsible for Seniors and Caregivers, Marguerite Blais, to take the necessary measures to all the light on what happened last spring in CHSLDs, RPAs and other retirement homes. We never want that to happen again, ”recalled the member for Rimouski.
To this request, however, the Minister objected to an inadmissibility. “She has said over and over again that the investigation by the Health and Welfare Commissioner is sufficient. However, while we do not doubt the competence or the independence of the CSBE, we respectfully remind the Minister that this body is accountable only to the government; the current investigation is not public, it is held behind closed doors ”, then specified the deputy.
Harold LeBel maintains that the drama that unfolded this spring in residential care facilities for the elderly has had a profound impact on Quebecers. “We are talking about thousands of deaths. Deficient care, loneliness, inhuman conditions. All of this leaves its mark, and the healing process will be long and difficult. In such a context, people feel the need to share what they have experienced, to testify publicly, ”he added.
The member for Rimouski also argues that such an exercise is not unusual in the case of such significant tragedies. “The Isle-Verte fire had its public inquiry. The Concorde viaduct also. The hecatomb in CHSLDs in spring 2020 is beyond measure; a public inquiry would undoubtedly be relevant, if only to collate in complete transparency the information that has been gathered in recent months, or to give the population the platform and the answers it demands ”, he added. He insists.
Harold LeBel invites all Quebecers to sign the petition in favor of holding such a public inquiry by going to the following address: https://www.assnat.qc.ca/fr/express-votre-opinion/petition/Petition -8607 / index.html
