Quebec, March 28, 2020 - On behalf of the members of his political party, the parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois, Pascal Bérubé, supports the decision announced today by the government of Quebec to ban all non-essential traffic between peripheral regions and major centers. He is also appealing to all citizens of Quebec: this important instruction must be respected.
IN SHORT
“The opinion of our regional public health directors is clear: the main threat to peripheral regions now comes from more densely populated ones, where there is now community transmission of the disease. In the interest of citizens living further from large urban centers, it is necessary to apply this new directive, ”declared the parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois from the outset.
Pascal Bérubé stresses that in terms of personnel and medical equipment, the peripheral regions do not have the same resources as Montreal and Quebec. “In regions like mine, the Bas-Saint-Laurent, we have to deal with this reality on a daily basis; therefore, in the current context, we must do everything to limit the number of additional patients in our hospitals and clinics. Restricting traffic will help reduce the number of cases in the regions, and therefore achieve this objective, ”he added.
The deputy wishes, however, to be reassuring: “We must not worry; essential travel will continue to be permitted. We will ensure that air, sea, rail and road links are maintained for the transport of goods that are necessary and of people not affected by the ban. &quot;On this subject, moreover, the service interruptions recently announced by certain carriers, including Air Canada and Keolis, worry Mr. Bérubé:&quot; We are in constant communication with the government so that solutions are found, &quot;he assures. -he.
Finally, the members of the Parti Québécois remind citizens that the status report and up-to-date directives are available atquebec.ca / coronavirus. “Thank you to each of you for all the efforts you make, and for all the sacrifices you make in the name of the common good. Let us continue to help each other, stay strong and united in the face of adversity. And, above all, thank you for respecting the instructions of Public Health, ”concluded Pascal Bérubé.
