Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP), Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, wishes to inform the population that he is closely monitoring the issue of nuisances attributed to businesses in the heavy industrial park of La Prairie to ensure the environmental compliance of the activities that take place there.
“I am aware of the inconveniences that citizens can suffer and of the complex nature of this problem for municipalities. We will not rewrite the history of this situation, but we are doing everything to limit its negative impacts. As soon as this file was opened, it became clear to us that a comprehensive approach had to be adopted concerning both the types of inconvenience and the relationship between issuers and citizens. This is what I then publicly committed to. We are therefore adopting a specific approach and continuing to ensure constant monitoring so that the quality of life of all residents who live near the industrial park is adequate, ”declared Minister Yves-François Blanchet.
Remember that, carried out near residential areas, the activities of this industrial park generate complaints from residents of the area. In addition to following up on complaints that fall within his jurisdiction, Minister Blanchet ensures that systematic inspections of businesses continue to be carried out to verify and enforce the conditions for issuing the certificates of authorization issued.
In addition, the Minister points out that, within the framework of the coming into force of the Act to amend the Environment Quality Act in order to strengthen compliance, the Department has equipped itself with effective means of intervention to deal quickly with situations that have an impact on the environment. The main legislative changes provide for:
Minister Blanchet does not exclude any means at his disposal to ensure effective and increased protection of the environment in these sectors, if necessary. Several actions are also in progress. A business audit tour is one example, as well as the dust sampling program carried out during the summer to assess the extent of the nuisance. In addition, the Ministry plans to soon carry out noise measurements in order to verify compliance with the standards imposed in this area. If overruns are noted, the Department will use the remedies at its disposal to ensure compliance with the Environment Quality Act. The Department will encourage special measures that go beyond legal and regulatory requirements that are likely to further improve the quality of life of nearby residents and encourage new ways of doing things.
Minister Yves-François Blanchet thus ensures that all actions are taken to reduce all the inconveniences caused by the activities of the industrial parks of Candiac and La Prairie.
