Quebec - Sylvain Simard, the member for Richelieu and official opposition spokesperson for pension plans, has difficulty in explaining the statements of the Minister of Finance, Raymond Bachand, who confirmed at the meeting of finance ministers in Victoria&#39;s interest in Quebec&#39;s participation in the new Federal Pooled Registered Pension Plan announced less than a month ago by the Conservative government.
“This position taken by Raymond Bachand completely discredits the work of the committee chaired by the former president of the Desjardins Group, Alban D&#39;Amours, and formed less than a month ago by his colleague and minister responsible for the Régie des annuities, Julie Boulet. This committee was given the mandate to advise the government on the possibilities of improving the retirement savings of Quebecers. Why discredit the work of this committee in this way? », Declared Sylvain Simard.
“Several possibilities have been put forward and deserve serious study. The Minister of Finance does not have to force Quebec to join the Conservative pooled registered pension plan, which completely eliminates the issue of employer participation and the nature, on a voluntary or mandatory basis, that the new plan could take. Quebec retirement savings, ”continued the member.
&quot;Faced with such an important question which currently concerns a million Quebecers who save nothing more than mandatory contributions to the Pension Plan and who risk finding themselves in a situation of great poverty upon retirement, the Minister of Finance should show more reserve, ”he added.
The member for Richelieu also recalls that the Parti Québécois has shown great interest in the formation of an automatic Quebec retirement savings plan with the possibility of the right of withdrawal. “The formation of an automatic retirement savings plan with the right to withdraw has proven its effectiveness in several countries around the world. This option, which partly takes up the one put forward by Claude Castonguay, just like the other scenarios put forward by central trade unions, must be able to be seriously studied. I invite the Minister of Finance to give the D&#39;Amours committee the opportunity to hear from interested groups and complete its work before making a hasty decision, ”concluded Sylvain Simard.
