Québec, February 18, 2021 - The member for René-Lévesque and parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois, Martin Ouellet, is very proud to present the parliamentary reform project of his political group, tabled today at the end of a rigorous reflection which will not have left any aspect aside.
IN SHORT
The 16 proposals of the Parti Québécois to modernize Parliament are based on the following 4 main priorities:
“You all know that the Parti Québécois has been called upon, in recent years, to renew itself in depth. To do this, he put everything on the table; nothing was excluded from the reflection, and daring was welcome. We were therefore on the strength of this experience, and used it to present an ambitious parliamentary reform project aimed at finding a balance between legislative efficiency, necessary for the functioning of a modern rule of law, and the need to preserve proximity and representation of citizens within their National Assembly, ”declared the MNA for René ‑ Lévesque at the outset.
Comprising 16 action priorities grouped together according to 4 central themes, the main objective of the project is to adapt parliamentarism to the new reality - that of elected officials, of course, but also that of citizens. “Since 2009, the date of the last overhaul of the Standing Orders of the National Assembly, Quebec has changed a lot. Among other things, there has been a major demographic and generational transition. We have also seen the replacement of bipartisanship by a plurality of the political offer. Finally, women are now much better represented - this is obviously positive, but it raises more than ever the issue of work-family balance for parliamentarians, ”argued Martin Ouellet.
In addition, the question of modernizing and digitizing procedures has never been posed with so much relevance. &quot;The pandemic has forced us to adapt quickly, and we must take this historic opportunity to go even further and become more effective - this includes, of course, the role of the oppositions, whose mandate is as important as that of the party in power, ”added the parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois.
The exercise also aimed to give citizens a greater role in the democratic game. “I invite the population to take cognizance of our project, in order to learn more about the means that the Parti Québécois is putting forward to counter this stubborn feeling of powerlessness that can inhabit it between the elections; we really want to give people greater influence on the subjects and priorities debated by parliamentarians, ”concluded Martin Ouellet.
– 30 –
SOURCE :
Anne-Sophie Desprez
Communications Coordinator
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois
418 271-0485
