Quebec - Summoned to the Committee on Transport and the Environment regarding the mandate granted to shed light on the events of October 24 concerning the allegations of interventions by the former Minister of Sustainable Development and the Environment, de la Faune et des Parcs, the Member of Parliament for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Daniel Breton has denied outright the allegations of intimidation and interference reported against him.
In accordance with the testimony of the five commissioners heard by the commission, the deputy affirmed under oath that the visit took place under the sign of courtesy, in the strictest sense of the term. “I went to visit the employees of the BAPE in the same way as I did for those of Recyc-Quebec: to salute their work for Quebec society. There was no intimidation or interference, as the five commissioners affirmed under oath, ”explained the member for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques. In the same breath, the deputy vigorously denied having asked for any telephone number of the commissioners: &quot;I have never asked for or obtained the telephone numbers of the commissioners of the BAPE&quot;, maintains Daniel Breton.
During his testimony, the deputy wished to underline the Kafkaesque character of the parliamentary committee convened by the official opposition: “The official opposition, which waited more than two years before launching a public inquiry into corruption in the industry of construction, however, did not hesitate for a second to trigger this commission, questioning my word as a deputy. I&#39;ve been telling the truth for six months now. There is nothing more deaf than someone who does not want to hear anything, ”thundered the member in his testimony.
In response to questions from members of the official opposition, Mr. Breton finally demonstrated that former environment ministers under the previous Liberal government had publicly interfered with mandates under the jurisdiction of the BAPE:
The mandate granted to the Committee on Transportation and the Environment to shed light on the events of October 24 concerning the interventions of the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks with the Bureau of he public hearing on the environment ends at 6:00 p.m. today.
Watch Daniel Breton&#39;s speech at the Committee on Transport and the Environment.
