Quebec - The member for Jonquière and leader of the official opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the member for Vachon and the Parti Québécois transport spokesperson, Martine Ouellet, ask the Liberal government to agree to hold a parliamentary committee on the management of the Metropolitan Transport Agency (AMT).
&quot;Since the inauguration of the former general director of the PLQ, Joël Gauthier, the good management of the AMT has been questioned by many allegations. It is also known that under its search warrant to investigate the liberal management of the AMT, UPAC was free to seize all of the files in it. A parliamentary commission will shed light on everything that could have happened there, under the direction of CEOs Joël Gauthier, Nicolas Girard and Paul Côté, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
Recall that Thursday, the CAQ demanded that only Nicolas Girard, ex-CEO sacked by the Liberals, appear before a parliamentary committee. “After everything that has happened at the AMT since 2003, it is surprising that the CAQ is not interested in the management of Joël Gauthier, yet the target of numerous police investigations. Does François Legault really want to shed light on the events, or is he only aiming to play petty partisan politics? », Asks Martine Ouellet.
“We hope that the CAQ will support our request to hear not only Nicolas Girard, but also several other relevant witnesses in the review of AMT&#39;s management. In particular, the deputies would have every interest in hearing the former and the current CEO, Joël Gauthier and Paul Côté. Let us also mention Michel Fortier, an employee who would have served as a figurehead to finance the Liberal Party, Joël Gauthier&#39;s assistants - one of whom, at the request of his boss, destroyed a cell phone - as well as several entrepreneurs who would have had questionable ties to him. Finally, we hope that the Liberal Party will agree to this parliamentary committee being held; this is the only way to shed light on the management of the AMT, ”concluded the leader of the official opposition.
