Quebec– Parliamentary Assistant to the Premier (transportation electrification component), Daniel Breton, participated in the 7th edition of the VerdeXchange Conference which was held in Los Angeles, from January 26 to 28. This major event intended to promote green technologies and the economy is a privileged forum for publicizing Quebec expertise as well as for strengthening relations between Quebec and major players in the industry.
In a speech delivered to some 200 business representatives, political decision-makers and experts, Mr. Breton presented the broad outlines of the Quebec government&#39;s transportation electrification strategy. The parliamentary assistant was also accompanied by Chantal Guimont, director of transportation electrification at Hydro-Quebec and Jonathan Carley, vice-president at CO2 Solutions who presented the most recent Quebec advances in green vehicles and fueling techniques. carbon dioxide capture.
In the main plenary, Mr. Breton recalled that Quebec is the leading electric vehicle market in Canada with more than 40% of total sales, a position that should be maintained, among other things, thanks to the incentives offered to consumers and the various initiatives included. in the transport electrification strategy. &quot;We establish rules, institute policies, develop promising programs and projects, constituting an engine for our companies to demonstrate innovation, imagination and daring&quot;. He argued that Quebec ranks among the best performing states in North America in terms of greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction, in particular thanks to its system of cap and trade in emission rights. GHG recently harmonized with that of California, and by the fact that hydroelectricity and wind power constitute 98% of its energy source.
On the sidelines of the conference, Mr. Breton spoke with the president of the California Air Resources Board (CARB), Mary Nichols, to whom he expressed Quebec&#39;s desire to work closely with California to promote vehicles. greens, just as it does with the carbon market. He also had the opportunity to interact with the candidate for the California Senate race, Robert Hertzberg, as well as with representatives of the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) in order to explore avenues of collaboration in electromobility.
During his stay, the MP learned about current best practices abroad, regulatory frameworks governing electric and autonomous vehicles elsewhere in the world, as well as recent technological breakthroughs. Mr. Breton encouraged all decision-makers to unite their efforts for a fruitful collaboration in the field of transport electrification. &quot;By fostering research initiatives and promoting the rapid integration and commercialization of technology, the entire international community benefits, economically and in terms of sustainable development. &quot;, did he declare. He invited all the high authorities met to come to Montreal in 2016, to take part in the 29th electric vehicle symposium, the most important international forum linked to this industry.
Remember that the Quebec government unveiled its 2013-2017 transport electrification strategy on November 1, 2013. The electrification of transportation is one of the pillars of Québec&#39;s economic policy. Quebec is banking on the electrification of transportation to create jobs, attract investment and generate wealth.
