Quebec - “Our participation in the open North jeveuxsavoir.com project clearly demonstrates our government&#39;s desire to promote transparency in the management of public money. This decision clearly reflects our ambition to provide Quebec with a true open government. ”It is in these terms that the Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation, Mr. Bernard Drainville, announced the payment of $ 10,000 in assistance to the North Open organization, for the development of a website for citizens who will submit online access requests to public bodies. These access requests as well as the documents obtained under the Access to Information Act will be accessible to the entire population, by posting them on the jeveuxsavoir.org site.
Under the coordination of the Secretariat for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation (SIDPC), the jeveuxsavoir.org pilot project will apply to five public bodies, from October 2013 to March 2014. The ministries that will participate are: the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Health and Social Services, the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, the Ministry of Culture and Communications as well as the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks.
“By facilitating and strengthening access to information from public bodies, our government is enabling citizens to exercise their watchdog role in the management of public money. They will thus be able to take a greater part in the fight against corruption and collusion, a fight in which our government has been engaged since its election, ”declared Bernard Drainville.
“The culture of public administration must change. We will continue our efforts to ensure that there is always more transparency, honesty and integrity in public administration. Quebeckers are asking for it, we have made a commitment and we will continue to deliver the goods. More transparency equals more trust. And more confidence equals a stronger democracy, ”concluded the Minister.
