Montreal - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Bank of Economic Development of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, today announced the launch of the Partnership for Quebec personalized cancer medicine (PMPC). Investments of more than $ 21 million are planned for this project, of which $ 11 million will come from private partners and $ 10 million from the Government of Quebec.
&quot;This partnership puts Quebec among the pioneers in the field of personalized medicine research,&quot; said Minister Marceau. This project will create an international pole of attraction encouraging the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry to carry out its clinical research in Quebec as well as the design of diagnostic solutions and innovative drugs. By supporting this project, our government is working to give Quebec a competitive advantage in this promising sector of personalized medicine and to strengthen alliances and cooperation between industry players, the research community and universities. This project will also help Quebec to stimulate job creation in the life sciences. &quot;
&quot;The PMPC will allow us to meet major challenges, such as the efficient integration of new technologies into the health system and improving the health of people with cancer,&quot; added Minister Zakaïb. In addition, this project will consolidate Quebec&#39;s position in the niche of the fight against cancer, where needs remain significant. Thanks to the mobilization of project partners, Quebec has the potential to become, over the next few years, a leader in personalized medicine. &quot;
The PMPC will propose an integrated approach for the development, validation and implementation of clinical biomarkers to provide better targeted and more effective cancer health care. Biomarkers are indicators that help diagnose a disease, track its course, and predict the action of a drug or treatment. Project partners will integrate clinical research with advanced technological platforms and digital solutions, in order to accelerate the validation, commercialization and implementation of cancer biomarkers. The project targets several of the most common cancers, including lung, colon and breast cancers.
The PMPC will bring together the driving forces of Quebec&#39;s research community, as well as major players in the private life sciences sector: Pfizer Canada, Sanofi-Aventis Canada, Oncozyme Pharma, Telus Solutions en santé, as well as Caprion Protéome, a Quebec company recognized worldwide in the development of biomarkers and personalized medicine, which will be entrusted with monitoring the implementation of the PMPC project.
“Personalized medicine will be at the heart of the challenges of the coming decades in the health field,” said Caprion Protéome President Martin LeBlanc. “Using biomarkers that help predict the likelihood of a therapeutic response, personalized medicine enables more accurate diagnosis and provides the tools needed to prescribe the most effective drug or treatment for cancer patients. In addition to improving the practice of medicine and cancer treatments, the Partnership for Personalized Cancer Medicine will allow Quebec to establish a major center of expertise for the development and clinical validation of diagnostic biomarkers. &quot;
To receive press releases in real time from the Economy section of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, subscribe to the following RSS feed: www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
