Montreal– The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, accompanied by the MP for Joliette and in charge of relations with civil society, citizen participation and convergence, Véronique Hivon, the president of the Parti Québécois, Raymond Archambault, as well as the president of the executive of Gouin, François Roberge, presented the decision taken by the political party, namely not to present a candidate for the upcoming by-election in the constituency of Gouin.
&quot;We could have had a good battle in Gouin, which has long been represented by the Parti Québécois,&quot; said Mr. Lisée. But we must see beyond a simple partial and make decisions based on objectives that are more important for Quebec: to replace the Liberals in 2018 with a government serving the common good, and to prepare Quebec for a meeting with the independence in 2022. To achieve this, we must add our strengths, learn to work together, while respecting our differences. To present a candidate in Gouin would be to mobilize the PQ and solidarity activists of the Island of Montreal against each other, at the very moment when we are each reflecting on the principle of convergence. It would be counterproductive. &quot;
The president of the Parti Québécois, Raymond Archambault, indicated that the decision was taken last Friday by the national executive of the party. &quot;The 15 regional presidents were consulted on Thursday and gave a unanimously favorable opinion, then the members of the executive wanted to send, unanimously, a clear signal that the Parti Québécois wants convergence by making, as of now, a strong gesture, ”he insisted.
The MNA for Joliette, Véronique Hivon, declared for her part that “today, we are going from words to deeds and we are making an important gesture, which demonstrates the seriousness of our commitment in favor of convergence. It is a gesture of openness and hope for all those who demand this collaboration. We are putting aside our purely partisan interests to put the general interests of progressives and separatists first, now and on the way to 2018. &quot;
François Roberge, chairman of the executive of Gouin&#39;s Parti Québécois, expressed his executive&#39;s unanimous support for the process. “We were in preparation for an election and we had an electoral team and quality candidates who could have worn the colors of the Parti Québécois in Gouin. But we were convinced that there is an opportunity to practice politics differently and to engage in dialogue mode, ”he concluded.
