Saguenay - The Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, wishes to congratulate the winners of the Azimut prizes, awarded within the framework of the 10th edition of the Annual Tourism Reception Days (JAAT). Mr. Bérubé was in Saguenay last night to present the prizes to the winners.
Yesterday&#39;s Azimut awards ceremony rewarded innovation in the network of tourist information and reception centers. The JAAT participants voted to determine the ranking of the winners of the Azimuts gold, silver and bronze in addition to crowning the person earning the title of the most influential tourist personality of the last ten years within the community.
The Azimutora rewarded the Office du Tourisme de Québec for the redeployment of their reception and tourist information services. This transformation aimed to bring tourist information to the visitor in a proactive way while offering him a quality welcome. The bold change that the Office de Tourisme de Québec has chosen to adopt will continue to evolve continuously.
The Azimutargent was given to Promotion Saguenay for the implementation of a memorable welcome formula at the Saguenay international cruise port. Being a young stopover in the international cruise industry, the organization has found an original way to showcase local authenticity. The reception of cruise passengers is done by the volunteers of the Fabulous History of a Kingdom. Saguenay was also awarded the prestigious “Best Port Welcome” award at the 2012 Cruise Insight Awards.
The Azimutbronze was awarded to Destination Sherbrooke for the hosting program set up prior to the 2013 Canada Games. The organization brilliantly orchestrated a vast training campaign in which more than 2000 people in 137 companies and organizations participated. been trained and made aware of the importance of their role in tourist reception.
To mark the 10th anniversary of the JAAT, a competition to recognize the most influential tourist personality of the last ten years within the network of tourist information and reception centers has been set up. A consultation with the entire network made it possible to identify Ms. Nicole Desrochers as the big winner. Among other things, she managed the Tourisme Québec call center and chaired the Provincial Committee for Tourist Information and Reception Locations.
“I salute the winners and all those nominated for a prize which, through their passion and determination, help to update the network of tourist information and reception sites and to promote it. The quality of the projects presented this year testifies to the dynamism of the individuals working in the community, ”said Minister Bérubé.
The JAAT are the result of an initiative by Tourisme Québec, in collaboration with the Provincial Committee for Tourist Information and Reception Locations (CPLART).
For more information on the JAAT: www.tourisme.gouv.qc.ca/activites/jaat
