Quebec - While TransCanada announced this morning that it was abandoning the idea of building an oil export port in Quebec, the Parti Québécois spokesperson for sustainable development, the environment and the fight against climate change , Mathieu Traversy, calls on citizens to remain mobilized to convince the government that the Energy East project is harmful for Quebec.
“The Parti Québécois has been leading the battle against this project from the start, alongside environmental groups and citizens. We mobilized to prevent the construction of a port allowing the export of oil from the tar sands, and to recognize the right of Quebecers to decide the fate of the Energy East project. We cannot at the same time assume all the environmental risks and not have the last word. The Minister of the Environment must reaffirm that it is Quebec that will make the ultimate decision in this matter, ”insisted the member for Terrebonne.
The Parti Québécois notes that Energy East is currently fighting for its survival. “Already, there were huge concerns about the environmental impacts that would result from such a project. And, today, we are abandoning the idea of a port in Quebec territory, which further limits the potential spinoffs for Quebec. We can therefore legitimately wonder if there are any arguments in favor of Energy East in the government&#39;s first aid kit, ”added Mathieu Traversy.
In addition, the spokesperson denounces the fact that the Minister of the Environment is only repeating empty phrases when it comes to guaranteeing that Quebec&#39;s environmental laws will be respected. “For a year and a half, TransCanada has refused to send the necessary documents to the Department of the Environment. In addition, the company has always said that it refused to submit to the decision of the government of Quebec. How can David Heurtel believe that anyone takes him seriously? », Concluded the member for Terrebonne.
The Parti Québécois requests the suspension of the preliminary work authorized by the Ministry of the Environment, and demands that the Minister demand the immediate filing of all the documents necessary for the holding of BAPE hearings.
