Nicolet - Visiting the Convent of the Sisters of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin in Nicolet in the presence of the mayor, Mr. Alain Drouin, the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the regions from Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, reacted vigorously to the comments made by the leader of the Liberal Party of Quebec, Mr. Philippe Couillard, who was in Mauricie on Thursday.
Minister Blanchet first described his meeting with representatives of the congregation. “Nicolet is a bit like a small town with large institutions. One need only think of the Museum of World Religions, the National Police Academy, its position as a municipality bordering Lake Saint-Pierre, recognized for its ecological importance by Unesco, or the Maison des births. However, if well-ordered charity begins with oneself, I believe that we must ensure the sustainability of the cultural and historical heritage of the congregation, but also of the patrimonial treasure that are its buildings. The minister showed himself to be sensitive to this issue, having himself been involved in the study of draft law 83 on cultural heritage. However, it is on the project of an archives center intended for religious communities that its attention was especially focused: “The archives of the religious communities of the region, and of all of Quebec, are a cultural treasure. Beyond the duty of recognition, it seems to me relevant to study the possibility of making this archival center project a structuring initiative both economically, culturally and historically ”. Minister Blanchet therefore showed himself ready to collect the sums necessary for a feasibility study to be carried out in order to assess the possibility of bringing together the museological, historical and economic players in the region around a project that could obtain a national mandate to centralize, preserve and enhance the archives of religious communities in Quebec.
With regard to Mr. Philippe Couillard&#39;s comments on the possible establishment of a Hydro-Québec data center in Drummondville, the Minister first indicated that to his knowledge, it would be a project that is still not confirmed. He also indicated that he warned the Drummondville authorities from the very beginning that, given his mandate in the specific context of the decommissioning of the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant, he would not intervene in favor of Drummondville or his own riding. “Obviously,” he says, “if I am asked not only not to favor my city, but to harm it, it will be a categorical no. Hydro-Québec will proceed without interference on my part in this matter. I will live with the results. &quot;
More scathingly, Minister Blanchet adds: &quot;I am convinced that the people of Drummondville will be surprised to learn that Philippe Couillard would interfere in the affairs of Hydro-Québec, without knowing the parameters of the project, in order to exclude Drummondville for the location of this installation. Finally, if Mr. Couillard really wants to address regional issues in Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, let him know that I am available to discuss them with him whenever and wherever he sees fit. Speaking of courage, it is still expected in the National Assembly. It has the same deputies, the same party, the same culture and the same friends as Jean Charest&#39;s PLQ, ”concluded Minister Blanchet, determined to preserve his government&#39;s recent achievements in the region.
