Quebec - The member for Drummond and official opposition critic for culture and communications, Yves-François Blanchet, calls for the outright withdrawal of Bill 82, after having read yesterday&#39;s revelations from the daily La Presse concerning the proximity between the Ministry of Culture and Communications and the Quebec Living Heritage Council (CQPV) during the drafting of this bill.
“Minister Christine St-Pierre categorically rejects any modification to the definition of intangible heritage. As a result, it refutes the arguments of Quebec researchers and scientists. As Quebec Minister of Culture and Communications, one wonders who does she work for? ”Declared Yves-François Blanchet.
The member for Drummond recalled that in 2003 UNESCO adopted a definition of the concept of “intangible heritage” which received the consent of 130 signatory countries of the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage. During consultations led by Minister St-Pierre with a view to the publication of the Green Paper leading to the reform of the Cultural Property Act, the Minister adopted the UNESCO definition. However, in the wording of Bill 82, the Minister, to the great surprise of the scientific community, does an about-face in favor of a definition that scientific circles denounce.
The CQPV defended the bill in parliamentary committee and lobbied the official opposition intensely for this bill to be adopted in its current form. Its director even criticized the official opposition for not allowing the bill to pass as it is.
According to ministry documents, the CQPV is the second best-funded heritage organization with $ 52,000 in 2010-2011. The minister, assuming the honorary presidency, even sponsored the colloquium which was held last April for 12,000 dollars. Note that Quebec experts were absent from this conference.
The proximity between the ministry and the CQPV does not stop there: several people who have been hired by the ministry or appointed to the Commission des patrimoine cultures have a very special link with the organization.
&quot;The intervention of relatives and CQPV officers is such that it is possible to wonder why they are so keen on this unique version of the bill, a version which nevertheless goes against the expertise so Quebecois and international in the matter, supported the member for Drummond. The bill and the legislative process are, so to speak, tainted from the start, serving unclear interests. Either the minister wakes up in time and decides to put an end to this drift or what it will be necessary to understand is that she endorses uncertain proximity links between the ministry and the CQPV. For the moment, the interests of Quebec&#39;s heritage and the public good are not well served with Bill 82. It must therefore be withdrawn, ”concluded Yves-François Blanchet.
