Quebec - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, today presented a rigorous financial framework that respects the state of public finances. Over the next five years, a Parti Québécois government will invest $ 992 million to finance its commitments, an average of $ 200 million per year.
This financial framework was examined and deemed compatible with respect for a balanced budget by two independent experts in public finances: Marcelin Joanis and Luc Savard. Professor at the Department of Economics at the University of Sherbrooke and researcher at the Center interuniversitaire de recherche en analyze des organizations (CIRANO), Marcelin Joanis holds a doctorate in economics from the University of Toronto. Luc Savard is director of the International Economics and Development Research Group (GRÉDI) and professor in the Department of Economics at the University of Sherbrooke. He is also a fellow at CIRANO.
The Parti Québécois is the party of the zero deficit. Pauline Marois is the only Minister of Finance to have repaid the debt in the past 50 years. “This responsible and rigorous management, which is the financial signature of the Parti Québécois, will continue over the next few years. We have a duty and a responsibility to manage our finances with rigor. It is for this reason that our commitments are the least expensive of all parties, ”assured Pauline Marois.
A Parti Québécois government will tackle debt reduction through concrete actions. At the end of the fiscal year, an amount of $ 5.5 billion will be paid on the debt from the Generations Fund. The additional funds generated by the implementation of a new royalty regime will be allocated in additional payments to the debt. &quot;No other party proposes to act in such a responsible way for the future of Quebec&quot;, she assured.
“Families will be able to count on the Parti Québécois, which is committed to giving them a solid boost in order to stop paying more. We will abolish the health tax. More than four and a half million Quebeckers will have $ 200 more in their pockets each year, $ 400 per family. This commitment will be made at zero cost for the State. We will ask for an additional effort from taxpayers whose income is greater than $ 130,000, ”she explained, recalling that young families will also be able to benefit from refundable tax credits of $ 1,000 per child for sports activities and artistic.
Pauline Marois also made a personal commitment to finish the work she had started by completing the network of daycare centers. “Each family that wants it will have a place in daycare for their child by the end of their first term. We have set aside $ 224 million to reach our goal. The Parti Québécois is the only party to commit to completing the network, ”she mentioned.
With regard to the health network, the shift towards home care proposed by the Parti Québécois will help balance the budget. “Home care costs the state much less than hospitalization. If we want to keep control of our finances in the context of an aging population, we absolutely must have an ambitious home care policy. If, for seniors, aging at home is desirable, for public finances, this shift is essential, ”assured Pauline Marois.
With regard to revenues, the financial framework of the Parti Québécois is based on forecasts from the Ministry of Finance, unlike the CAQ, which overstated government revenues by $ 1.2 billion. “It&#39;s real income. This financial framework is very responsible. The increase in spending will be modest. We are going to make repayments on the debt. The priority is very clearly given to middle class families, our children and our seniors. We are going to give millions of Quebeckers a real boost by making greater contributions to the wealthy and to mining companies. With the Parti Québécois, the population will be able to count on a responsible government that cares about Quebec&#39;s public finances, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
