La Pocatière –The leader of the official opposition and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, proposes to develop a food sovereignty policy for Quebec. “In 25 years, the proportion of food consumed and originating in Quebec has fallen by 45%. It went from 78% in 1985 to 33% in 2009. We must reverse this trend, ”suggested Pauline Marois during her visit today at the Institut de technologie agroalimentaire de La Pocatière. On this occasion, she was accompanied by the Member of Parliament for Kamouraska-Témiscouata, André Simard.
“If every Quebec consumer bought $ 30 more food each year, sales would swell by $ 1 billion in five years. Plus, there are many advantages to buying locally. Food is fresher, it requires less preservatives and packaging. Transportation costs are reduced and in total, less greenhouse gases are produced, ”explained the Leader of the Official Opposition.
The Parti Québécois&#39; food sovereignty policy will aim to reduce the proportion of Quebec food that we consume from 33% to 50%. The advantages of such a policy are numerous. This allows the creation of several jobs, significant private investments in all regions and also the pride of consuming products from home.
“The Parti Québécois has always supported Quebec farmers. We adopted the Act respecting the protection of land and agricultural activities during our first mandate. We also set up La Financière agricole du Québec in 2001 so that it could become a development tool for producers in the agricultural production sector. The Parti Québécois intends to continue to support the agricultural world with ardor, ”added Pauline Marois.
“Many of our farmers are at breaking point. They can no longer bear a drop in their income. We must help them. Since the Liberal government came to power, Quebec has lost an average of 400 farms per year. The Minister of Agriculture even admitted last year that 2,500 farms were threatened with bankruptcy following the application of government measures. One of the problems is that the Liberal government has perverted La Financière agricole&#39;s mission by making it a private insurer like any other, ”said the MP.
“Once elected, a Parti Québécois government will respect La Financière agricole&#39;s mission for the benefit of producers. We will adapt agricultural insurance to the different realities of the regions of Quebec and we will promote the extension of insurance plans to innovative productions that participate in the occupation of territories, ”explained André Simard.
“By giving the board of directors of La Financière agricole an orientation making Quebec agriculture a strictly industrial activity and setting aside the social aspects, the Liberal government is fundamentally destroying the entire agricultural sector in Quebec. At the Parti Québécois, we believe that we must first support the staple food of the Quebec people: their agriculture, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
