Repentigny - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, is committed to ensuring that every family in Quebec has access to a family doctor and a team of health professionals. “Despite Liberal promises, some two million Quebecers still do not have access to a family doctor. This situation forces many citizens to resort to the emergency services of hospitals or walk-in clinics to gain access to a doctor. As a result, Quebeckers are waiting an hour longer than in 2003 in the emergency room, when the Liberals had made a commitment to end the wait once and for all. This situation must be resolved as a priority, ”she said.
“If the Liberals have not succeeded in solving health problems after nine years in power, how, in 2012, can François Legault realistically promise to solve everything with a wave of a magic wand with Doctor Gaétan Barrette? We must stop holding out miracle solutions to Quebeckers. We all know that if it existed, we would have it, ”explained Pauline Marois, specifying that the Parti Québécois will go ahead with concrete solutions, rather than launching into big vague promises.
The Parti Québécois is proposing concrete measures to improve front-line health services. With the national home care and services policy that we will put in place, the elderly will be able to receive care at home rather than waiting in the emergency room or at the clinic.
The development of family medicine groups will allow parents to no longer wait early in the morning in front of a clinic to have their child treated. A Parti Québécois government will continue to develop family medicine groups so that every Quebecer has access to a family doctor.
We must also increase the number of super nurses. People will be able to seek treatment without waiting for hours to see a doctor for problems that could be fixed by a nurse.
All health professionals must be involved. To this end, the Parti Québécois has long proposed that pharmacists be able to do more. Instead of waiting long hours in the emergency room or in a clinic, people who need to adjust or renew their medication can go to the pharmacy. In addition, we will equip family physicians with a team of health professionals, including nutritionists and psychosocial workers.
“The importance of primary health care is well established. The challenge is for the team of professionals in the family medicine group to continue the care provided by the physician. By doing this, we free up time for the doctor to see other patients, ”explained the leader of the Parti Québécois.
Finally, the leader of the Parti Québécois is committed to restoring equity in the health care network, especially for citizens of the Lanaudière region who are victims of a great injustice. The funding granted by the government falls far short of the needs of this rapidly growing population. A Parti Québécois government is committed to increasing the level of health funding to put an end to this injustice.
“With a Parti Québécois government, Quebec patients will not only have access to a family doctor, but also to a team of health professionals who will provide adequate and high-quality medical follow-up near their homes. It is now up to Quebeckers to choose between the Liberal promises broken by a worn-out government, the magic formulas of the Caquists and the responsible plan of the Parti Québécois, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
