Deschambault-Grondines - While in Deschambault to meet workers at the Alcoa plant, the premier and leader of the Parti Québécois recalled the agreement reached between her government and the company, which employs more than 500 people in the Capitale-Nationale region. On this occasion, Ms. Marois was accompanied by the Parti Québécois candidate in the constituency of Portneuf, Hugues Genois.
“We are determined to make Quebec stronger and more prosperous. Faced with the challenges facing Alcoa factories, the Parti Québécois government has decided to act to consolidate 3,000 jobs. For the town of Deschambault-Grondines, the continuation of the plant&#39;s activities means maintaining 500 direct jobs. This is a major support from my government to these families, who thus see their future secure. We are taking action to stimulate economic growth in all regions, thanks to Priorité emploi, an ambitious economic policy that supports job creation throughout Quebec, ”declared the Premier.
In fact, the agreement, which guarantees Alcoa&#39;s 3,000 Quebec workers a job for the next 15 years, also includes investment commitments of $ 250 million, including $ 60 million at the Deschambault plant, to improve plant productivity and reduce production costs. In addition, Alcoa will join forces with partners to develop innovative projects in the field of transport electrification.
Regarding electricity tariffs, the new formula granted to Alcoa is adapted in order to support the competitiveness of the company. It will evolve according to market conditions and the world price of aluminum.
Strongly involved in the region&#39;s business community, notably as president of the Saint-Raymond Regional Chamber of Commerce, Hugues Genois paid tribute to the agreement reached by the Parti Québécois government. “We have the prosperity of all Quebecers at heart. The agreement with Alcoa demonstrates the strength of this party, which finds solutions and pushes Quebec forward. I am proud to be part of this exceptional team, ”concluded the candidate.
