Montreal - The MNA for Charlevoix and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pauline Marois, made a point of addressing these few words to MNA for Richelieu, Sylvain Simard, who today announced his decision not to stand for re-election in the next general election.
“Montreal, June 28, 2012
Mr. Sylvain Simard Member of Parliament for Richelieu 71, rue De Ramezay, office 101 Sorel-Tracy (Québec) J3P 3Z1
Dear Colleague,
It is not without a certain sadness that I welcome your desire not to represent you as Member of Parliament for Richelieu for the Parti Québécois. These years that we spent together, in the National Assembly, in the Council of Ministers and in the field with our fellow citizens, have allowed me to know a remarkable man, a man of combat, anxious to represent with great dignity of Quebecers.
If there is a common thread in your professional life, it seems to me that it is this deep love for Quebec and your people that has always guided you. As vice-president of the Parti Québécois under our first leader, René Lévesque, then as president of the Mouvement national des Québécoises et des Québécois, you will have left a strong imprint that will not be soon forgotten.
In 1994, you were elected Member of Parliament for Richelieu and as soon as you entered the National Assembly, it became evident that you were immediately in your place in this democratic forum where the elected representatives of the Quebec nation meet.
I worked with you in the Council of Ministers under Jacques Parizeau, Lucien Bouchard and Bernard Landry. On each occasion, you have distinguished yourself by acting as the statesman that you are, always placing the best interests of your people above all other considerations. Your obsession, which I share, for the efficiency of the State and your sense of institutions will have served Quebec remarkably. Your vast literary and historical culture, your passion for Quebec&#39;s place in the world and your desire to support the artistic and cultural vitality of Quebecers will have marked your unique journey.
I know that you also attached great importance to your work as Member of Parliament for Richelieu. It is no coincidence that your constituents have elected you five times in a row, which is no small feat. This confidence of the voters will have been amply rewarded by the legacy that you leave from all points of view.
Over the past few years, as a leader, I have been able to count on your vast experience, your wisdom and your love of the Parti Québécois. The many new members of our party elected in 2007 and 2008 owe you a lot. Today, our team is seasoned, very strong and ready to govern. Know that this strength that we have hard won over the past few years, we owe you part of it. I can&#39;t thank you enough for all of this.
As you know, the coming weeks will be decisive for the future of Quebec. Our task is very important. We need to change government, change direction and change country. I am confident that we will meet these challenges successfully. I know we can count on your support and I greatly appreciate it.
In closing, I would like to salute the statesman, the enthusiast of Quebec, the ardent sovereignist and the warm traveling companion that you will have been during all these years and that you will remain in your own way, because the fight of your life is not yet over.
On behalf of the Parti Québécois, I say thank you Sylvain. Thank you for everything you have done and above all for being what you are.
Original signed
PAULINE MAROIS &quot;
