Quebec - Here is the letter that the Leader of the Official Opposition, Pauline Marois, sent today to the Prime Minister of Canada, Mr. Stephen Harper, regarding the gun registry.
“Montreal, February 17, 2012
The Right Honorable Stephen Harper Prime Minister of Canada 80 Wellington Street Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0A2
Mr. Prime Minister,
As you know, it was following the Polytechnique tragedy in December 1989 that the desire to better control the possession and circulation of firearms led to the creation of the firearms registry. Poor management has irritated many taxpayers and many hunters. However, the creation of the data files is now complete and the administrative cost of this control tool has become almost nil.
The registry is very useful and, according to the police, it saves lives. This explains why your government&#39;s decision to abolish the firearms registry was unanimously rejected by the elected representatives of the National Assembly of Quebec and by a vast majority of Quebec elected officials in the House of Commons.
We have proposed, and the Government of Quebec with us, to create a Quebec firearms registry. To move forward without having to incur prohibitive expenses, the elected representatives of the National Assembly unanimously asked you to preserve the integrity of data coming from Quebec. Unfortunately, your government has announced its intention to destroy this data.
Quebeckers have spent hundreds of millions to put together these files, which are essential to the creation of a Quebec firearms registry, and transferring them to Quebec will cost your government nothing. All we are asking your government to do is let Quebec act freely.
The official opposition asked Premier Jean Charest to meet with you to plead the cause of Quebec, but he refused. As leader of the official opposition, I am prepared to go to Ottawa to meet with you on this subject or to welcome you to Montreal or Quebec. I sincerely hope that you will accept this meeting which would demonstrate your respect for the Quebec nation.
Please accept, Mr. Prime Minister, my best regards.
The Leader of the Official Opposition,
Original signed
PAULINE MAROIS &quot;
