Quebec - The Member of Parliament for Charlevoix and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pauline Marois, proposes that students be able to vote in their educational institution. Concerned about the fact that young people participate little in the exercise of the right to vote, Pauline Marois asks the Chief Electoral Officer that polling and revision stations be set up in higher-level educational institutions such as CEGEPs and universities. in the next general election.
Accompanied by the member for Chicoutimi and parliamentary leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, by the member for Terrebonne and spokesperson for youth and student affairs, Mathieu Traversy, and ten young people, the member for Charlevoix invited all political parties, all student associations and all those who want to fight cynicism and promote the vote of young people to join the Parti Québécois in order to concretely promote the electoral participation of young people.
“It is the new generations who define the future and who will lead the Quebec of tomorrow. The decisions taken today in matters of debt, the environment, the economy or family policy will have a direct impact on Québec in 2020. Fewer than one in two young people between 18 and 34 have taken advantage of their rights vote in 2008. In the circumstances, it is more than necessary that any measure aimed at strengthening electoral participation target this group in particular ”, indicated the leader of the official opposition.
The Parti Québécois also believes that students located outside their constituency should be allowed to vote in advance in their place of study and, if they so request, that their vote can be counted in their constituency. &#39;origin.
&quot;Just like the elderly voters who have access to ballot boxes directly in more than 700 residences or CHSLDs, or even at their homes, and in the same way as the inmates who vote in prison or the voters traveling outside of the country who express themselves by mail, no obstacle prevents young people from also benefiting from easier access in order to exercise their right to vote, ”added Pauline Marois.
“For three months, I have met several hundred young Quebecers and, contrary to what people say, these young people are very interested in talking about politics, vision for the future, projects for Quebec. You still have to take the time to listen to them and talk to them. By allowing students to vote in their educational institution, this will have the effect of making them more aware of the importance of the right to vote, ”she concluded.
