Quebec - Quebec Premier Pauline Marois, accompanied by Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, will lead an economic and trade mission to Mexico from June 26 to 29. A group of business people and leaders from around sixty companies and organizations, as well as around ten representatives from the research and higher education communities, will also take part.
The main objective of this economic and commercial mission, the first carried out by Ms. Marois, is to consolidate and increase economic and institutional exchanges with this Latin American country which presents excellent business prospects for Quebec. &quot;Quebec&#39;s economic vitality and prosperity depend on strengthening our relations with leading partners such as Mexico, a member of the North American Free Trade Agreement with which we have increased exchanges in the fields of economy, education and culture for more than three decades, ”said the Prime Minister.
“Mexico is a very interesting market for many Quebec companies looking for new outlets for their products or services, particularly in the most innovative and high added value sectors. This mission will be an opportunity for them to initiate discussions with a view to concretizing strategic alliances or establishing new agreements, ”Minister Zakaïb said.
The Quebec delegation will first go to Guadalajara, capital of Jalisco, a priority state with which Quebec signed a cooperation agreement in October 2009. The Premier will then go to the capital, Mexico City, where she will have talks with the main political authorities of the federal government. Ms. Marois will also act as a speaker at a luncheon conference on the North American Quebec-Mexico partnership.
In 2012, Mexico was Quebec&#39;s 5th global partner and 1st in Latin America; trade in goods between Quebec and Mexico amounted to $ 4.9 billion, up 11.2% over the previous year. The number of Quebec companies that now export to Mexico has almost quadrupled since 2000.
Check out the [photo album] [2] of the Prime Minister&#39;s economic mission to Mexico.
