Paris - At the start of her first mission to France, the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, met with the President of the French Republic, Mr. François Hollande. During a joint press briefing with the President, the Premier underlined Quebec&#39;s attachment to France as well as her government&#39;s desire to further deepen this historic link.
“I have always said that the President would choose his words and, this morning, he chose his words by telling you that he was always by our side and that this relationship of solidarity was going to be perpetuated. Quebec is more than ever prepared to invest in this exceptional relationship, which belongs to our citizens even more than to our governments, ”said the Premier.
Ms. Marois discussed with President Hollande on issues of common interest, such as youth, professional mobility between Quebec and France, and the draft comprehensive economic and trade agreement between Canada and the European Union. “We have launched the foundations for a new phase based on innovation and cultural and economic creativity in order to concretely confirm the uniqueness of our relationship,” said Pauline Marois.
The Prime Minister and the President also discussed the conclusions of the XIVth Francophonie Summit held in Kinshasa, in which they took part, in particular those relating to respect for human rights and gender equality. The Premier expressed Quebec&#39;s interest in increasing its ties of economic cooperation and solidarity with La Francophonie.
In the afternoon, the Prime Minister met the President of the National Assembly, Mr. Claude Bartolone, who was accompanied by other deputies. On this occasion, she praised the contribution of parliamentarians to Franco-Quebec exchanges, in particular through the France-Quebec Friendship Group.
“Foundations of democracy, our parliamentary institutions are privileged witnesses of the major social, political and economic issues that drive our societies. As such, they make a significant contribution to the rich dialogue between Quebec and France, ”concluded the Premier.
