Quebec - Here is the letter that the Leader of the Official Opposition and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, sent today to the Member of Parliament for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Martin Lemay, who announced that he will not be a candidate in the next general election.
“Montreal, March 2, 2012
Mr. Martin Lemay Member of Parliament for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques 576, rue Sainte-Catherine Est Suite 200 Montreal (Quebec) H2L 2E1
Dear Colleague,
On April 10, it will be six years since the voters of Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques chose you for the first time to represent them in the National Assembly. I have the firm conviction that they have never regretted their choice. Having walked around your riding on several occasions and having met several of your fellow citizens, I can attest to their attachment and admiration. And that, you have always given them back. You were, and you still are, a member of Parliament close to his fellow citizens, sensitive to their concerns.
The citizens of Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques can be proud of you and the work you have accomplished. In the National Assembly and in the caucus of the Parti Québécois deputies, your sense of humor, but above all your tenacity in defending the causes that are dear to you, were greatly appreciated by all. I am thinking, among other things, of your constant defense of human rights, mainly those of the gay, lesbian and transgender community. How many times have you repeated to us that the legal equality of the community which has won hot struggles must now turn into de facto equality, that we must continually fight against discrimination.
Your passion for our Metropolis will not leave anyone indifferent. Montreal could count on you to defend its interests. You constantly remind us that the issues specific to Montreal must be tackled in a special way. This is why, I believe, you were so effective in your interventions when it came to homelessness. With our fellow MPs from Montreal, you fought a constant battle to obtain a policy on homelessness from the government.
Real history book on two legs, you reminded us daily of sometimes forgotten passages of our national history. Quebeckers should be proud of what they have accomplished for over 400 years. When you tell us about the history of our people, you remind us in a masterly and unique way that we have the historical baggage to achieve great things for humanity. It is this in-depth knowledge of history that makes you an effective promoter of the independence of Quebec. This cause to which you have devoted yourself for more than 20 years has been enriched by your political involvement. Now, you have made the choice to promote it in another way. I know that I will be able and that the Parti Québécois will always be able to count on you.
I sincerely thank you for the work you have accomplished and I am convinced that our paths will cross many times.
The Leader of the Official Opposition,
Original signed
PAULINE MAROIS &quot;
