Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, received yesterday the Secretary General of La Francophonie, Abdou Diouf. The discussions focused in particular on the place of Quebec within the Francophonie, the preparations for the next Dakar summit and the creation of the Abdou-Diouf scholarships, intended for young Quebecers to carry out an internship within the Organization. International Francophonie (OIF). Each year, three scholarships will be offered to young people to enable them to gain work experience within the OIF and French-speaking organizations.
“The creation of these scholarships reflects the Secretary General&#39;s attachment and constant concern for young people. It is thanks to young people that the Francophonie will maintain its influence and that the French language will remain alive, ”said Pauline Marois.
The Prime Minister also welcomed the exceptional honor reserved for the Secretary General, who addressed the parliamentarians gathered in the National Assembly room. “The Quebec nation today salutes a leading politician, an important figure in Senegal, Africa, La Francophonie and, more broadly, on the international scene. At the helm of La Francophonie, you have constantly ensured that Quebec&#39;s full member status is respected and have repeatedly shown great confidence in it. You have shown us, Mr. Secretary General, that the fate of French is ours. May the fate of this language be played out in the hearts of those who speak it, ”she said.
The adoption of an economic strategy for Africa should be one of the major themes of discussions at the 15th Francophonie Summit to be held next year in Dakar, Senegal. It will also be an opportunity to adopt the strategic framework that will guide the actions of La Francophonie for the years to come. “This economic Francophonie, this powerful engine of growth and prosperity which is now attracting the attention of the world, opens up new and promising horizons for us. Quebec is also reiterating its desire to become a partner in the development of French-speaking African countries, ”concluded the Premier.
