Quebec - Here are excerpts from the speech that the Leader of the Official Opposition and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, gave at the 90th Annual Meeting of the Union of Quebec Municipalities.
On this occasion, Ms. Marois took the opportunity to reaffirm the position of the Parti Québécois regarding the need to set up a commission of inquiry into the construction industry in connection with the financing of political parties and the awarding of contracts. .
“Yet today, I think we can see the future with hope because there are solutions. It begins by triggering the commission of inquiry that all of Quebec is demanding and that you yourselves courageously requested. Moreover, yesterday, your president reiterated the request for the holding of a commission of inquiry. He also deplored that the investigations into the allegations in the municipalities are too slow. It is true and it harms you.
For me too this commission of inquiry is essential. I personally know the mayors of my riding. I know they are honest. I know that everywhere in Quebec there are elected municipal officials who work with commitment, dedication and honesty! It is time for the government to assume its responsibilities and launch the commission of inquiry which will identify the culprits. It will help restore the reputation of all the others who are perfectly honest and whose sole purpose is to serve their community. However, the crisis is such that to rebuild and maintain confidence, it will take more than that. We will have to improve our democracy, including our municipal democracy ”.
In addition, during her speech, Ms. Marois recalled the Parti Québécois proposal, which aims to limit the number of consecutive terms of elected officials.
“Especially since citizens and our own activists challenge us about municipal democracy. This is where the proposal came from to limit the number of consecutive terms of mayors to three, or twelve years, whichever is longer, and without retroactivity, of course. I know that this proposal has been greeted with reservations by some of you. This is why we intend to continue the reflection, as provided for in the new program of our political party which mentions that we will study this proposal. There too, therefore, a dialogue will be necessary, but this time between a future government of the Parti Québécois and the elected municipal officials ”.
