Montreal - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, announces the creation of a committee on sovereignty, the vice-presidency of which will be assumed by the leader of the Bloc Québécois, Daniel Paillé. This think tank will have the mandate to prepare an action plan to make Quebec a country as soon as possible.
This is what Pauline Marois announced when she addressed the students of the University of Montreal as part of Sovereignty Week. “This committee, which I will chair, will work to develop the strategy for an action plan and the means to implement to achieve the most exciting project for Quebec,” she declared.
“To achieve sovereignty, you have to convince and motivate. Every day, the Harper government provides us with tangible proof that the values that the Conservatives defend and ours are very different and that only an independent Quebec will be able to fully ensure its economic, social and cultural development. By updating studies on sovereignty, we will be in a better position to prove it to Quebecers, ”said Daniel Paillé.
As the election campaign approaches, Pauline Marois called for the unity of all sovereignists. “To make Quebec a country, we must meet two conditions,” she said, explaining that we must first win the next election and then build a sovereignist majority. To meet these conditions, we must work together. As René Lévesque said, you have to go out, talk and convince. The Parti Québécois is the only political formation capable of taking power and making the country project go from dream to reality ”.
Daniel Paillé for his part insisted that the Conservative government of Stephen Harper has been the most destructive for Quebec since that of Pierre Elliott Trudeau in the 1980s. “The abolition of the gun registry, the appointment of unilinguals Anglophones in strategic positions, Bill C-10 which goes against our values in the area of justice, particularly with regard to young offenders, the reduction of Quebec&#39;s weight within the federation and the abandonment of the Kyoto Protocol are all actions taken by the Conservatives against the interests of Quebec, ”he recalled.
“To defend Quebec, there is on one side the Liberal-Caquist tandem and on the other, the Parti Québécois. We are the only political formation that promises to fight for Quebec and against the assaults of the Conservative bulldozer. On the other hand, Jean Charest and François Legault promise the status quo and in no way want to undertake the battle against the government of Stephen Harper. Together, we can counter federal policies by giving ourselves a sovereignist government and achieve the only real change for Quebec, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
