Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, will begin her first mission abroad by participating, from October 12 to 14, in the 14th Francophonie Summit in Kinshasa, in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). She will then be on an official visit to Paris to meet the high authorities of the French Republic. She will be accompanied by the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée.
“Our attachment to La Francophonie is undeniably based on a cultural and emotional bond, that of sharing a language with hundreds of millions of speakers around the world. But for Quebec, it is also an international forum that represents an extraordinary lever for asserting its interests, particularly in favor of the development of the French language, democracy and human rights, as well as in matters of of sustainable development, ”said the Premier.
The theme of the 14th Francophonie Summit is: Francophonie, environmental and economic issues facing global governance. It is the first to be held in Central Africa, a strategic region for the future of the French language due to its demographic evolution. According to the wishes of the host country, heads of state and government will be called upon to discuss four main themes: Africa in the Francophonie and in global governance, environmental and economic issues, democratic governance and human rights. &#39;Man and, finally, the French language, cultural diversity and education.
“In the wake of the holding in Quebec this summer of the first World Forum of the French language, Quebec is particularly well positioned to advocate for a greater commitment of member states and governments of the Francophonie to the French language ”, Underlined Minister Lisée.
From October 15 to 17, Prime Minister Pauline Marois will pay a first official visit to France, which is also the very first bilaterally. In the company of Minister Lisée, she will take part in several political talks aimed in particular at taking stock of the Franco-Quebecois relationship. The Prime Minister will also address members of the Mouvement des entreprises de France (MEDEF) International and the French Institute of International Relations (IFRI).
“Historically, the Franco-Quebecois relationship has generated exceptional dynamism and commitment on both sides. I look forward to being able to help deepen this rich relationship even further, which benefits our two companies more than ever, ”said the Prime Minister.
