Montreal - “It is time to assert ourselves and stand up to uphold our Quebec language, culture and identity. What will remain of us as a people if we allow French to retreat and trample on our values? &quot;
This is the cry from the heart launched today by the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, on the occasion of a press conference she held with the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesperson for secularism, Carole Poirier, and the member for Drummond and language spokesperson, Yves François Blanchet.
“In recent years, we have noticed significant setbacks when it comes to ensuring that our language and our values are respected. French is losing ground. In companies, the working language is more and more English and in billboards, Law 101 is less and less respected. Our common values, the primacy of French, equality between men and women, secularism in public institutions and the promotion of Quebec culture, are constantly flouted in the name of Canadian multiculturalism. This is unacceptable. There are limits to allowing our values to be trampled on by a liberal government that refuses to act in this area, ”said Pauline Marois, stressing that the Parti Québécois is the only political party that has concrete solutions to protect our identity.
“We are proposing to adopt a new Quebec charter of the French language to remedy the damage caused by various judgments of the Supreme Court of Canada. We are going to extend Bill 101 to companies with 11 to 49 employees in order to advance French in these workplaces, ”added Yves-François Blanchet, who recently tabled Bill 591 on the requirement of French as a criterion. hiring in the subsidiaries of Crown corporations.
“We have common values in Quebec and we must defend them. We cannot accept to tolerate the wearing of the kirpan, the veil or any other religious symbol in our public institutions and at the same time prohibit the Christmas decorations there which are part of our traditions. There are limits. We must send a clear signal to ensure that our values and our cultural traditions are respected, while remaining open, welcoming and proud of the immense wealth that diversity represents for Quebec, ”said the leader of the Parti Québécois, blaming multiculturalism. Canadian that undermines the assertion of our identity.
“At the Parti Québécois, we want a society where women and men are equal and where religion is absent from public institutions. We propose to adopt a charter of secularism following a vast debate that we will have held in parliamentary committee. This charter will affirm in particular that Quebec is a secular state, neutral with regard to the beliefs or non-beliefs of each other in matters of religion. It will also affirm that freedom of religion cannot be invoked to infringe the right to equality between women and men, ”explained Carole Poirier.
“We have a common language and values. We are a proud people and we must say it loud and clear. We need to stand up and not be embarrassed about who we are. Asserting oneself as a people does not mean rejecting others, on the contrary. Quebec society is rich in all its components and it is together, as a people of multiple origins, that we will continue to build our country. Only the Parti Québécois has the will and the capacity to restore the primacy of French in Quebec and to defend our common values and our identity. Jean Charest&#39;s liberals have already proved that they are incapable of it, François Legault shows no will and Québec solidaire encourages multiculturalism. Quebecers can count on us! », Concluded Pauline Marois.
