Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, has appointed MM. Pierre Bernier and André Perrault as well as Mmes Francine Roy and Diane Wilhelmy members of a committee on the conditions of employment offered to incumbents from outside who reach senior positions in the public service. Their mandate will be to make recommendations to the government on the attraction and retention of competent incumbents to senior positions.
More precisely, the mandate of the committee will consist in carrying out an analysis of the situation of the holders of a higher post coming from outside the public service and who are appointed, either on a contractual basis or on a permanent basis, public.
The committee will examine the following aspects:
The committee will also have to make a comparative analysis of this situation with those prevailing in other public administrations. The committee will therefore have to make recommendations in order to provide the government with conditions enabling it to recruit and retain competent incumbents and ensure that the integration of qualified personnel into the public service meets demanding ethical standards.
Mr. Pierre Berniera worked at the Ministry of Recreation, Hunting and Fishing for several years, notably as Deputy Minister. He was also state administrator at the Minister of the Executive Council. In this ministry, he served as secretary general associated with government organization and senior positions. He is currently a member of the editorial board of the journal Éthique publique and the journal Télescope, and a member of numerous public and parapublic organizations as well as of several interministerial committees. Mr. Bernier is also associate professor at the National School of Public Administration and researcher at the Observatory of Public Administration.
Mr. André Perrault has 25 years of consulting experience, including more than ten in an international firm, as head of the executive compensation practice for Eastern Canada. Its consulting activities focus on the analysis of the competitiveness of the compensation of executives and key personnel, as well as on the evaluation and design of incentive plans favoring retention. It offers consulting services to companies in sectors as varied as natural resources, biotechnology, high technology and financial services. Since 2001, he has worked for the company he founded, Perrault Conseil inc. He regularly acts as an expert witness in compensation disputes.
Ms. Francine Roy has held strategic positions in development and human resources in various companies, both in the public and private sectors. She specializes in mandates related to the organizational model, the assessment of work organization, change management, and the consolidation of work teams. She coordinated several organizational analysis initiatives in which she participated. She is a strategic advisor to members of several business departments. Ms. Roy is a partner at Optimum Talent inc. and she is a member of the Order of Certified Human Resources Advisors.
Ms. Diane Wilhelmya held the position of Associate Secretary General at the Minister of the Executive Council, first for the Status of Women, then for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs. She was also responsible for the Forum Secretariat, the Secretariat of the Summit on the Economy and Employment as well as the administrative reform file. At the Ministry of International Relations, Ms. Wilhelmy was Delegate General of Quebec in New York and Deputy Minister. She has also held management positions in academia, at the University of Quebec and the National School of Public Administration. She is currently a public administration consultant and director of public and private companies.
“I chose people who have in-depth knowledge of the public service and its senior jobs. This committee will shed light on the employment conditions of incumbents in full transparency and fairness. This is another initiative that brings us closer to our objective in terms of integrity, which consists of restoring the public&#39;s confidence in its institutions, ”concluded the Premier.
