Quebec - On the occasion of the commemoration of the death of René Lévesque, the leader of the official opposition and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, has pledged to continue his work.
“What I retain mainly from the legacy that René Lévesque bequeathed to us is the reorganization of political mores, the defense of the French language with Bill 101 and the nationalization of electricity, but above all, its fight to make Quebec a country, ”declared Pauline Marois, arguing that we must draw inspiration from the founder of the Parti Québécois to continue our work.
“In 1976, the first thing Mr. Lévesque wanted to do when he came to power was to put an end to hidden funding for political parties. He passed a law on party financing which helped clean up political mores. He hated corruption, influence peddling and cronyism. We will continue his work by reducing donations to political parties to a maximum of $ 100. Quebec must once again become an example of public ethics in the world, as René Lévesque wanted, ”she added.
“It was under the first government of the Parti Québécois that the Charter of the French language was adopted. We will continue by adopting an overhauled law 101 to which we will add a charter of secularism and a law establishing Quebec citizenship, ”continued the leader, recalling that the first government of the Parti Québécois had given a lot of pride. to the people of Quebec and that we would continue by affirming our identity loud and clear.
“We will also continue its work in the field of natural resources by regaining control of our business. These riches are ours, all Quebecers of all generations. It is therefore Quebecers who must be the primary beneficiaries, ”she added.
“We have to fight. This is what René Lévesque showed us. From his resignation from the Liberal Party in 1967 to the victory of the Parti Québécois in 1976, he overcame many obstacles, he went through many setbacks. A lot of people would have given up. Not him. He is an example of courage, perseverance and determination. Quebec must regain its pride. We must fight and move forward for this idea of freedom which is the basis of our existence. We will fight until we reach our destination: independence ”, she concluded.
