Montreal - As part of the “Dare to rethink the PQ” initiative, Paul St-Pierre Plamondon, special advisor to the leader of the Parti Québécois for renewal, Jean-François Lisée, unveiled to PQ activists during the National Council the January 14, 2017, the schedule for his tour of the regions of Quebec.
After having carried out more than 60 consultations and met a thousand citizens in November and December 2016, Paul St-Pierre Plamondon started 2017 on a strong note by starting his tour of the regions of Quebec in the Capitale-Nationale region on 14 January. “The year 2016 will have been completely crazy for me after a leadership race and the start of the“ Dare to rethink the PQ ”adventure. But now I have been full of energy during the holidays and I am enthusiastic about the idea of hitting the road again to meet Quebeckers. I know they are impatient to share their proposals in order to rethink the Parti Québécois ”. Mr. Plamondon&#39;s regional tour will stop in all regions of Quebec so that the ideas that will ensure a renewal of the PQ are representative of all the sensibilities of the inhabitants of the territory. “The worst thing we could do is deprive ourselves of the experiences and solutions of citizens who live in regions far from major centers. They are currently too neglected by the government of Philippe Couillard ”, specifies Mr. Plamondon.
“Today, I&#39;m starting my tour in Quebec, but in the coming weeks and months I&#39;ll be going to Gaspésie, Lac-Saint-Jean, the Côte-Nord and Abitibi. »Explains Paul St-Pierre Plamondon. The regional tour will end in early April and will lead to recommendations for making concrete changes within the Parti Québécois. The details of the tour can be found on the Dare to rethink the PQ website http://osezrepenserlePQ.quebec.
Quebec regions tour calendar
“Dare to rethink the PQ” is a citizen consultation in which Quebeckers are invited to reflect on a renewal of the Parti Québécois and to identify ideas that will allow it to once again become the voice of the next generation, of diversity and of the builders of Quebec. Led by Paul St-Pierre Plamondon, special advisor to the leader of the Parti Québécois, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, “Dare to rethink the PQ” will lead to recommendations that will bring about concrete changes with a view to reviewing the ways of doing things, the discourse and the ideas to the Parti Québécois.
For more details: http: //osezrepenserlePQ.quebec
