Longueuil - While in the Montérégie region, the Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, announced the candidacies of Sophie Stanké, in Laporte, and Pierre Langlois, in La Prairie. They therefore join Alain Therrien, elected since September 2012 and again candidate in the constituency of Sanguinet. “These are high quality applications. Sophie and Pierre have acquired experience in various spheres of activity. They are now part of a great team of women and men who want to serve Quebec alongside me, ”said Pauline Marois.
Sophie Stanké has a certificate in political science as well as a master&#39;s degree in drama. A well-known figure in the Quebec cultural landscape, she has extensive professional experience, particularly as a journalist, actress, host and entrepreneur.
“I am very proud to be part of the Parti Québécois team, a team determined to work in the interests of the entire population. We offer a solid track record, in addition to a clear vision for the future. The government is at the service of Quebecers; we are determined to make Quebec more united, more proud and more prosperous, ”said Sophie Stanké.
For his part, in addition to studies in econometrics and actuarial science, Pierre Langlois holds a bachelor&#39;s and a master&#39;s degree in economics. He has extensive professional experience as an economist, particularly in the areas of public transport and real estate. Mr. Langlois is Chief of Staff to the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb.
Thanks to his expertise and extensive experience in the field, Pierre Langlois will be a definite asset in the economic team of the Parti Québécois. “I am happy to offer my experience, my energy and the strength of my convictions to the citizens of La Prairie. I wish to work to increase the prosperity of all Quebecers, ”declared the new candidate.
The outgoing member of Sanguinet, Alain Therrien, welcomed these two candidacies. “Our team is the strongest and most economically competent. It is an honor for me to ask for a second term in order to continue the work started to make Quebec stronger, ”he said.
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
