Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, today kicked off the largest project in the cultural sector in Quebec, namely the construction of the Pierre Lassonde pavilion of the Musée national des beaux-arts du Québec (MNBAQ ). The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale region, Agnès Maltais, were also present at the event.
“In addition to the fact that it will give a unique signature to our capital, the new Pierre Lassonde pavilion will fit perfectly into the urban fabric of Quebec City, whose heart beats to the rhythm of culture, history and heritage. I would like to express my gratitude to the great philanthropists who have chosen to give their community an extraordinary example of commitment to culture, ”declared the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois.
“This pavilion, worthy of the great creators of the 21st century, will bear witness to the respect for the heritage of the past anchored to the avant-garde of Quebec in architecture. Witness to the cultural vitality of the Capitale-Nationale region, the Museum offers privileged access to the universal artistic heritage. This unifying project will confirm the status of the National Museum of Fine Arts as an institution of international stature which will ensure the influence of our cultural vitality, ”added the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto.
“The development of a capital depends on the development of its institutions and its culture. This is why I am very proud that the government is respecting its commitments and taking the means to carry out a project that is rich from all points of view: economic, cultural, tourist and urban, ”continued the Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale. , Agnès Maltais.
The expansion of the MNBAQ will allow it to add spaces allocated to temporary exhibitions. Thus, it will be able to intensify its collaborations with partners from the world&#39;s elite museums and to present major international exhibitions.
The Government of Quebec has invested $ 45.1 million for the construction of the Pierre Lassonde pavilion. By 2015-2016, this project will generate the equivalent of 300 new jobs. This contribution is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan, made public in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 2 billion for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make informed choices.
