Îles-de-la-Madeleine– The Member for Îles-de-la-Madeleine, Ms. Jeannine Richard, announces, on behalf of the Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, and on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation of financial support totaling more than $ 131,000 for the realization of three research projects- development in the field of commercial fisheries and aquaculture in the Gaspé and Magdalen Islands.
Thanks to the Support Program for the Development of Strategic Sectors and Niches, under the interregional Marine Resources, Sciences and Technologies niche, and the Innovamer program of the Government of Quebec, Merinov, the Center for Aquaculture and Fisheries Innovation of Quebec will be able to complete three studies for the benefit of the commercial fishing and aquaculture industry.
“The implementation of these projects clearly reflects the industry&#39;s desire to harness regional know-how and skills in innovation in order to develop the full potential of the commercial fisheries and aquaculture sector. The Ministry is proud to support these initiatives, which are consistent with the objectives of the Food Sovereignty Policy, by focusing on innovation to improve the competitiveness of the sector, ”said François Gendron.
&quot;I am pleased to announce these research and development projects with Merinov, projects which are in line with the Action Plan for commercial fisheries and aquaculture and which aim to improve the profitability of companies in this sector. neuralgic in the Magdalen Islands, ”said Ms. Jeannine Richard.
A sum of $ 52,372 will first be used to carry out a project whose main purpose is to determine the passive protection strategy to be deployed against predation of mussels by ducks. This financial assistance is allocated equally by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (MAPAQ) and by the Ministry of Finance and the Economy (MFEQ).
In addition, financial assistance of $ 19,960 from the MFEQ will be used to conduct a study aimed at finding an alternative solution for transporting princess scallops to large urban centers. It is essentially a question of maximizing the conservation of scallops during their transport by plane to the markets of Quebec and Montreal. Note that the study will be conducted at the Merinov center in Îles-de-la-Madeleine and at the Culti-Mer company.
Finally, a sum of $ 59,274 is allocated to implement a project that will test six types of traditional bait optimized for lobster fishing under commercial fishing conditions. Indeed, the decrease in catches of species used as bait and the increase in the costs of obtaining them lead the industry and Merinov to want to find a valid substitution option. Of this amount, the MAPAQ and the MFEQ respectively grant $ 33,562 and $ 19,382.
&quot;Merinov actively contributes to the competitiveness of Quebec&#39;s fishing, aquaculture and aquatic biomass industry, in particular by working with local businesses,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “Indeed, here as elsewhere, entrepreneurs are in the best position to understand the issues and challenges related to the economic development of their region and, above all, to provide sustainable solutions”.
Created in 2010 by the MAPAQ, the Collège de la Gaspésie et des Îles and the University of Quebec at Rimouski, Merinov employs nearly 100 employees in 4 centers located in Gaspésie, Îles-de-la-Madeleine and on the Coast. -North. The organization supervises research and development, technology transfer, technical assistance and monitoring activities.
“Our center was created thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec. We are therefore happy to continue this partnership, which will allow us to conduct our research on the various projects announced today. The collaboration between Merinov and its partners is one of the most important values and we are happy to be able, together and thanks to such support, to advance the fisheries and aquaculture sector towards a collective success ”, indicated the Managing Director of Merinov, Mr. Patrice Element.
This project is in line with the objectives of the ACCORD process (Concerted action for regional development cooperation), a government priority that aims to boost the economy of the regions of Quebec. It is based on regional strengths, on the mobilization and dynamism of regional business people, as well as on the search for excellence in key activity sectors in Quebec. This approach aims to build a competitive regional production system on a North American and global level in each of the regions of Quebec, by defining and setting up niches of excellence that can become the brand image of these regions.
To receive press releases from the Ministère des Finances et de l&#39;Économie in real time, you can subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
