Îles-de-la-Madeleine - The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, and his parliamentary assistant (fisheries section), Ms. Jeannine Richard, participated in the activities marking the start of the 138th lobster fishing season in the Magdalen Islands.
&quot;I am very proud to participate for the first time in this more than a century old activity and to share the excitement and enthusiasm of the fishermen and the population as the new season begins,&quot; said the Minister.
The Minister took advantage of his visit to the archipelago to take part in the cocktail party for the new captains, where he had the pleasure of presenting them with a commemorative plaque. &quot;I am happy to meet a dynamic succession who will certainly honor those who built the fishing industry on the Islands,&quot; added Mr. Gendron. The Minister recalled the importance that the Government of Quebec attaches to the next generation in the capture sector. &quot;It is essential to encourage young people from maritime regions who establish themselves in fisheries and who will ensure the sustainability of this industry,&quot; he said.
“In the Magdalen Islands, we are aware of the extent of the contribution of our seafarers. The activities surrounding the launching of lobster cages give us the opportunity to pay tribute to them for their undeniable contribution to the economic vitality of the archipelago ”, underlined Ms. Jeannine Richard.
The day before, the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food presented to the entire industry his five-year action plan for the commercial fishing and aquaculture industry. “The plan contains 27 actions that will be carried out gradually over the next 5 years. Its implementation reflects our desire to endow Quebec with a first food sovereignty policy, which will rely on the originality and high quality of our products to make them shine as they deserve, ”indicated the Minister. .
Remember that the Magdalen Islands commercial fishing and aquaculture industry provides employment for more than 2,000 fishermen, fisherman&#39;s helpers, aquaculturists and plant workers. The value of landings of fish and seafood in the island territory is estimated at around 36 million dollars. More than 70% of the lobster caught in Quebec comes from the Magdalen Islands.
Those wishing to obtain more information on the 2013-2018 Action Plan for commercial fisheries and aquaculture are invited to consult the website of the Ministère de l&#39;Agriculture, des Pêcheries et de l&#39;Alimentation (www. mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/pechesaquaculture). It is also possible to follow the activities of the Department on Twitter (https://twitter.com/mapaquebec).
