Québec - On the occasion of Fierté Montréal, the official opposition leader and member for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the member for Joliette and the Parti Québécois justice spokesperson, Véronique Hivon, wished to reaffirm the Parti Québécois&#39; desire to offer better recognition to LGBT people and to support the fight against discrimination, homophobia and transphobia.
In fact, many members of the Parti Québécois took part in the various activities held as part of the 10th edition of Fierté Montréal. In particular, in addition to the leader of the official opposition, the deputies Alexandre Cloutier, Véronique Hivon, Diane Lamarre, Jean-François Lisée, Agnès Maltais and Martine Ouellet attended the Montreal Pride Parade 2016, which was held this year under the theme “Our flag, our nature: GREEN”.
“As a society, Quebec has already made good progress in favor of LGBT people. We are recognized around the world as a progressive, open nation, and we can be very proud of that. However, there is still a long way to go: among other things, we must continue to fight homophobia and transphobia, two phenomena that unfortunately persist, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
“Let&#39;s focus on awareness,” added Véronique Hivon, MP for Joliette. We must target the entourage of the most vulnerable LGBT people, for example those from cultural communities where homosexuality is not accepted, or more difficult. I am also thinking of LGBT seniors, as well as those who live outside major urban centers. Let us ensure that all these people never have to live the drama of isolation or exclusion, ”she said.
The Leader of the Official Opposition took the opportunity to recall that it was René Lévesque&#39;s government that passed an amendment to the Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms that prohibits discrimination based on sex or gender. sexual orientation. It is also a government of the Parti Québécois which, more recently, legally recognized same-sex unions. “The Parti Québécois has always campaigned for equality and will continue to do so. That is why we will be watching the current Liberal government closely; its recent cuts, totaling one million dollars, have had real consequences, including the elimination of the second awareness campaign to fight homophobia - despite the very conclusive results of the first campaign of its kind, in 2013 - and the reduction training given by the National Institute of Public Health to sensitize professionals to the realities of LGBT people. The cause, recognition and rights of LGBT people must not be set back. We are therefore asking the government to release the necessary funds for the second awareness campaign. Integration or openness to diversity must never be sacrificed in the name of austerity, ”he concluded.
