Quebec - Following the release of employment figures for the month of March, the leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the Parti Québécois finance and revenue critic, Nicolas Marceau, the spokesperson for economy, energy and natural resources, Alain Therrien, as well as the spokesperson for employment and social economy, Dave Turcotte, urge Prime Minister Philippe Couillard to leave his torpor and seriously tackle the problem.
“The Liberal Prime Minister is caught up in ethical issues, inertia, indecision and inconsistency. During this time, the economic development of Quebec is still losing. Employment is stagnating in Quebec. There are even fewer jobs now than there were 11 months ago. Since the Liberals came to power two years ago, only 34,900 jobs have been created. This is only a third of the jobs promised during the election campaign, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“Once again, in March, Quebec lost jobs: 22,500 full-time, for a net loss of 11,200 jobs. Meanwhile, in the rest of Canada, 57,800 full-time jobs have been created. The promise of 250,000 jobs has been missing since the last budget of the Minister of Finance. The figure does not even appear in the budget documents. The Prime Minister and his dismantled economic trio lied to Quebecers, ”added Nicolas Marceau.
“The absence of an economic policy will permanently harm the development of Quebec and our regions. It is time for the Prime Minister to take notice. We saw it yesterday during the announcement on the energy policy: there are many promises and objectives, but few resources, not to mention the uncertainty in which entrepreneurs and SMEs in Quebec are plunged. . It is time for the government to get rid of its problems and take action, ”said Alain Therrien.
“Liberal austerity, in addition to cutting services to the people and families of Quebec, is hurting the economy and jobs. The workers expect clear means and actions. Quebec&#39;s economy needs a real policy now! », Concluded Dave Turcotte.
