Quebec - The Parti Québécois deplores the loss of 132 quality jobs in the pharmaceutical industry in Montreal, after the announcement of the company AstraZeneca to close its research and development center.
“132 quality jobs, with a high level of qualification and with high salaries, are disappearing. Plant closures in Quebec continued in 2012, after posting the worst employment record in Canada in 2011. What is striking this time around is that it affects our leading sectors such as &#39;pharmaceutical industry. Liberal neglect is costing us dearly, ”denounced the member for Saint-Jean and official opposition critic for employment and social solidarity, Dave Turcotte.
The finding is heartbreaking: while Quebec was considered ten years ago as one of the best places in the world to invest, innovative pharmaceutical companies are now assessing that we are no longer in the process. Thus, when global reorganizations occur, it is Montreal that takes the brunt and other jurisdictions, such as Ontario, benefit from new investments. “Quebec is getting the pawn; Ontario now receives more new investments than Quebec from pharmaceutical companies ”, continued, for his part, the member for Rousseau and official opposition critic for finance and economic development, Nicolas. Marceau.
For him, the destructuring of the pharmaceutical sector under the Liberal government is a concrete illustration of what is causing the anemia of private investment in Quebec. &quot;The Liberal government witnessed the crumbling of our manufacturing sector and abandoned the pharmaceutical sector that had emerged in the Montreal region under the government of the Parti Québécois because we had made it a priority sector&quot;, a- he stressed.
The Parti Québécois criticizes the Liberal government for having done nothing to take into account the new global context and to maintain Quebec&#39;s competitiveness. The Liberal government has been told for years that adjustments must be made, but it preferred to turn a blind eye.
Worse still, it should be noted that with the CAQ and François Legault, the situation could worsen since they suggest purely and simply to abolish the BAP-15 years. “This is a radical solution that will further reduce investments in the pharmaceutical sector in Quebec. Such a gesture will cause further loss of quality jobs. This demonstrates the lack of credibility of François Legault, who claims to want to double private investments in Montreal only by merging two government aid companies, ”said Nicolas Marceau.
It should be noted that, on this proposal from the CAQ, Montréal International and Investissement Québec have already been linked to the canvassing of foreign investments by Bill 123 in 2010 when Mr. Legault had left the National Assembly.
