Quebec - The member for Saint-Jean and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of employment, social solidarity, the fight against poverty, vocational training, adult education, literacy and youth, Dave Turcotte , deplores the closure, on March 31, of the Workforce Adaptation Committee (CAMO) for people with disabilities, a national organization whose mission is to promote access for people with disabilities to training and employment. Earlier today, he held a media availability on this subject with CUPE representatives.
“Once again, the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, François Blais, lacks compassion and vision. With Bill 70, it was already attacking the most vulnerable and now it is adding to it with the closure of an organization working with people with disabilities. The latter are losing a unique and precious expertise that has favored their training, integration and job retention over the past 23 years, ”explained the member for Saint-Jean.
Remember that last November, the Commission des Partenaires du marché du travail (CPMT) expressed its desire to end its agreement with the CAMO for disabled people. Fifty partners then expressed themselves, by means of a letter addressed to the Commission, to oppose the closure of the organization. However, the CPMT did not take their advice into account. Let us add that the decision to close the CAMO was taken following an evaluation process which leaves doubt as to its objectivity.
&quot;The CPMT has failed in its mission, which&quot; consists of ensuring the development and optimal use of businesses and workers in Quebec by offering them the opportunity to develop their skills and gain experience in a prospect of increasing the prosperity of Quebec &quot;. Minister Blais has a duty to ensure that this mission is fulfilled. He should further realize that no other organization has the same expertise as CAMO at the national level. It is not too late to turn back. Finally, it is unacceptable that the choices made by the CPMT have affected people with disabilities, when the Minister promised not to put anyone aside in relation to employment assistance, ”concluded Dave Turcotte.
