Quebec, December 9, 2019– The deputy for Îles-de-la-Madeleine, Joël Arseneau, denounces the deplorable situation currently prevailing in the area of air services in the regions. In fact, for the past few weeks, Air Canada&#39;s customer service has been virtually inaccessible. As the busy holiday season begins, the situation is already untenable for travelers in the regions, who must be able to count on regular and reliable air services. For some, this is an essential service.
In short
Air Canada is in the process of migrating its system, which is causing the reservation platform to fail, whether online, over the phone and even at the counter. The discontinuity of flights - now segmented into parts, depending on the destination - also complicates the situation, as even agents find it difficult to access travelers&#39; flight information. The member fears that this situation will continue because, according to some, the break-in period could last up to 6 months.
&quot;Minister François Bonnardel must call on Air Canada so that the carrier deploys effective customer service and a functional reservation platform without delay, because travelers are virtually incapable of contacting anyone, at present,&quot; said Joël. Arseneau.
These communication problems obviously have unfortunate consequences for travelers, not to mention the fact that flights can be canceled or postponed several times in a row, due to a lack of personnel (flight attendants, pilots), difficult weather conditions. , damage to devices or, simply, their unavailability.
In addition, two years after the holding of the Regional Air Transport Summit, Joël Arseneau points out that the Permanent National Working Group - which has the mandate to examine the government measures put in place and to determine the elements that could make the object of representations from Quebec to Ottawa - has not yet been convened by Minister Bonnardel. &quot;It is urgent to bring together the stakeholders, both to find solutions to this crisis and to lay the foundations for a new government policy for air transport.&quot;
The deputy recalls that in 2002, the Parti Québécois government adopted the National Air Transport Policy, aimed at improving services to promote the economic and social development of the regions. “After 17 years, the context has changed, and it is high time the government updated this policy. This is necessary not only to improve air services, but also to boost regional development, ”he insisted.
