Québec, July 9, 2014 - The leader of the official opposition and Member of Parliament for Chicoutimi, Stéphane Bédard, asks the Prime Minister to come out of his silence and show a minimum of leadership by calling his ministers Gaétan Barrette and Yves to order Bolduc. He summons Philippe Couillard to ask his Minister of Education to reimburse now all the premiums received, or $ 215,000, to take care of patients who were on a waiting list. The Prime Minister must also demand that his Minister of Health apologize for the objectionable comments he made earlier today.
“Reimbursing only part of the premiums received for patients who were not followed up within one year is not sufficient. Since Yves Bolduc was unable to make a long-term commitment to the 1,500 patients, the Prime Minister must ask his minister to return the total sum of the bonuses obtained. Beyond legality, it is a question of ethics and integrity. Philippe Couillard must dictate the ethical rule that will now apply. He wastes a lot of time with a situation that normally should have been resolved from the start; let him assume his leadership, ”said Stéphane Bédard.
The MNA for Taillon and official opposition spokesperson for health, Diane Lamarre, recalls for her part that the objective of these financial incentives is to allow patients to have access to a family doctor, and this, in the long term. “These bonuses are in addition to the doctor&#39;s remuneration. We do not question the work accomplished, however, we continue to question the reconciliation between the large number of patients registered with his demanding work as a Member of Parliament. Now that he can no longer follow up with his patients, he must reimburse the bonuses obtained. As an elected official, he is required to set an example and not to take excessive advantage of the rules he himself has put in place, ”added Diane Lamarre.
As for the words of the Minister of Health, who tries to divert the debate from the real question, Stéphane Bédard asks Philippe Couillard to demand an apology from his minister. &quot;Mr. Barrette lacked respect towards his fellow MPs, towards Claude Castonguay and even towards young Quebecers, who are just as hard-working as the medico-liberal trio who are currently leading Quebec,&quot; concluded Stéphane Bédard.
