Quebec - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, in the presence of the President and CEO of the Conseil des arts et des lettres du Québec (CALQ), Stéphan La Roche, today announced the entry into force of the program Mécénat Placements Culture which was enhanced following the recommendations of the Working Group on Cultural Philanthropy.
Indeed, as had been wished by the Prime Minister, Pauline Marois, the rules of the Sponsorship Placements Culture program have been updated in order to better meet the funding needs of non-profit organizations in the fields of culture and communications spread across the country. all of Quebec.
“The Government of Quebec is committed to supporting cultural organizations, particularly in developing their expertise for the search for donors. The Mécénat Placements Culture program is the tool par excellence for encouraging a strong philanthropic culture in Quebec, and its enhancement makes it more flexible and accessible. I invite business people and patrons from all regions of Quebec to contribute to the development of cultural organizations. They thus participate in a tangible way in the social, identity and economic development of their community, ”said Minister Kotto.
“Mécénat Placements Culture is a program widely adopted by the cultural community. This is its success. Its already very structuring effect should increase with the new measures introduced by the government. With this new program, cultural organizations will never have been so well equipped to gain financial autonomy while relying on their community, ”added CALQ President and CEO Stéphan La Roche.
The Mécénat Placements Culture program now has three components that offer a greater choice of matching options for fundraising. The first component encourages medium and long-term capitalization, the second responds to short-term funding needs, and the third aims to stimulate the dissemination of artistic activities outside Quebec. Another new feature is the simplification of the registration and registration procedure for fundraising by placing financial statements at the center of accountability mechanisms.
Remember that Mécénat Placements Culture was created in 2005 to ensure the autonomy and financial security of organizations by encouraging them to diversify their sources of funding. This program also aims to stimulate the engagement of private donors in the arts, culture and communications sectors. Since its creation, it has enabled participating organizations to raise $ 28M in private sector donations and contributions and to build funds totaling more than $ 70M which have been added to their assets. The new Mécénat Placements Culture program is available on the CALQ website at www.calq.gouv.qc.ca/mpc/accueil.htm.
The report of the Task Force on Cultural Philanthropy was made public on June 11, 2013 and is available on the websites of the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications (www.mcc.gouv.qc.ca) and the Ministère des Finances and of the Economy (www.finances.gouv.qc.ca).
