Quebec - This morning during a press briefing, the member for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, demanded an intervention from the Prime Minister in order to maintain independence of the Commissioner for Health and Welfare (CSBE). On this occasion, she was accompanied by Ms. Claire Montour, President of the Fédération de la santé du Québec (FSQ-CSQ), and Mr. Billy-Sam Roy, Vice-President of the Federation of Health and Services Unions. social (F4S-CSQ).
“Today in the National Assembly, I tabled a petition, initiated by the CSQ and signed by 6,439 people, demanding the complete preservation of the autonomy of the Commissioner for Health and Welfare. This mobilization must resonate with the ears of the government; it is not too late to act. The Minister of Health intended, through the omnibus bill for the implementation of the 2016-2017 budget, to abolish the CSBE. However, this bill has still not been tabled. It is therefore always time for the government to take action, ”said the MP.
“Remember that on April 26, a citizens&#39; initiative led to the creation of the Coalition for the Maintenance of the Commissioner for Health and Welfare, rallying nearly ten civil society organizations. The government must take note of this, ”added the MP.
“After the abolition of the Quebec Association of Health and Social Services Establishments, the dramatic decrease in the number of complaints commissioners, their remoteness from several places of care, extreme centralization, Minister Barrette targets the Commissioner for health and well-being. Obviously, he is trying by all means to silence criticism and muzzle the voices that would be able to assess his reforms. The CSBE is the only organization that can still assess and measure the performance of our health system in a neutral and objective manner. Today, we are calling on the Prime Minister to regain some control over his omnipotent minister and to keep in place the health watchdog that he himself created. The CSBE has always flawlessly fulfilled the role of sentinel that Philippe Couillard had entrusted to it, ”concluded the MP.
