Quebec - The member for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, deplored the sad economic record of the Liberal government, noting that Prime Minister Philippe Couillard is doing nothing, that he is waiting for the liberal effect, while the Quebecers are paying the price for their inaction.
“We were promised a liberal effect; growth forecasts have since declined. There was even a downward revision the day after the last budget. We were promised 250,000 new jobs; instead, 1,100 were lost in 2014. Add to this the fact that no full-time jobs have been created over the past 12 months. Housing starts are at an all-time low because families lack confidence. Decidedly, the Prime Minister is the “Scott Gomez” of the economy; he asked the Quebeckers for a big contract, but he doesn&#39;t have any goals, ”declared Stéphane Bédard.
In 24 hours, 600 additional job losses
Just yesterday, we announced 300 job losses at Bell Helicopter in Mirabel and 300 others at Resolute, on the Mauricie side. “We are losing 600 jobs in a single day and the Prime Minister remains determined to do nothing. We are losing quality jobs and the Prime Minister is satisfied with the creation of part-time jobs. What does he say to the 600 people who learned that they were losing their jobs yesterday and who have nothing to give them hope of finding one in the short term? Added the leader of the official opposition.
Economic missions without fallout
Stéphane Bédard also recalls that the Prime Minister carried out economic missions whose preparation was deficient, and which consequently produced more diplomatic blunders than economic fallout.
“With a year of hindsight, can the Prime Minister explain to Quebeckers why he has not yet presented an economic policy, when he was elected with promises to this effect? How does Philippe Couillard explain the 92% drop in foreign investment attracted by his government? I would argue that it is because he practices total laissez-faire and small-time management, ”he concluded.
Foreign investments made by Investissement Québec and financed by the Economic Development Fund
