Quebec– In response to the leader of the official opposition and French language critic, Jean-François Lisée, who introduced a bill aimed at restoring the right of Quebecers to work in French and alleviating liberal negligence in the defense of the French language, Prime Minister Philippe Couillard was satisfied with the current situation, while designating the Charter of the French language as a “linguistic rag”.
IN SHORT
“The Court of Appeal, last October, made Article 46 of the Charter of the French language meaningless. This completely disarms her and calls into question our right to work in French. However, in a context where, everywhere in Quebec, French as a language of work is declining, we cannot stand idly by, ”said Jean-François Lisée. In fact, this new case law introduces what could be called the “Couillard clause”. In March 2014, Mr. Couillard indicated that every employee on an assembly line should know English, in case an English-speaking customer wanted to “talk to the workers”.
The leader of the official opposition is also outraged by the remarks made by the Prime Minister in the House this morning when it comes to French at work. “Philippe Couillard applauds the decline of French at work. And it deals with the linguistic question of &quot;rag&quot;. Decidedly, our Head of State is incapable of rising up, of defending the rights of the citizens he is supposed to represent. He has no ambition for Quebec, no column facing the federal government. That&#39;s why we do the work for him, ”he continued.
After examining job offers in the Montreal region, in November 2012, it was found that nearly 6 out of 10 employers required knowledge of English. The total inaction - even the tacit complicity - of Prime Minister Couillard, since the 2014 election, has meant that this practice has become widespread and that employers, often in good faith, now feel authorized not to respect the initial spirit of Law 101.
“We want to introduce rigorous criteria in order to send a clear message to employers: the requirement of knowledge of English should not be a general rule, but an exception which must be justified each time. In Quebec, this is part of corporate social responsibility. Here, we work in French, ”concluded the member for Bourget and official opposition lieutenant for the French language, Maka Kotto.
The main provision of the bill reads as follows:
