Quebec - The member for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, deplores that the Prime Minister did not take advantage of the departure of Yves Bolduc to correct the situation and offer a government that listens to the people of Quebec, instead of having ministers who shut themselves up in caucus to wait for the press lines he dictates to them.
“When you use the same ingredients, you end up with the same recipe. By replacing Yves Bolduc with François Blais, and by preventing himself from fundamentally overhauling his government, the Prime Minister is missing an opportunity to change course, he who has gone in the wrong direction since his election. The fundamental problem of government is not the individuals who make it up, but the ways of doing things by ministers: they do not listen to the people. Liberal-Caquist austerity attacks families, regional development, the most disadvantaged. The government is not listening, it is far from the people. Ministers are absent for their respective partners. Philippe Couillard should have taken advantage of this reshuffle to change these ways of doing things and change the attitude of arrogance and contempt that characterizes his government, ”declared Stéphane Bédard.
A government of &quot;flip-flops&quot;
According to the leader of the official opposition, Yves Bolduc is not the tree that hides the forest. Many ministers made mistakes and had to back down. Recently, Minister Kathleen Weil did an about-face on fundamentalism. Minister Pierre Moreau threatened the cities of Longueuil and Laval, before backing down and accepting his fiscal pact and the tax increases he passed on to the municipalities. Minister Jean D&#39;Amour has completely isolated himself from the players in the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie – Îles-de-la-Madeleine regions; one municipality even asked for his departure. Minister David Heurtel does not defend the interests of the population or Quebec&#39;s jurisdiction in environmental matters. Without forgetting the Minister of Transport, who was rebuffed by his Prime Minister and who had to reverse the Poëti tax. Let us add the promise of the Minister of Finance to create 250,000 jobs, which Carlos Leitão has reduced to the rank of target. Finally, let us mention the blunder of Minister Christine St-Pierre, who erred in talking about the trips of the member for Rosemont, Jean-François Lisée; she even had to apologize to him.
The government puts an end to 50 years of regional concertation “The government&#39;s vision for the regions is simple: it is to put an end to 50 years of concertation and development efforts in a catch-all bill, the Bill 28. The regions and the university community are mobilizing to tell the government that it is preparing to make irreparable mistakes that will harm regional development. The government abolished the CRÉs, butchered the CLDs, cut 80 million in aid to the regions, even going so far as to slash aid to devitalized territories. All this because Philippe Couillard is convinced he is right, ”added Stéphane Bédard.
A Minister of Families cut off from her network
The leader of the official opposition also points out that other ministers could have given up their places, while there are multiple problems in several sectors.
“For example, in an unprecedented initiative, the AQCPE and the AGPQ this week asked for the departure of the Minister of Families, Francine Charbonneau, who is completely cut off from the childcare network. The government is demolishing family policy. This morning, a clear signal could have been sent by the Prime Minister to those who offer our little ones an accessible and quality learning environment. Unfortunately, he missed this opportunity, ”added Stéphane Bédard.
Does François Blais commit not to cut more in Quebec schools? In addition, the Parti Québécois is asking the new Minister of Education, François Blais, to make a commitment that there will be no other cuts in the school network or in higher education. He also asks him to be transparent in the changes to come within the school boards.
“What does the new Minister of Education think of the direct cuts in student services guided by his predecessor? For example, is he in favor of cuts to homework help and the purchase of books? Will he go back? Does he believe that we should increase the teacher-student ratio in elementary and secondary classes? Many questions that we will be asking Minister François Blais, to promote educational success for all, ”concluded the leader of the official opposition.
