Quebec - With a view to a meeting between Prime Ministers Harper and Couillard, the member for Verchères and official opposition spokesperson for Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, asks the head of the Quebec government to show up clear, finally, and to present to Quebeckers the demands it will submit to the federal government.
“The meeting of the Council of the Federation last week reassures absolutely no one in Quebec about the Liberal government&#39;s intentions. When will the Prime Minister defend the interests of Quebeckers? We would like him to tell us what requests he intends to make during his meeting with Stephen Harper, ”said Stéphane Bergeron.
Infrastructure financing
Let us recall that within the framework of the 2007-2008 Budget, tabled on May 24, 2007, the former Liberal Minister of Finance, Monique Jérôme-Forget, asked: &quot;Moreover, to accelerate investments and reduce the burden of the administrative process, sums for infrastructure should flow to the provinces through block funding ”(page D16 of the Budget Plan).
“Will the current Liberal government have the courage to ask for the same thing, namely the bulk transfer of funds earmarked for infrastructure? However, he does not seem to want to strongly oppose the federal decision not to increase infrastructure funding. We therefore ask him to be clear and firm on this issue, ”continued the member for Verchères.
A drop in health transfers
The changes proposed by the Conservative government with regard to federal health transfers will result in a shortfall of more than $ 9 billion over 10 years for Quebec&#39;s finances. &quot;How will the government go about restoring transfers to meet needs that do not decrease, even when the federal government is accumulating surpluses, which could, moreover, reach $ 7 billion as of this year?&quot; ? How will the Liberal government compensate for this drop in transfers? Will he increase taxes? Carry out even more drastic cuts in services to the population? As we can see, silence in the face of the federal government comes at a price that is proving to be high and that the population will be called upon to pay despite itself, ”said Stéphane Bergeron.
Fiscal imbalance
The Conference Board said last week that the Canadian provinces and the federal government are heading towards a new fiscal imbalance of nearly $ 300 billion. The aging of the population and the costs related to health, in particular, are putting great pressure on Quebec&#39;s finances. &quot;Will the Prime Minister send Stephen Harper a copy of the Conference Board report?&quot; Does he agree with this report or with his Minister of Finance, Carlos Leitão, who said on May 7 that there was no fiscal imbalance? Added the deputy.
Liberal support for the Canadian Energy Strategy
Philippe Couillard&#39;s adherence to the Canadian Energy Strategy is also a worrying sign that the Liberal government is sending in its defense of Quebec&#39;s interests, as Stéphane Bergeron and the member for Marie- denounced last week. Victorin and energy and natural resources spokesperson, Bernard Drainville.
“By adhering to this strategy, the Liberal government is ignoring Quebec&#39;s jurisdiction in energy matters. Quebec values for the development of our resources must be put forward, not merged into the great Canadian whole. We will continue to denounce this abandonment of the skills and specificity of Quebec, ”concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
