Quebec, July 21, 2014 - “Still without an agreement on the staggering of the salary increase for doctors, the Prime Minister must stop procrastinating and settle this priority issue for Quebec&#39;s finances. This is what the leader of the official opposition and MNA for Chicoutimi, Stéphane Bédard, declared. “The file had to be settled before the budget, and since then nothing. Mr. Couillard undergoes a test of leadership and credibility with Quebecers and the financial markets. Each passing day weakens the achievement of budgetary targets and has a direct effect on the supply of health services. The Prime Minister cannot afford to fail. Its recent declarations to the effect that the government will make up for it in the next negotiations clearly demonstrate the amateurism of this government, which prefers to wait rather than act now, ”he added.
For her part, the member for Taillon and official opposition spokesperson for health, Diane Lamarre, asks the Prime Minister to withdraw the file from the Minister of Health. “It is clear that Gaétan Barrette failed. From the start, we warned the Prime Minister that Gaétan Barrette was not credible as a negotiator, being himself in a conflict of interest. Philippe Couillard must immediately take matters into his own hands, ”said Diane Lamarre.
The member for Taillon also highlights the consequences of this failure. “At the end of the day, it&#39;s the patients who pay the price; the whole system is waiting for money. Several measures could be put in place and other players in the network could be called upon to contribute if the file was settled, as the Liberals had committed, ”continued the spokesperson for health.
The Liberal government is entirely responsible for the current drift in the question of doctors&#39; salaries. After the scandal of the bonuses granted to Yves Bolduc, the file of the salary increase for doctors is demonstrating the flagrant lack of leadership of Philippe Couillard. “The Liberals gave doctors a sky-high salary hike and must now step back to balance the public finances. They boasted that with doctors in power, it would be easier to settle this file. They must now prove it, ”concluded the leader of the official opposition.
