Quebec City, February 21, 2017 - The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the Parti Québécois Finance Critic, Nicolas Marceau, and the Economy Critic, Alain Therrien, have denounced the timidity and the lack of scope of the measures announced today by the Liberal government for the protection of head offices in Quebec.
“This morning, Prime Minister Philippe Couillard presented a plan without substance on the head offices. What did it contain, essentially? A tax cut for the 0.1% of the richest citizens of Quebec. The Liberals are lowering the tax payable by $ 60,000 on each gain of $ 1 million that will be realized through the exercise of stock options given to executives. Meanwhile, the Liberals are leaving seniors in the dark - the government has pushed back its decision to cancel the tax credit for the most vulnerable seniors - and are ignoring the impact of their austerity measures, which have affected students in difficulty, the elderly, families, regions ”, reacted Jean-François Lisée.
“What the Liberal government announced today is a vacuum. And it is all the more shocking that he has in his hands a more substantial report on the same subject, tabled in February 2014 by Claude Séguin and a large number of business personalities. It should be remembered that several measures contained in this 2014 report were not adopted by the government, in particular: granting additional voting rights to long-term shareholders to disadvantage speculative shareholders; not allow the author of a hostile takeover bid to vote on his own proposal; and prevent the removal of directors in office for the benefit of persons appointed by the purchaser. These are proactive policies that the government could have, if it had wanted, put at the service of businesses, ”added Nicolas Marceau.
&quot;For the liberals, the measures taken by other companies to protect their head offices are to build walls around Quebec, they are&quot; to go back to the previous century &quot;, they are&quot; Soviet &quot;policies, to quote the Prime Minister and his Minister of Finance. We can only see to what extent they are disconnected, even from the international economic consensus of companies which are committed to maintaining their flagships on their territory, ”added Alain Therrien.
“During the 2014 election campaign, the Liberal Party promised to use the billions of dollars in the Generations Fund to retain head offices. Three years later, there is nothing, no line on it in an insignificant plan. Nothing that could have prevented the sale of Rona, for example. The promise is officially broken, and the Liberals promise to keep it up. It is extraordinarily disappointing for Quebeckers, who helplessly witness the Liberal government&#39;s programmed renunciation of the retention of our head offices. In short, what Philippe Couillard&#39;s government did this morning was to put up a sign &quot;for sale&quot; on Quebec, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
