Québec, December 8, 2016 –The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the Parti Québécois spokespersons for forests and Québec-Canada relations, Sylvain Roy and Nicolas Marceau, are concerned about the Premier Philippe Couillard&#39;s softness in the face of the softwood lumber crisis, which affects hundreds of communities across the regions of Quebec.
“Faced with the imposition of an import tax against our lumber industry, Premier Couillard must stand up. The American complaints are caused by the industry in Western Canada, when Quebec&#39;s forestry regime is now in line with international trade standards. Philippe Couillard must demand that Justin Trudeau negotiate with the United States the exemption for Quebec from surcharges that will otherwise be imposed. This morning, for the Quebec forest industry, I succeeded in obtaining loan guarantees from the Prime Minister to cover borrowings of $ 300 million. I want him to know that I will remind him that he replied: &quot;We will be there, at the height required for the actual damage observed,&quot; &quot;said Jean-François Lisée.
“After the last forestry crisis, Quebec lost a third of the 90,000 jobs in its forestry sector. It is therefore a weakened industry which is now facing a new lumber war. In our region, more than 250 communities make a living from the timber industry, and 120 depend exclusively on it. The government&#39;s inaction puts these communities at risk. The taxes imposed represent a sum of up to $ 300 million annually for the industry, ”continued Sylvain Roy.
“The forestry industry has asked the federal government for loan guarantees in order to survive the imposition of the US tax. Whether it is in the areas of bank regulation, aid to the Muskrat Falls power station, the Energy East pipeline or health transfers, the Couillard government has failed to secure any gains in Ottawa. The past being the guarantor of the future, Quebec is likely to be said no, once again, by the Trudeau government. What will Philippe Couillard do to ensure the survival of the factories? When will the aid promised this morning be available? Remember that the federal government is not proposing any and that the penalties will apply from the end of January, ”Nicolas Marceau concluded.
