Quebec - The member for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, as well as the member for Taschereau, parliamentary leader and spokesperson for secularism, Agnès Maltais, deplore the fact that the Prime Minister refused to support the definition of the religious fundamentalism of the Bouchard-Taylor commission, by voting against the motion tabled today by the official opposition.
“The Prime Minister&#39;s unease continues; he is unable to agree on a definition of religious fundamentalism. The Liberal government continues to procrastinate and play with words. In order to fight effectively against a phenomenon, you have to know what you are talking about. The government remains in the dark, as religious fundamentalism impacts all of society. One thing is certain, it cannot be reduced to a personal choice, ”said Stéphane Bédard.
“This morning I tabled a bill on the observer of religious fundamentalism, in order to understand, document and prevent the phenomenon. This observer could, like the Québec Ombudsman, do research, write reports and submit them to parliamentarians. We are reaching out to the government so that it calls for the bill and that we can debate it in the National Assembly, ”concluded Agnès Maltais.
The motion defeated by the Liberals read as follows:
&quot;That the National Assembly affirm, like the Bouchard-Taylor report, that fundamentalism is a literal and monolithic interpretation of religions, by virtue of which the latter acquire absolute precedence over other social, political and scientific considerations , which leads to reject any evolution;
That it declare that religious fundamentalism is most often expressed by an attack on the fundamental principle of equality between women and men as well as on the fundamental rights of homosexual persons;
That it maintain that the practice of religious fundamentalism has impacts on the community and that it cannot be reduced to the expression of a personal choice;
Finally, that she recall the urgency of documenting this phenomenon through an observatory of religious fundamentalism. &quot;
