Rimouski– The MNA for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, accompanied by the MNA for Rousseau and Finance and Revenue Critic, Nicolas Marceau, the MNA for Chicoutimi, House Leader and Speaker spokesperson for the economy, entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports, Stéphane Bédard, the deputy for Sanguinet and spokesperson for the Conseil du trésor, Alain Therrien, and the member for Rimouski, Harold LeBel, announced that &#39;he begins a tour of economic decision makers in Quebec.
“Last May, I proposed to the Prime Minister to bring together the socio-economic players around the same table to endow Quebec with a real strategy of full employment and meet the economic challenges that arise, such as the protection of our headquarters, the innovation and productivity of our companies. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister refused the outstretched hand, despite the obvious need to act on several fronts to move Quebec forward, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
The leader of the official opposition is therefore embarking on a tour of economic decision-makers. In particular, he will meet with institutional leaders (Hydro-Québec, Investissement Québec, the Caisse de dépôt et placement, our universities), representatives of labor-sponsored funds, business leaders, several entrepreneurs who create SMEs, our best researchers, as well as people in the innovation sector. “If Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard refuses to bring them together, I will go to them, discuss solutions, promising projects for Quebec. I will then offer Quebeckers interesting avenues for the future, ”he added.
Liberal austerity doesn&#39;t work
“During the summer, I went to meet the citizens of Quebec. People everywhere have told me of their fears about liberal austerity. Austerity is not an economic plan; it is not a vision for Quebec and it is not unifying. Philippe Couillard is locked into the accounting and doctrinaire logic of the President of the Treasury Board, who does not hesitate to sacrifice the Quebec model in the name of an imaginary deficit of $ 7 billion, ”continued Pierre Karl Péladeau.
However, there is an urgent need to act. Just last Friday, the Ministry of Finance published its financial results for the first two months of fiscal 2015. It is too early to draw any conclusions, but the budget balance remains in deficit after only two months. , whereas this year we should be in a balanced budget situation.
On the employment side, since June, Quebec has lost 11,600 jobs, while it was created in the rest of Canada. There are losses in several sectors, including in the regions, in the forestry industry, or in the metropolis, in the food industry and even in aeronautics. “Government action, instead of supporting our regions, harms our economy and harms jobs. Here, at the bottom of the river, the number of jobs has fallen by 8% since the arrival of the Liberal government; that&#39;s 7,000 fewer jobs. On Monday, the people we met told us a lot about their disappointment with the Liberal Party; because, after having heard the promises, they find themselves rather at the time of the cuts ”, concluded Harold LeBel.
Watch the press briefing with Pierre Karl Péladeau.
