Quebec - On the occasion of a visit to the SABSA solidarity cooperative, to mark the first anniversary of this local clinic without a doctor, the member for Saint-Jérôme and leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the member for de Taillon and Parti Québécois spokesperson for health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, and the deputy for Taschereau and lieutenant for the Capitale-Nationale, Agnès Maltais, asked the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, to sustain the organization&#39;s funding, since it has demonstrated that it truly improves access to health care and services for patients.
“I found it very important to visit the women and men behind SABSA. These people work every day to improve care and access to the people of Quebec, especially the most vulnerable citizens. We are learning that further cuts of hundreds of millions of dollars will hit the health sector, which is already struggling with significant cuts. The Minister of Health dangled savings with his reforms, but we are still waiting for them. The SABSA clinic is a good example of what we have been saying for a long time in the Parti Québécois: the doctor does not have to be at the center of everything. Health professionals must be involved in improving access to care, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“To improve this access, we believe it is essential to leave more room for nurses. It is a first step to increase their autonomy. We believe that we can also make more use of other health professionals, such as speech therapists or nutritionists. Currently, what is the Minister of Health doing, apart from playing in the structures? Gaétan Barrette should be inspired by the model set up by SABSA, rather than creating superclinics that will only drain our health professionals to the private sector, outside the public network, ”added Diane Lamarre.
“I congratulate the people of SABSA and the entire community, which mobilized, worked together and put forward an innovative solution to better care for the citizens of Quebec. As the clinic is in peril, I am once again asking the government to support it financially, on behalf of the thousands of people in my riding who find the basic care they need there, ”concluded Agnès Maltais.
