Quebec - The member for Saint-Jérôme and leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, appointed Pierre Duchesne as director of his cabinet.
“I am pleased to announce the appointment of Pierre Duchesne as Chief of Staff to the Leader of the Official Opposition. Journalist for 25 years, biographer and minister in the government of Pauline Marois, Pierre has all the qualities required to successfully occupy this important position. Over the next few months, he will see, among other mandates, the deployment of our action, which will be centered on the priorities of Quebecers and marked by our desire to make, with the people, of Quebec a country ”, declared the head of the official opposition.
Joined as a trainee journalist at Radio-Canada radio in 1987, Pierre Duchesne was, in turn, journalist and then reporter for the Première Chaîne de Radio-Canada (1990-2001), reporter, investigative journalist, parliamentary correspondent in Quebec and political analyst on Radio? Canada television (2001? 2012). Elected member of the Parti Québécois in the riding of Borduas in 2012, he was Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology from September 19, 2012 to April 23, 2014. In June 2014, he became strategic advisor for the Parti Québécois.
Recipient of numerous professional awards, including the John Humphrey Prize for Journalism, awarded by the French-speaking Canadian section of Amnesty International, in 1998 and 1999, Pierre Duchesne is the author of an imposing biography on the former Prime Minister of Quebec, Jacques Parizeau (Jacques Parizeau - Le Croisé in 2001, Jacques Parizeau - Le Baronen 2002, and Jacques Parizeau - Le Régenten 2004).
Having assumed the interim leadership of the office of the Leader of the Official Opposition since May 17, Simon Lajoie will resume his duties as Chief of Staff to the House Leader of the Official Opposition.
“I would like to thank Simon Lajoie for accepting to act as interim head of the office of the Leader of the Official Opposition. His long parliamentary experience in the National Assembly will certainly have allowed a smooth transition and a successful entry into the Blue Room following my arrival as leader of the official opposition, ”added Pierre Karl Péladeau.
