Quebec - The Leader of the Official Opposition and Member of Parliament for Saint-Jérôme, Pierre Karl Péladeau, made the following statement during a press briefing held today in Montreal:
“Today, I am faced with an absence of alternative which forces me to make a choice between my family and my political project. Under these circumstances, you will understand that I have chosen my family. I am therefore reluctant to announce that I am immediately leaving my functions as leader of the Parti Québécois, leader of the official opposition and Member of Parliament for Saint-Jérôme.
I made this decision for the sake of my children. I must, for them, remain an example.
I deeply love the Parti Québécois, its activists and its members. It is a great party that carries the fundamental project of making Quebec a country and deep values of defending the interests of Quebeckers.
I want to thank the team of members of the party, its activists, the constituency executives of the Parti Québécois, all the permanent employees, all the staff of the parliamentary wing and the researchers, for their confidence and for the privilege given to me to lead the Parti Québécois.
I also thank all the citizens that I had the honor to meet during my mandate.
I also address a special word to the citizens of Saint-Jérôme, who placed their trust in me on April 7, 2014. I want to say thank you, from the bottom of my heart.
Over the past few months, together, we have worked tirelessly to defend the interests of the population, for economic development and for the regions of Quebec. We have made significant progress, we have made the government back down. The result of the last by-election in Chicoutimi was a great victory, which demonstrates the strength of our political formation.
We have also laid the foundations for the convergence of nationalist and sovereignist forces. It is an important project; I trust the activists to continue it.
For what follows, the members of the national executive will be summoned quickly to take stock and take the necessary decisions. The caucus of members of the Parti Québécois will meet this week to determine the modalities for the identification of a parliamentary leader.
I will remain a Parti Québécois activist. I am convinced that the future of Quebec, of Quebeckers, depends on the independence of our nation. &quot;
