Petite-Rivière-Saint-François– The Premier of Quebec and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix – Côte-de-Beaupré, Pauline Marois, is pleased to announce that the Municipality of Petite-Rivière-Saint-François will benefit from government financial assistance maximum of $ 10,436,717 for the supply and distribution of drinking water and wastewater treatment. This assistance comes from the Quebec Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
“My government recognizes the need to renew and replace water infrastructure in communities across Quebec. This is why I am delighted with the financial support granted today to the Municipality of Petite-Rivière-Saint-François, which testifies to my government&#39;s desire to provide all Quebecers with quality infrastructure, ”declared the Minister. Premier of Quebec.
The drinking water supply system serving Petite? Rivière? Saint? François is supplied by underground water wells in the Village and Maillard sectors. This system must be upgraded to adjust the treatment equipment and to meet the recreational and tourism development needs of the Le Massif Group. In addition, the installation of new distribution pipes will make it possible to resolve the supply problems in the Grande-Pointe road sector.
The improvement work proposed for drinking water is aimed in particular at the construction of a water tank, the addition of pumping, instrumentation and disinfection equipment, the installation of booster and reduction stations. pressure, as well as the installation of supply and distribution pipes.
As for the works for the purification of wastewater, they include the installation of collection and interception pipes, the installation of two pumping stations and their discharge pipes, the construction of a water station. aerated pond-type purification and construction of an outfall pipe for the discharge of treated water into the St. Lawrence River.
These interventions will make it possible to provide the population of the municipality of Petite? Rivière? Saint? François and the recreational and tourism development of Groupe Le Massif with better drinking water, in addition to reducing and improving the quality of wastewater discharges. in the environment.
The eligible costs for this project are set at $ 13,800,827. The total assistance of $ 10,436,717 granted by the Government of Quebec stems from components 1.4 and 2.1 of the PIQM. Petite-Rivière-Saint-François&#39; financial participation in the PIQM amounts to $ 3,364,110, to which the Municipality adds another amount of $ 337,757, bringing its contribution to $ 3,701,867 as well as the total amount of investments of $ 14,138,584.
Government assistance to the Municipality of Petite-Rivière-Saint-François is part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, which provides for nearly $ 44.18 billion for the period 2011-2016.
For his part, the mayor of the Municipality of Petite-Rivière-Saint-François, Mr. Gérald Maltais, is delighted with the completion of this important work, which constitutes a considerable contribution to the community. He would like to thank the Government of Quebec for its financial support, which will enable his municipality to improve its public services and increase its power of attraction.
