Quebec - The Minister for Native Affairs, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, is participating today and tomorrow in consultations to develop a government action plan to counter racism and discrimination against Native people. In all, representatives of 26 aboriginal communities and 40 organizations will be able to speak on the subject, in order to enlighten the government on the realities faced by Aboriginals in Quebec.
“On a daily basis, many Aboriginal people face prejudices and stereotypes. Whether at work, at school or in the media, Aboriginals are too often confronted with discourse and behavior that amounts to discrimination and harassment. These situations are unacceptable in our society, ”declared Minister Larouche.
These consultations, organized by the Secrétariat aux affaires autochtones, aim to better define the problem of racism and discrimination against Aboriginals, as well as to identify possible solutions to quickly combat ignorance, prejudice and exclusion. aboriginal people are victims. Important players in the Aboriginal community as well as representatives of certain human rights organizations were invited to this essential exercise.
During the elaboration of the Action Plan, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche assures us that she will maintain continuous collaboration with the aboriginal communities and organizations: &quot;The development of this project will be done with the greatest respect for cultures and identity. indigenous peoples. Ultimately, the aim is to encourage their aspirations to be taken into account and to work towards bringing together the various Aboriginal and Quebec cultures, ”she said.
This approach follows the publication in 2008 of a government policy aimed at countering racism and discrimination in Quebec, Diversity: added value. The Secrétariat aux affaires autochtones was given the mandate to coordinate a similar action plan, specific to indigenous nations. Among the concrete measures already being considered, the government will in particular ensure the establishment of an Aboriginal History Month. The launch of the action plan is scheduled for next spring.
