Québec– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec region and Member of Parliament for Johnson, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, on behalf of the Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to announce the allocation of financial assistance of $ 40,000 to the regional county municipality (MRC) of Arthabaska for the preparation of its agricultural zone development plan (PDZA).
“When I learned that the Arthabaska MRC was receiving financial assistance to prepare its PDZA, I felt great satisfaction. Knowing the important role that agriculture plays in the Quebec economy, I am proud to be able to say that this MRC will be better equipped to participate in the prosperity of this sector, ”declared Mr. Yves-François Blanchet.
“The PDZA constitutes an effective tool for the planning and development of the agricultural zone. I am very happy with this announcement since it is consistent with one of the objectives defined in our Food Sovereignty Policy, which consists of promoting the development of a dynamic and prosperous biofood sector ”, added François Gendron.
It should be remembered that more than 30 RCMs have started or completed the preparation of their agricultural zone development plan, which is a planning document aimed at enhancing the agricultural zone of an RCM and promoting the sustainable development of agricultural activities. &#39;take place there. The PDZA allows regional county municipalities to determine specific actions to stimulate the development of agriculture in their territory in the context of a concerted approach.
For more information on PDZA, simply go to the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PDZA). For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
