Quebec– The Minister responsible for Government Administration and President of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, today unveiled the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI). This plan, with investments of $ 92.3 billion, offers Quebecers a real vision of infrastructure planning and management, based on honesty and rigor.
The government thus responds to the severe findings of the SECOR-KPMG report on the management of public infrastructure under the former Liberal government. This independent report showed that several projects had been deliberately undervalued, that others had been the subject of a hasty announcement or that they had been carried out outside the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. The results are heartbreaking: cost overruns of nearly 80%, on average, for around twenty major projects.
With the PQI, the government is making sure to renew and improve infrastructure in all sectors of society. Among the main sectors of infrastructure investment, the government will allocate in particular a sum of $ 31.6 billion in transport, $ 19.4 billion in health, $ 14.2 billion in education and higher education and research, 8.1 $ Billion in municipal infrastructure as well as $ 2.0 billion in culture. These investments will have major economic spinoffs throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year.
The 2013-2023 Québec Infrastructure Plan adopts a ten-year horizon. Among other things, this will allow better consideration of the financial repercussions of major projects that have a completion period of more than five years. The government will thus be able to determine in advance the amounts that will become available in the medium term to undertake new projects.
In addition, all of the investments financed by the government will be integrated into the new PQI. Plans from previous years accounted for around 80% of government investments. Public investments as a whole will now be subject to the same rigorous planning and monitoring process.
The new approach will lead to better prioritization of projects. It will ensure that the asset base is maintained in optimal and safe condition while allowing better cost control. To do this, infrastructure projects will henceforth be classified into three categories: projects under study, projects in planning and projects in progress ?. The ranking of projects will be reviewed each year to ensure that the stages are respected according to the context and the resulting priorities.
&quot;This new rigorous approach will allow us to prospectively assess the needs based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make informed choices,&quot; said Mr. Bédard.
Finally, it should be noted that the governance rules for the management, approval and monitoring of projects will be strengthened over the next year. A bill to this effect will be tabled during this parliamentary session. This will also see to specify the rules to be followed in terms of planning and monitoring. For example, annual investment management plans by departments and bodies will henceforth be tabled in the National Assembly, in the same way as annual expenditure management plans. These plans will show, in full transparency, the infrastructure projects to be carried out by the ministries.
“The 2013-2023 QIP is in line with the will of the population and our government to ensure sound management of public resources by continuing our merciless fight against collusion and corruption. All our action is based on the principle of integrity, which is the basis of democracy. It is on this bond of trust between the State and its citizens that we are going to build the Quebec of tomorrow, ”concluded Minister Bédard.
