Quebec - The Minister for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Matane-Matapédia, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and &#39;Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to announce the allocation of financial assistance of $ 80,000 to the regional county municipalities (MRC) of La Mitis and La Matapédia for the development of their development plan. the agricultural zone (PDZA). The MRCs received financial assistance of $ 40,000 each.
“I am very happy with this important announcement for our region. Together, these two RCMs account for nearly a quarter of regional agricultural businesses. This shows the importance of supporting these MRCs in the development of their agricultural areas, ”said Pascal Bérubé.
“The PDZA constitutes an effective tool for the planning and development of the agricultural zone. I am very happy with this announcement since it is consistent with one of the objectives defined in our Food Sovereignty Policy, which consists of promoting the development of a dynamic and prosperous biofood sector ”, added François Gendron.
It should be remembered that more than 30 RCMs have started or completed the preparation of their agricultural zone development plan, which is a planning document aimed at enhancing the agricultural zone of an RCM and promoting the sustainable development of agricultural activities. &#39;take place there. The PDZA allows regional county municipalities to determine specific actions to stimulate the development of agriculture in their territory in the context of a concerted approach.
For more information on PDZA, simply go to the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PDZA). For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
