Québec- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Minister responsible for the Mauricie region and Member of Parliament for Johnson, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, on behalf of the Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to announce the allocation of financial assistance of $ 24,570 to the regional county municipality (MRC) of Maskinongé for the development of its agricultural zone development plan (PDZA).
“The announcement of the support from the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food for the planning of the agricultural zone of the MRC de Maskinongé makes me very happy. This approach will allow the MRC to showcase the large areas that characterize it, ”said Yves-François Blanchet.
“The PDZA constitutes an effective tool for the planning and development of the agricultural zone. I am very happy with this announcement since it is consistent with one of the objectives defined in our Food Sovereignty Policy, which consists of promoting the development of a dynamic and prosperous biofood sector ”, added François Gendron.
It should be remembered that more than 30 RCMs have started or completed the preparation of their agricultural zone development plan, which is a planning document aimed at enhancing the agricultural zone of an RCM and promoting the sustainable development of agricultural activities. &#39;take place there. The PDZA allows regional county municipalities to determine specific actions to stimulate the development of agriculture in their territory in the context of a concerted approach.
For more information on PDZA, simply go to the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PDZA). For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
