Quebec - The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, today reiterated the importance for regional county municipalities (RCMs) of having a agricultural zone development plan (PDZA). In this regard, it invites RCMs located outside metropolitan communities to submit a proposal for the development of their PDZA. Already, around forty MRCs have started or finished preparing their PDZA.
“With the Food Sovereignty Policy, we have clearly signaled our desire to extend the achievement of PDZAs. Territorial planning is an opportunity to bring together around the same table the actors concerned by agriculture in order to determine innovative means to fully and sustainably exploit the agricultural zone. It is a formula that has beneficial and concrete effects and the RCMs should be encouraged to adopt such a plan ”, recalled the Minister.
To obtain more information on the presentation of a project for the realization of a PDZA, simply consult the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc. ca / PDZA). Interested RCMs have until Friday March 14, 2014 to submit a proposal. Those whose projects qualify will receive financial assistance of up to 50% of eligible expenses, up to a maximum of $ 40,000.
It should be remembered that the PDZAs aim to enhance the agricultural zone of the RCMs by promoting the sustainable development of agricultural activities. Concretely, it is about promoting agricultural businesses and their products, increasing or diversifying production, promoting recognition of the multifunctionality of agriculture and promoting the establishment of complementary activities to agriculture. like agrotourism or processing on the farm.
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www .mapaq.gouv.qc.ca / PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
