Quebec - While the Liberal government finally decides to present the 2015-2020 Mental Health Action Plan, the Parti Québécois spokesperson for health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, is very disappointed to see that huge gaps remain in accessibility, and that investments are not there.
“We have been waiting for this plan for 18 months but, obviously, the eagerness of the Minister of Health has focused more on destabilizing the health network than on stabilizing and developing support for people with mental health problems. Depriving these people of access and timely follow-up causes many repercussions for them, for their families and even in terms of costs for the health system. The Québec Ombudsman, in its last annual report, also mentioned several worrying access difficulties. How can we leave suicidal people on waiting lists for several weeks after they have been discharged from the hospital? Where in his action plan does the minister send the order that immediate access is needed for these patients? », Asked Diane Lamarre.
Community organizations play an essential role with people with mental health problems, and we can only deplore their underfunding and the government&#39;s refusal to increase the budget for the Support Program for Community Organizations. This time, it&#39;s even worse: the Couillard government canceled the $ 162 million funding increase for community groups, announced by the Marois government in 2013.
Moreover, while there is a glaring shortage of psychologists in the public network, the Liberal government has chosen to cut the retention premium that had been put in place to alleviate the shortage of these professionals. “Doctors can keep their Bolduc premium, but psychologists cannot, because there is nothing left in the fund for measures that would improve access to mental health care. The lack of investments in mental health generates human and social costs that the Minister seems unable to estimate. Where he thinks he is saving money, he creates additional suffering and costs, including in the emergency room, which overflows with patients in crisis left to fend for themselves. What is the point of an action plan if access to psychotherapy services is restricted due to a lack of psychologists in the public? », Continued the spokesperson. Remember that last June, INESSS published a report on access to psychological services. He recommended that these be covered by the RAMQ, and therefore free. The minister spoke out against this idea.
Finally, Gaétan Barrette also said he wanted to make the link with addiction rehabilitation. &quot;It&#39;s rather contradictory because, because of the liberal reform of social assistance, which increases the benefit for people in detoxification from $ 747 to $ 200 per month, addiction intervention centers have to close their doors. and people find themselves without services, ”concluded Diane Lamarre.
