Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, as well as the two ministers responsible for coordinating government intervention in matters of domestic violence, namely the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the Minister of Justice, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, accompanied by the Minister of Public Security, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, the Minister for Native Affairs, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, from the Minister of Health and Social Services, Mr. Réjean Hébert, the Minister of Families, Ms. Nicole Léger, and the Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Ms. Véronique Hivon, unveiled today the 2012-2017 government action plan on domestic violence.
The government has decided to resolutely tackle all forms of violence against women, and more particularly domestic violence, by investing an additional $ 57 million for this purpose over the next five years. Nine departments and agencies will coordinate the 135 commitments contained in the Action Plan.
“To counter violence against women, we must first promote fundamental values, including respect for the physical and psychological integrity of all people. This is what my government is working to do, and it is a priority for us, ”said the Premier.
The first objective of the measures of the Action Plan is to strengthen assistance to victims, and a quarter of them are aimed specifically at indigenous women. The government is thus demonstrating its sensitivity to the specific situation in which these women live, and its desire to respect the values and culture of First Nations and the Inuit population. For the government, it is essential to offer solutions and means adapted to the communities if we want to fight effectively against conjugal and family violence.
Prevent, detect, adapt and intervene
The commitments of the Action Plan revolve around the four pillars of the government policy on intervention in domestic violence, entitled Preventing, detecting and countering domestic violence, adopted in 1995. These pillars are, in addition to prevention and screening, adaptation to specific realities and intervention in psychosocial, police, judicial and correctional matters.
“Our Action Plan will really help victims and children exposed to domestic violence, just as it will provide support for people with violent behavior in a conjugal context. It also takes into account particularly vulnerable people such as the elderly, the disabled, immigrant women, LGBT people as well as men who are victims of domestic violence ”, specified Minister Agnès Maltais. In fact, information brochures specially designed for them will be available through community networks in Quebec.
&quot;We are committed to ensuring that assistance and support for victims of crime are among our priorities in the area of justice,&quot; added Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud. By fighting to reduce domestic violence and by stepping up actions to ensure the safety and protection of victims, the five-year action plan unveiled today goes exactly in this direction. &quot;
“Conjugal and family violence is an intolerable phenomenon,” declared Stéphane Bergeron for his part. Every day, children, women and men are victims. All of these people must find a listening ear, be protected and receive all the support their situation requires. As a society, we must focus on prevention and remain vigilant so that we can intervene quickly at the first warning sign. In the fight against domestic violence, police officers, as well as all other front-line workers, play an essential role; with this new Action Plan, we want to continue to support them in their work, with the aim of ensuring the safety of all citizens, ”concluded the Minister.
The 2012-2017 government action plan on domestic violence responds to recommendations made following a broad consultation conducted by members of the Interministerial Coordination Committee on domestic, family and sexual violence. More than 75 specialized organizations, including Aboriginal organizations, women&#39;s and research groups, as well as health and social services agencies, took part.
The Action Plan is available at the following address: www.scf.gouv.qc.ca.
