Quebec– The IRIS study published yesterday confirms the fears of the Parti Québécois. &quot;With the Liberal Party&#39;s marketing plan for the North, mining development in northern Quebec will enrich foreign multinationals and impoverish Quebecers,&quot; said the member for Vachon and official opposition spokesperson on mining and of shale gas, Martine Ouellet.
The IRIS study specifies that “in its current set-up, the Plan Nord appears to be overly favorable to private enterprise by making Quebec taxpayers bear most of the risk in exchange for low returns on their collective investment. In fact, between what the government will invest over 25 years and what it will obtain in royalties, the Plan Nord deficit amounts to $ 8.45 billion for Quebec taxpayers. &quot;
“Premier Jean Charest&#39;s response to the IRIS study is incredible. To answer that he prefers the SECOR study to that of IRIS is laughable: the SECOR study in no way took stock of the inflows and outflows of funds from the government coffers linked to the marketing plan of the North. The SECOR study was content to calculate the additional expenses without evaluating the benefit for the Quebec government. IRIS&#39;s structured analysis shows that the marketing plan for the North is not profitable for Quebecers, ”continued Martine Ouellet.
For the Parti Québécois, it is urgent to rectify the situation. Currently, Quebec is losing billions of dollars and value-added jobs in secondary and tertiary processing. “For many months now, we have been asking Quebeckers to get more for their non-renewable resources. We want everything to be done to promote transformation in Quebec. The Liberal government does not want to. Why does he refuse to enrich Quebecers? Asks the member for Vachon.
For his part, the deputy of Ungava and spokesperson for northern development criticizes the few benefits for local populations. “We have been saying it from the start: the marketing plan for the North will not benefit local populations and Quebecers. In the North we lack housing, training centers and population services. However, Jean Charest only has it for mining. The local communities feel forgotten ”, underlined Luc Ferland.
“Oddly enough, Jean Charest&#39;s plan is presented all over the world, but has not yet been presented to the Nordic populations. That says a lot about his real intentions, ”laments, concluding, Luc Ferland.
