Saint-Basile-le-Grand– The member for Chambly, Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs. Marie Malavoy, the allocation of financial assistance of $ 6.5 million to the Commission scolaire des Patriotes to allow the expansion of the Mosaïque school, located in Saint-Basile-le-Grand. This new initiative aims to meet the need for premises expected in the area over the next few years.
“As the Member of Parliament for Chambly, I am happy to make this announcement today. This project will allow the addition of fourteen classes, in preschool and elementary school, as well as a daycare service. This is great news for the school&#39;s students, parents and school staff. Children will be able to receive quality educational services, in a stimulating place adapted to their needs, ”said Mr. St-Arnaud.
“We are very happy to receive this announcement, which is the perfect conclusion to an approach in which all our partners have mobilized to coordinate their mutual actions for the benefit of the students. I would also like to underline the exceptional work of the Commission scolaire des Patriotes team, which has demonstrated beyond any doubt that the Mosaic School needs to double its spaces to accommodate all the students in its sector. », Commented Mrs. Hélène Roberge, President of the Commission scolaire des Patriotes.
The contribution of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport to this School Board project is part of the list of new initiatives provided for in the Adding space for general education measure and is part of the Plan. Québécois des infrastructures 2013-2023, made public in April. This far-reaching plan marks a major shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure.
It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the education component, including $ 460 million in additional space for all regions of Quebec. In particular, it will allow the construction of 23 schools and the expansion of 46 school buildings.
“I am very proud that significant sums are being devoted to educational infrastructure in Quebec. Whether it is about adding space, as for the project announced today, maintaining assets or other initiatives, these investments bear witness to the government&#39;s unwavering desire to provide our students with conducive to their learning and development, while ensuring sound management of public funds. We are taking judicious, realistic and responsible actions, ”said Minister Malavoy.
Thanks to this plan, the government is making sure to renew and improve infrastructure in all sectors, in particular the road network, public transport, health and social services establishments, educational establishments, infrastructure. municipal, cultural facilities, social housing as well as public security establishments.
Ultimately, the plan will result in investments of $ 92.3 billion for projects in all regions of Quebec. It will have major economic spinoffs throughout the territory, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The ten-year horizon of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan will make it possible to assess needs prospectively, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs, and thus to make the right choices for Quebec. This new way of doing things in infrastructure planning and management is based on honesty, integrity and rigor.
