Québec– Jean-François Lisée, the member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, and the member for Rimouski and spokesperson for in the fight against poverty, solidarity and social economy, Harold LeBel, noted with disappointment that, although it is in line with the work carried out by the government of the Parti Québécois, the interministerial action plan in roaming 2015-2020 unveiled yesterday by the Minister for Rehabilitation, Youth Protection and Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, has little financial means to achieve the identified objectives.
“Expectations were high following the launch of the very first national homelessness policy in February by our government. Unfortunately, despite several interesting measures, the proposed plan does not include any precise timetable for evaluating the achievement of the measures and the achievement of the objectives set. In addition, the Minister announced the same recurring amount of 4.6 million to carry out her plan, i.e. nothing new to prevent and fight against homelessness or to put in place measures that are nevertheless necessary to help people among the most disadvantaged, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
The member for Rimouski, for his part, deplores the fact that the plan does not provide for any improvement in the support program for community organizations, which nevertheless intervene directly with people experiencing homelessness on a daily basis. “Several contradictions appear: for example, while the government is cutting funding to many programs in the region with its austerity measures, particularly in public health, it includes in its action plan the need to prevent homelessness and continue to support the community sector, ”he illustrated.
The government once again fails in its responsibility to defend Quebec before Ottawa
“The Liberal government is once again on its stomach in front of Ottawa and reneging on its word. After having voted twice in favor of a motion demanding compliance with Quebec guidelines in the fight against homelessness, the Liberal government comes to support, by including in black and white in the plan it will put in place the approach. “Housing First”, Ottawa&#39;s desire to dictate to Quebec how it should fight homelessness, with a single approach. This is totally unacceptable! », Added Jean-François Lisée.
Finally, the deputies wished to underline the fact that several aspects of the work started under the government of the Parti Québécois have been preserved, among others the concern for access to all to the health insurance card, measures adapted to the different faces. roaming and the investment of 42 million for the creation of 500 new social housing units.
