Quebec - The Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, and the head of the Laurentides region and Member of Parliament for Labelle, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, are pleased to announce the allocation of financial assistance of $ 40,000 to the regional county municipality (MRC) of the Laurentians for the preparation of its development plan for the agricultural zone (PDZA).
“The PDZA constitutes an effective tool for the planning and development of the agricultural zone. So I&#39;m very happy to make this announcement today. It is consistent with one of the objectives defined in our Food Sovereignty Policy, which consists of promoting the development of a dynamic and prosperous biofood sector, ”said François Gendron.
&quot;I am proud not only that an MRC in my region decides to plan its agricultural activities, but also that it benefits from the support of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food for the realization of its projects&quot;, insisted on Mr. Sylvain Pagé.
It should be remembered that more than 30 RCMs have undertaken or completed the preparation of their agricultural zone development plan, which is a planning document aimed at enhancing the agricultural zone of an RCM and promoting the sustainable development of agricultural activities. &#39;take place there. The PDZA allows regional county municipalities to determine specific actions to stimulate the development of agriculture in their territory in the context of a concerted approach.
Concretely, the MRC des Laurentides wishes, with the help of the PDZA, to better understand the particularities of its agricultural zone, to mobilize the farmers and interested actors and to make this tool the starting point for the revitalization of this zone. Thus, the community will be able to establish a strategy to support the development of agricultural activities.
For more information on PDZA, simply go to the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PDZA). For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
