Quebec - The Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Régie des rentes du Québec, Ms. Agnès Maltais, unveiled the content and timeline of her action plan for the future Quebec pension plans.
“This realistic plan establishes a precise work schedule to ensure the sustainability of pension plans in Quebec. We have chosen to base our approach on negotiation while determining a process and a two-year timeline that will lead to results. The plan will unfold within an intense exercise of exchanges and negotiations with respect for all the parties concerned. It is the partners who will find the solutions, ”said the Minister responsible for the Régie des rentes du Québec, Ms. Agnès Maltais.
To this end, the government has set out four major orientations that will guide the process: intergenerational equity, the ability of taxpayers to pay, the protection of retiree pensions and the principle of the truth of costs.
The return to the viability of defined benefit supplemental pension plans is at the heart of the action plan. Restructuring is needed.
First of all, to facilitate the restructuring of these regimes and provide a framework for it, working forums bringing together representatives of the employers and unions will be created for the municipal, university and private sectors. These forums will have four months to determine the necessary adjustments to the funding of pension plans, the guidelines that will guide the negotiations and the eventual settlement of disputes. Representatives of young people and retirees should be included in the talks. They will work from government orientations and positions.
The actual negotiation period will begin thereafter. It will be for a maximum of six months. If employers and participants do not come to an agreement at the end of it, the process provides for the application of a two-stage dispute resolution mechanism: first, the appointment of a conciliator, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Labor, for a period of six months and then, if necessary, the intervention of the Commission des relations du travail, which will render a decision. This will call on specialists from the Régie des rentes du Québec to validate the selected proposals.
“We are setting up a framework and tools that will make it possible to reach negotiated agreements while respecting the existing balance in labor relations. This action plan is in line with this. By bringing together professionals from the Commission des relations du travail and those from the Régie des rentes du Québec, we are banking on the credibility and expertise of these two institutions, which have the confidence of the parties, ”added Minister Agnès Maltais.
The adoption of a first bill in the spring of 2014 will allow the restructuring process to be put in place and will give the necessary powers to the Commission des relations du travail and specialists from the Régie des rentes du Québec to carry out the restructuring process. their mandate.
A second bill, tabled in the fall of 2014, will establish the new funding rules determined by the three forums and will also include the more technical recommendations of the D&#39;Amours report, which were the subject of a consensus in the parliamentary committee.
As proposed by the expert committee, the government will make cost sharing mandatory, on an equal basis, between employers and active members (50-50) for future service in public sector plans.
The government will go ahead with a financing method based on the concept of enhanced capitalization for the private sector. The private sector forum will have to agree on the necessary adjustments to this method. For the public sector, the government will keep the current model based on capitalization, but will however ask the university and municipal forums to look into the means that could consolidate this method.
With regard to the longevity pension proposed by the expert committee, its implementation will require in-depth analysis in conjunction with the other provinces and territories and the federal government. The government will also study improvements to the Québec Pension Plan.
You can consult the explanatory document at the following address: http: //www.rrq.gouv.qc.ca/fr/services/publications/reforme_regimes/Pages/regimes_equitables.aspx.
