Québec - The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale region and Member of Parliament for Taschereau, Mrs. Agnès Maltais, on behalf of the Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture , of Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is proud to announce the allocation of financial assistance of $ 40,000 to the regional county municipality (MRC) of Portneuf for the development of its development plan. development of the agricultural zone (PDZA).
“Agriculture provides an important part of the economic vitality of the MRC de Portneuf. It is for this reason that I am very happy to know that this MRC benefits from the support of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food to carry out the planning of its agricultural zone ”, indicated Mrs. Agnès Maltais.
“The PDZA constitutes an effective tool for the planning and development of the agricultural zone. I am very happy with this announcement since it is consistent with one of the objectives defined in our Food Sovereignty Policy, which consists of promoting the development of a dynamic and prosperous biofood sector ”, added François Gendron.
It should be remembered that more than 30 RCMs have started or completed the preparation of their agricultural zone development plan, which is a planning document aimed at enhancing the agricultural zone of an RCM and promoting the sustainable development of agricultural activities. &#39;take place there. The PDZA allows regional county municipalities to determine specific actions to stimulate the development of agriculture in their territory in the context of a concerted approach.
For more information on PDZA, simply go to the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PDZA). For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
