Quebec - Federal Minister of Agriculture Gerry Ritz and MNA for Saint-Hyacinthe, Mr. Émilien Pelletier, on behalf of the Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron , are pleased to announce financial support of over $ 28,000 for the Conseil québécois des breeds laitières (CQRL), which will be able to undertake its strategic planning project for the Quebec dairy sector (genetic sub-group). Financial assistance is granted under the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, which is linked to the Agri-flexibility Fund of Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada.
The CQRL project will make it possible to carry out strategic planning for the entire Quebec dairy genetics sector. The improvement of current collaborations as well as the more efficient use of financial resources for the benefit of Quebec dairy cattle producers and breeders are the main objectives pursued through this project.
&quot;This federal financial contribution from Canada&#39;s Economic Action Plan will help support the Conseil québécois des breeds laitières in the pursuit of its activities, so that the Quebec dairy industry remains a leader in this area,&quot; said the Minister. Minister Ritz. The Canadian dairy industry is recognized for the superior genetic quality of its herd and Quebec producers make a concrete contribution to this since a large majority of herds are registered in various milk recording programs. &quot;
“Dairy production generates nearly 30% of Quebec&#39;s farm receipts, which is why the Conseil québécois des races laitières project is so important to maintain the dynamism of the bio-food sector. In addition, the completion of this project will lead to the launch of many new projects that will benefit not only dairy cattle producers and breeders, but also the entire industry. The development of a prosperous biofood sector is one of the objectives defined in the Government of Quebec&#39;s Food Sovereignty Policy, ”explained Mr. Émilien Pelletier.
It should be remembered that the governments of Canada and Quebec announced on March 25, 2011, the signing of the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, which includes an investment of $ 16.7 million over a period of 4 years. This program aims to promote both the adaptation and the growth of agrifood business sectors in the face of a constantly changing competitive business context.
For a complete description of the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, go to the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food: www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/strategiessectorielles. For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
