Macamic– The Aurores-Boréales health and social services center will be able to undertake the Design phase of its redevelopment project for the Macamic residential and long-term care center (CHSLD). This redevelopment and major functional renovation project is included in the Quebec Infrastructure Plan and will be fully funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services. This was announced today by the Deputy Premier, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Minister responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region and Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Ouest, François Gendron, on behalf of the Minister of Health and Social Services, Réjean Hébert.
“These functional renovations are long overdue. Now that the Functional and Technical Plan has been approved, the realization of the concept and the preliminary plans and specifications can now begin. For residents and staff of the Macamic CHSLD, as well as people with loss of autonomy in the region, this announcement is important since the work aims to improve the quality, accessibility and efficiency of services. », Said the Deputy Prime Minister.
The design stage will define the project guidelines more precisely. For now, the project provides for the redevelopment of two floors of the CHSLD, the 2nd and 3rd, for a total area of 4,371 m2, which will allow the fitting of 67 long-term beds. This work will provide an opportunity to bring the spaces dedicated to customers into conformity with current standards, in particular by eliminating rooms with multiple beds. The replacement of the windows on the 1st floor is also part of the project. Subject to the analyzes to be completed, the estimated capital outlay to date for the realization of such a project is approximately $ 13 million, an amount to which must be added the temporary financing costs, the project management costs as well. than indexing.
&quot;As is the case for similar projects being carried out in all regions of Quebec, these investments will significantly improve the functionality of the premises, but above all the quality of life of residents while respecting the&quot; environment &quot;approach. of life &quot;. All this will directly benefit the people accommodated as well as the relatives who come to visit them, but also the members of the healthcare teams. This initiative is part of a vast renovation project, which our government is undertaking across Quebec, of the infrastructures of the health and social services network which are sometimes, over the years, in a dilapidated state. », Declared Mr. Gendron.
The contribution of the Ministry of Health and Social Services to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI), which was made public in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of nearly $ 19.4 billion for the Health and Social Services component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
This plan marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
