Quebec - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announces that he is entrusting the Conseil du patrimoine culturel du Québec with the mandate to hold a public consultation on the draft conservation plan for the heritage site of Trois-Rivières.
“I hope that citizens and the groups concerned can make their voices heard on the conservation plan project affecting the Trois-Rivières heritage site. This proposed plan highlights the heritage values and characteristics of the site, as well as the orientations that will guide me with a view to its preservation, rehabilitation and enhancement. The consultation exercise is intended to be a moment of constructive discussion so that everyone can express their concerns and express themselves on the proposed plan, ”Minister Kotto said.
All the details surrounding the public consultation, including the place, dates and terms, will be made public by the Conseil du patrimoine culturel du Québec.
According to the Cultural Heritage Act, the Minister must obtain the opinion of the City of Trois-Rivières, which has jurisdiction over land use planning, as well as that of the Conseil du patrimoine culturel du Québec on the draft conservation plan. . After submission of the consultation report, which will be filed by March 31, 2014, and receipt of these notices, the Department will revise the conservation plan, which must then be approved by the Minister.
It should be remembered that within a declared heritage site, an authorization from the Minister is required before dividing or parceling out land, modifying the layout or layout of a building, carrying out a construction, repairing or to modify the exterior appearance of a building, to demolish a building in whole or in part, to excavate the ground, to make a new display or to modify, replace or demolish a sign. This authorization from the Minister is required in addition to any permit required under municipal regulations.
The Trois-Rivières heritage site, decreed in 1964, corresponds to one of the first three population centers in New France. Located in the heart of the city founded in 1634, it has about fifty buildings including religious institutions such as the Ursulines monastery and the Récollets-de-Trois-Rivières heritage site, as well as bourgeois and workers&#39; dwellings testifying to industrialization. from the city. It also consists of public spaces, such as Place d&#39;Armes and Place Pierre-Boucher.
