Quebec - The MNA for Berthier, Mr. André Villeneuve, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to announce the allocation of assistance funding of $ 40,000 to the regional county municipality (MRC) Matawinie for the preparation of its development plan for the agricultural zone (PDZA).
“I am very happy to announce that the MRC de Matawinie will benefit from substantial support from the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food in order to support it in the planning of its PDZA. As we know, agriculture plays an important role in our economy and that is why we should be delighted that the riding of Berthier and the region are receiving support to actively participate in it. The MRC Matawinie has a challenge that is all the more important as it has little agricultural land compared to other MRCs in Quebec. Their proper use is essential ”, declared Mr. André Villeneuve.
“The PDZA constitutes an effective tool for the planning and development of the agricultural zone. I am very happy with this announcement since it is consistent with one of the objectives defined in our Food Sovereignty Policy, which consists of promoting the development of a dynamic and prosperous biofood sector ”, added François Gendron.
It should be remembered that more than 30 RCMs have started or completed the preparation of their agricultural zone development plan, which is a planning document aimed at enhancing the agricultural zone of an RCM and promoting the sustainable development of agricultural activities. &#39;take place there. The PDZA allows regional county municipalities to determine specific actions to stimulate the development of agriculture in their territory in the context of a concerted approach.
For more information on PDZA, simply go to the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PDZA). For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
