Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, and the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announced that an amount of more than $ 48 million will be invested, as part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan, to complete the modernization work of the Quinze dam in Angliers.
“The Quinze dam is one of the most important flow control structures in the Outaouais River watershed. This dam, transferred by the federal government in 2007, had major deficiencies. Our government has decided to act to ensure the safety of this structure and the citizens who live in the vicinity of the dam. We intend to act concretely, quickly and effectively in this matter, ”declared Minister Blanchet.
Following a call for tenders process, which took place from April to June 2013, EBC Inc. was chosen to carry out the construction work. This work aims, among other things, to modernize the spillway of the dam so that the level of safety of the structure is optimal, in addition to bringing the bridge deck and route 391 on the dam up to standard. At the end of the work, we will obtain a safe structure with a useful life that will be extended by 75 years. It should be remembered that other work has already been carried out and started on the Quinze dam, including work to stabilize the retaining dikes and an urgent operation to anchor the dam, carried out from the end of February until the beginning of April 2013, to secure the structure before the spring flood hits.
Since the start of operations in 2009, the total costs of the project are estimated at $ 79 million. Note that the Ministry of Transport is involved in the development of the project for the portion of the work that affects the bridge deck and Route 391 on the dam. Moreover, it will assume up to 50% of the costs of this work, estimated at $ 21 million.
“The renewal of our road infrastructure is at the heart of the priorities of the Ministère des Transports du Québec. By being designed according to the current standards of the Ministère des Transports, the new deck will better meet the needs of users and will be a very important asset for the population of Angliers and Témiscamingue, ”said Minister Gaudreault.
“The citizens of the region will certainly be relieved to know that the facilities will be brought up to standard as soon as possible. I am particularly delighted since, in addition to ensuring the safety of the population, this work is a guarantee of job creation in the region, ”added the MNA for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue, Mr. Gilles Chapadeau, who was on site today to make the announcement on behalf of Ministers Blanchet and Gaudreault.
The MDDEFP&#39;s contribution to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 231.9 million for the public dams component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
