Québec– The member for Marie-Victorin and official opposition spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, as well as the member for Saint-Jérôme and spokesperson for the economy, entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports, Pierre Karl Péladeau, denounce the lack of solid foundations of the Liberal government&#39;s new Plan Nord.
“What the people of the North need is real political commitment and a real development plan. We all want the development of this territory, but the method used by the government is not the right one. Unfortunately, the true portrait, beyond the liberal political strategy, can be found in the budget of the Minister of Finance of March 26: there is no money provided for the development of the Plan Nord; only zeros are found for the next five years. The first beneficiaries of a real development strategy must be the people of the North. If he believed in it that much, the government would invest and implement the real commitment of the Quebec government, ”said Bernard Drainville.
Source: Budget 2015-2016 - The Quebec Economic Plan, page B.185.
“The Plan Nord is not a short-term economic stimulus solution, and the Liberal government cannot be satisfied with it. Philippe Couillard has not always presented any economic policy, and he wants us to believe that his new Plan Nord will be the savior of our economy. With the figures that we find in the budget, we recognize the liberal method: nothing was attached in 2011, and nothing is attached in 2015. Once again, we will let the mining companies go into the territory without a guide. , without politics, ”lamented Pierre Karl Péladeau.
Bernard Drainville also denounced the location chosen by the Couillard government to announce its new version of the Plan Nord. “Once again, the Liberals are announcing Nordic development in the South. The last time was in Lévis; this time it&#39;s in Montreal. Northerners deserve better than that. If development is really aimed at them, why was the announcement made in Montreal and not in the area covered by the Plan Nord? », He concluded.
