Quebec - The member for Rousseau and official opposition critic for finance and revenue, Nicolas Marceau, and the member for Richelieu and spokesperson for the Treasury Board, Élaine Zakaïb, note that the budget plan presented by the government confirms the abandonment of several promises made by the Liberal Party during the election campaign.
“The Liberal Party is reneging on many of its commitments. It is the continuity of the operation retreat for the Couillard government. During the election campaign, even if he knew the financial situation, he promised more than $ 340 million in new spending that he clearly will not make. This budget is the perfect example of the liberal recipe for not fulfilling its promises, ”said Nicolas Marceau.
“Obviously, the Minister of Health and Social Services failed in his attempt to negotiate an agreement with the federations of physicians. Obviously, this is not the right person to do it. Quebeckers do not have the correct picture in the budget tabled today. This has a major impact on the government and on its budgetary plan, ”said Élaine Zakaïb.
The liberal effect was to materialize through increased economic growth and the creation of more jobs in Quebec. Compared to the budget plan presented by the Parti Québécois government last February, the Liberal budget provides for lower economic growth than in the party&#39;s financial framework, ie 1.8% instead of 2.1%.
“What about the Liberal promise to create 250,000 jobs in 5 years? The budget provides for the creation of 31,300 jobs in 2014-2015. In addition, the Liberals spent months denying job creation under our government, but they confirmed in their budget the creation of 47,800 jobs in 2013, ”continued the member for Rousseau.
“We have been asking the government for two weeks to abandon its promise to increase infrastructure investments by $ 15 billion. Not only is it declining, but it also forecasts a drop in investments of $ 500 million over 10 years. As a turnaround, it&#39;s quite spectacular, ”said the spokesperson.
“While Philippe Couillard promised, in the campaign, not to increase taxes, his government will increase them by $ 232 million next year. In addition, the Québec Taxation Review Commission will report a $ 650 million increase in revenue starting in 2015. The Liberals do not yet know how they are going to do it, but they know their objective: to draw $ 650 million more by year in the pockets of taxpayers or businesses, ”added Nicolas Marceau.
“The budget provides for $ 3 billion of non-renewal of programs, without any trace of the transparency promised just yesterday. We do not know where the government will take this money or what programs will not be renewed. Liberal transparency did not last very long, ”declared Élaine Zakaïb.
The cuts in tax credits will hurt several sectors of the economy and regions. The liberal effect for the population of the regions is to cut $ 2 million for the resource regions, $ 3.2 million for the Gaspé and $ 1.6 million for the aluminum valley. In addition, no additional funds are foreseen for the forestry industry.
The Liberal government is also confirming the reduction in the development of child care spaces, cutting by half the number of spaces developed next year. In addition, no amount will be paid to community organizations, and all those provided for the solidarity pillar are canceled.
“As we feared, families, regions and the most vulnerable will pay the price of liberal austerity. Nothing of the sort had been mentioned during the electoral campaign, ”indicated Élaine Zakaïb.
During the election campaign, the Coalition Avenir Québec claimed that the hiring freeze in the public service would generate $ 500 million in leeway this year and more than $ 1 billion next year. These fictitious sums allowed François Legault to promise significant tax cuts. However, the hiring freeze brings in more than $ 100 million this year, or five times less than the head of the CAQ promised.
“Once again, François Legault&#39;s accounting is not very rigorous. Promising massive tax cuts in the current economic climate is simply irresponsible, ”Nicolas Marceau concluded.
Nicolas Marceau reacts to the 2014-2015 budget of the Liberal government (video).
