Quebec - The responsible for the Laurentides region and Member of Parliament for Labelle, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to announce the allocation of financial assistance of $ 40,000 to the regional county municipality (MRC) of Antoine-Labelle for the development of its agricultural zone development plan (PDZA).
&quot;I am proud not only that an MRC in my region decides to plan its agricultural activities, but also that it benefits from the support of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food for the realization of its projects&quot;, said Mr. Pagé.
“The PDZA constitutes an effective tool for the planning and development of the agricultural zone. I am very happy with today&#39;s announcement, especially since it is consistent with one of the objectives defined in our Food Sovereignty Policy, which is to promote the development of a dynamic and prosperous biofood sector. “, Insisted on Mr. François Gendron.
It should be remembered that more than 30 RCMs have started or completed the preparation of their agricultural zone development plan, which is a planning document aimed at enhancing the agricultural zone of an RCM and promoting the sustainable development of agricultural activities. &#39;take place there. The PDZA allows regional county municipalities to determine specific actions to stimulate the development of agriculture in their territory in the context of a concerted approach.
Concretely, the RCM of Antoine-Labelle wants the PDZA that it has developed to contribute to the recognition of agriculture as a regional economic pillar and that it be the basis of the agricultural chapter of its development and development plan. development.
For more information on PDZA, simply go to the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PDZA). For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
