Montreal - Parti Québécois candidates Bernard Drainville (Marie-Victorin) and Alain Therrien (Sanguinet) today reacted to the unveiling of the CAQ&#39;s electoral platform. “When he left Parliament in 2009, François Legault visibly forgot his calculator. The CAQ plans to spend five times the money it says it wants to save. What the CAQ is proposing are repeated deficits and an increase in the indebtedness of Quebecers, ”said Bernard Drainville.
“Earlier in the campaign, the head of the CAQ announced that he would deliver a balanced financial framework that would cost his unrealistic promises. He later admitted that he would be unable to provide such a financial framework citing the need to get real government figures. Now he tells us he will present it by the end of the week. After having written 40 new proposals on the corner of a table on his campaign bus, the improvisation surrounding his financial framework is spectacular, ”denounced Alain Therrien.
“François Legault has promised to bring the debt of Quebec down to the level of the average of the Canadian provinces in ten years. To get there, he would have to repay an amount of $ 81.5 billion. He plans to do so by paying all of the royalties collected on non-renewable natural resources, which he does not plan to increase, like Jean Charest, moreover. However, mining revenues are estimated at some $ 4 billion over the next decade. He also promises to apply the royalties collected on hydrocarbons, but these sums are hypothetical since no oil company plans to pay royalties before 2015. His improvisation also makes him forget that half of the royalties collected by the government of Quebec will reduce by both equalization payments. Its promise to reduce debt by not increasing royalties is unrealistic. In short, it&#39;s hard, ”added Alain Therrien.
The Parti Québécois denounces the irresponsibility of the CAQ promise to lower taxes by $ 1,000 for households earning less than $ 100,000. “In 2007, François Legault affirmed that it would be irresponsible to lower taxes, that the financial situation of Quebec did not allow it. Should we remind François Legault that Quebec&#39;s financial situation has not improved? What he considered irresponsible five years ago is no longer so today? Does he promise anything to get votes? This promise would cost $ 2.5 billion, where would he get all that money? Let us stop making people believe that we can lower taxes, increase services and pay down debt. It reminds us of Jean Charest in 2003, we can see what it has given, ”added Bernard Drainville.
“The cornerstone of the merger of the ADQ and the CAQ was the introduction of the private sector into our health system. By proposing a pilot project, the CAQ is opening the door to the privatization of health care. The last thing Quebeckers need is two-tier medicine, where we will have to pay more for fewer services, ”said Bernard Drainville.
“After committing to wanting to repatriate all environmental powers from the federal government, François Legault only took 15 minutes to change his mind and say that this would not be possible in a first term. Let us add to the long list of demonstrations of amateurism by the CAQ that François Legault announced that he would entrust the Energy Efficiency Agency with the administration of programs affecting the exploration and exploitation of shale gas. It is rather strange on his part since he should know that the Energy Efficiency Agency was abolished by the Liberal government of Jean Charest. After the ADQ defended tooth and nail the exploitation of shale gas, the CAQ now announces that it would favor a moratorium, but not entirely. Should we believe François Legault? “Asked Bernard Drainville.
To prove his new federalist faith, François Legault confirms that he will do nothing to displease Stephen Harper. “If at the start the CAQ were to be a coalition of sovereignists and federalists, we now know that François Legault will vote NO in the next referendum on the independence of Quebec. He will campaign alongside Jean Charest, Stéphane Dion and Stephen Harper to convince Quebecers that they do not deserve to have their country. For someone who said a few years ago that Quebec as a province was &quot;ungovernable&quot; and that sovereignty was &quot;urgent&quot;, this shift is synonymous with a total renunciation of his convictions. What the CAQ is proposing is the same as the PLQ: total lack of balance of power and permanent softness in front of Canada by Stephen Harper, ”said Bernard Drainville.
“Today, François Legault is still contradicting himself. He announces that he wants to enforce Bill 101, but absolutely does not want to strengthen it. Worse still, to seduce the English-speaking electorate, he allied himself with those who fought Bill 101 and who still want to weaken it. François Legault hastened to seek the support of notable critics of Bill 101: William “Bill” Johnson and Robert Libman. How can he be credible? With his new friends, how can we trust François Legault to protect and promote the French language? », Added Bernard Drainville.
“For the Parti Québécois, it is clear that the CAQ does not have what it takes to take power in three weeks. François Legault shows us daily that he is not reliable. He improvises, contradicts himself and denies his convictions only to get votes. He promises a lot, he encrypts little and does not tell us where he will get the money. It is asking Quebeckers for a blank check. The Parti Québécois has the team, the program, the skills and the experience to clean up, to assert itself, to enrich itself and to help each other, ”concluded Alain Therrien.
