Quebec - Along with her team of candidates from the Capitale-Nationale region, the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, made public the electoral platform for the Capitale-Nationale. &quot;We have an ambitious plan to continue developing the national capital and making it shine as a true international capital,&quot; announced Pauline Marois.
“We have a plan and a solid team to represent the citizens of Quebec. They are experienced people who know our institutions well, who have acted in particular in the business community of Quebec, in the cultural industry and in the public sector. They are committed people, with unshakeable convictions and innovative projects. In short, a team like the Capitale-Nationale, ”she said.
The Parti Québécois platform for the Capitale-Nationale region revolves around three main axes: asserting oneself, enriching oneself, helping one another.
Assert oneself
“First of all, we want the Capitale-Nationale to be able to assert itself more, announced the leader of the Parti Québécois. To do this, a Parti Québécois government will enhance and protect the heritage of Quebec. The Armory has been neglected by the federal government since the fire of 2008. Its property will be repatriated to Quebec and the National Capital Commission will be mandated to rebuild the building quickly ”, assured the leader of the Parti Québécois, in s &#39;&#39; also committing to safeguard the shores of the St. Lawrence and to complete the Promenade Samuel-De Champlain to Parc de la Chute-Montmorency.
&quot;We affirm that we will support Quebec in its desire to hold major international meetings, in particular in the sports field,&quot; added Pauline Marois, mentioning that the Parti Québécois will support Quebec City&#39;s plan to host the Olympic Games in &#39;winter. The national sport of Quebecers will also be encouraged by the formation of Quebec hockey teams during world championships. &quot;
Get rich
“Quebec&#39;s pride is also its economic dynamism,” continued Pauline Marois. The people of Quebec are expecting concrete measures and unifying projects. Public transit must be a priority for the economic development of Quebec. This is why we will support the city of Quebec with a view to adopting its Sustainable Mobility Plan. &quot;
“We want to support research and entrepreneurship in the Capitale-Nationale. This is the best way to continue to develop and diversify the economy. To do this, we propose to pool resources for research and development. We also want to set up a training school specializing in the development of entrepreneurship. Stimulating the entrepreneurial spirit also means wanting to do better in sectors where we are already strong. For example, in the Capitale-Nationale region, new infrastructures are being built in part with Quebec wood. We will actively support this sector by adopting a charter that will promote the use of wood in the construction of public and commercial buildings, ”added Pauline Marois.
A Parti Québécois government will also encourage the tourism industry in the greater Quebec City region. In this sense, Pauline Marois reiterates her support for the Massif de Charlevoix project and Robert Lepage&#39;s Diamant project.
Help each other
“The pride that emanates from Quebec City and its economic dynamism should not, however, make us lose sight of the social realities that exist. We must come to the aid of the most vulnerable people. We must help each other, ”recalled the leader of the Parti Québécois.
“A Parti Québécois government will hold a regional summit to develop a model of community engagement and solidarity, including access to early childhood centers, the creation of new family medicine groups, home care, etc. volunteering and sponsorship in the greater Quebec City region, ”explained Pauline Marois.
In education, the Parti Québécois will make the fight against dropping out a priority. We will make Quebec City an educational and creative city, by pooling the resources of universities, CEGEPs and schools to fight school dropout and illiteracy.
“We have a lot of ideas for our Capitale-Nationale. We are proud of the Parti Québécois&#39; record when it was in power. Our team has a long track record, testifying to the successes achieved. It is now up to us to support the vital forces of Quebec to allow it to reach new heights. With the Parti Québécois team from the Capitale-Nationale region, citizens can choose to assert themselves, to enrich themselves, to help each other, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
