Quebec - The member for Beauharnois, Mr. Guy Leclair, is proud to announce, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, the award of $ 10,000 in financial assistance to the Pole of Excellence in Integrated Pest Management (PELI). This financial support is intended to encourage innovation and research in terms of sustainable development and reduction of pesticides and to provide support for market gardening companies engaged in this direction.
“Last May, during my visit to the Center local de développement de Napierville, I saw the efforts made by the PELI and its partners to promote agricultural production that respects the environment. I am therefore proud to encourage their work, which contributes to the sustainability of our agriculture, ”said François Gendron.
“Sustainable development is at the heart of our collective concerns. That is why I am delighted with this financial support from our government to a Montérégie organization that works to improve our farmland and protect the environment, ”added Guy Leclair.
The Pole of Excellence in Integrated Pest Management was founded in 2012 by the main players in the market gardening sector. Its mission is to reduce the use of pesticides through prevention and the use of alternative methods. Based in Montérégie, Quebec&#39;s main market gardening region, the organization is a major player in the issue of the impact of the use of pesticides on health and the environment.
&quot;By meeting the information and training needs of producers on the use of integrated pest management tools, the PELI is carrying out an action that fits perfectly with the Food Sovereignty Policy, one of the main objectives of which is to promote the use of good environmentally friendly production practices and methods with a view to sustainable development, ”added the Minister.
To find out more about the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can consult the blog (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or the website (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA) of the Ministry of Agriculture. , Fisheries and Food. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
