Québec– Martine Ouellet, MP for Vachon and official opposition spokesperson for transport, transport electrification and maritime strategy, Stéphane Bergeron, MP for Verchères, as well as the MP for Saint-Jean and president of the caucus of members of the Parti Québécois de la Montérégie, Dave Turcotte, are pleased to note that according to the study carried out by Lemay + DAA strategies and E&amp;B Data, the establishment of a logistics center in Contrecœur remains an essential choice for Quebec can maximize the spinoffs linked to the projected increase in the transport of goods by sea.
“In the context of the Canada-Europe agreement, containerized transport will take an increasingly important place in the Quebec economy. In addition, maximizing transport by train and boat helps minimize our carbon footprint. A logistics hub in Contrecoeur will have a potential of 3.5 million containers annually, or more than 8 times the capacity of the Vaudreuil-Soulanges site. In light of the information contained in this study, we ask the government to be consistent and rigorous, and to make Contrecœur a flagship element of the next logistics hub. Quebec must equip itself with state-of-the-art infrastructure to be ready to meet demand, ”said Martine Ouellet.
Today&#39;s study confirms that the Contrecoeur site has significant advantages. Indeed, it concludes that the project could create more than 24,000 jobs and that the potential tax benefits would largely offset the costs associated with setting up, since they would amount to $ 249 million. The CargoM industrial cluster had also commissioned a study from KPMG-SECOR, which concluded that the quality of port infrastructure was the first factor of competitiveness guiding companies when choosing a logistics hub for their establishment.
“The Contrecoeur site has characteristics that the government cannot ignore: a port accessible 12 months a year, land in industrial zones, well-established regional social acceptability and a more than major partner in this type of project, the Port of Montreal, which plans to carry out major expansion work over the next few years, in order to be ready to face the challenges that lie ahead. It should not be a partisan issue for the government; we are talking about an important decision for the entire Quebec economy, ”added Stéphane Bergeron.
“In November 2013, the Parti Québécois National Council unanimously adopted a resolution supporting the establishment of a modern intermodal hub in Contrecoeur. Today, this new study shows that Contrecœur&#39;s choice is logical and that it will have considerable spinoffs for the region and all of Quebec, ”concluded Dave Turcotte.
