The leader and vice-leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée and Véronique Hivon, as well as the MP for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, and the candidate in Verdun, Constantin Fortier, today presented a commitment from the Party Québécois concerning food in schools and aiming to give more time to families.
IN SHORT
“We came to Constantin&#39;s to present this commitment which will give more time to families like his. Because the Parti Québécois is the party of families! They are demanding that their lives be made easier, and that is what our government will do. Free yourself from lunches. Seriously &quot;, declared Jean-François Lisée at the outset.&quot; Between road congestion, swimming and dance lessons, meals, homework, a family&#39;s day is a race that only stops. when you put your head on the pillow. And it resumes immediately when the alarm clock rings! Quebec is ripe for a small lunch revolution; We are there, ”added Véronique Hivon, who, like many of her colleagues, is well aware of this reality.
“We are proposing a major change: we will establish a low cost lunch service in elementary schools. The model will not be unique; it will be flexible and determined according to the specific needs of each school and the infrastructures in place. Central kitchens, caterers, on-site cooking ... the options are endless. The meals served to the students will be healthy, affordable and made from local products. Of course, parents who want to continue preparing lunches can do so! », Clarified Carole Poirier.
Ultimately, this ambitious policy will cost $ 37.9 million net. It will be implemented in schools over the next 4 years, starting with those located in disadvantaged areas. “In total, more than 250,000 children will benefit from this initiative, which is also a great way to introduce them to healthy lifestyles. It is, in addition, a formidable tool to reduce social inequalities and reduce hunger on the school benches ”, continued Constantin Fortier.
Meals will be offered at a cost of $ 1 for low-income families (less than $ 35,000). Those with incomes between $ 35,001 and $ 65,000 will have to pay $ 3, while the price will be set at $ 5 for middle-class families with incomes over $ 65,000. &quot;I am very happy to participate in this announcement which will give quality time to families in Verdun and Quebec, and which, in addition, will promote the social economy and local purchasing in our communities,&quot; added the candidate. .
For more information, click here.
For our explanatory sheet, click here.
