Shawinigan, January 25, 2018 - The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the Family Critic, Véronique Hivon, accompanied by the Special Advisor for Children and Families, Camil Bouchard, have today unveiled commitments for equal opportunities, the educational success of children as well as the reduction of the financial burden on families.
“The ruling Parti Québécois offered Quebec parents the best family policy in North America. We want to go further in this direction. By abolishing the family tax, i.e. by returning to the single rate, we are reiterating our clear commitment to quality educational childcare services, primarily early childhood centers and childcare centers, a network unanimously recognized for its quality. For us, child care is not a business model; it is a way of making our society grow, of giving our little ones every opportunity, ”said Jean ‑ François Lisée.
IN SHORT
A Parti Québécois government will put in place four measures aimed at facilitating access to educational childcare services and reducing the tax burden for families:
Abolition of the family tax
“The shock caused by the family tax was felt by many middle class parents. By abolishing this tax, more than $ 100 million will be returned to their pockets. We will restore a single rate to $ 8.05. For a second child, the rate will be $ 4 per day. From the third child, we will introduce free. Families have suffered many tariff increases of all kinds under the Liberal government; we have to give them oxygen. In order to meet demand, we will also accelerate the development of childcare spaces, ”added Véronique Hivon.
“Equal opportunities are essential. Every child must have every opportunity, no matter what background they come from. He must have all the tools in hand as soon as he arrives at school, in order to promote his success. This is the commitment made by the Parti Québécois, and this is why I am returning to its team: in order to present the best possible plan for the children and families of Quebec, ”concluded Camil Bouchard.
