To give families more time, the leader and vice-leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée and Véronique Hivon, as well as the candidates Lucie Allard (Nicolet-Bécancour), Jacques Daigle (Arthabaska) and Jacques Tétreault (Johnson) , today announced several enhancements to the Quebec Parental Insurance Plan (QPIP). It was in the Maison de la famille Lu-Nid, in Nicolet, that they exposed how the Parti Québécois would allow parents to spend more quality time with their child during the first months of his life.
IN SHORT
“Parents know it, and future parents will realize it: children grow up too fast! We have heard them; they want more time with their family, and more flexibility with their time off. This is why we are proud to announce that with a Parti Québécois government, parents who benefit from the QPIP will be able to defer up to 20 days of parental leave during the first 5 years of their child&#39;s life, ”declared from the start Jean-François Lisée.
“The RQAP, created under a Parti Québécois government, has enabled millions of parents to better reconcile their family and professional responsibilities. Now, we are giving parents flexibility: the 20 days of leave to be deferred can be used by both mother and father, ”continued Jacques Tétreault.
Moreover, it is well known: a growing number of fathers wish to play a more active role with their child. “We are going to encourage fathers to take full advantage of their baby&#39;s first months of life, by adding 2 weeks to paternity leave. It will therefore go from 5 to 7 weeks, ”for her part announced Lucie Allard.
Adoptive parents are parents too!
The Parti Québécois also denounced an injustice that has persisted in Quebec for too long: the fact that adoptive parents only have access to part of the leaves offered to biological parents. “Adoptive parents are not second-class parents! We want to correct this inequity of the regime: henceforth, couples who adopt a child will have the same rights as biological parents. They will therefore have 30 weeks of leave at 70% of their salary, instead of the 12 currently offered. When it comes to a child, whether adopted or not, the development of the bond of attachment is essential, ”insisted Véronique Hivon.
“We are proposing a small revolution: we value fatherhood, we offer more flexibility with regard to parental leave, and we recognize that adoptive parents should be considered the same as biological parents. The Parti Québécois is the party of families. Seriously, ”concluded Jacques Daigle.
Our explanatory sheet, click here.
