Quebec - In the wake of the Food Sovereignty Policy, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, this morning unveiled the main lines of the Food Positioning Strategy of Quebec on the institutional market. He took the opportunity to sign collaboration agreements with two food distributors, Colabor inc. and Gordon Food Service, as well as with the Quebec Fruit and Vegetable Distribution Association, whose members supply this market.
“We are well aware that it is sometimes difficult for our SMEs to do business with the institutional market. It is a complex market with legal requirements which are often enough to discourage the most persevering of entrepreneurs. This is why, as we committed to when the Food Sovereignty Policy was launched, we quickly set to work to develop this strategy which offers the tools to promote access to this important market ” , said the minister.
The Strategy will make it possible in particular to increase the place of Quebec food in public establishments, such as hospitals and schools, as well as in private establishments financed by the State. Its deployment, which will involve several departments and agencies, will be supported by a budget of $ 5 million over the next three years.
“The institutional market generates spinoffs of more than $ 1.2 billion annually. It therefore represents interesting business opportunities for Quebec biofood companies and a fertile ground for Quebec&#39;s economic prosperity. I am very confident that establishments in all regions of Quebec will get their hands dirty to ensure the success of this strategy, ”added Mr. Gendron.
Nineteen means of action are clearly defined in the Strategy, which is deployed according to four main objectives:
In addition to signing collaboration agreements, the Strategy also favors an approach that will take into account the particularities and realities specific to the 17 regions of Quebec. Thus, by March 31, 2014, in each region of Quebec, concertation organizations will have the mandate to enter into collaboration agreements with the institutions in their territory. Under these agreements, these organizations will undertake to prepare and deploy action plans, the implementation of which could benefit from financial assistance from the MAPAQ.
“Supply agreements are already in effect in Quebec between establishments and groups of agrifood companies, particularly in Chaudière-Appalaches and Montérégie. We want to draw inspiration from these examples and multiply them across Quebec. Not only does this give us a guarantee of quality, but it is also a tangible way of working towards food sovereignty, ”said François Gendron.
In addition, the Quebec government will support businesses to demystify the call for tenders process and to allow them easier access to the institutional market.
“This strategy comes in addition to many other measures announced over the past year in the impetus of the Food Sovereignty Policy. I believe that now we have a winning game plan in our hands! Our foods from Quebec have everything to meet the expectations of this important market and today we are embarking on a major shift which, I am convinced, will pay off for our biofood industry and for the economy of Quebec, ”concluded the Minister. .
It should be remembered that with investments of $ 2.3 billion and an annual food demand of nearly $ 34 billion which supports 475,000 jobs, the biofood industry is a powerful engine of the Quebec economy.
For more information on the Government of Quebec&#39;s Food Sovereignty Policy, you can visit the blog www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca dedicated to it or go to the pagewww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSAd on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
