Saint-Bruno-de-Montarville - As part of the Economic policy: Priority employment, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, today announced a government investment of more than 23.6 million dollars in vocational training infrastructures across Quebec.
“With this investment of $ 23.6 million, we are directly contributing to the prosperity of Quebec and the vitality of the regions. We must ensure that each student, whatever their age, can reach the end of their abilities, by offering them accessible and diversified training paths. A strong and prosperous Quebec needs to rely on women and men who have been given all the opportunities and support necessary to obtain a diploma or qualification, ”declared Ms. Malavoy.
In this announcement, the Minister announced investments of $ 11.9 million for the implementation of two programs at the Patriotes vocational training center of the Commission scolaire des Patriotes. In addition, approximately $ 10.5 million will be used to acquire the equipment required to update 9 study programs, offered in nearly 80 vocational training establishments.
&quot;By updating these programs in our professional establishments, we are giving an important boost to ensure our young people a quality training which will allow them to enter the labor market with the best practices and knowledge in their field&quot;, underlined the minister.
Finally, an investment of $ 1.2 million, announced by the Premier last November, made it possible to modernize the Pavillon Les Cimes at the Charlevoix vocational training center of the Charlevoix school board.
It should be noted that these investments are planned within the framework of the Economic policy: Priority employment, which aims in particular to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, in the short and medium term.
In addition to investments intended for vocational training, the Economic Policy: Priority Jobs provides for some $ 401 million to make educational infrastructures healthier learning environments and more than $ 130 million allocated to the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructures, and this, throughout Quebec.
The amounts made public today are in addition to the investments of $ 24.3 million announced in September 2013 to improve the vocational training offer. Allocated within the framework of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan, these sums are intended to carry out various projects aimed at the expansion and redevelopment of existing vocational training centers as well as the updating and implementation of study programs. , in several regions of Quebec. Since the Parti Québécois came to power, nearly $ 50 million has been invested in vocational training.
Additional government investment of $ 23.6 million to improve the supply of vocational training throughout Quebec, including nearly:
$ 13.1 million for the completion of 3 major infrastructure and equipment purchase projects:
$ 10.5 million to update 9 study programs in nearly 80 vocational training establishments
These investments are in addition to the $ 24.3 million already announced in September 2013 as part of the five-year capital plans, including nearly:
$ 8.4 million for the consolidation of 4 vocational training centers for infrastructure and equipment purchases:
$ 15.6 million for the authorization of new study programs in 7 school boards
$ 0.3 million to update 3 study programs in 15 school boards
All the investments announced in 2013-2014 total nearly $ 48 million and will affect more than 85 vocational training establishments.
