Val-d&#39;Or– On behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, her parliamentary assistant and chair of the government caucus, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, today met with partners from the fields of leisure, sport and physical activity in the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region to hear them about the green paper entitled The taste and pleasure of moving: towards a national policy on sport, leisure and activity physical.
“The partners we met today in Val-d&#39;Or have shown us that consultation is indeed the trademark of Abitibi-Témiscamingue. This region has indeed developed a model that is unique in Quebec, where all leisure and sports services are brought together under one roof, namely Loisir et Sport Abitibi-Témiscamingue. This organization sets up numerous projects in the community, including the recent initiative proposed by Vélo Québec “On foot, by bike, active city”, which receives strong support, as well as the organization of a regional final each year. centralized Quebec Games. This final gives the young athletes who participate in it an experience similar to that of the big games. I noted that consultation is also at the heart of good understanding between schools and municipalities for the optimal use of sports facilities and that, in our reflections, we will have to take into account the rural and remote rural reality which, all two present different challenges, ”said Mr. Pagé.
Since June 27, Mr. Pagé has been traveling the roads of Quebec to meet the many regional partners who help ensure that citizens have access to sports, recreational and physical activities. They thus have the chance to express their concerns and their vision about the future national policy of sport, leisure and physical activity.
Quebeckers were also questioned. In fact, an online consultation was held on the website of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport on the sidelines of the meetings with the partners. It made it possible to collect, during the months of July and August, the comments of those who wished to feed the reflection and enrich the future policy.
“The views that will be shared during these consultations will provide valuable insight into the development of the new policy. This unifying project should ultimately give everyone the desire to move and practice physical, recreational and sports activities, from infancy to middle age. It also aims to implement measures to support our sports elite and help it shine even more on the international scene, ”Minister Malavoy said.
It should be noted that the Green Paper is essentially a consultation tool which proposes a vision, issues and orientations on which the discussions are based. To consult it, visit www.mels.gouv.qc.ca/livrevert.
