Quebec - In the wake of the unveiling of the first Food Sovereignty Policy, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, today presented the new Support Program the development of reserved designations and enhancing terms (PADARTV). This program, which supports the promotion of Québec foods and their characteristics, has a budget of over $ 1.6 million for the 2013-2016 period.
“There is no doubt that the reserved appellations help forge this strong identity of Quebec foods, which is an important axis of the Food Sovereignty Policy. This is a promising element for the future and we intend to support initiatives which will allow our gourmet treasures to shine as they deserve, whether here or abroad, ”declared the Minister.
To promote the creation of new reserved designations and new rewarding terms and to offer better support to businesses, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (MAPAQ) is offering an improved version of PADARTV. The changes that have been made result in particular from comments made by industry partners and members of companies participating in the recognition process.
The new program will now support the acquisition and dissemination of knowledge on reserved designations and rewarding terms in order to promote their development and notoriety. Achieving this objective could be achieved through the organization of seminars, conferences or training sessions led by experts in the field and through the conduct of research on, among other things, the performance of analyzes. economic aspects specific to reserved designations, on the value chains that will be developed and on the identification of products with interesting potential in terms of obtaining a reserved designation or a rewarding term.
Thanks to PADARTV, it will also be possible to support business groups in the continuous improvement of the collective management of the reserved appellation or the rewarding term. The measure put forward allows in particular the reimbursement of part of the expenses related to the management of the reserved appellation or of the valuing term or to the operating budget of the grouping or relating to the improvement of the marketing of the products benefiting from of a reserved designation or a rewarding term.
“There is a broad consensus in the biofood industry for the need to enhance food products. In this context, the Act respecting reserved designations and enhancing terms is the tool par excellence to protect and promote Quebec know-how and reassure consumers by attesting to the authenticity and quality of the products they buy ”, a concluded Mr. François Gendron.
Note that the Minister took the opportunity to confirm that “Quebec Ice Cider” could soon join “Agneau de Charlevoix” and the “Organic” production method in the register of reserved designations recognized in Quebec. The process that will lead to this recognition was launched on June 5 by the Council for Reserved Designations and Enhancing Terms. Other very promising projects are currently at the analysis stage, for example “Canadian cow&#39;s milk cheese”, “Traditional Chanteclerc poultry” and “Neuville sweet corn”.
This process, launched on June 5, is a public consultation on the “Quebec Ice Cider” protected geographical indication project.
For more information on the Support Program for the Development of Reserved Designations and Enhancing Terms, visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/appellation ). To find out more about the Food Sovereignty Policy, regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the Internetwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA site. You can also follow MAPAQ on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
