Quebec - In the wake of the National Research and Innovation Policy which was launched on October 16, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne , announces an investment of nearly $ 1.8M in a research project studying the links between the environment and prostate cancer. This investment is part of the Cancer Research and Prevention Group (GRePEC) program of the Cancer Research Society (SRC).
“This investment is in line with the National Research and Innovation Policy, which aims to ensure the well-being of Quebecers in economic, social and human terms. The government can already rely on a health research network that stands out. Recognized as an important center of international scientific research, Quebec makes major contributions in the field of cancer research. It is therefore important that our researchers be able to benefit from an exceptional environment and adequate support, since their research holds great hopes, ”said Minister Duchesne.
Pierre Duchesne announces an investment of nearly $ 1.8M in a research project studying the links between the environment and prostate cancer. // (c) Joël Bouchard
The investment in this project, which totals $ 3.7 million, comes from the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology (MESRST) and the Cancer Research Society. Thus, $ 2.7 million, including $ 1.35 million from MESRST, are devoted to this research project by Dr. Yves Fradet, Laval University, and Dr. Armen Aprikian, McGill University. , emeritus researchers. In addition, $ 1 million also granted by the MESRST and the SRC will be available to allow the recruitment of epidemiologists specializing in environment-cancer. The GRePEC program benefits from an investment fund of $ 6 million granted, in equal parts, by the MESRST and the SRC. Other partners also support GRePEC.
GRePEC supports research teams and large-scale projects of excellence. It promotes multidisciplinary and multi-institutional projects that generate concrete results, as well as translational research, ie moving from the laboratory to the patient. This program aims to gather as much scientific evidence as possible to demonstrate the effect of various elements of the environment on the risk of developing cancer. All the physical and chemical elements of our living and working environments as well as our lifestyle (diet, physical activity, etc.) are part of this environment.
Prostate cancer is the most common cancer in Canadian men. It is estimated that 1 in 7 men in Canada will have it in their lifetime and 1 in 27 men will die from it. This represents approximately 23,600 Canadians, including 4,800 Quebecers, who will be diagnosed with prostate cancer this year alone. Hereditary factors contribute to the risk of having it, but this risk is also linked to the environment. The expected outcomes of this research project are therefore extremely relevant.
Thanks in part to research on all types of cancer, notable increases in survival rates have been observed in both men and women, in most age groups, for all cancers combined. The survival rate which was 40% in 1975 was over 60%, 30 years later, in 2005.
The recruitment program for epidemiologists specializing in environment-cancer aims to compensate for a shortage of staff by offering two salary grants for epidemiologists in the amount of $ 100,000 per year each, for a period of five years. The new program will allow research centers and universities in Quebec to recruit excellent candidates.
The National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI) is one of the four major strategic initiatives around which the Government of Quebec&#39;s Priority Employment economic policy is based. In terms of research and innovation, the PNRI represents an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion that will extend over five years.
For more information: National research and innovation policy.
