Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, today unveiled, in front of the members of the Association of the Electricity Industry of Quebec, the fourth and last part of the Economic Policy Priority Employment, namely the Electrification Strategy transport, which represents an investment of $ 516 million.
“The objective of the Transportation Electrification Strategy is to make Quebec a world leader in electric transportation. We therefore want to contribute to the economic development of Quebec by focusing on this promising sector to create jobs. With this exciting project, we can enrich ourselves while reducing our greenhouse gas emissions in order to reach our ambitious targets for 2020. Even more, it brings us closer to energy independence, ”said Pauline Marois.
The government is targeting the introduction of more than 12,500 additional electric vehicles on Québec roads by 2017. This strategy will include vehicles for individuals, businesses, municipalities and non-profit organizations, as well as taxis. and government fleet vehicles. This ambitious strategy puts an end to the uncertainty about the future of the Roulez Électrique program, whose purchase rebate was to fall by half on January 1. This program will instead be increased by $ 65 million. The maximum subsidy of $ 8,000 for the purchase of an electric vehicle will be extended until December 31, 2016, and the $ 500 subsidy for the purchase of a conventional hybrid vehicle will be reinstated for the next three years.
Among the other incentive measures, a project to &quot;green&quot; 525 taxis will be implemented in Montreal and other regions of Quebec. A deployment plan for 5,000 charging stations accessible to the public and distributed throughout Quebec will accompany these measures.
On the metropolitan side, the government is investing more than $ 150 million for the establishment of a first electric axis on Boulevard Saint-Michel, which will be served by trolleybus. The blue line of the Montreal metro will be extended to the Anjou borough; five new stations will be added to the east. In addition, the government will go ahead with its light rail system project, incorporated into the future Champlain Bridge. Finally, $ 15 million will be devoted to the Montréal, city of electromobility project, to make the metropolis a showcase for technological development in electric public transport.
The Strategy also provides for an investment of $ 35 million to create the Electric Transport Institute. It will be a world-class high-tech and research center. Quebec&#39;s know-how in the field of electricity is already recognized. The Strategy aims to strengthen our genius to innovate and make Quebec an even more favorable place for research and development. A privileged link will be established between the Institute and Hydro-Québec&#39;s research center, IREQ, recognized as a world leader in research on batteries as well as on modes of production, transport and storage. electricity.
In addition, more than $ 220 million will be devoted to projects by Quebec companies, as well as to attract world-class players here in the field of electric transportation. The Strategy will financially support large-scale, mobilizing and structuring projects for companies, and will help them to be more competitive. The objective of this investment is to develop a strong industrial ecosystem, made up of both small innovative companies well equipped to meet the expectations of suppliers, large global contractors and a sufficient number of medium companies capable of making the connection between the two.
With the Transport Electrification Strategy, companies in the sector will be able to count on a comprehensive and integrated service offering that meets their expectations. It will promote not only private investment to ensure the growth and modernization of businesses, but also the development, demonstration and commercialization of new technologies and innovative products. The government also intends to support Quebec businesses to help them export their products and know-how.
By March 31, 2017, 2,000 vehicles from the government fleet will be gradually replaced by electric cars, along with all official vehicles of members of the government. 1,000 charging stations will also be installed near government buildings, accessible to government employees and other users.
The government will create the Transportation Electrification Secretariat, which will report directly to the Premier. This secretariat will be responsible for coordinating all the actions undertaken in the area of transport electrification.
Finally, the Strategy provides for changes to the legislative and regulatory framework in order to facilitate the electrification of transport. Support measures are also planned for municipalities in their efforts to electrify transport. In particular, the government of Quebec wishes to review the Act respecting land use planning and development, in order to support modes of urbanization that encourage the adoption of sustainable travel habits, and to offer financial support for urban planning favoring urban development. ecomobility.
“The Transportation Electrification Strategy is a striking illustration of Quebec&#39;s progress towards electric mobility. We will be a model of awareness and accountability. We will demonstrate that sustainable development goes hand in hand with economic development. Investing in the electrification of transportation means investing in all of Quebec, ”concluded the Premier.
Consult all the details of the Transport Electrification Strategy ateconomie.gouv.qc.ca / politiqueeconomique.
