Montreal - The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, accompanied by the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, announced today an acceleration of investments in schools in the Montreal region. These investments, which total $ 117.3 million, include an envelope of $ 43.3 million intended to launch a real offensive to counter the mold contamination identified in 16 schools of the Commission scolaire de Montréal (see the list in appendix) , as well as an envelope of $ 74 million for the expansion, renovation and repair of educational infrastructure in the region.
These amounts are also in line with the investments of $ 59 million allocated to the Commission scolaire de Montréal in 2012-2013 to support asset maintenance projects, to which is added a sum of $ 10 million for the reconstruction of Saint-Gérard school ($ 5 million in asset maintenance and $ 5 million in additional space), for a total of $ 186.3 million. Thus, taking into account the investments of $ 110.5 million announced in recent months for the construction and expansion of schools, $ 296.8 million will be invested in the school building stock in the Montreal region. this year.
“Since taking office, I have observed the dilapidated state of certain schools in the network struggling with mold problems, many of them here in Montreal. Faced with this utterly intolerable and critical situation, only one observation emerges: it is imperative to act now and forcefully to settle, once and for all, the cases of mold identified and prevent new similar situations. This is what we are doing by launching an unprecedented action plan, ”said Minister Malavoy.
“The situations that certain Montreal schools are confronted with require solutions that are at the same time prompt, thoughtful and integrated. This is how our government has chosen to act by adopting a proactive plan that will allow us to ensure that our children learn in a healthy and safe environment. For great ills, great remedies, ”added Minister Lisée.
In addition to the investments related to this offensive against molds, the ministers announced that a sum of $ 30 million would be devoted to carrying out a vast operation to detect possible air quality problems in schools, and this, in all regions of Quebec. This operation will be steered by a committee made up of representatives from the Ministry and the school network.
&quot;It is essential to have a fair picture of the situation of the entire school building stock in Quebec to determine the follow-up to be given to this priority file,&quot; said the Minister.
The government action plan also includes an important preventive component aimed at preventing the emergence of new air quality problems. In this regard, Minister Malavoy announced investments of $ 324.7 million by 2017 as part of the Réno-Écoles plan to accelerate repair, improvement and refurbishment work on schools. Quebec scale.
This announcement is part of a national action plan unveiled at the same time by Minister Malavoy. This government approach is based in particular on the Réno-Écoles plan, with a budget of $ 401.2 million, which constitutes the heart of one of the flagship measures provided for in the Economic Policy Priority Employment.
