Drummondville– On behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment and Parks and Minister responsible for the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions , Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, today announced that the government will make investments of $ 2,920,969 in schools of the Commission scolaire des Chênes to provide students with healthier learning environments. These investments will make it possible to carry out improvement, renovation and repair projects in ten schools to prevent possible air quality problems.
“Faced with the air quality problems experienced by some schools, the government has chosen the only possible path: action. We had to do everything we could to meet the most pressing needs and act upstream on existing infrastructures. This is what we are doing through these massive investments, which total more than $ 2.9 million, in the region&#39;s educational heritage, ”Minister Malavoy said.
The sums announced will be used to carry out various corrective work, from replacing plumbing, through repairing roofs, doors and windows, to that of the exterior envelope and the structure of the buildings. This preventive work will ensure a safe environment for students, teachers and school staff.
“I am happy for the students and the teaching staff, but also for the parents who are more and more concerned. Young people and professionals will continue to benefit from quality educational infrastructure for several years to come. In several cases, a significant improvement in living and learning conditions is expected. In others, it will be preventive measures. Thus, our government is taking a step overdue, necessary and beneficial not only for our educational heritage, but also for health and the quality of life and learning in our schools, ”said Minister Blanchet.
This announcement comes within the context of a comprehensive government action plan aimed at resolving air quality problems in certain schools in Quebec, unveiled on October 11 by Minister Malavoy. This government approach is based in particular on the Réno-Écoles school renovation program, with a budget of $ 401.2 million, which is one of the measures of the Priority Jobs economic policy.
The overall action plan has three components: immediate action against known mold problems, detection and prevention. Among the planned investments, let us mention an envelope of $ 46.5 million intended exclusively to launch an offensive against cases of mold contamination already known in 19 schools in Quebec, particularly in Montreal. Some $ 324.7 million will also be allocated to speed up improvement, renovation and repair work on schools across Quebec.
Finally, a sum of $ 30 million will be used to carry out a vast operation to detect possible air quality problems in schools, in all regions of Quebec. This operation, which will be steered by a committee made up of representatives from the Ministry and the school network, will provide an accurate picture of the situation of the entire school building stock in Quebec to determine the follow-up to be given to this priority file.
“For the past year, we have not stopped taking measures to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe living environments that are conducive to learning. We are committing ourselves even further on this path through the promising and strong actions that we are taking today, ”concluded Minister Malavoy.
