Rivière-du-Loup– Within the framework of the annual congress of the Association for the teaching of science and technology in Quebec (AESTQ), the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, announced an investment of $ 70 million over five years which will be devoted to projects aimed at teaching science and technology. This investment is broken down into two main measures. On the one hand, $ 25 million will be allocated to the development of scientific infrastructure in schools and, on the other hand, $ 45 million will be used to increase and enhance knowledge in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEGMA) .
“I am particularly proud of these measures which promote and contribute to the development of scientific culture in Quebec. They will make it possible to encourage even more young people to take an interest in science and technology, which will encourage the training of passionate and inspiring young scientists, ”said Minister Duchesne.
Minister Pierre Duchesne announced an investment of $ 70 million over five years which will be devoted to projects aimed at teaching science and technology. // (c) Joël Bouchard
An unprecedented effort of $ 25 million is invested to develop scientific infrastructure in public schools located in disadvantaged areas. This sum will make it possible to renovate existing infrastructures and create new ones.
An investment of 45 million dollars in STEGMA will make it possible to set up a series of measures and initiatives aimed at increasing and enhancing knowledge in these fields. These measures and initiatives are as follows:
“The measures I am announcing today are of crucial importance, since knowledge in science, technology, engineering and mathematics form the foundations on which scientific culture is built. This knowledge is useful for everyone to tame a world where technology occupies a decisive place. This is why we must ensure that the learning and exercise of scientific activities are based on modern and cutting-edge technologies that will arouse the interest of young people, ”added Minister Duchesne.
The National Research and Innovation Policy is part of the four strategic initiatives of the Government of Quebec&#39;s Priority Employment economic policy. It is the result of numerous consultations held with stakeholders from all sectors concerned by research and innovation: businesses, educational establishments, the State and society. With an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion over five years, it will help advance Québec in the knowledge and innovation society.
For more information on the PNRI, visit www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca/PNRI.
