Quebec - As part of the National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI) which was unveiled on October 16, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is proud to announce today the payment of a grant of $ 2.3 million for the next three years (2014-2017) to the organization Territoires innovants en economy sociale et solidaire (TIESS) to endow the social economy of a structure that will promote social innovation in the territories and to support these operational activities.
“We must remember that the Parti Québécois government has supported the social economy sector since the 1996 Summit on the Economy and Employment. In February 2013, our government announced a reinvestment of more than $ 26 million to support research and innovation, part of which is devoted to social innovation, and on October 10, our government passed the Social Economy Act, which ensures the recognition of social economy enterprises by all government departments and agencies. With the investment announced today, our government is showing respect for its commitment and recognizing the contribution of the social economy to the socio-economic development of Quebec, ”said Minister Duchesne.
From left to right: Vincent Van Schendel, Director General of the organization Territoires innovants en economie sociale et solidaire (TIESS), Juan-Luis Klein Director of the Center for Research on Social Innovations (CRISES), Pierre Duchesne, Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology and Nancy Neamtan CEO of the Chantier de l&#39;economie sociale // (c) Joël Bouchard
Innovative Territories in the Social and Solidarity Economy is a liaison and transfer organization in social innovation. The organization aims to bring together the various actors and researchers of the social and solidarity economy (ESS) to identify, inventory, enlighten and systematize innovations in order to promote their dissemination and appropriation.
One of TIESS&#39;s objectives is to encourage the start-up of new research projects. To facilitate dissemination and appropriation by the communities, three areas are targeted:
TIESS was set up by the following four partners: the Chantier de l&#39;economie sociale, the Center for Research on Social Innovations, the Karl Polanyi Institute of Concordia University and the Service aux Collectives of the University of Quebec in Montreal . In addition, nearly 45 organizations from academia and the social economy were involved in its creation.
“Through liaison, monitoring and transfer activities, Innovative Territories in the Social and Solidarity Economy wants to promote exchanges between practitioners and researchers and thus stimulate the production of new knowledge. We aim to establish new cooperation practices in the development of territories, to work on the construction of public policies and to increase the social efficiency of public and private actions. We are thus seeking to combine economic activity with the social and human development of Quebec communities, ”said Vincent van Schendel, Managing Director of Innovative Territories in the Social and Solidarity Economy.
According to Mr. Juan-Luis Klein, director of the Center for Research on Social Innovations (CRISES), the research carried out in this center has shown that there is a social innovation system in Quebec in which the social economy is a milestone. fundamental. As Ms. Nancy Neamtan, President and CEO of the Chantier de l&#39;énergie sociale, underlines, “Quebec is already recognized around the world as a place of innovation in the social economy, but with TIESS, we are giving ourselves the means to ensure that innovations that emerge throughout the regions of Quebec are first transferred here, to another region, to another sector; TIESS is a bit of a multiplier of good moves! &quot;.
The Quebec social economy is made up of approximately 7,000 businesses, cooperatives and non-profit organizations (NPOs), working in 20 economic sectors (arts and culture, agrifood, retail, environment, collective real estate, leisure and tourism, technologies information and communications, media, manufacturing sector, personal services, etc.). It employs over 150,000 people and generates annual sales of over $ 17 billion, which represents approximately 8% of Québec&#39;s GDP. As these statistics show, Quebec has a large pool of businesses, researchers, organizations and experts in the social economy.
The National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI) is one of the four major strategic initiatives around which the Government of Quebec&#39;s Priority Employment economic policy is based. In terms of research and innovation, the PNRI represents an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion that will extend over five years.
For more information: National research and innovation policy.
