Chibougamau - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, and the Member of Parliament for Ungava and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Nordic Affairs section), Mr. Luc Ferland, are pleased to announce today &#39; hui, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, an investment of $ 7.6 million to allow expansion and redevelopment work to be carried out at the vocational training center of the Baie-James and to acquire and develop a modular and mobile factory-school in the field of ore processing in Chibougamau.
This announcement is part of the Priorité emploi economic policy, made public on October 7 and intended to create jobs in all regions of Quebec, in the short and medium term. This government policy aims in particular to make improvements to vocational training establishments and to invest in the development of northern Quebec.
“Communities are at the heart of northern development. Thanks to this investment in vocational training in Chibougamau, we are supporting innovative projects and meeting the needs and aspirations of the populations. Our local partner, the Commission scolaire de la Baie-James, will thus be able, within the framework of its study programs, to diversify the know-how and skills available and ensure a qualified workforce for the industry. Investing in public infrastructure in the North is an essential step in preparing for the future, ”said Minister Marceau.
The first project consists of making the premises of the James Bay vocational training center, located in Chibougamau, multifunctional, by fitting out an additional large-area workshop (809 m²) which will allow more versatility and flexibility. Depending on industry needs and enrollment requests, the study programs Industrial construction and maintenance mechanics (5260), Welding-assembly (5195), Construction machinery mechanics (5331) and Carpentry-joinery ( 5319) may be offered in rotation. It should be noted that the assistance of $ 3 million allocated within the framework of the Economic Policy Priority Employment is in addition to the sum of $ 3.08 million granted in October 2012, bringing the total to $ 6.08 million. government investment in this project.
The second project, which receives assistance of $ 4.6 million, will provide cutting-edge training, adapted to the reality and requirements of the mining industry in Quebec. Thanks to the future mobile school-plant, which will include four trailers, the Ore Processing Machine Operation (5274) study program can be offered directly on the territory&#39;s mining project sites and even in other mining regions, in partnership with companies.
“This announcement shows that the Government of Quebec, through the development of the North, wants to allow communities to fully benefit from the spinoffs of the various projects carried out on their territory. Thanks to these major investments, our government is making the necessary infrastructure available to meet the needs of students and businesses. We are contributing to the creation of jobs and wealth for the North and all of Quebec, ”added Mr. Ferland.
In addition to the government investment allocated, funding for the two projects is supplemented by a contribution from the Commission scolaire de la Baie-James, coming from the implementation of energy saving measures as well as the partial reimbursement of taxes. force.
“I am very proud of this announcement, because vocational training is an essential asset in the development of skills in Quebec. Educating and qualifying young people is first and foremost to give them the necessary tools to flourish and express their talents. It is also offering them the means to take charge of the development of their community and its influence. The projects carried out in Chibougamau are very promising in this regard, ”said Ms. Malavoy.
