Joliette - On the occasion of the start of the 2014 School Perseverance Days, the Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Minister responsible for the Lanaudière region and Member of Parliament for Joliette, Ms. Véronique Hivon, the Minister of Finance and of the Economy and Member of Parliament for Rousseau, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, and the Member for Berthier, Mr. André Villeneuve, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, announced today , at Barthélemy-Joliette high school in Joliette, significant investments totaling $ 4.8 million in the establishments of the Commission scolaire des Samares to provide students with healthier schools in which to learn and flourish.
“Faced with the air quality problems experienced by some schools in Quebec, our government has chosen its side, that of action. We had to do everything we could to meet the most pressing needs and act upstream on existing infrastructures. Here in Lanaudière-Nord, we are responding &quot;present&quot; with these important investments for the well-being of our children, the maintenance of our school heritage and the future of our communities. Here are sums well invested! », Declared the MNA for Joliette, Ms. Véronique Hivon.
“Last October, the Prime Minister and I presented the Economic Policy: Jobs First. This policy with strong potential also tints our actions in education. As proof, of the approximately $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, more than $ 400 million will be devoted to the Réno-Écoles program. Our primary goal is to stimulate employment throughout Quebec, and of course in Lanaudière-Nord, while investing in unifying niches. I am particularly proud of this choice, namely that of investing in our schools and, by extension, in education, ”said the member for Rousseau, Nicolas Marceau.
“These investments will make it possible to carry out improvement, renovation and repair projects in 31 establishments of the Samares School Board to prevent, in particular, possible air quality problems. Various works will be carried out, such as the repair of ventilation systems, roofs, doors and windows, exterior envelopes and building structures. This preventive work will ensure a safe environment for students, teachers and school staff. We will all agree that this &quot;change of direction&quot; is welcome &quot;, explained the deputy for Berthier, Mr. André Villeneuve.
“Such budgetary envelopes are necessary for the maintenance of our buildings and we see to taking preventive measures in order to avoid any problem. We work year round to provide a healthy and safe environment for students and staff. With the amount announced today, the repair and improvement of the buildings will begin next summer, since the majority of this work is done when the students and staff are on vacation, ”said the president of the Samares School Board, Mr. François Charbonneau.
This announcement comes within the context of a comprehensive government action plan aimed at resolving air quality problems in certain schools in Quebec, unveiled on October 11 by Minister Malavoy. This government approach is based in particular on the Réno-Écoles school renovation program, with a budget of $ 401.2 million, which is one of the measures of the Priority Jobs economic policy.
The overall action plan has three components: immediate action against known mold problems, detection and prevention. Among the planned investments, let us mention an envelope of $ 46.5 million intended exclusively to launch an offensive against cases of mold contamination already known in 19 schools in Quebec, particularly in Montreal. Some $ 324.7 million will also be allocated to speed up improvement, renovation and repair work on schools across Quebec.
Finally, a sum of $ 30 million will be used to carry out a vast operation to detect possible air quality problems in schools, in all regions of Quebec. This operation, which will be steered by a committee made up of representatives from the Ministry and the school network, will provide an accurate picture of the situation of the entire school building stock in Quebec to determine the follow-up to be given to this priority file.
“For the past year, we have not stopped taking measures to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe living environments that are conducive to learning. We are committing ourselves even further on this path through the promising and strong actions that we are taking today, ”concluded Minister Malavoy.
