Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, today presented four flagship measures intended to create jobs in all regions of Quebec, in the short and medium in the long term, as part of the launch of the Priority Jobs economic policy.
The Premier announced the implementation of the Investments Jobs tariff offer, an ambitious measure to take advantage of Quebec&#39;s electricity surpluses. A reduced rate will be offered to energy consuming companies that make significant investments. This initiative is expected to attract $ 1.6 billion in investments and create 10,300 jobs in the short term.
“Hydro-Québec will have significant electricity surpluses until 2027. We will use these surpluses to create wealth and jobs. The Investments-Jobs tariff offer will apply to new loads of 15 MW or more. We target the sectors of natural resource processing, manufacturing of components related to renewable energies, green technologies and transportation electrification, as well as the information technology sector. This offer will not lead to an increase in electricity prices for citizens, ”explained the Prime Minister.
The tariff will be granted for a period covering the period of surplus electricity. It will include progressivity over time, in order to ensure an eventual transition to the regular tariff.
“Several schools are in need of major renovations. In several regions, investments are necessary to improve the condition of establishments, in particular because of air quality problems. In addition, infrastructures are obsolete. To meet these needs, the government is accelerating public investment in the order of $ 565 million. These investments, provided for in the Québec Infrastructure Plan for the years 2014 2015 to 2017 2018, will begin in the fall of 2013, ”announced Minister Marceau.
The government is therefore anticipating investments of $ 430.4 million to implement the Réno-Écoles plan. These investments will improve the air quality in schools and renovate dilapidated or in poor condition. Sums will also be allocated to mixed expansion and renovation projects, and to the improvement of vocational training establishments.
In addition, the government is announcing investments of $ 80 million to build or renovate sports or recreational infrastructures. Finally, $ 55 million will be immediately invested for the maintenance of buildings and infrastructure as well as for the improvement of road access and trails in facilities managed by the Société des establishments de plein air du Québec.
&quot;This acceleration of investments will result in the creation of 3,500 jobs in all regions of Quebec, and that, in the very short term,&quot; said the Minister.
Minister Marceau also announced the immediate implementation of major tax measures aimed at stimulating investment by individuals and businesses. These measures will result in investments of more than $ 1 billion and will create 6,200 jobs by 2017.
The first measure is the implementation of ÉcoRénov, a refundable tax credit for green renovation. It will be offered to individuals having green renovation work carried out on their residence by October 31, 2014. The refundable tax credit will correspond to 20% of eligible expenses over $ 2,500 for recognized work. The maximum value of the tax credit will be $ 10,000.
In addition, the Rénoclimat program will see its envelope increased by $ 37 million to set up a component aimed at replacing fossil fuel heating systems.
In addition, the Minister announced that the investment threshold required to be entitled to the tax holiday for major investment projects will be reduced from $ 300 million to $ 200 million in order to support major projects to modernize our businesses.
He also announced the enhancement of the investment tax credit for manufacturing SMEs in all regions of Quebec. This will see its rate increased by 10 percentage points and it will be extended to certain expenditure relating to buildings. In addition, for all companies, it can also apply to investments in production computer equipment. These subsidies will help increase the productivity of manufacturing SMEs.
Finally, a new refundable tax credit of 25% on the costs relating to a contract for the integration of information technologies in manufacturing SMEs will be created in order to support companies in the modernization of their business processes by integration of high added value software packages. This will help to increase their productivity.
The Premier declared that the development of northern Quebec is a strategic element of the Priority Jobs economic policy. To ensure this development, public infrastructure is essential.
The Government of Quebec will therefore carry out major repair work on the James Bay road. Work on this road will represent investments of $ 100 million. In addition, the government will fund a pre-feasibility study on the construction of an additional rail link to transport ore from the Labrador Trough in particular. It is indeed necessary to specify the characteristics of the desired link in order to invite private investors to finance the project. The government will also support the development of an aerodrome in the Otish Mountains sector.
Finally, the Prime Minister recalled that the development of the North must make it possible to better meet the social needs of the populations. “The government has already announced the creation of new daycare spaces, invested in the provision of housing and services for the elderly, as well as in sports and leisure infrastructures for the First Nations and the Inuit nation. Our economic policy contains other measures that will meet recognized needs, particularly in terms of training and development of the tourism industry in the North, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
Read the press release: Economic policy Putting jobs first: an integrated approach to create 115,000 new jobs
Consult the Economic Policy Priority Employment: economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueeconomique
