Sherbrooke– Following the unveiling of the National Research and Innovation Policy, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology (MESRST), Mr. Pierre Duchesne, carries out the tour of some research facilities. In the company of the rector of the University of Sherbrooke, Professor Luce Samoisette, Mr. Duchesne participated in the visit of the home automation and mobile computing laboratory of the University of Sherbrooke (DOMUS), to which the media were invited. .
“On October 16, we unveiled the National Research and Innovation Policy which represents an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion over 5 years. This policy is a clear signal of the importance we attach to research and innovation within our company. It is therefore important that our researchers can benefit from an environment of exceptional quality and from adequate support. The facilities at the Université de Sherbrooke are a good example. They are aligned with our objectives of ensuring the quality of life of Quebeckers through research in the health field and it is with pride that we support this project, ”said Minister Duchesne.
The Minister set out three main guiding principles that will guide the development of the new policy.
Minister Pierre Duchesne visits the new facilities of the Home automation and mobile computing laboratory at the University of Sherbrooke. // (c) Joël Bouchard
It should be remembered that the acquisition of research equipment began in the fall of 2012 and will continue until the spring of 2014. This is a financial assistance of $ 1,073,195 granted by the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology. Minister Duchesne is delighted with the progress of the work.
Located at the Faculty of Sciences of the University of Sherbrooke, the DOMUS laboratory carries out fundamental and applied interdisciplinary research in computer science and health. An interdisciplinary team of seven researchers is working on cognitive assistance for people suffering from cognitive deficits as well as on televigilance and medical monitoring.
Thanks to this financial assistance, Maison La Conquête, an alternative residence, will be transformed into a living laboratory of international stature. This laboratory will be devoted to interdisciplinary research on assistance with cognitive deficits, televigilance and medical follow-up with a view to home care.
Maison La Conquête has ten accommodation units that can accommodate ten severe head trauma patients or people who have suffered a stroke. DOMUS will install assistance and televigilance systems there to innovate, evaluate, promote and transfer its solutions. In addition, the project includes an upgrade of the infrastructures at the DOMUS laboratory in order to integrate this research infrastructure on two interrelated sites: the alternative residence and the DOMUS laboratory.
“At the heart of one of the three major research centers in Quebec, the University of Sherbrooke consolidates its position among the major research institutions in Canada. Its activities are growing in terms of both quantity and quality and its infrastructures are being renewed at an accelerated rate. The numerous publications, discoveries, innovations or creations of its professors shine in all disciplines. The project that brings us together this morning clearly illustrates that when we take advantage of bold and flexible investments, we can establish collaborations with organizations in the field that generate immediate benefits for the well-being of the population, ”said Professor Luce. Samoisette, rector of the University of Sherbrooke.
The transformation of the La Conquête residence into a smart home for people suffering from cognitive deficits will allow a fruitful network between users, clinicians and researchers. The residents of La Conquête will have the possibility and the means to give themselves a full-fledged life project promoting their autonomy through an adapted environment and personalized systems. These systems will also provide relief to informal caregivers and professional helpers. Ultimately, the results of this research could also be transferred to other clienteles, such as people with Alzheimer&#39;s disease, or be adapted for other types of housing, such as individual residences.
This project received financial assistance of $ 995,195, granted by the MESRST. To this assistance is added a subsidy of $ 78,000 for the operating and maintenance costs of the equipment. These amounts are part of the Research Support Program, Component 2: Support for the funding of research infrastructures. The Université de Sherbrooke Foundation also contributed to the project for an amount of $ 110,570.
The National Research and Innovation Policy is part of the four strategic initiatives of Québec&#39;s economic policy, Priority employment, launched by the Premier. It is the result of numerous consultations held with stakeholders from all sectors concerned by research and innovation: businesses, educational establishments, the State and society. With an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion over five years, it will help advance Québec in the knowledge and innovation society.
For more information: mesrst.gouv.qc.ca/pnri.
