Quebec - Sylvain Pagé, the member for Labelle and official opposition spokesperson for healthy lifestyles, recreation and sports, invites the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Yves Bolduc, to accept the cooperation of the official opposition to adopt without delay a national policy on sport, recreation and physical activity.
“Let us adopt together a national policy for sport, recreation and physical activity. This is a non-partisan issue rooted in a broad popular consensus. Unprecedented consultation between players in leisure, sport and physical activity has already taken place in all regions of Quebec, making it possible to mobilize and consult a few thousand volunteers, partners and leaders, in particular ”, affirmed Sylvain Pagé.
Recall that the government of the Parti Québécois presented, in June 2013, a green paper on a future national policy on sport, leisure and physical activity and invited Quebecers to speak out on its content, which aims to make the nation of Quebec one of the fittest in the world within 10 years by adopting an intervention plan that would extend from the CPE to the CHSLD.
&quot;A healthy nation helps reduce health costs by preventing obesity-related diseases, reducing youth suicide rates, engaging activities, and at the same time encouraging academic success.&quot; Quebec would thus acquire a broad vision with multiple positive impacts, ”continued Sylvain Pagé.
The Prime Minister stressed in his opening speech that good ideas can come from anywhere. In this sufficiently advanced dossier, collaboration is desirable.
“We are also asking Minister Bolduc to renew, in the future 2014-2015 budget, the sum of $ 50 million that the Marceau budget allocated to sports and recreational infrastructures. It is necessary to support our municipalities and the players in leisure, sport and physical activity, who need this money to keep existing infrastructures up to date and to make accessible those which are still not accessible for part of the population. our people, ”added the official opposition spokesperson.
&quot;If we are able to work together to pass the&quot; Dying with Dignity &quot;bill without partisanship, why not do the same to give us a policy that will allow all Quebecers to live healthy lives? », Concluded the member for Labelle.
