Montreal - The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, today unveiled the government&#39;s comprehensive action plan aimed at resolving air quality problems in certain schools in Quebec. This plan has three components: immediate action against known mold problems, detection and prevention.
“Since taking office, I have observed the dilapidated state of certain schools in the network struggling with mold problems, many of them here in Montreal. Faced with this utterly intolerable and critical situation, only one observation emerges: it is imperative to act now and forcefully to settle, once and for all, the cases of mold identified and prevent new similar situations. This is what we are doing by launching this unprecedented action plan, ”said Minister Malavoy.
The government&#39;s approach is based in particular on the Réno-Écoles plan, with a budget of $ 401.2 million, which constitutes the heart of one of the flagship measures provided for in the Priorité emploi economic policy.
This investment includes an envelope of $ 46.5 million intended exclusively to launch a real offensive against cases of mold contamination identified in 19 schools in Quebec. These establishments are particularly attached to the Montreal School Board (16), but also to the Vallée-des-Tisserands (2) and Sommets (1) school boards. The most important work carried out as part of this offensive will be carried out at the Baril school, of the Commission scolaire de Montréal, which will be completely demolished and rebuilt at a cost of $ 19 million. Corrective and preventive work will be carried out in the other establishments, ranging from the replacement of plumbing, through the repair of doors and windows, to that of the exterior envelope and the structure of the buildings.
In addition to the investments related to this offensive against molds, a sum of $ 30 million will be devoted to carrying out a vast operation to detect possible air quality problems in schools, in all regions of the country. Quebec. This operation will be steered by a committee made up of representatives from the Ministry and the school network.
&quot;It is essential to have an accurate picture of the situation of the entire school building stock in Quebec in order to establish the follow-up to be given to this priority file,&quot; said the Minister.
The government action plan includes an important preventive component. In this regard, the Minister announced that the investments of $ 324.7 million by 2017, provided for in the Réno-Écoles plan, would be accelerated in support of repair, improvement or overhaul of schools, across Quebec.
Other measures have been put in place by the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport to correct air quality problems in schools. The Ministère has, among other things, produced a reference document intended for school boards, bringing together the directives or recommendations it has already issued in the past with regard to the management of contaminants or products presenting a risk to health in schools. A committee of experts, formed in 2012 with the aim of defining good practices in the prevention, detection and correction of mold problems in schools, is also expected to submit its report shortly to the Minister. Finally, the school boards are expected to adopt an accountability mechanism to inform the Department of the most risky situations in terms of health and financial repercussions.
“Over the past year, we have not stopped improving things so that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe and conducive to learning environments. We are committing ourselves even further on this path through the promising and strong actions that we are taking today, ”concluded the Minister.
