Montreal- The Minister of Families, Ms. Nicole Léger, is pleased to announce the holding of the Quebec Family Forum. This event will take place on November 7 and 8 at the Palais des congrès de Montréal.
By building on the progress made in favor of families thanks to Quebec&#39;s family policy, the Forum will allow us to take a new look at the families of tomorrow and their needs. On this occasion, participants will be invited to discuss the advances made over the past two decades and to identify the challenges families will face in the future. In addition, the population is called upon to contribute to the reflections of the Forum through a public consultation on the website of the Ministère de la Famille, as of today.
“Quebec society is going through transformations. The same is true of the family: its structures and needs change. Quebec&#39;s family policy is recognized as one of the best in the world. However, it can still be improved, particularly in terms of adapting current measures to the new realities of families. Also, it is important to work with our partners to put in place solutions adapted to these realities, ”said Minister Nicole Léger.
The Quebec Family Forum will bring together the main stakeholders associated with Quebec family policy, including members of the Family Advisory Committee. This committee was set up last May to advise the Minister of Families on various questions relating to family policy.
“The previous Liberal government abolished the Family and Children&#39;s Council. As soon as I arrived, I reactivated a place for discussions and exchanges. It is essential for me to have the opinion and opinion of partners in the family sector, ”continued Ms. Léger.
Six major themes will be addressed during the Forum: work-family reconciliation, the contribution of communities to the well-being of families, Quebec families at the heart of changes, the primacy of parental responsibility, the many faces of Quebec families. today and tomorrow as well as the economic dimension of family policy.
“The Quebec Family Forum will mark the continuation of a sustained and fruitful dialogue with partners in Quebec&#39;s family policy. Our family policy is a source of pride and it reflects our government&#39;s commitment to the development of children and the vitality of families, ”said Minister Nicole Léger.
To find out more about the Quebec Family Forum and participate in the public consultation, visit www.forumfamille.gouv.qc.ca.
