Repentigny - In the context of Economic Policy: Priority Employment, the MNA for Repentigny, Mr. Scott McKay, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, today announced that the government invest $ 2.3 million in schools in the riding of Repentigny to provide students with healthier learning environments. These investments will make it possible to carry out improvement, renovation and repair projects in 17 schools to prevent possible air quality problems.
“Faced with the air quality problems experienced by some schools, the government has chosen the only possible path: action. We had to do everything we could to meet the most pressing needs and act upstream on existing infrastructures. This is what we are doing through these massive investments, totaling $ 10 million, in the educational heritage of the Lanaudière region, ”Minister Malavoy said.
The Lanaudière region includes the Affluents, Samares and part of the Laurentians school boards. The Affluents school board, of which the riding of Repentigny is a part, will alone receive an amount of $ 5 million for improving its infrastructure. Various corrective works will be carried out, from the addition of backflow prevention devices to the drinking water network, including the repair of roofs, heating systems, washrooms and the storm and sanitary drainage network depending on the requirements. schools. This preventive work will ensure a safe environment for students, teachers and school staff.
“The Réno-Écoles program will certainly help improve the quality of life of students in our schools. The schools in Repentigny do not have mold problems, which is why the investments I am announcing today are more about the preventive component. Prevention is also one of the government&#39;s objectives, ”said Scott McKay.
This announcement comes within the context of a comprehensive government action plan aimed at resolving air quality problems in certain schools in Quebec, unveiled on October 11 by Minister Malavoy. The overall action plan has three components: immediate action against known mold problems, detection and prevention. Priority was first put on the offensive against cases of mold contamination in 19 schools in Quebec, particularly in Montreal.
Across Quebec, $ 324.7 million will be allocated to speed up improvement, renovation and repair work on schools.
To this amount is added the sum of $ 30 million which will be used to carry out a vast operation to detect possible air quality problems in schools, in all regions of Quebec. This operation, which will be steered by a committee made up of representatives from the Ministry and the school network, will provide an accurate picture of the situation of the entire school building stock in Quebec to determine the follow-up to be given to this priority file.
“For the past year, we have not stopped taking measures to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe living environments that are conducive to learning. We are committing ourselves even further on this path through the promising and strong actions that we are taking today, ”concluded Minister Malavoy.
