Lévis - On behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, her parliamentary assistant and chair of the government caucus, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, today met with partners in the fields of recreation, sport and physical activity in the Chaudière-Appalaches region to hear them about the green paper entitled The taste and pleasure of moving: towards a national policy on sport, leisure and physical activity.
“It is with great pleasure that I met today the professionals in leisure and sport in the Chaudière-Appalaches region. I discovered a dynamic and booming region as well as passionate people who have at heart the development and influence of leisure and sport in their region. I would like to salute all these people who generously shared their comments with us on the occasion of this third day of regional consultations, ”said Mr. Pagé.
Since June 27, Mr. Pagé has been traveling the roads of Quebec to meet the many regional partners who help ensure that citizens have access to sports, recreational and physical activities. They thus have the chance to express their concerns and their vision about the future national policy of sport, leisure and physical activity.
Quebeckers are also questioned. In fact, an online consultation is held on the website of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport on the sidelines of meetings with partners. It will make it possible to collect, until August 31, the comments and memories of all those who wish to feed into the reflection and enrich future policy.
“The views that will be shared during these consultations will provide valuable insight into the development of the new policy. This unifying project should ultimately give everyone the desire to move and practice physical, recreational and sports activities, from infancy to middle age. It also aims to implement measures to support our sports elite and help it shine even more on the international scene, ”Minister Malavoy said.
It should be noted that the Green Paper is essentially a consultation tool which proposes a vision, issues and orientations on which the discussions are based. To consult it or to participate in the online consultation, visit www.mels.gouv.qc.ca/livrevert.
