Longueuil - On behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, her parliamentary assistant and chair of the government caucus, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, today launched regional consultations in Montérégie with a view to the development of the future national policy for sport, leisure and physical activity.
“Today in Montérégie we kicked off the regional consultation tour. There, I discovered representatives of very well structured organizations, for whom consultation is at the heart of the action. I have also noted the diversity of this vast territory, which combines various issues, both urban and rural. I thank all the people who came to share their thoughts with us, ”said Mr. Pagé.
This consultation tour, led by Mr. Pagé, follows the launch, on June 10, of the green book entitled The taste and the pleasure of moving: towards a national policy of sport, leisure and physical activity. Mr. Pagé will travel the roads of Quebec to meet the many regional partners in the fields of sport, recreation and physical activity. The tour will stop in the Laurentians tomorrow, then in the other regions after the summer vacation.
Quebeckers are also questioned. Indeed, an online consultation will be held this summer on the sidelines of meetings with partners. It will make it possible to collect the comments of all those who wish to feed the reflection and enrich the future policy.
“The views that will be shared during these consultations will provide valuable insight into the development of the new policy. This unifying project should ultimately give everyone the desire to move, to practice physical, recreational and sports activities, from infancy to middle age. It will also aim to implement measures to support our sporting elite and help it shine even more on the international scene, ”Minister Malavoy said.
It should be noted that the Green Paper is essentially a consultation tool which proposes a vision, issues and orientations on which the discussions are based. To consult it or provide comments, visit www.mels.gouv.qc.ca/livrevert.
