Saint-Bruno-de-Montarville - As part of the Economic policy: Priority employment, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports and Minister responsible for the Montérégie region, Ms. Marie Malavoy, accompanied by the Minister of Security member of Parliament for Verchères, Stéphane Bergeron, today announced a government investment of more than $ 14.3 million in vocational training infrastructures in Montérégie. Various renovation and equipment addition projects can be carried out across Quebec with this financial assistance.
“By investing more than $ 14.3 million in Montérégie, the Government of Quebec is determined to encourage even more young people to explore the many possibilities offered by vocational training, because it is essential to the development of our economy. Making investments in training infrastructures, as well as updating study programs, represents a privileged way to do so while allowing our young people to achieve their goals in training that is close to their hearts ”, supported Minister Malavoy.
Among the projects funded in the region, major work will be carried out at the Commission scolaire des Patriotes, thanks to government financial assistance of nearly $ 11.9 million.
These aim to fit out premises at the professional training center of the Patriots and to add the equipment necessary for the implementation of two study programs, namely Mechanics of stationary machines and Welding-assembly. All the work should be completed by September 2015. Thanks to this project, 40 new students will be able to be trained annually in each of these two study programs, which present favorable employment prospects. Remember that the Patriotes and Riverside school boards have been authorized to offer the Stationary Machine Mechanics study program. They will share the premises of the Commission scolaire des Patriotes and will offer this study program in French and in English.
The investments announced will also allow the addition of equipment required to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Cabinetmaking, Personal Assistance in Health Establishment and Personal Assistance at Home programs of study.
“This announcement is a testament to our government&#39;s desire to do everything in its power to ensure that young people are well prepared to take their place in the labor market. The five targeted programs of study present attractive employment prospects over the next few years for those who choose them. This is a winning choice for boosting the economy of our region and which will allow young people, at the same time, to fulfill themselves in fields which fascinate them, ”declared Minister Bergeron.
It should be noted that these investments are planned within the framework of the Economic Policy: Priority employment, which aims in particular to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, in the short and medium term.
In addition to investments of $ 23.6 million for vocational training, this policy provides some $ 401 million to make educational infrastructures healthier learning environments and more than $ 130 million allocated to the modernization of sports infrastructures. and recreational activities throughout Quebec.
“The Economic Policy: Priority Employment is the bearer of a unifying and ambitious vision for the future for the development of our economy. As evidenced by today&#39;s announcement, this vision colors our actions in education. We are thus taking positive actions for the well-being and quality of life of Quebeckers, ”Minister Malavoy concluded.
Additional government investment of $ 14.3 million to improve the supply of vocational training in MONTÉRÉGIE, including nearly:
11,9 M$
for the implementation of the Stationary Machine Mechanics and Welding-Assembly study programs at the Commission scolaire des Patriotes (nearly $ 10.7 million in infrastructure and $ 1.2 million in equipment)
2,4 M$
for the updating of 7 study programs in 11 school boards in the region
These investments are in addition to the $ 2.3 million already planned for the region as part of the five-year capital plans.
All the investments announced in 2013-2014 thus total more than $ 16.6 million in Montérégie.
