Alma– The Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Member of Parliament for Lac-Saint-Jean, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, announces the allocation of financial assistance of more than $ 2.5 million to the school Jean-Gauthier d&#39;Alma for the construction project of a new gymnasium which will allow the installation of a cafeteria permed.
At Jean-Gauthier high school, a major problem has persisted for several years, namely the dual purpose of the gymnasium, which turns into a cafeteria at mealtimes. In order to remedy this situation, the sum announced today will be used to pay 100% of the construction costs of a new gymnasium adapted to the needs of young people, which will allow the redevelopment of the old gymnasium into a permanent cafeteria.
“Being up to date and very active in various educational projects carried out in secondary schools in my riding, I am very sensitive to the situation experienced at Jean-Gauthier school. Sharing the same place for the gymnasium and the cafeteria is a real problem. I am therefore very happy to announce that our government will invest more than $ 2.5 million to set up a permanent cafeteria and allow students to have access to quality sports facilities, in addition to providing the community with suitable equipment. its needs, ”said Minister Cloutier.
This project was developed in collaboration with young people, staff, management and members of the school&#39;s governing board, the Lac-Saint-Jean school board and community partners. The Jean-Gauthier school offers its services to six municipalities in the North sector, namely L&#39;Ascension, Lamarche, Labrecque, Sainte-Monique, Saint-Henri-de-Taillon, Saint-Nazaire as well as the sectors of Saint-Cœur-de -Marie and Delisle from the City of Alma.
This announcement comes in the context of a comprehensive government action plan, which aims in particular to resolve air quality problems in certain schools in Quebec, unveiled on October 11 by Minister Malavoy. This government approach is based in particular on the Réno-Écoles school renovation program, with a budget of $ 401.2 million, which is one of the measures of the Priority Jobs economic policy.
The overall action plan has three components: immediate action against known mold problems, detection and prevention. Among the planned investments, let us mention an envelope of $ 46.5 million, intended exclusively to launch an offensive against cases of contamination by mold already known in 19 schools in Quebec, particularly in Montreal. Some $ 324.7 million will also be allocated to accelerate work to improve, renovate and repair schools across Quebec.
Finally, a sum of $ 30 million will be used to carry out a vast operation to detect possible air quality problems in schools, in all regions of Quebec. This operation, which will be steered by a committee made up of representatives from the Ministry and the school network, will provide an accurate picture of the situation of the entire school building stock in Quebec to determine the follow-up to be given to this priority file.
“For the past year, we have not stopped taking measures to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe living environments that are conducive to learning. We are committing ourselves even further on this path through the promising and strong actions that we are taking today, ”concluded Minister Malavoy.
