Quebec - Following the presentation, with great pomp, of the Liberal government&#39;s youth policy by seven ministers, today the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois pour la jeunesse, Dave Turcotte, emphasizes that it took two years to obtain what turns out to be a copy and paste of the white paper that the Parti Québécois tabled in February 2014.
“The question arises: why not have tabled this policy more quickly, when it essentially takes up the same elements contained in the White Paper of the Parti Québécois? The Liberal government has only delayed the implementation of the measures, while keeping the same objectives. After two years, we expected him to add means to achieve these goals faster, but he is not. The amounts allocated remain the same, ”said Dave Turcotte.
The Liberal Party delayed the implementation of projects that would have given impetus to young Quebecers. “The Liberal government&#39;s lack of vision is causing economic stagnation. Since taking office, less than half of the jobs promised have been delivered. In addition, the number of young people receiving employment assistance has increased, and the migratory balance of several regions is worrying, ”added the spokesperson.
He also indicates that the Parti Québécois is still waiting for several important strategies. “The government has still not presented a national policy on healthy lifestyles, nor a national policy to fight against dropping out. In mental health, he launched an action plan, but no amount of money is associated with it for the next two years! », He illustrated.
Completely illogically, the Liberal government has instead chosen to create a major vacuum by abolishing regional conferences of elected officials and youth forums, not to mention the botched reform of the youth employment centers, as well as the cuts it has made. made in the budgets of school boards, CEGEPs and universities. The Liberals also destabilized and destructured the network of regional organizations to fight against early school leaving, which greatly affected young people in Quebec.
“Of course, we can be delighted that the government was inspired by the measures proposed by the Parti Québécois, including the voluntary Quebec project and interregional mobilization. However, we regret that the Liberals waited two years to get to work, and we see the lack of new money. All in all, it&#39;s quite disappointing, ”concluded Dave Turcotte.
