Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu– The member for Saint-Jean and deputy government whip, Mr. Dave Turcotte, confirmed, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation, through Investissement Québec, of a financial contribution of $ 250,000 to the company Formica Canada for the modernization of its decorative laminate manufacturing plant located in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu .
The company&#39;s project, valued at $ 7 million, aims in particular to acquire new equipment, such as a melamine resin impregnator. It will allow the creation of 2 new jobs and the consolidation of the 255 current jobs at the Formica Canada facilities in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu.
“In Montérégie, we have a qualified workforce that uses its know-how to the benefit of our businesses, including those in the manufacturing sector,” said Dave Turcotte. “We are therefore very proud to support the completion of this project that will generate significant economic benefits for the region and Quebec, a project that will also help strengthen our expertise in this sector of our economy. &quot;
&quot;For our government, it is essential to support the modernization of companies in the manufacturing sector, a vital sector for the Quebec economy,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “The 2013-2017 Québec industrial policy aims to increase the competitiveness of this flagship sector by focusing on the integration of new technologies in our businesses in order to make them more modern and greener. The Formica Canada project corresponds to the orientations of this policy, in addition to allowing the maintenance of many quality jobs in Quebec. &quot;
Formica Canada is a division of the US-based Formica Corporation, which is owned by New Zealand-based Fletcher Building. It specializes in the manufacture of decorative laminates intended primarily for furnishings and construction. In Quebec, its head office is located in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu.
“Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we will be able to modernize our equipment, increase our productivity and manufacture new products,” said Formica Canada plant manager, Mr. Claude Sarrazin. “This project will also enable our Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu plant to ensure its competitiveness and strengthen its expertise within the Fletcher Building group. &quot;
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
