Montreal - On behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, her parliamentary assistant and chair of the government caucus, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, today met with partners in the fields of recreation, sport and physical activity in the Montreal region to hear them about the green paper entitled The taste and pleasure of moving: towards a national policy on sport, leisure and physical activity.
“I was impatiently awaiting the Montreal consultation since the reality of the metropolis is distinct: a quarter of the Quebec population lives there, it is the densest region of Quebec. One third of its inhabitants live below the poverty line. It welcomes 40,000 immigrants each year and more than 120 cultural communities live there. This diversity brings new issues specific to the metropolitan region. I am thinking in particular of the need for different sports grounds such as cricket grounds. The participants in the consultation told us about the importance of the practice of physical activity for the integration of immigrants and I agree with them. Montreal also has to face a “beautiful” problem: the overuse of various sports infrastructures, including bicycle paths. This shows that people are active, but solutions must be found so that everyone can have access to them and remain active, ”said Mr. Pagé.
Since June 27, Mr. Pagé has been traveling the roads of Quebec to meet the many regional partners who help ensure that citizens have access to sports, recreational and physical activities. They thus have the chance to express their concerns and their vision about the future national policy of sport, leisure and physical activity.
Quebeckers were also questioned. In fact, an online consultation was held on the website of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport on the sidelines of the meetings with the partners. It made it possible to collect, during the months of July and August, the comments of those who wished to feed the reflection and enrich the future policy.
“The views that will be shared during these consultations will provide valuable insight into the development of the new policy. This unifying project should ultimately give everyone the desire to move and practice physical, recreational and sports activities, from infancy to middle age. It also aims to implement measures to support our sports elite and help it shine even more on the international scene, ”Minister Malavoy said.
It should be noted that the Green Paper is essentially a consultation tool which proposes a vision, issues and orientations on which the discussions are based. To consult it, visit www.mels.gouv.qc.ca/livrevert.
