Sherbrooke - As part of the Economic policy: Priority employment, the Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Seniors, Minister responsible for the Estrie region and Member of Parliament for Saint-François, Dr. Réjean Hébert, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Marie Malavoy, today announced that the government would make investments of $ 12,713,789 in schools in the greater Estrie region to provide students with healthier places to learn. These investments will make it possible to carry out improvement, renovation and repair projects in 63 schools to prevent possible air quality problems.
“Faced with the air quality problems experienced by some schools, the government has chosen to do everything possible to meet the most pressing needs and to act upstream on existing infrastructure. This is what we are doing through these massive investments, which total more than $ 12 million, in the school heritage of the Eastern Townships, ”Minister Malavoy said.
The amounts announced, details of which can be found in the appendix, will be distributed among the Appalachian, Hauts-Cantons, Eastern Townships and Sommets school boards. Various corrective works will be carried out, from the replacement of plumbing, through the repair of roofs, doors and windows, to that of the exterior envelope and the structure of the buildings. This preventive work will ensure a safe environment for students, teachers and school staff.
“These amounts will allow schools to carry out various renovations and repairs in a preventive manner. Quebec&#39;s school heritage is aging and some schools have recently had to carry out work in a hurry, for lack of adequate investment in maintenance in previous years. This envelope will allow school boards and schools to act upstream for the well-being of our children, ”said Minister Hébert.
This announcement comes within the context of a comprehensive government action plan aimed at resolving air quality problems in certain schools in Quebec, unveiled on October 11 by Minister Malavoy. This government approach is based in particular on the Réno-Écoles school renovation program, with a budget of $ 401.2 million, which is one of the measures of the economic policy: Priority employment.
The overall action plan has three components: immediate action against known mold problems, detection and prevention. Among the planned investments, let us mention an envelope of $ 46.5 million intended exclusively to launch an offensive against cases of mold contamination already known in 19 schools in Quebec, particularly in Montreal. Some $ 324.7 million will also be allocated to speed up improvement, renovation and repair work on schools across Quebec.
Finally, a sum of $ 30 million will be used to carry out a vast operation to detect possible air quality problems in schools, in all regions of Quebec. This operation, which will be steered by a committee made up of representatives from the Ministry and the school network, will provide an accurate picture of the situation of all of Quebec&#39;s school building stock to determine the next actions to be taken in this priority file.
“For the past year, we have not stopped taking measures to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe living environments that are conducive to learning. We are committing ourselves even further on this path through the promising and strong actions that we are taking today, ”concluded Minister Malavoy.
