La Malbaie - As part of the Priorité emploi economic policy, the Premier of Quebec and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix-Côte-de-Beaupré, Pauline Marois, announced that a major vocational training infrastructure project would be carried out in La Malbaie, thanks to government financial assistance of $ 1.2 million to the Charlevoix School Board.
First, government assistance will support the redevelopment of a welding area reserved for the Automobile Mechanics study program at the Charlevoix Center for Adult Education and Vocational Training. It is then planned to carry out a complete redevelopment of the facilities of this same study program.
Auto mechanics is a sector where the demand for labor is high. Thanks to this project, the Charlevoix School Board will be able to bring the facilities for this study program up to standard, which are obsolete and no longer sufficient to accommodate a full cohort of beginning students each year. The renovation of the facilities will allow the Center to accommodate the number of students provided for by ministerial standards for the study program and to increase its capacity by approximately half a cohort of beginning students per year.
“It is to our advantage that vocational training attracts more young people, because it is essential to the development of our economy. A strong and prosperous Quebec needs to rely on women and men who have been given all the opportunities and support necessary to obtain a diploma or qualification. The government believes in it and that is why we are making these investments now, ”said the Premier.
It should be noted that throughout Quebec, 12 renovation and equipment addition projects will materialize thanks to investments totaling $ 29.2 million, provided for in the Economic Policy Priority Jobs. This policy aims in particular to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, in the short and medium terms.
Of the approximately $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments intended for vocational training, some $ 401 million is devoted to making educational infrastructures healthier environments for learning. In addition, more than $ 130 million is allocated to the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructures throughout Quebec.
“The Priority Jobs economic policy embodies a unifying and ambitious vision for the future for the development of our economy. As evidenced by today&#39;s announcement, this vision colors our actions in education. We are thus taking positive actions for the well-being and quality of life of Quebeckers, ”said Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Marie Malavoy.
