Joliette– On behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, her parliamentary assistant and chair of the government caucus, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, today met with partners in the fields of recreation, sport and physical activity in the Lanaudière region to hear them about the green paper entitled The taste and pleasure of moving: towards a national policy on sport, leisure and physical activity.
“This day spent in Lanaudière made me rediscover a region that has succeeded in developing and highlighting its natural resources as well as its magnificent landscapes for the practice of physical and outdoor activities. I quickly noticed the dynamism and determination of its players in leisure and sport. A strong regional position was presented, demonstrating the extent of the underlying thinking as well as the close ties between Lanaudière and Lanaudois. I understand that the region wants a policy that can be modulated to take into account the particularities of the different regions of Quebec. I would therefore like to salute all the people who generously shared their comments with us on the occasion of this 12th day of regional consultations, ”said Mr. Pagé.
Since June 27, Mr. Pagé has been traveling the roads of Quebec to meet the many regional partners who help ensure that citizens have access to sports, recreational and physical activities. They thus have the chance to express their concerns and their vision about the future national policy of sport, leisure and physical activity.
Quebeckers were also questioned. In fact, an online consultation was held on the website of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport on the sidelines of the meetings with the partners. It made it possible to collect, during the months of July and August, the comments of those who wished to feed the reflection and enrich the future policy.
“The views that will be shared during these consultations will provide valuable insight into the development of the new policy. This unifying project should ultimately give everyone the desire to move and practice physical, recreational and sports activities, from infancy to middle age. It also aims to implement measures to support our sports elite and help it shine even more on the international scene, ”Minister Malavoy said.
It should be noted that the Green Paper is essentially a consultation tool which proposes a vision, issues and orientations on which the discussions are based. To consult it, visit www.mels.gouv.qc.ca/livrevert.
