Quebec - The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is delighted with the decision rendered last week by the Régie de l&#39;énergie, which will allow greenhouse companies to benefit electricity tariffs adapted from this winter. In fact, the Régie de l&#39;énergie accepted the arguments of the Government of Quebec and authorized a rate reduction as of November 1, 2013, a reduction that was previously announced for April 1, 2014.
“Since the unveiling of the Food Sovereignty Policy last May, we have made every possible effort to support and revitalize Quebec&#39;s biofood industry. This measure, which constitutes a judicious use of energy surpluses, will allow Quebec greenhouse companies to be more competitive. I am therefore particularly pleased that the entry into force of these adapted tariffs has been brought forward ”, declared the Minister.
Greenhouse production faces a double difficulty, namely a need for energy for heating and a need for electricity for lighting. Also, production in a northern climate generates higher energy costs compared to the competition, which affects the competitiveness of Quebec businesses. Thanks to the new measure, greenhouse companies that meet the eligibility conditions will be able to benefit from advantageous electricity rates in order to compensate for the use of fuel oil, which will only become an alternative energy source for heating during the period. peak.
In addition, growing vegetables in greenhouses requires the use of photosynthetic lighting during the winter period to compensate for the low level of sunshine in our latitudes. The only source of energy available for this type of lighting is electricity. Photosynthetic lighting allows companies in Quebec to extend the production period. To meet this need, a tariff for photosynthesis lighting will now be offered to Quebec greenhouse growers.
&quot;Without a shadow of a doubt, this new measure is timely, at the dawn of winter, and will give a hand to our greenhouse producers who have experienced significant price increases under the old regime. liberal. For a year now, we have been taking concrete steps to support all our agricultural artisans, from the land to the table, including processors and restaurateurs, because it is together that we will be able to achieve our ambitious objective of food sovereignty ”, concluded Mr. François Gendron.
To find out more about the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
