Jonquière - On behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, her parliamentary assistant and chair of the government caucus, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, today met with partners in the fields of recreation, sport and physical activity in the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region to hear them about the green paper entitled The taste and pleasure of moving: towards a national policy on sport, leisure and physical activity.
“For this tenth consultation, we went to the edge of the Saguenay River in Jonquière. In this magnificent region, which is celebrating its 175th anniversary this year and which saw the birth of one of the most beautiful physical activity initiatives in Quebec, the Grand défi Pierre Lavoie, we met passionate people who offered us solutions to the questions raised in the green book. I was particularly impressed by the various achievements presented, including Cardi-O-Forme, which offers a fitness program designed for people with different health problems. I have also noted many issues that present significant challenges for the region, such as the high cost of transport for residents of smaller municipalities who want to go to the various sports facilities, the obsolescence of certain sports and leisure infrastructures as well. that the significant aging of the population, ”said Mr. Pagé.
Since June 27, Mr. Pagé has been traveling the roads of Quebec to meet the many regional partners who help ensure that citizens have access to sports, recreational and physical activities. They thus have the chance to express their concerns and their vision about the future national policy of sport, leisure and physical activity.
Quebeckers were also questioned. In fact, an online consultation was held on the website of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport on the sidelines of the meetings with the partners. It made it possible to collect, during the months of July and August, the comments of those who wished to feed the reflection and enrich the future policy.
“The views that will be shared during these consultations will provide valuable insight into the development of the new policy. This unifying project should ultimately give everyone the desire to move and practice physical, recreational and sports activities, from infancy to middle age. It also aims to implement measures to support our sports elite and help it shine even more on the international scene, ”Minister Malavoy said.
It should be noted that the Green Paper is essentially a consultation tool which proposes a vision, issues and orientations on which the discussions are based. To consult it, visit www.mels.gouv.qc.ca/livrevert.
