Quebec - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, today released Quebec&#39;s Industrial Policy 2013-2017. This policy is part of the Priority Employment Economic Policy unveiled by the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, on October 7.
&quot;With its industrial policy, the government will invest more than $ 1 billion in the manufacturing industry and will ultimately create more than 25,000 new, sustainable and quality jobs,&quot; declared Élaine Zakaïb. “Quebec&#39;s industrial policy will give Quebec and its businesses the means to keep pace with a modern, greener and more innovative economy. &quot;
Why an industrial policy The Minister recalled that, over the past two decades, the manufacturing sector has experienced a decline in all industrialized countries, and that to revive this key sector of our economy and face the new global situation, it It is necessary to rethink the known development models, which are obsolete.
“We have to give ourselves a vision, review our approach and establish a global, coherent and integrated strategy. We need to modernize our businesses, make them greener and better equipped with advanced technologies. We must help them grow, innovate and export. This is exactly the role of our industrial policy, which is the result of a broad consultation conducted with key players in the economy. &quot;
Quebec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017 is broken down into three areas of intervention responding to the current challenges of the manufacturing sector:
Competitiveness requires not only being more productive, but also being greener. Measures will be put in place, including tax credits specific to manufacturing SMEs, to accelerate the mechanization, automation and robotization of manufacturing processes, while integrating information and communications technologies into logistics, business and industrial processes.
In addition, a new program, EcoPerformance, will be set up and managed by the Ministry of Natural Resources in order to help companies reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. Companies will also be made aware of eco-responsible practices and the acquisition of recognized green certifications.
&quot;Quebec&#39;s industrial fabric is made up of a majority of SMEs, which gives rise to a vibrant and flexible industry,&quot; said the Minister. “However, we must increase the number of medium-sized companies capable of acting as prime contractors. For the first time in Quebec, the Ministère des Finances et de l&#39;Économie, Investissement Québec and the local development centers will work together within the framework of regional business intervention plans (PRIE) implemented in each of the regions. of Quebec. It&#39;s already started. &quot;
The objective of these plans is to support 300 particularly promising manufacturing SMEs in all regions of Quebec over the next four years. This support will offer a personalized approach and an appointed project manager to give these “gazelles” every chance to grow and become our flagships of tomorrow.
A mapping of supply chains in strategic and emerging sectors will also be developed in order to highlight the gaps within these chains and to determine which Quebec SMEs could remedy them.
In the context of a constantly and rapidly changing market, future prosperity depends on the capacity of countries to innovate, but above all to market their products and their know-how. To this end, an additional financial effort will be made by the government to support the marketing of innovative technologies and products by businesses at each stage.
“To be effective, we must act on all fronts at the same time, in an integrated manner and in the short, medium and long term. This is the only way to build together a more productive, more competitive and greener economy, ”concluded the Minister.
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
