Quebec - In the wake of the implementation of the Food Sovereignty Policy, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, chaired the second meeting of the members of the Table de concertation of Quebec bio-food partners, yesterday in Montérégie. The Table&#39;s partners met for the first time when the Policy was launched last May.
“I am delighted with the good spirit of cooperation that is currently emerging in Quebec biofood. I believe everyone recognizes the importance of sticking together and working closely together to ensure that the Food Sovereignty Policy will have the maximum impact. The enthusiasm it arouses is unequivocal: it&#39;s encouraging for the future, ”said Mr. Gendron.
Yesterday, several subjects were on the agenda including reciprocity of standards with foreign markets, the impact of agricultural zone development plans (PDZA) in the regions of Quebec, and better support for the next generation of farmers. The issue of accessibility of tablets in food chains was also discussed. &quot;We all have a duty to find sustainable solutions allowing small Quebec producers and processors to have a place of choice in our large food chains, this is a strong link in the Food Sovereignty Policy&quot; , said Mr. Gendron
In recent months, concrete actions have been taken to give momentum to the biofood sector. A new “Aliments du Québec” advertisement, which encourages consumers to develop the reflex to choose local products, was launched last September. In addition, several support programs have been announced, particularly in the areas of marketing, development of food processing, research and innovation, diversification, regional development and agroenvironment. Also, support measures for sectoral strategies for the development of short circuits and local markets have been announced.
“We were leaving a long way after seven years of waiting and procrastination. The offensive that we have deployed since the launch of the Policy clearly demonstrates the dynamism of the sector and its contribution to the economic development of Quebec, ”continued the Minister.
The latter has also drawn a positive assessment of the performance of Quebec biofood over the past year. “Sales by agricultural producers reached $ 7.6 billion, an increase of 3% over 2011. The food processing industry has stood out favorably from the manufacturing sector and the Quebec economy. Its annual sales of $ 23.2 billion in 2012 place it at the top of Quebec&#39;s major manufacturing sectors, closely followed by primary metal processing. Our actions are bearing fruit and we are determined to go even further, ”concluded Mr. Gendron.
With investments of $ 2.3 billion and annual food demand of nearly $ 34 billion generating 475,000 jobs, the biofood industry is a powerful engine of the Quebec economy.
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, we invite you to regularly consult the blog (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and its website (www .mapaq.gouv.qc.ca / PolitiqueSA), or to follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
