Laval - On behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, her parliamentary assistant and chair of the government caucus, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, today met with partners in the fields of recreation, sport and physical activity in the Laval region to hear them about the green paper entitled The taste and pleasure of moving: towards a national policy on sport, leisure and physical activity.
“I am very happy that the Laval region participated with great interest in this seventh consultation. Last year, the City adopted a policy on physical activity, the regional issues of which are for the most part directly related to the elements presented in the green paper. The participants we met told us about interesting Laval initiatives, including the Défi santé du Collège Montmorency as well as the “On bouge” program, set up by the Regroupement des centers de la petitefance de Laval et Québec en forme. I also noted the challenges that the region will have to face since it is experiencing one of the most important demographic growths in Quebec and must, therefore, adapt to meet the needs of people of all ages, ”said Mr. Page.
Since June 27, Mr. Pagé has been traveling the roads of Quebec to meet the many regional partners who help ensure that citizens have access to sports, recreational and physical activities. They thus have the chance to express their concerns and their vision about the future national policy of sport, leisure and physical activity.
Quebeckers were also questioned. In fact, an online consultation was held on the website of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport on the sidelines of the meetings with the partners. It made it possible to collect, during the months of July and August, the comments of those who wished to feed the reflection and enrich the future policy.
“The views that will be shared during these consultations will provide valuable insight into the development of the new policy. This unifying project should ultimately give everyone the desire to move and practice physical, recreational and sports activities, from infancy to middle age. It also aims to implement measures to support our sports elite and help it shine even more on the international scene, ”Minister Malavoy said.
It should be noted that the Green Paper is essentially a consultation tool which proposes a vision, issues and orientations on which the discussions are based. To consult it, visit www.mels.gouv.qc.ca/livrevert.
