Joliette - As part of the Economic Policy: Priority Employment, the Minister responsible for the Lanaudière region and Member of Parliament for Joliette, Ms. Véronique Hivon, as well as the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, announced today significant investments totaling $ 1.4 million in schools in Charlemagne, L&#39;Assomption, Repentigny (Le Gardeur sector) and Terrebonne (Lachenaie sector) to provide students with healthier schools in which to learn and blossom.
“Faced with the air quality problems experienced by some schools, the government has chosen the only possible path: action. We had to do everything we could to meet the most pressing needs and act upstream on existing infrastructures. This is what we are doing through these major investments, totaling $ 1.4 million, in the educational heritage of the riding of L&#39;Assomption, ”Minister Malavoy said.
&quot;These investments will make it possible to carry out improvement and repair projects in some twenty establishments of the Commission scolaire des Affluents to prevent, in particular, possible air quality problems, for the benefit of students, teachers and others. Staff. It is essential to invest in structuring and unifying niches, and I am particularly proud of this choice, namely that of investing in our young people, our schools and education, ”declared Minister Hivon.
The sums announced, details of which can be found in the appendix, will be devoted to various corrective works, ranging from the replacement of plumbing, through the repair of ventilation systems, roofs, doors and windows, to that of exterior envelopes. and building structures.
This announcement comes within the context of a comprehensive government action plan aimed at resolving air quality problems in certain schools in Quebec, unveiled last October by Minister Malavoy. This government approach is based in particular on the Réno-Écoles school renovation program, with a budget of $ 401 million, which is one of the measures of the Economic Policy Priority Employment.
In addition, a sum of $ 30 million will be used to carry out a vast operation to detect possible air quality problems in schools, in all regions of Quebec. This operation, which will be steered by a committee made up of representatives from the Ministry and the school network, will provide an accurate picture of the situation of the entire school building stock in Quebec to determine the actions to be taken in this priority file.
“For the past year, we have not stopped taking measures to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe living environments that are conducive to learning. We are committing ourselves even further on this path through the promising and strong actions that we are taking today, ”concluded Minister Malavoy.
