Saint-Ulric-de-Matane– As part of the Economic policy: Priority employment, the Minister for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Matane-Matapédia, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, announced today &#39;hui, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, that the government would make investments of $ 11,851,295 in schools in the region to provide students with healthier environments for learn. These investments will make it possible to carry out improvement, renovation and repair projects in 47 schools to prevent possible air quality problems.
“Faced with the air quality problems experienced by some schools, the government has chosen the only possible path: action. We had to do everything we could to meet the most pressing needs and act upstream on existing infrastructures. This is what we are doing through these massive investments, totaling nearly $ 12 million, in the educational heritage of Bas-Saint-Laurent, ”Minister Malavoy said.
The amounts announced, details of which can be found in the appendix, will be distributed among the school boards of Kamouraska-Rivière-du-Loup, Monts-et-Marées, Phares and Fleuve-et-des-Lacs. Various corrective works will be carried out, ranging from the replacement of plumbing, through the repair of roofs, doors and windows, to that of the exterior envelope and the structure of the buildings. This preventive work will ensure a safe environment for students, teachers and school staff.
“We have every interest in ensuring that our establishments are living environments in good condition, safe and functional, because it is in schools that the Quebec of tomorrow is taking shape. This is why our government is doing everything it can to maintain and improve the educational heritage in all regions, ”Minister Bérubé declared.
This announcement comes within the context of a comprehensive government action plan aimed at resolving air quality problems in certain schools in Quebec, unveiled on October 11 by Minister Malavoy. This government approach is based in particular on the Réno-Écoles school renovation program, with a budget of $ 401.2 million, which is one of the measures of the economic policy: Priority employment.
The overall action plan has three components: immediate action against known mold problems, detection and prevention. Among the planned investments, let us mention an envelope of $ 46.5 million intended exclusively to launch an offensive against cases of mold contamination already known in 19 schools in Quebec, particularly in Montreal. Some $ 324.7 million will also be allocated to speed up improvement, renovation and repair work on schools across Quebec.
Finally, a sum of $ 30 million will be used to carry out a vast operation to detect possible air quality problems in schools, in all regions of Quebec. This operation, which will be steered by a committee made up of representatives from the Ministry and the school network, will provide an accurate picture of the situation of all of Quebec&#39;s school building stock to determine the next actions to be taken in this priority file.
“For the past year, we have not stopped taking measures to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe living environments that are conducive to learning. We are committing ourselves even further on this path through the promising and strong actions that we are taking today, ”concluded Minister Malavoy.
