Jonquière - Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, announced today, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Marie Malavoy, that the government will invest $ 2,575,000 in schools located in Jonquière to provide students with healthier environments. These investments will make it possible to carry out improvement, renovation and repair projects in four establishments, in particular to restore buildings and prevent possible air quality problems.
“Faced with the air quality problems that some schools have experienced, the government has chosen the only possible path: action. We had to do everything we could to address the most pressing needs and act upstream to improve existing infrastructure. This is what we are doing through these massive investments in our educational heritage, ”declared Minister Malavoy.
These sums will be used to carry out various corrective work, such as the replacement of plumbing and ventilation and the repair of roofs, doors and windows as well as the exterior envelope and the structure of the buildings. This preventive work will ensure a safe environment for students, teachers and school staff.
“I am very happy for the Jonquiérois. These investments are in addition to the other amounts announced last spring for the repair of other schools in the De La Jonquière School Board and for the construction of a gymnasium at École Sainte-Cécile, ”said Minister Gaudreault.
This announcement comes within the context of a comprehensive government action plan aimed at resolving air quality problems in certain schools in Quebec, unveiled on October 11 by Minister Malavoy. This government approach is based in particular on the Réno-Écoles school renovation program, with a budget of $ 401.2 million, which is one of the measures of the Priority Jobs economic policy.
The overall action plan has three components: immediate action against known mold problems, detection and prevention. Among the planned investments, let us mention an envelope of $ 46.5 million intended exclusively to launch an offensive against cases of mold contamination already known in 19 schools in Quebec, particularly in Montreal. Some $ 324.7 million will also be allocated to speed up improvement, renovation and repair work on schools across Quebec.
Finally, a sum of $ 30 million will be used to carry out a vast operation to detect possible air quality problems in schools, in all regions of Quebec. This operation, which will be steered by a committee made up of representatives from the Ministry and the school network, will provide an accurate picture of the situation of all of Quebec&#39;s school building stock to determine the next actions to be taken in this priority file.
“For the past year, we have not stopped taking measures to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe living environments that are conducive to learning. We are committing ourselves even further on this path through the promising and strong actions that we are taking today, ”concluded Minister Malavoy.
