Montreal - The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, accompanied by the Member of Parliament for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques and Parliamentary Assistant to the Premier in Electrification of Transportation, Mr. Daniel Breton, announced today hui that investments of nearly $ 2.7 million would soon be made at the Pierre-Dupuy school of the Commission scolaire de Montréal, to improve the air quality in the building. This government contribution will make it possible to change the school&#39;s water tower and rebuild the domestic water and sewer systems ($ 1,410,500). It will also repair elevators and freight elevators, replace ventilation systems and overhaul the security system ($ 1,270,000).
“By investing in our schools, we are investing in our students and we are reaffirming loud and clear that education is one of our most important priorities. We must ensure that schools are attractive, healthy, safe and conducive to learning environments, ”said Minister Malavoy.
“The issue of air quality in Montreal schools has caused much ink to flow over the past year. It must be admitted that the situation was worrying and required swift and energetic action. We therefore quickly made the decision to invest heavily to correct the situation. I am happy to see the positive impact of government action here at Pierre-Dupuy school, ”said Mr. Breton.
This announcement is part of the acceleration of public investments in schools in the Montreal region. &quot;These investments, which total $ 117.7 million, include an envelope of $ 43.3 million intended to launch a real offensive to prevent mold contamination identified in the schools of the Commission scolaire de Montréal,&quot; declared the president. from the Montreal School Board Mrs. Catherine Harel-Bourdon.
The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, accompanied by the Member for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques and Parliamentary Assistant to the Prime Minister in Transport Electrification, Mr. Daniel Breton, announced today that investments of nearly $ 2.7 million would soon be made at Pierre-Dupuy school of the Commission scolaire de Montréal. // (c) Daniel Breton. (source)
