Montreal - “The transportation situation in Montreal has become intolerable for the population. People are asking us to come up with solutions and to act forcefully to improve things. We are ready to act, not only by holding Mr. Charest&#39;s government to account, but also by proposing solutions, by being constructive. One of these solutions is known and it consists of building a new Champlain Bridge, ”declared the Leader of the Official Opposition and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Official Opposition spokesperson for transport and Member of Parliament. from Gouin, Nicolas Girard, from the spokesperson for Canadian intergovernmental affairs and member for Marie-Victorin, Bernard Drainville, from the member for Taillon, Marie Malavoy, from the member for La Prairie, François Rebello, from the member for Saint- Jean, Dave Turcotte, and the member for Chambly, Bertrand St-Arnaud.
“There is a broad consensus among elected officials and socio-economic players in the Montreal region on the need to move forward with a new Champlain Bridge. Yet the Harper government, despite repeated requests, still refuses to act. Faced with this inertia harmful to the development of our metropolis, I offered my collaboration in a letter sent this morning to Prime Minister Jean Charest so that we quickly form a large delegation from the greater metropolitan area going beyond partisan lines. I suggest that we go to Ottawa to organize a summit meeting with Stephen Harper, to let him know of our common desire to move forward by mobilizing ourselves on this vital issue for Quebec. By showing unwavering determination, I am convinced that we will finally be able to start the project for a new Champlain Bridge. This is what the population expects of us: that we act. I expect this meeting to be held before the start of the parliamentary session in Quebec City on September 20, ”added Pauline Marois.
“Road congestion has three direct consequences: an impact on the quality of life of thousands of motorists who spend hours in their cars morning and evening; an impact on the economic level since it harms the transport of goods and costs the economy of Montreal 1.4 billion and finally, a negative impact on our environment, in particular with the increase in greenhouse gases and pollution. However, there are solutions to alleviate this congestion, ”said Nicolas Girard.
&quot;In conclusion, we urge Mr. Charest to call on the Harper government as quickly as possible on the new Champlain Bridge, and our immediate and most urgent concern is to make life easier for the people of the South Shore and Montreal in matters of of transport, concretely and quickly. We are proposing a major and bold long-term shift for those who are fed up with spending more than two hours a day in their car. It&#39;s time to act. Quebeckers want a government that has a long-term vision that will allow us to make a major shift in public transport, and that is what the Parti Québécois is proposing, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
