Québec– The MP for Vachon and official opposition spokesperson for transport, Martine Ouellet, the MP for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Metropole, Jean-Francois Lisée, and the MP for Verchères and spokesperson for in Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, welcomes the retreat and the change of course of the Liberal government concerning the maintenance of the name &quot;Champlain&quot; for the replacement bridge connecting the South Shore to Montreal. This morning, elected officials voted unanimously in favor of an official opposition motion on this subject.
“Thanks to our work, the Liberal government has listened to reason, as has the Coalition Avenir Québec. But it was after multiple procrastination. Indeed, both parties initially found the name change a good idea. Then they hesitated and trivialized the debate. Finally, they admitted that the name &quot;Champlain&quot; must remain. The National Assembly is now saying with one voice that the Champlain Bridge must keep its name, since it will be the same link between the two shores. Furthermore, we reiterate that the Canadian government has no good reason for wanting to impose a toll there. This would go against the will of the people and elected officials of the South Shore and Montreal, and would be harmful to our economy, ”said Martine Ouellet.
The motion, tabled by the member for Vachon, reads as follows:
“That the National Assembly demand that the name&quot; Champlain &quot;be maintained for the replacement bridge connecting the South Shore to Montreal. &quot;
“In recent weeks, we have seen a bad comic strip from ministers Robert Poëti and Denis Lebel, the&quot; Dupont and Dupond &quot;of the Champlain Bridge. They competed in controversy and ridicule. Today, I suppose that the Prime Minister has again rebuked a member of his cabinet, which he does on average once a day, because Minister Robert Poëti gave up his idea of consultation to change the name of the Champlain Bridge. . It was high time he listened to us and recognized that the name of Samuel de Champlain must remain, because of the essential role played by this historical figure in the founding of Quebec, ”added Jean-François Lisée.
The federal government must now listen “In this file, as in many others, the Liberal government is struggling to defend the interests and specificity of Quebec, too often ignored by Ottawa. Minister Lebel must take into account the unanimous voice of the National Assembly expressed today and the opinion of the population, not only for the name, but also for the question of the toll, rejected by all the speakers. And if the federal government continues to turn a deaf ear, Quebec must state loud and clear that there can be no question of offering it our collaboration for the collection of tolls and for the development of road approaches in this direction ”, concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
