Québec– Martine Ouellet, MP for Vachon and official opposition spokesperson for transport and maritime strategy, and Bernard Drainville, MP for Marie-Victorin and energy and natural resources spokesperson , are very concerned about the fact that the company Chaleur Terminals Inc., a subsidiary of the Alberta company Secure Energy, obtained, last week, the authorization to build its oil port in Belledune, New Brunswick. The project involves the passage, every day, of 240 tank cars of oil from the tar sands for export, throughout Quebec.
“The convoy would pass through the heart of many cities in Quebec, including Montreal, Saint-Bruno, Drummondville, Rivière-du-Loup, Rimouski, Mont-Joli and Amqui. The communities are struggling to make their voices heard, while the Liberal government stands idly by and even refuses to give us its position on the project; on his part, it is radio silence. Citizens are right to be worried, because it seems that the Liberals will not defend the interests of Quebeckers on this issue, ”said Martine Ouellet.
“It&#39;s almost 200,000 barrels a day that would cross Quebec. Quebeckers would derive absolutely no benefit and would assume all the risks. Our environment and our safety are at stake, and the Liberal government is not even lifting a finger in defense of affected communities. If Quebec were sovereign, the oil companies would have to ask us for permission before sending oil wagons through the heart of our territory. The Liberals are happy to let others decide for us. Why does the Liberal government not defend the interests, the environment and the territory of Quebec? », Asked Bernard Drainville.
&quot;As if that were not enough, this morning, the Liberals and the CAQ refused to support our motion affirming Quebec&#39;s role in the matter,&quot; concluded Martine Ouellet.
The rejected motion reads as follows:
“That the National Assembly oppose the transportation by rail of petroleum intended for export on Quebec territory;
That it demand that the government of Quebec refuse any passage of oil wagons on its territory without its prior consent. &quot;
