Quebec - After unveiling the results of a poll conducted by the benchmark communication research firm showing that the majority of Liberal voters support the ban on religious symbols for judges, police officers and prison guards, the opposition leader official, Jean? François Lisée, and Parti Québécois spokesperson for secularism, Agnès Maltais, have asked Prime Minister Philippe Couillard to apologize for denigrating all those who disagree with him.
&quot;Last week, the Prime Minister declared that all those who agreed with Bouchard-Taylor&#39;s proposal, namely to ban religious symbols for judges, prison guards and police officers, were showing &#39;adrift harmful &quot;and&quot; trivialized xenophobic discourse &quot;. It is therefore aimed at the majority of Quebecers - 63% - and the majority of its own voters - 52%, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
Three times during question period, Mr. Lisée offered the Prime Minister the opportunity to express regret for having denigrated Quebeckers and his own voters. Three times, the Prime Minister has refused to withdraw or regret his words, which indicates that Mr. Couillard considers that 52% of Liberal voters show a harmful drift and trivialize xenophobic discourse. This is unheard of.
“In this file, there is only one Quebec. Montreal, Quebec, the regions: all approve more than 60% of the ban on the wearing of religious symbols for police officers, judges and prison guards. Francophones, more than two-thirds of them, as well as allophones, in a proportion of 50.3%, also approve of it. It is a transregional, transpartisan and transgenerational issue. We have clearly shown that the Parti Québécois and the other opposition parties are on the right track by suggesting that the Prime Minister ban the wearing of religious symbols by people in authority. Now it&#39;s up to the government to act! », Added Agnès Maltais.
&quot;Now that he is better informed of the reality of public opinion and of his political base, will the Prime Minister show a little humility and respect for those who disagree with him?&quot; ? », Asked the leader of the official opposition, in front of a Prime Minister who is camped in total arrogance.
