Quebec - The Quebec government has taken another step towards open government today by making information about the awarding of public contracts more easily accessible on the portal www.donnees.gouv.qc.ca. Until now, this information was only available on the website of the Electronic Tendering System, SEAO. From now on, data will be uploaded to the open data portal on a monthly basis. The President of the Treasury Board and Minister responsible for Public Administration, Stéphane Bédard, and the Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation, Bernard Drainville, have thus demonstrated the desire of the Government of Quebec to give Quebecers access to a maximum information on how public funds are managed.
“By publishing the SEAO public data in an open format, our government wants to make the entire process for awarding public contracts in Quebec even more accessible. We are choosing transparency, ”said Minister Bédard.
“Integrity and citizen participation are at the heart of the Government of Quebec&#39;s priorities. And this is what we demonstrate once again. By making accessible, in a format that can be used by all, information on government contracts and on contracts awarded by municipalities, the health network and school boards, we allow Quebecers to have an overview of the contracts awarded. by the state. And that will allow them to play their role of watchdog of our democracy even better. More transparency, more democracy: Quebecers no longer want hiding places, ”added Bernard Drainville.
By providing access, in the form of open data, to details on the awarding of contracts by public bodies, the State will be able to benefit from the vigilance and analytical capacity of citizens and civil society experts. This will contribute to better management of public expenditure. The dissemination of state intelligence is part of the concrete solutions to ensure integrity in public contracts and to fight against corruption which has undermined public confidence in its institutions.
The government of Quebec will gradually increase the number and quality of government data available. “In line with our commitment, hundreds of contracts and strategic information files are now available on the government website and we intend to increase this number. Open government will help build a Quebec for all, ”added Minister Bédard.
“It is not only the bond of trust with the citizen that we are trying to reestablish. What we are starting to do today is to allow Quebecers to be more involved in public administration. We shed more light on public finances and all of Quebec will come out on top, ”concluded Bernard Drainville.
Information on public contracts can be found on the government&#39;s open data portal www.donnees.gouv.qc.ca.
