Quebec - The Minister responsible for Government Administration, President of the Treasury Board and Government House Leader, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, is extremely disappointed with the convoluted position of the spokesperson for the Coalition d&#39;avenir Québec (CAQ), Jacques Duchesneau, on Bill 1 respecting the integrity of public contracts.
“The spokesperson for the CAQ speaks from both sides of the mouth: he says he will vote for the bill while shooting it with red balls! However, strangely, he did not propose anything tangible to improve the bill, apart from measures which, in the end, would have the effect of reducing the scope of certain clauses. This not only denotes a great lack of rigor, but also that he had his own agenda. And this agenda was obviously not intended to counter collusion and corruption in the awarding of public contracts. Today, the masks are falling, ”said Minister Bédard.
It should be noted that Minister Bédard has affirmed and repeated many times over the past month that Bill 1 is an important step in restoring integrity in the awarding of public contracts. At the same time, he added that other measures would be presented at the next parliamentary session. “I was very clear about my intentions and the member for Saint-Jérôme knows it very well. Today, he rises and announces that he intends to propose his own bill in the next session. He kicks in an open door! Added Mr. Bédard.
Remember that Bill 1 aims to ensure that companies that want to do business with the State demonstrate their integrity by obtaining an authorization to contract. This authorization will be granted by the Autorité des marchés financiers (AMF) in collaboration with the Permanent Anti-Corruption Unit (UPAC). It will target all types of contracts and all public bodies, including government departments, state corporations and municipalities.
After a series of consultations during which all the stakeholders subscribed to the objectives of the bill, yesterday it passed the detailed study stage in parliamentary committee. Several amendments were adopted at the request of opposition groups and parties. The bill is at the final adoption stage. “I appeal for the cooperation of all parties. We must adopt Bill 1 now to send a clear signal to the effect that, from now on, in Quebec, it pays to be honest, ”concluded Minister Bédard.
