Quebec - The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of Quebec-Canada relations and the Francophonie d&#39;Amérique, Stéphane Bergeron, said he was happy to see that the Coalition Avenir Quebec finally recognizes that the status quo is no longer a position acceptable to Quebec. However, what the CAQ is proposing is the return of new rounds of constitutional negotiations with Ottawa, which would set Quebec back 25 years.
“Unlike the PLQ, the CAQ admits that the constitutional status quo is not acceptable. We agree on this observation. However, the CAQ is proposing a solution that depends on the will of our neighbors and which, as we have already experienced, will create endless bickering with Ottawa. We are proposing a solution that depends only on ourselves, the independence of Quebec, ”declared Stéphane Bergeron.
The experience of all the past failures of the numerous attempts at constitutional changes, as well as the legislative provisions adopted by several Canadian provinces restricting their room for maneuver in this matter, show that it has become impossible and completely illusory to achieve this. real changes to the existing federal system. &quot;We advocate the independence of Quebec because it will allow us to develop and enrich ourselves, collectively and individually, by granting us all the powers related to the exercise of the prerogatives of the nation that we are&quot;, also mentioned the member for Verchères.
Remember that the Liberal Party of Philippe Couillard had also proposed to reopen the constitution in order to affix the signature of Quebec. He seems to have already abdicated in the face of the closure of Canada. As for Mr. Trudeau, he did not promise anything on the constitutional question during the last federal election campaign. He even said he did not intend to reopen the debate.
“Prime Minister Trudeau has already closed the door to constitutional negotiations. What will the CAQ do in the face of this refusal? How long will pass before the CAQ comes to the same conclusion as us, that is, after Meech and Charlottetown, there is no longer any constitutional amendment possible for Quebec? Will the CAQ propose to postpone the problem until later, while remaining in Canada? For our part, we want to repatriate all powers. Sovereignty is the only lasting solution, one that will put an end to the tensions that punctually poison relations between Quebec and Canada, and finally build an ever more harmonious and fruitful relationship based on mutual respect, ”added concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
