Montreal– The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, and the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet, today announced the signing of an agreement between Ressources Québec (RQ), Pétrolia, Corridor Resources and Maurel &amp; Prom, as well as an agreement in principle between RQ and Junex for the starting in summer 2014, exploration programs aimed at confirming the oil potential of Anticosti Island.
“Today, Quebec is resuming its rights to natural resources that belong to it collectively and which should benefit all Quebecers. My government is committed to taking action to promote Quebec&#39;s energy independence. The partnerships that we are announcing today, which cover almost all of the permits for the whole of Anticosti Island, will allow us to know once and for all whether there is oil on this island in the St. Lawrence. These agreements concluded with private sector partners will create lasting wealth and quality jobs if the presence of oil is confirmed, ”said Pauline Marois.
Two exploration programs will be carried out. In each case, the program will be carried out in two phases: the first to determine the type and quantity of hydrocarbons present; and the second to determine whether their operation was economically viable.
The agreement with Pétrolia, Corridor Resources and Maurel &amp; Prom, the second largest French company in this sector, provides for investments of $ 100 million. RQ&#39;s stake will amount to 56.67 million, while Maurel &amp; Prom&#39;s share will be 43.33 million. In addition, RQ will pay $ 13.3 million to Corridor Resources to obtain an additional stake.
At the end of this agreement, RQ will own a 35% stake in the joint venture, compared to 21.67% for each of the other three partners.
In the case of the agreement with Junex, RQ and an operator to be determined would fund a $ 90 million exploration program in exchange for a total 80% stake in the joint venture. The distribution between the operator and RQ remains to be negotiated. RQ could get at least 40% of the joint venture.
&quot;The joint venture model has several advantages for the government, in particular: investing directly in priority projects for Quebec, exercising influence over day-to-day activities and having greater latitude in negotiating agreements with partners . The preponderant participation of the State will also make it possible to ensure a safe development and to position the government advantageously with a view to agreements for a possible exploitation, which will ensure a fair share of the benefits to Quebecers ”, explained Nicolas Marceau for his part. .
The Minister noted that the agreements negotiated with the license holders will allow the government to control nearly 50% of the licenses on Anticosti Island and to obtain more than 60% of the profits related to oil exploitation. If the project is successful, the economic spinoffs for Quebecers could represent up to $ 45 billion over 30 years, in the form of royalties, taxes and profits related to equity investments.
In addition, the Minister specified that the projects announced today will be financed by Ressources Québec, a subsidiary of Investissement Québec, with an envelope of $ 250 million for equity investments in projects related to natural resources. The financial impact of this envelope is already taken into consideration in the financial framework of the Government of Quebec.
The first exploration phase includes work on stratigraphic wells (between 15 and 18) in 2014 and 3 exploration drilling with fracturing in 2015 with the Pétrolia, Corridor Resources and Maurel &amp; Prom project. For the agreement with Junex, there are 4 stratigraphic wells in 2014 as well as 3 exploration wells and 2 horizontal wells with fracturing in 2015.
Minister Ouellet insisted that the government will implement a structured and rigorous approach. &quot;It is necessary to properly document both the economic benefits, the environmental impacts and the means of mitigation to be able to make the right decisions,&quot; said Martine Ouellet. She was confident that the studies entrusted to expert committees as well as the results of the first phase of exploration will make it possible to achieve this.
Minister Blanchet, for his part, reiterated that environmental protection is imperative for all partners involved in exploration projects. “All the work will be closely supported by experts from the Ministry of Natural Resources and the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks. In addition, planned exploration work requires the issuance of several certificates of authorization under the current legislative and regulatory framework. The planned work will at the same time make it possible to acquire new and precise knowledge which will be used for the development of studies and the new regulatory framework, the objective of which is to mark out a possible safe exploitation of hydrocarbon resources, while respecting the environment, local populations, sources of drinking water and sustainable development. Finally, special attention will be paid to the protection of salmon rivers and the biodiversity specific to Anticosti Island, and the national park located there, ”he said.
In addition, the Minister indicated that if the planned work concluded that the oil reserves at Anticosti could be exploited profitably, the government has already committed to entrust the Office of Public Hearings on the Environment (BAPE) with a mandate for public consultations on the exploitation of hydrocarbons on Anticosti Island.
&quot;With these exploration projects, we will be able to develop our expertise in the hydrocarbon sector and contribute to the establishment of an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly industry,&quot; concluded the Prime Minister.
React on the blog of the Parti Québécois, to the post by Pauline Marois “Quebec takes back its rights to oil from Anticosti Island”.
