Quebec - In the wake of the Food Sovereignty Policy unveiled on May 16, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, invites regional county municipalities (MRC ) located outside metropolitan communities to submit a proposal for the development of an agricultural zone development plan (PDZA). The RCMs whose projects qualify will receive financial assistance of up to 50% of eligible expenses, up to a maximum of $ 40,000.
“The territorial planning resulting from the PDZA projects makes it possible to bring together around the same table the actors concerned by agriculture in order to determine innovative means of fully and sustainably exploiting their agricultural zone. It is a formula that has beneficial and concrete effects and all the RCMs should be encouraged to adopt such a plan, ”said François Gendron.
Currently, more than 30 RCMs have started or completed the realization of their PDZA. Concretely, PDZAs make it possible to promote agricultural enterprises and their products, to increase or diversify activities, to promote the multifunctionality of agriculture and to accentuate the development of complementary activities of agriculture, such as agritourism or food processing on the farm.
“When the Food Sovereignty Policy was launched, we signaled our desire to extend the implementation of PDZAs to all of the RCMs. This is part of the concrete actions that will be implemented to achieve the objectives that we have set in terms of dynamic occupation of the territory. I am convinced that the RCMs will know how to surround themselves with all those who have agricultural development at heart, ”concluded the Minister.
For more information on the presentation of a project for the realization of a PDZA, consult the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PDZA ).
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food ( www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
