Montreal - Surrounded by her economic team, the Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, announces that a Parti Québécois government will adopt measures to promote the retention of head offices in Quebec. “To develop a strong economy, the presence of head offices is essential. We must retain the head offices in Quebec, particularly with regard to companies that are the flagships of the Quebec economy, ”said Pauline Marois.
In order to propose appropriate measures, the government set up the Task Force on the Protection of Quebec Businesses, led by Claude Séguin, Senior Vice-President, Corporate Development and Strategic Investments at CGI. Several personalities from the business world have joined the group, including Monique Jérôme-Forget, Andrew Molson and Michel Leblanc.
“We have welcomed the task force&#39;s recommendations and my government will quickly put in place two measures aimed at companies wishing to defend themselves. This will allow boards of directors to make decisions that they consider to be in the best long-term interest of the company, ”said Pauline Marois.
Thus, to counter hostile takeover bids if they so wish, companies will be able to set up a variable voting right, which makes it possible to obtain an additional vote when the shares with voting rights have been held for more than two years. years by their owner.
In addition, the working group and the Autorité des marchés financiers (AMF) propose to allow the boards of directors of companies that are the subject of a hostile takeover bid to fully exercise their duties of fiduciary interests. of the company as a whole and not just those of its shareholders. The AMF&#39;s proposal mainly aims to restore the regulatory balance between the initiators of takeover bids and the board of directors of the companies concerned.
“Since our securities regime is harmonized with that of other Canadian jurisdictions, my government intends to take steps with its counterparts to make the necessary changes to the Securities Act. What we are proposing today could not only promote the retention of head offices, but also support the development of Quebec businesses, ”said Pauline Marois.
In 2011, Quebec had 578 head offices, which generated more than 70,000 jobs. Their activities resulted in wealth creation of $ 5.1 billion, or more than $ 3.6 billion coming directly from head office activities and more than $ 1.5 billion from purchases from Quebec suppliers.
&quot;We have an economic plan, we have the best team to carry it out, and we have the determination to do so,&quot; concluded Pauline Marois.
Watch the press conference
Consult the Parti Québécois electoral platform
