Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec region, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, on behalf of the Minister for the Regions, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, announced the payment of financial assistance of $ 12,000 to La Tomaterie Saint-Pierre-les-Becquets inc. for the production and marketing of ancestral tomato jam.
Financial assistance comes from the measure to stimulate the development of specialty products, an innovative measure resulting from the National Rurality Policy 2007-2014.
Thanks to this financial support, the start-up company will see to the development and marketing of a tomato jam that is unique in Quebec. In addition, the company will create four jobs in its first year of operation, revive the use of ancestral tomatoes drawn from local tradition, generate interesting spinoffs for the region while planning to increase its turnover by 79 $ 000 to over $ 178,000 in three years. The total cost of the project is estimated at $ 127,934.
&quot;Through this measure, promoters in our community have additional financial resources to invest in the development of specialty products in order to diversify the local economy while actively participating in the development of our rural areas,&quot; said Minister Blanchet.
&quot;We are very happy with this innovative measure contained in the National Policy on Rurality, which gives a boost to our artisans and our businesses in order to encourage the development of new products and promote the vitality of our territory&quot;, added Minister Lelièvre.
The measure to stimulate the development of specialty products, the subsidy of which can reach $ 25,000 per project, aims to support the creation of new activities in rural areas by focusing on projects linked to resources, knowledge and skills. -doing and innovating capacities of rural promoters. It supports micro-projects in the bio-food sector as well as in the fields of non-wood forest products and forestry, culture, heritage and craft products.
