Québec, May 21, 2020 - Fearing that too many restaurateurs will be forced to close their doors permanently if nothing is done quickly, the member for Matane-Matapédia and parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois, Pascal Bérubé, as well as the member for René -Lévesque and economic spokesperson, Martin Ouellet, call on the government of Quebec to pay them emergency aid directly.
IN SHORT
Pascal Bérubé underlines it in broad outline: restaurants animate all regions of Quebec, are inseparable from the tourism industry and constitute an exceptional showcase for Quebec products. “Restaurant owners carry our identity because they know how to showcase local products. They are found everywhere, and they are our reputation as much as our pride. We absolutely need as many people as possible to survive the current crisis, ”he insisted.
Martin Ouellet goes on to address the issue from an economic point of view. “Restaurants are also essential to our food producers and processors; in 2018, the industry acquired $ 2.5 billion worth of local products! And that&#39;s without counting the thousands of people that these companies employ, all over Quebec. However, a survey by the Association Restauration Québec shows that more than two-thirds saw their turnover decline by 81% in April 2020, relative to April 2019. Their situation is undoubtedly perilous ”, a he pointed out.
The Parti Québécois therefore calls on the government to pay entrepreneurs who have suffered considerable losses, as a matter of urgency and without condition, financial assistance modulated according to the difference in relation to their income last year, at the same period. “Restaurants represent one of the main links in the Quebec agrifood chain, and they allow us - as well as visitors - to appreciate the richness of our region. We cannot afford to let them die; this would have catastrophic consequences in several respects. But time is running out; help must arrive as soon as possible. The government must make it a priority, ”added Pascal Bérubé.
Another way to help restaurateurs would be to be flexible in the application of the regulation concerning standards for the development of establishments under the Act respecting liquor permits. &quot;We must allow, among other things, the installation of structures to delimit and maximize the space available on the terraces, so as to ensure compliance with social distancing instructions,&quot; concluded the deputies.
