Quebec - On the occasion of the preview of The William S. Paley Collection. A taste for modern art, the Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions, Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, is delighted to participate in this official inauguration and to announce financial assistance of $ 100,000 to support this international exhibition.
From October 11, 2013 to February 16, 2014, the Musée national des beaux-arts du Québec presents the prestigious collection of William S. Paley, organized by the Museum of Modern Art in New York (MoMA). This collection brings together 62 paintings, sculptures and graphic works providing a panorama of French Impressionist and Post-Impressionist painting from the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century. The collection includes, in particular, works by great masters of painting such as Cézanne, Bacon, Degas, Gauguin, Toulouse-Lautrec, Matisse, Derain and Picasso and also sculpture, such as Rodin.
“The commitment of this collector and great patron, that was William S. Paley for the development of culture, will certainly have contributed to making art accessible to a wider public. Likewise, more and more business people, such as Mr. Pierre Lassonde, represent extraordinary philanthropists who contribute to the cultural development of our region. All these people thus allow the region to position itself, as is the case with this exhibition, as a museum capital of international renown, ”said Ms. Maltais.
Ms. Maltais takes the opportunity to invite the population to visit this exhibition in Quebec, the only Canadian stop on this tour. In addition, she made a point of launching a very special invitation to young people from 13 to 17 years old, because “in addition to giving them a taste for culture, the new entry fees announced by the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Maka Kotto, which has been set at $ 1 for state museums since October 1, will give them a great opportunity to take advantage of it, ”said the Minister.
The financial assistance of $ 100,000 from the Secrétariat à la Capitale-Nationale demonstrates the importance that the Government of Quebec attaches to the cultural vitality of here, with the aim of making Quebec City an essential international cultural capital.
The Secretariat, attached to the Minister of the Executive Council, advises the government and the Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale, Ms. Agnès Maltais, on any question or measure having a significant impact on the region and on its economic, cultural, tourist and social development. .
The Secretariat acts in consultation with its various governmental and regional partners, while financially supporting the realization of projects contributing to the development of the Capitale-Nationale for a mobilized, innovative, festive and international region.
