Quebec - The Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, announces the allocation of a government subsidy of $ 2.5 million to the Agri-Food Export Group Quebec-Canada for the year 2013-2014. The organization will thus be able to continue to manage the Export Fund and facilitate the access of local businesses to markets outside Quebec.
“Quebec offers a variety of high quality food products. The biofood industry therefore has all the assets to distinguish itself and carve out a place of choice in markets outside Quebec. The Quebec-Canada Agri-Food Export Group, which works daily with Quebec businesses, greatly contributes to shaping and promoting this strong identity that will undoubtedly allow us to increase the notoriety and presence of local foods in the region. world. I can only be delighted with this partnership which, by highlighting the offer and the distinctive character of Quebec products, is in line with the Food Sovereignty Policy, ”said François Gendron.
The allocated budget is broken down as follows:
A sum of $ 1 million will be allocated to the World Class Exporters program and intended for companies wishing to increase their exports;
It is with great enthusiasm that the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Agri-Food Export Group Quebec-Canada, Mr. Robert Comeau (of Meilleur Marques ltée), welcomes this announcement: “The competition on international markets is fierce and this engagement confirms the importance that the Quebec government attaches to marketing activities for Quebec products and canvassing on foreign markets. This is therefore very good news not only for the Agri-Food Export Group Quebec-Canada, but also for local exporters. &quot;
Last year, the grant from the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food supported 60 companies through the World Class Exporters program. Eligible activities under this program include, in particular, carrying out market research, producing promotional documents or organizing in-store tastings so that consumers outside Quebec can experience quality and taste without equal to Quebec products. With regard to the collective activities that took place in 2012-2013, the Agri-Food Export Group Quebec-Canada, among other things, organized 18 training sessions that brought together 252 people and made possible the participation of 285 companies in 26 trade fairs.
Companies wishing to do so can submit a request for the World Class Exporters program or participate in collective activities by contacting the Agri-Food Export Group Quebec-Canada. Just visit the Internetwww.groupexport.ca site.
In addition, to obtain more information on the Government of Quebec&#39;s Food Sovereignty Policy, interested parties can regularly consult the blog (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or the Internetwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA ) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
