The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the candidates Sylvain Rochon (Richelieu), Diane Lamarre (Taillon), Diane Lavallée (Taschereau), and Éric Tremblay (Repentigny), were passing through Sorel-Tracy to unveil their proposals aimed at repairing the damage that the Barrette reform has caused in the region. The goal of the Parti Québécois: to give patients from all regions of Quebec the care to which they are entitled. Our plan: the patient at the heart of the system, and the right professional, in the right place, at the right time, and at the right cost.
IN SHORT
“Here in Sorel-Tracy, as in all regions of Quebec, services are lacking, decisions are made elsewhere, without real knowledge of the needs of the community. Like many others, the Sorelois were at the forefront of the centralization of the Barrette reform. They can only note that everything is now decided at the upper levels, in Longueuil, far from the people here, far from the reality here. When it comes to health, the Liberal years were a failure. The Parti Québécois will reverse this trend, ”said Jean ‑ François Lisée.
“With us, the network will not suffer the trauma of the Barrette reform again. We will not launch yet another structural reform; we will bring together the decision-making bodies of the health teams, so that each initiative is adapted to the reality and to the needs, in each region, ”assured Sylvain Rochon.
“For example, here in Sorel, the CLSC Gaston-Bélanger will be open until 9 pm not only on weekdays, as is currently the case, but also on weekends. People will therefore have easy access to a specialized nurse practitioner, an IPS, who will be able to treat minor emergencies and monitor chronic diseases, ”said Diane Lamarre.
“In addition, citizens will be able to find, in Sorel&#39;s dozen pharmacies, a pharmacist authorized to vaccinate and review the use of their medications without having to see their doctor again. We will also train more &quot;superparamédics&quot;, these professionals authorized to intervene in particular with people suffering from severe arrhythmia, poisoning, or even diabetic and respiratory problems &quot;, continued the candidate.
“At the Hôtel-Dieu de Sorel, the nurses with a baccalaureate will also have more autonomy; in particular, they will be able to request x-rays in the event of a fall, which will speed up emergency triage. As for the nurse / patient ratios, they will decrease; starting this fall, we will deploy an emergency fund of $ 10 million to do this, which will be added to the $ 500 million over 4 years that we have already committed to injecting into the network. Patient attendants will also benefit from this investment, ”added Diane Lavallée.
In addition to the air conditioning of the CHSLDs present in the Sorel territory, already announced, the Parti Québécois undertakes to modify Law 10 to give greater place to citizens and sub-territories within the CAs of the CISSS and the CIUSSS. Concretely, for the Hôtel-Dieu de Sorel, for example, this means that there will be, on the spot, a real direction: a fight that Sylvain Rochon has been waging for a long time.
In addition, the Parti Québécois denounced another injustice: the fact that infertile couples in Quebec must now pay between $ 8,000 and $ 15,000 to receive in vitro fertilization (IVF) treatments, a sum which is even more considerable when couples live far from Montreal or Quebec, where the clinics that offer this service are located. “Couples who wish to use in vitro fertilization must travel frequently to large centers. This situation generates significant costs, especially for housing. It is unfair. We will restore public coverage of the first cycle of IVF to reduce the bill for these families. We will ask INESSS and the experts to determine guidelines, as recommended by the Commissioner for Health and Welfare, ”announced Diane Lamarre.
The Parti Québécois knows that most elderly people want to stay at home as long as possible, and is committed to providing them with the care and services they need to do so. “The envelope devoted to home support will be increased by $ 100 million per year for 5 years. Ultimately, therefore, an additional $ 500 million will be invested each year for home care. We will take this necessary turn, ”said Sylvain Rochon.
Éric Tremblay continues the momentum of his colleague: “We must do more, and put patients at the heart of our budgetary choices. This is why we will freeze, as of this year, the remuneration of physicians, and we will end their incorporation. And we will proclaim the independence of the 200,000 other health professionals - nurses, pharmacists, physiotherapists… - who can and want to do more. With us, for example, dental hygienists will be able to practice in CHSLDs without being supervised by a dentist; it seems obvious but, currently, they cannot do it! The equation is simple: the right professional, in the right place, at the right time, at the right cost, ”he said.
“We don&#39;t promise to fix everything on the first day. It wouldn&#39;t be serious. But we are proposing a different approach to improve the situation. There is a real crisis of confidence in our health system and in the commitments of politicians who, election after election, promise the impossible. No one believes them anymore. So what we are proposing is to do it differently. Diane Lamarre, Diane Lavallée and Éric Tremblay are the perfect trio to take up this challenge, ”concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois.
For our explanatory sheets, click here and here.
