Quebec - The MNA for Saint-Hyacinthe, Mr. Émilien Pelletier, on behalf of the Minister for the Regions, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, announced the payment of financial assistance of $ 39,000 for two projects, or $ 14,000 to the company Bonbons Kel inc., For the production and marketing of artisanal candies, and $ 25,000 to the Petit Muzo company, for the production and marketing of a range of dog treats.
Financial assistance comes from the measure to stimulate the development of specialty products, an innovative measure resulting from the National Policy on Rurality 2007-2014.
Thanks to this financial support, Bonbons Kel inc. will produce four new handcrafted pulled sugar candies: candy canes, large multicolored lollipops, candies made from maple syrup and candies made from organic sugar. The total cost of the project is estimated at $ 53,000.
As for Petit Muzo, with the financial assistance granted, it will produce a range of dog treats made from dehydrated chicken hearts and livers. These products, 100% natural, without dyes, preservatives or additives and composed only of local ingredients, will be manufactured at the company&#39;s production center located in the territory of the municipality of Rougemont. The total cost of the project is estimated at $ 86,000.
&quot;Through this measure, promoters in our community have additional financial resources to invest in the development of specialty products in order to diversify the local economy while actively participating in the development of our rural areas,&quot; said the Minister. MP Pelletier.
&quot;We are very happy with this innovative measure contained in the National Policy on Rurality which gives a boost to our artisans and our businesses by encouraging the creation of new products in order to promote the vitality of our territory&quot;, added Minister Lelièvre.
The measure to stimulate the development of specialty products, which offers grants of up to $ 25,000 per project, aims to support the creation of new activities in rural areas by focusing on projects linked to resources, knowledge and skills. know-how and innovation capacities of rural promoters. It supports micro-projects in the bio-food sector as well as in the fields of non-wood forest products and forestry, culture, heritage and craft products.
