Lac-Mégantic– Along with the Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Mégantic, Isabelle Hallé, the Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, announces measures to develop tourism in all regions. The tourism industry is an important engine of development for local economies.
In a future term, the Parti Québécois will improve the tax credit to modernize tourist accommodation. This measure could benefit 400 companies and support investment projects worth $ 240 million over the next two years.
The Parti Québécois is also committed to building strong tourist poles in all regions, particularly winter tourism, nature and adventure tourism, as well as cultural and event tourism. It will also support the deployment of new gourmet and agro-tourism routes.
To do this, the Support Program for the Development of Tourist Attractions is already receiving an envelope of $ 85 million over 5 years. The Priority Jobs economic policy also provides for an envelope of $ 42.9 million over 3 years to, among other things, promote winter tourism and stimulate private investment.
“We are determined to create jobs by supporting and developing regional centers of tourist attractions, to promote Quebec and its regions. We have announced significant amounts to support our tourism industry. We will continue in this direction in the next term, ”said Pauline Marois.
“I invite Quebeckers who are planning their summer vacation to come visit the Méganticois and discover their magnificent region. We continue to support the people of Lac-Mégantic in reviving their economy. In collaboration with stakeholders, we will support local tourist attractions and events, ”continued the leader of the Parti Québécois.
In collaboration with regional tourist associations, the Parti Québécois will set up new tourist routes and ensure their promotion. As agrotourism is booming, the government will also develop the potential of food and agro-tourism circuits, through the Food Sovereignty Policy, in addition to encouraging hotels, inns and lodges to offer local products. In addition, the Société des alcools du Québec must offer local products in at least one branch in the region.
“A developing tourism industry means more jobs, more prosperity, and therefore stronger regions. We have an economic plan, we have the best team to carry it out, and we have the determination to make it happen, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
