Quebec - The Minister of Justice of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, today presented a report on the appointments of judges to the Court of Quebec made over the past year. In total, 39 new judges were appointed to the Court of Quebec.
“I am very happy to have recommended the appointment of 39 new judges to the Court of Quebec, so that our justice system is more accessible, more efficient and faster. I am particularly proud to have chosen these new judges following a rigorous and completely apolitical selection process ”, declared the Minister of Justice.
According to the new Regulation respecting the procedure for selecting candidates for the office of judge of the Court of Quebec, judge of a municipal court and presiding justice of the peace, which came into force in 2012, a selection committee of five members, chaired by a judge, selects the three best candidates for each vacant position. The Minister of Justice then recommends one of these candidates to the Council of Ministers for appointment.
“I am very happy to have the Prime Minister&#39;s full confidence in choosing the best person for each position to be filled. I make a point of selecting women and men who are of course very competent, but who are also recognized in particular for their human qualities and their degree of awareness of social realities, ”added Bertrand St-Arnaud.
It should be remembered that these 39 appointments were intended to fill the positions left vacant by retirements, but also to achieve the objective of 290 judges provided for in the Courts of Justice Act. Amendments to this law were unanimously adopted by the National Assembly in 2012, to reduce the number of judges at the Court of Quebec from 270 to 290. To date, 18 of the 20 new positions have been filled in this way.
Lastly, still with the aim of reducing the delays in court hearings, the Minister of Justice reiterated his support for the steps taken by the Superior Court and the Court of Appeal to the federal government to increase the number. judges to these courts, appointments in this regard being a federal matter.
