Quebec– The Parti Québécois is and has always been in favor of the development of northern territories. However, it is not with the current Liberal marketing plan for the North that this will be done for the benefit of Quebeckers. Since the filing of this marketing plan, we repeat that the royalties must be increased by the establishment of a mandatory floor royalty and a tax on the excess profit. We also argue that we need to negotiate and demand local transformation where possible, that we need to involve all Indigenous communities, that we need to invest more in education and housing for Northerners and that a mining commissioner based on the model of the Chief Forester must be set up.
Today, the official opposition wishes to remind the Minister of Natural Resources and Wildlife, responsible for the Plan Nord, and the Liberal government of the minimum requirements for it to support the creation of the Société du Plan Nord. “Bill 27 has been studied intermittently since November 2011. On January 31, in a gesture of goodwill and openness, the opposition submitted its main demands regarding this bill. law. Unfortunately, it is clear that the Minister did not take these requests seriously since each time we have to study one of the amendments that we have proposed, the Minister reacts as if it were a new amendment and he is wasting our time, ”said official opposition spokesperson for northern development, Luc Ferland.
The official opposition wishes to recall the amendments proposed to the minister for several months.
For the mission
That the Company negotiate to maximize in Quebec the transformation of the natural resources exploited in the territory covered by the Plan Nord. The Company must play a role with the mining companies and negotiate with them so that they process the ore in Quebec when possible.
For the board of directors
That at least four members come from the Aboriginal and Inuit communities located on the territory covered by the Plan Nord so that these communities participate fully in the development of the territory they inhabit.
That at least eight members reside in the territory covered by the Plan Nord so that the Company&#39;s projects truly reflect the needs of the people of the North.
That the board of directors respect the Act respecting the governance of state-owned enterprises, particularly with regard to the independence of the members of the board.
For infrastructure
That the government be able, by regulation, to determine the use of an infrastructure so that other users can have it. This is an important amendment to be able to really organize projects and coordinate the development of the North. It is also a question of avoiding conflicts of use of an infrastructure and of giving oneself the means to settle them if they occur. The opposition wants to prevent each mine or project from having its own airport, its own railway or its own power line. The government will thus be able to truly regulate the development of infrastructure in the North. In the same vein, we have proposed that any infrastructure the design or construction of which is the subject of authorized financing from the Northern Plan Fund remains the property of the State.
For transparency
That the strategic plan be studied by the competent committee of the National Assembly so that elected officials have control over the orientations of the Society.
For the participation of communities
“The government must accept our demands. The Crown corporation proposed by the Liberals must at least serve the people of the North before foreign mining companies. In its current form, the Société du Plan Nord is at the service of the mining industry, ”said Duplessis MNA Lorraine Richard.
“Our amendments are a minimum. We are asking for transparency, a fair return from the exploitation of natural resources for northern communities and for all Quebecers, as well as a representation of the people of the North within the Society, ”continued the Member for Rousseau and added. - speech of the official opposition in matters of finance and economic development, Nicolas Marceau.
“How will the government coordinate the development of the North and organize projects if it refuses to give itself the means to intervene in the territory? Our requests have been known to the minister for four months. It is time to include them in the bill creating the Société du Plan Nord, ”concluded Luc Ferland.
