Québec, September 15, 2016 - Agnès Maltais, the member for Taschereau and Parti Québécois spokesperson on electoral law - like her colleagues François Gendron, Gaétan Lelièvre, Martin Ouellet and Sylvain Roy, respectively members of Abitibi-Ouest, de Gaspé, René-Lévesque and Bonaventure, so-called “exceptional” ridings - denounces the fact that the Liberal caucus is now opposed to the criteria that justify this name.
First, let us remember that the Election Act provides that the Commission de la représentation représentation electoral can recognize exceptional electoral districts, that is to say districts where the total number of electors is 25% less than or greater than the average of other Quebec ridings, in order to ensure effective representation of electors.
“We salute the proposal of the Commission de la représentation vétérinaire, which recognizes six exceptional electoral districts - in addition to the Magdalen Islands - in its preliminary report. This is in line with the historic position of the Parti Québécois with regard to the electoral map, the dynamic occupation of the territory and the effective representation of voters and regions, ”explained the Member for Taschereau.
Why is the Liberal Party opposed to the Electoral Representation Commission?
“The Electoral Representation Commission has serious reasons to justify its desire to recognize certain electoral districts as an exception. Basically, it&#39;s because it allows for real regional representation. Then why is the Liberal Party so fiercely opposed to it? How is it that after having recognized for themselves, for years, the principles that led to the creation of exceptional ridings, in particular the question of regional representation, the Liberals suddenly change their position? », Resumed Agnès Maltais.
The spokesperson sees only one plausible explanation: &quot;The Liberals are attacking exceptional electoral districts in an attempt to protect their Montreal ridings, which are too numerous according to the Commission for Electoral Representation.&quot; In short, they want to eliminate deputies from the regions. Even in an exercise as serious and fundamental as the overhaul of the electoral map, they are showing partisanship. It is shameful and unacceptable, ”she concluded.
