Quebec - “Judge Charbonneau does not have to kneel before the Prime Minister to request a modification of the decree, this responsibility falls to Jean Charest. If he is serious, he will modify, as of next Wednesday, the decree of the Council of Ministers to give Judge France Charbonneau the power to compel witnesses. We must follow the Act respecting public inquiry commissions ”. This was stated by the member for Verchères and official opposition spokesperson for public security, Stéphane Bergeron, reacting to the statement by the Liberal leader made yesterday at the Congress of members of the Liberal Party of Quebec.
Since the announcement made by the government last Wednesday, several voices in the legal community have denounced the usurpation made by the government which tries to make people believe that it is a commission of inquiry. Yesterday, the Barreau du Québec, the professional order of which Premier Charest is a member, clearly indicated that this commission is not one since it does not have the powers of a commission of inquiry.
For the Parti Québécois, it is imperative that this power to compel witnesses not be granted during the proceedings, but from now on. “The words of the Minister of Justice, Jean-Marc Fournier, made this morning are worrying to say the least, he who says that the judge must first begin her work to see if this power to compel witnesses will be necessary. The time of the headlong rush is over. It has been more than two years that a real public inquiry has been called for and necessary, ”said the spokesperson.
The member for Verchères also notes that it is necessary all the same to be wary of such a declaration made in a highly partisan framework. “How can we trust Jean Charest? Is this, once again, a way for him to escape under the pressure of his militants? It has become fairly clear that Jean Charest governs more for the interests of the Liberal Party than for the public interest. Justice Charbonneau does not have to take her instructions from a partisan speech. Where would be independence? », Added Stéphane Bergeron.
Funding of political parties: not behind closed doors
In addition, the deputy asks that, next Wednesday, the government also modify the decree so that the important question of the financing of political parties is not addressed behind closed doors, but in front of the cameras. “As elected officials, we have a responsibility to restore the confidence of citizens. The government must therefore ensure that the entire question of the financing of political parties is not dealt with behind closed doors, as is currently planned, ”concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
