Drummondville– The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Pierre Duchesne, and the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, Yves-François Blanchet, today announced the establishment of a new university campus in Drummondville.
“Investing in our universities means investing in the talents of those who will build the Quebec of tomorrow. A university is not only a place of high knowledge and knowledge, but also a source of social and economic effervescence for the community in which it is established. This investment materializes the government&#39;s commitment to improve the quality and accessibility of higher education. It will benefit all Quebeckers, ”said the Premier.
The government will contribute more than $ 3.3 million per year to the operating costs of this new campus. The government investment will be deployed as follows: $ 1.7 million for the education function; $ 810,000 for educational support; $ 576,000 for land and buildings; and, finally, $ 265,000 for the renewal of the furniture park. In addition, the costs of maintaining real estate assets, amounting to $ 334,000 per year, will be funded from the five-year university investment plan.
“Today we are reiterating the importance of the University of Quebec network, whose service offer deployed throughout Quebec improves accessibility to higher education in the regions. The permanent establishment of the Drummondville campus will have a beneficial effect on the university graduation rate of Center-du-Québec, because young people who may not have thought of continuing their studies will be able to come here to complete them. These students are often from the first generation and represent an asset for all of Quebec, ”said Minister Duchesne.
Covering an area of 8,000 m2 gross, it is planned that this campus will host training in school and preschool education, nursing sciences, administration, computer science, mechanical engineering and accounting sciences. Nearly 200 jobs will be created by the construction of this campus.
“Drummondville and Center-du-Québec have experienced unparalleled economic and demographic growth in recent decades. The sector has become a leading industrial hub, driven by feverish entrepreneurship. As early as 2008, it became clear to me that the university offer in Drummondville needed to be greatly improved. When I made it my main commitment, I believed and said that we would need 10 years or more. Today, I see the effect of the community&#39;s commitment: nearly $ 10 million donated to the Foundation, and confirmation in less than 5 years. Drummondville can still be proud and confident today, ”added Minister Blanchet.
The permanent establishment of the UQTR campus in Drummondville consolidates the presence of the university in the Center-du-Québec region, where the Drummondville University Center has been established there for more than 40 years.
For more information, see www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca.
