Quebec - The member for Lac-Saint-Jean and official opposition spokesperson for employment and social solidarity, Alexandre Cloutier, calls for clear commitments from Minister Julie Boulet so that a parliamentary committee is held in the aim of studying the government&#39;s response to the Opinion of the Advisory Committee for the Fight against Poverty and Social Exclusion on income targets.
“Julie Boulet must make a commitment to hold a parliamentary committee to study her government&#39;s response to the 14 recommendations of the Committee on Income Targets. The holding of such a forum would make it possible to hear the independent experts who had participated in the drafting of the Opinion in 2008 as well as all the organizations which act directly with the most disadvantaged in our society. It is important that efforts to respect the spirit of the Act to combat poverty and social exclusion, adopted in 2002 by the government of the Parti Québécois, be able to continue and, in this sense, I ask Julie Boulet to confirm that such a debate will be held in the fall, ”said Alexandre Cloutier.
The member for Lac-Saint-Jean pointed out that the government response came two years late and was tabled in a hurry, at the end of the parliamentary session, which is very disappointing. He also states that this way of doing things strangely resembles that used by the Liberal government when the second government action plan to combat poverty and social exclusion was tabled in June 2010. “The government response is more like to a liberal pretense aimed at listing the actions taken over the past ten years, ignoring new initiatives to fight poverty and social exclusion. We must be able to continue the debates on these issues during a public forum where all the actors involved will be able to share their thoughts, ”added Alexandre Cloutier.
“The Liberal government&#39;s response to the 14 recommendations of the Committee set up by the Parti Québécois in 2002 greatly disappoints the groups defending the rights of the most disadvantaged people in our society. We ask the Minister to hold a parliamentary committee without delay, as provided for by law, ”concluded Alexandre Cloutier.
