Quebec, February 1, 2018 - The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the Finance Critic, Nicolas Marceau, accuse the Liberal government of having lied to Quebecers in addition to having them deprived of essential services, while the state coffers have been well stocked since August 2015.
IN SHORT
“The reports from the Ministry of Finance show that since August 31, 2015, there have been budget surpluses. At that time, there was nearly a billion dollars in surplus in the state coffers. And, since that date, the money has only accumulated. However, the Liberals have accelerated the pace of cuts in all sectors, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
In the economic and financial update of November 2015, to justify their choices, the Liberals lied to Quebeckers. “The March 2016 budget was the culmination of this lie. The Minister of Finance then said that the government was not hiding a surplus, but we now know that the year ended with a surplus of $ 2.2 billion. We have completely hidden the surplus in the middle of 600 pages of lies, ”continued Nicolas Marceau.
As the surpluses accumulated, the budgets of just about every department were reduced. “In education, children who have been deprived of the professionals they need have fallen behind which they will hardly be able to catch up. And the misery in which our elders were left, denounced many times by the Ombudsperson, will not be erased by the announced reinvestments, which are clearly insufficient, ”the deputy also illustrated.
“Then, as if by chance,” he adds, “with less than a year before the election, the Liberals announce that there are surpluses. Just in time for the unofficial start of the Liberal election campaign. The truth is that the tax cuts announced last fall were paid for by taxpayers and by the drastic cuts in services over the past three years. They were funded by lies. Philippe Couillard himself confessed: &quot;This money is yours. It was you who sent it and we find that we did not need all the money you gave us. sent to do the job the way it should. So we&#39;ll give it back to you. &quot; People should know: the PLQ unfairly neglected the sick, students and the elderly in order to finance its 2018 elections with the surplus, ”insisted Nicolas Marceau.
The Parti Québécois does not hesitate to tell Quebeckers the truth: it is absurd to claim that we can both improve services and lower taxes, as the PLQ and the CAQ do. “We want a strong state serving the people, a strong state for our nation. This is the choice we made, ”concluded the deputy.
