Quebec - “There is something deeply embarrassing about the passive attitude of the minister responsible for the application of the Charter of the French language, Christine St-Pierre, concerning the bilingualism bonus put in place by the City of Gatineau. Minister St-Pierre has already shown us on many occasions her indifference to the defense of French, but here we are bordering on unconsciousness ”. This is what the member for Drummond and official opposition spokesperson for language, Yves-François Blanchet, said after learning that the City of Gatineau intends to reward bilingualism among its staff.
&quot;Let us understand each other well: we strongly encourage the knowledge of English and we respect the rights of the English-speaking communities. However, in this case, the City of Gatineau is buying an ideological circumvention of Bill 101 with a premium of 45 cents / hour for white-collar workers who know English, ”reproached Yves-François Blanchet.
For the Parti Québécois, this measure is discriminatory for employees who will not receive this bonus. “It comes down to applying linguistic discrimination between francophones in a francophone city. It&#39;s intolerable. That English is a criterion of competence for certain positions is sometimes understandable, but that knowing this language creates financial discrimination instituted and encouraged by the City is totally unacceptable, and perhaps even illegal. The Minister must undoubtedly and immediately file legal opinions on the question, ”specified the Member for Drummond.
“In addition, what poses an additional problem is that this premium will be financed out of citizens&#39; money. Don&#39;t Gatineau residents live in a state whose official language is French? Does the City of Gatineau deal on a daily basis with foreign companies and English-speaking countries? Asked the member for Drummond.
Moreover, it is quite ironic that all this is happening at a time when the Liberal government is trying to keep up appearances with an advertising campaign, Here we win in speaking French, affecting Montreal and encouraging an increased presence of French. “While Quebec is investing in naive advertising, Gatineau is investing in anglicization,” concluded Yves-François Blanchet.
