Sainte-Clotilde-de-Châteauguay - Senator Jean-Guy Dagenais, on behalf of the Minister of Industry and Minister of State (Agriculture), Mr. Christian Paradis, and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, are pleased to announce the allocation of financial support of 440,000 dollars to Serres Lefort for the establishment of a technological showcase for the production of peppers greenhouse for the Quebec market.
The assistance granted comes from the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, financed under the Canada-Quebec agreement relating to the Agri-flexibility fund. The greenhouse built, covering an area of 2.4 hectares, is at the cutting edge of technology. It recently delivered its first peppers which are marketed under the VÔG brand. The expertise acquired should contribute to the expansion of this new culture in Quebec.
“This investment from Canada&#39;s Economic Action Plan will help make this greenhouse more efficient and increase sales of local vegetables. This support for the development and adaptation of this agrifood sector of activity is also a support granted to agriculture as a central economic engine and aims to ensure the competitiveness of the sector in the long term ”, declared Mr. Dagenais.
“This greenhouse is a good concrete example of what we are aiming for with the Food Sovereignty Policy that we have just unveiled: an offer of quality Quebec products for consumers and production carried out in a sustainable manner, since all the energy used for heating comes from a biomass-based system. Ultimately, it is the economy of the biofood sector that is thus boosted, with the creation of around twenty jobs, ”explained Mr. Gendron.
The government of Quebec wants to give the greenhouse sector the means to be more competitive and competitive. Thus, the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, announced, on the occasion of the unveiling of the Food Sovereignty Policy, that greenhouse companies would benefit from adapted electricity tariffs. These tariffs could allow them to reduce their energy costs by around 25%.
It should be remembered that the governments of Canada and Quebec announced on March 25, 2011, the signing of the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, which includes an investment of $ 16.7 million over a period of 4 years. This program aims to support both the adaptation and the growth of agrifood activity sectors in the face of a constantly changing competitive business context.
For a complete description of the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, consult the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food: www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/strategiessectorielles. For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food ( www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
