Montreal - A few weeks after giving her opening speech, in which she affirmed her desire to breathe new life into relations with Indigenous peoples, the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, met this afternoon with the Grand Chief of the Crees, Mr. Matthew Coon Come. “Today, the Government of Quebec and the Grand Council of the Crees (Eeyou Istchee) renew their desire to have frank, fruitful and promising relations for all of Quebec. We are therefore continuing in the direction set out by the Paix des Braves, which established the nation-to-nation principle and paved the way for an era of cooperation and prosperity, ”declared Ms. Marois.
This first official discussion since the start of the new government&#39;s mandate aims in particular to initiate the implementation of the Governance Agreement in the territory of Eeyou Istchee – Baie-James. From the outset, the Premier of Quebec assured the Grand Chief that his entire team was ready. Negotiations and work will be undertaken in the very short term with the Crees. The first steps have also been laid by the various ministries concerned, or will be in the short term. In addition, a negotiating team is in place to carry out the discussions. The appointment of the principal negotiator, Martine Tremblay, was warmly welcomed by the Grand Council of the Crees (Eeyou Istchee).
The meeting was held a few days after the creation of the Northern Development Secretariat, whose mandate is to coordinate all government actions to meet the needs of northern communities and to ensure responsible development in the North. “We share the same concerns about the issues and challenges that challenge us. We will decide together the essential questions such as sustainable development, protection and development of natural resources. It is by showing openness and respect that we will develop the best solutions to make Le Nord pour tous, a project that will be beneficial for all of Quebec, ”said Ms. Marois.
Signed last July, the Agreement on governance in the territory of Eeyou Istchee – Baie-James aims to allow the Crees to exercise greater autonomy and have increased responsibilities, particularly with regard to management. land and natural resources. It provides for the creation of a new regional government to replace the Municipality of Baie-James, which will be composed of an equal number of Cree and Jamesian representatives.
