Joliette– On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the MNA for Joliette, Minister responsible for the Lanaudière region and Minister responsible for Social Services and Youth Protection, Véronique Hivon, announced a first agreement of cultural development between the City of Joliette and the Ministry of Culture and Communications. The Minister made the announcement accompanied by the mayor of Joliette, René Laurin.
The cultural development agreement aims to showcase the Joliette heritage, create an event in the dance sector, promote the work of artists and position this city as a cultural destination. The implementation of this agreement will give the population the opportunity to learn about the arts and culture by promoting interaction between citizens and creators.
“I salute the unwavering commitment of elected municipal officials in the region in cultural development. This first partnership between the Ministry of Culture and Communications and the City of Joliette will help offer various cultural activities to the citizens of Joliette in a sustainable manner, ”said Maka Kotto.
“We say that we reap what we sow: by adopting an important cultural policy last year, the City of Joliette carefully prepared the ground for the signing of this agreement. Being able to count on a dynamic socio-economic environment and a vibrant community of artists, it once again confirms culture as a major axis of its development. We can therefore aspire to ensure that everyone can have access to a cultural leisure activity or to a professional artistic practice, with a view to improving the quality of life of local citizens. It makes me very happy and enthusiastic! », Declared Véronique Hivon.
The City of Joliette will therefore be able to carry out various projects thanks to this two-year agreement. The financial contribution from the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications amounts to $ 40,000 and comes from the Assistance to Partnership Initiatives program. The City of Joliette is contributing the same amount to this agreement, the total costs of which are estimated at $ 80,000.
