Quebec - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the Member of Parliament for Bertrand, Claude Cousineau, announce the classification of the Domaine-de-l&#39;Estérel shopping center in Sainte-Marguerite-du-Lac-Masson, as heritage building, under the Cultural Heritage Act. The building is one of the first shopping centers in Quebec history.
“A pivotal work in the career of designer and architect Antoine Courtens and a personal project of Belgian Baron Louis Empain, the Domaine-de-l&#39;Estérel shopping center is an important witness to Art Deco in Quebec. By granting it the status of a heritage building, the Department intends to enhance and make modern heritage better known to citizens of the Laurentians and all of Quebec, ”says Maka Kotto.
Given that this building is part of an exceptional natural setting and that it was designed to offer an unobstructed view of Lake Masson, the Minister also announced that he was delimiting a protection area aimed at ensuring preservation of the environment of the Domaine-de-l&#39;Estérel shopping center.
Appeared against a background of the proliferation of hotels and country houses in the Laurentians in 1936 and 1937, this building is of heritage interest for its historical and architectural values. Indeed, it is one of the last witnesses of the prestigious resort complex that has been this area. In addition, the Domaine-de-l&#39;Estérel shopping center is an early manifestation of modern architecture in Quebec. The naval references present in its architecture suggest the luxurious character of the liners and testify to the influence of the Streamline style of Art Deco in Quebec.
“Not only is the shopping center of great value for the city of Sainte-Marguerite-du-Lac-Masson, but the environment in which it is located is just as exceptional. I am delighted with this announcement which protects this emblematic building, erected in the Laurentians during the interwar period, ”adds Bertrand MNA Claude Cousineau.
The classification applies to the exterior envelope of the building and to parts of the interior, including the Blue Room (former restaurant-cabaret) and the main stairwell. It should be noted that other parts of the building are cited by the City, namely the rectangular one-storey annex at the back, the cinema and the riding hall. This classification and this citation aim to guarantee its protection, knowledge and development as well as its transmission to future generations.
Additional information about the Domaine-de-l&#39;Estérel shopping center is available on the Quebec Cultural Heritage Directory (RPCQ) website (www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca). This dissemination tool from the Ministry of Culture and Communications makes it possible to discover the richness and diversity of Quebec&#39;s cultural heritage by making it accessible to all. Part of the content of the RPCQ can now be found on the Government of Quebec&#39;s open data portal (www.data.gouv.qc.ca).
