Quebec - At the end of the first meeting of the Council of Ministers, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, announces that the Quebec government has today canceled the tuition fee hike and that, as soon as tomorrow, Bill 78 will be canceled.
For 2012-2013, the tuition fee cap will be maintained at $ 2,168. The government will not recover the increased financial assistance that some students have already received. The current regulation of student financial assistance will be maintained for all those who apply for assistance. The government will maintain the funding provided for universities. As for Law 78, the provisions concerning the ban on demonstrations will be repealed by decree as of tomorrow. These two decisions will help restore peace and restore rights and freedoms.
The Prime Minister also reaffirmed the commitment made during the election campaign to close the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant. “I want this gesture to become a symbol of Quebec&#39;s commitment to the environment and the well-being of future generations, but also to rigorous management of our finances. However, this closure must be done correctly. In this eventuality, I asked the Minister of Natural Resources and Hydro-Quebec for a full report on the various implications and the conditions under which such a closure would take place, ”she declared, confirming the creation of &#39;&#39; a $ 200 million economic diversification fund for Center-du-Québec and Mauricie.
Integrity, public finances and the economy
“The first message I delivered to Cabinet this morning was to affirm that the integrity of government is everyone&#39;s first requirement. On this issue, I will be intractable, ”said the Prime Minister, mentioning that the government is therefore immediately placing the emphasis on integrity as well as on public finances and the economy.
“Budgetary discipline is non-negotiable. We are clearly committed to restoring a balanced budget in 2013-2014 and to managing our finances with rigor. This commitment will be honored, ”insisted Pauline Marois, adding that the government was going to question the management of certain budgetary issues, including certain investments that are not taken into account in the Quebec Infrastructure Plan.
Regarding the economy, the government will quickly put in place the necessary means to revive activity, support jobs and promote investment. The first of these means is the regrouping, under the authority of a single minister, of mandates concerning finance, economic development, income and tourism. Government action will thus gain in consistency and efficiency. Means must be put in place to stimulate private investment as quickly as possible.
“I intend to act quickly to deliver results to Quebecers. During the election campaign, we made a commitment to get results quickly and, in some cases, within the first 100 days of our mandate. The fulfillment of these commitments on day 1 of our mandate confirms our desire to act quickly, ”concluded the Premier.
