Kahnawake - The Minister for Indigenous Affairs, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, today visited the Mohawk community of Kahnawake to meet the Grand Chief, Mr. Michael Ahríhrhon Delisle Jr, the head responsible for intergovernmental relations, Mr. Lloyd Phillips, as well as the Chief of Staff to the Grand Chief, Mr. Mike O&#39;Brien.
This meeting aimed to continue a fruitful dialogue with the community. The Grand Chief and the Minister were able to discuss together several important subjects, in particular the question of the Regional Center for Anglophone Adult Education, certain tourism projects as well as the negotiations underway between the Government of Quebec and Kahnawake.
“The relationship that the Government of Quebec maintains with the Mohawks of Kahnawake must be frank and constant in order to develop its full potential. My presence in the community is also the illustration of the nature of this relationship that I intend to continue, ”declared the Minister.
Minister Larouche reiterated the message formulated by the Premier to Grand Chief Delisle in 2012. She therefore affirmed the will of the Government of Quebec to respect its commitments regarding the addition of land to the reserve and to support economic development. of Kahnawake. She also expressed the wish to reach mutually satisfactory solutions, through negotiation mechanisms.
“Community development is essential for its population, of course, but also because it will promote collaboration and dialogue with neighboring communities. Let&#39;s not forget that Kahnawake is located near Montreal, Quebec&#39;s leading economic center, ”added Ms. Larouche.
Following the meeting, Minister Larouche took part in the consultation tour concerning the economic development of the Autoroute 30 corridor. Let us recall that in May 2013, an interministerial committee, made up of eight ministers, was created to &#39;&#39; develop a government strategic vision for the Autoroute 30 corridor from Sorel-Tracy to Vaudreuil-Soulanges, as well as a related development plan. The committee decided to hold a consultation tour with the partners concerned in the metropolitan region, in order to ensure a common and global understanding of the various issues linked to economic growth, along the new road axis.
The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports and Minister responsible for the Montérégie region, Ms. Marie Malavoy, and the Minister Élizabeth Larouche met with Grand Chief Delisle and representatives of partner organizations in the Kahnawake community, to learn about their vision for the development of the Highway 30 corridor and to assess the opportunities offered to the community.
