Waskaganish– The Deputy Premier, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and Minister responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, Mr. François Gendron, the Minister of Natural Resources and Minister responsible for the Secretariat for northern development, Ms. Martine Ouellet, the Minister for Indigenous Affairs, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, and the parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (northern affairs section) and Member of Parliament for Ungava, Mr. Luc Ferland, participated today at a historic ceremony, held on the occasion of the first session of the new Regional Government of Eeyou Istchee Baie-James.
This event, to which the Prime Minister, Mrs. Pauline Marois, on mission in Davosa also wanted to join by video, was held at the invitation of the Grand Chief of the Grand Council of the Crees, Mr. Matthew Coon Come as well as the Mayor of the City of Chibougamau, Ms. Manon Cyr, who was appointed as the first president of the regional government, for a two-year term.
“The establishment of this government body represents a historic initiative to harmonize relations between the Government of Quebec, the Jamesians and the Crees in the area of governance of the territory of the former Municipalité de Baie-James. I am convinced that this avant-garde approach will allow the two communities to make an even more significant contribution to the prosperity of a promising territory, ”declared Minister François Gendron.
“By offering a structure adapted to the current stakes and challenges of the territory, the new powers of the regional government will notably enable it to participate more in northern development by creating the conditions favorable to the realization of mobilizing projects. It will act as a catalyst for regional development, capable of determining the potential for the development of natural resources and the territory according to its specific needs ”, specified Minister Martine Ouellet.
“This regional government is the very first public management structure that explicitly provides for Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal representation. This is a decisive step in establishing an open and respectful relationship between our two nations, ”said Minister Delegate Élizabeth Larouche.
The Regional Government, whose council is made up of 22 seats shared equally between Crees and Jamesians, exercises the competencies, functions and powers conferred on a local municipality, a regional county municipality, a regional conference of elected officials and to a regional commission on natural resources and the territory on Category III lands of the former Municipalité de Baie-James, that is, an area of 277,000 km2.
“The Regional Government of Eeyou Istchee Baie-James is the result of a long tradition of&quot; living together &quot;which testifies to the maturity of the relationship between the Crees and the Jamesians by bringing their representatives together around the same table for the first time in the history of our region ”, underlined MP Luc Ferland.
“As citizens of the North, we all have a responsibility to work to establish promising partnerships for all residents of the region and it is this opportunity that the establishment of the Regional Government offers us. &#39;Eeyou Istchee Baie-James,&#39; declared the president of the regional government, and mayor of Chibougamau, Manon Cyr.
&quot;This Regional Government that we are inaugurating today reflects the vision of a new path for this region which is based on the noble principles of inclusion, democracy and social harmony&quot;, concluded Grand Chief Dr Matthew Coon Come, Vice President of the Regional Government.
