Quebec - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, today presented part of her team from the Capitale-Nationale for the next general election, the candidates of Chauveau, Jean-Talon and Charlesbourg, Marie-Ève D&#39;Ascola , Neko Likongo and Christophe Fortier-Guay. “Our team of candidates is being put together quickly and all areas of public affairs are represented by quality people with extraordinary expertise. In all areas, the Parti Québécois is very well represented, ”said Pauline Marois.
A graduate of preschool and primary education, Marie-Ève D&#39;Ascola has dedicated her career to the education of young people, from teacher to school principal at the Capital School Board. She has also been a City Councilor in the Township of Stoneham and Tewkesbury, United States.
For his part, Neko Likongo is an advisor at the Quebec Ministry of International Relations. A graduate in political science, specialist in international affairs, his experience notably led him to be an observer during the elections in Haiti in 2006.
Christophe Fortier-Guay is a graduate of the University of Montreal and the Institute of Political Studies in Paris. Despite his young age, he is president and founder of the international consulting firm FGP Partners. This company helps small and medium-sized enterprises in particular to develop their markets on the international scene. In 2009, he held the position of international press officer in the Communication Department of the Thales group (aeronautics, defense and security). Christophe was also a lecturer at the Institute of Political Studies in Paris from 2009 to 2011.
“There are elections approaching and Jean Charest wants to divert attention. The central issue of the next elections is to change prime minister, change government, change direction and change country. Here is the stake! We will be called upon to make decisive choices which will commit us for a long time to come. There is one thing that I am sure of, it is not for others to choose for us. The issue is not to oppose each other by creating a social crisis, but to find ways to unite us to be stronger, ”said the leader of the Parti Québécois.
“With a government of the Parti Québécois, we will enrich ourselves. First, by getting our fair share of the wealth created by the exploitation of our natural resources. We will also enrich ourselves by focusing on higher education, research, innovation and the success of our children. We are going to invest massively in the electrification of transport by launching the energy independence project and we will implement a food sovereignty policy. And that we will do with intelligence by taking care of our main wealth, Quebecers, ”added Pauline Marois.
These three candidates come in addition to a solid team of candidates in the Capitale-Nationale with Pauline Marois in Charlevoix, Agnès Maltais in Taschereau, Pierre Châteauvert in Jean-Lesage and René Perreault in Portneuf.
Remember that the Parti Québécois is the largest political force in Quebec with its 90,000 members.
