Quebec - Here are the parliamentary assistants who will support the work of ministers.
Mr. Léo Bureau-Blouin, Member of Parliament for Laval-des-Rapides, is appointed Parliamentary Assistant to the Premier (Youth).
Ms. Jeannine Richard, Member of Parliament for the riding of Îles-de-la-Madeleine, is appointed parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Fisheries).
Mr. Gilles Chapadeau, Member of Parliament for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue, is appointed Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women (Labor Relations).
Ms. Diane Gadoury-Hamelin, Member of Parliament for the riding of Masson, is appointed Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women (Status of Women).
Mr. Sylvain Pagé, Member of Parliament for the riding of Labelle, is appointed parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport (Recreation and Sport).
Mr. Alain Therrien, Member of Parliament for the constituency of Sanguinet, is appointed parliamentary assistant to the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade (Foreign Trade).
Mr. André Villeneuve, Member of Parliament for the riding of Berthier, is appointed Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy (Municipal Affairs).
Mr. Denis Trottier, Member of Parliament for the riding of Roberval, is appointed Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Forests).
Mr. Luc Ferland, Member of Parliament for the Ungava constituency, is appointed Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Northern Affairs).
Ms. Suzanne Proulx, Member of Parliament for the riding of Sainte-Rose, is appointed parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French language (Integration of immigrants).
Mr. Scott McKay, Member of Parliament for the riding of Repentigny, is appointed Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (Wildlife and Parks).
Other parliamentary functions
Mr. Stéphane Bédard, Member of Parliament for Chicoutimi, is appointed Government House Leader.
Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, Member of Parliament for the riding of Chambly, is appointed Deputy Government House Leader.
Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, Member of Parliament for the riding of Johnson, is appointed Chief Government Whip.
Mr. Dave Turcotte, Member of Parliament for the riding of Saint-Jean, is appointed Deputy Government Whip.
Mr. Mathieu Traversy, Member of Parliament for the riding of Terrebonne, is appointed Deputy Government Whip.
Mr. Marjolain Dufour, Member of Parliament for the riding of René-Lévesque, is appointed chair of the government caucus.
