Quebec - In the wake of the tabling of the Health and Welfare Commissioner&#39;s report on prescription drugs, the Member for Taillon and official opposition critic for health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, as well as the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, ask the Liberal government to act on the recommendations therein. stated and take concrete action to reduce the burden of prescription drugs on the health care budget.
“Prescription drugs cost us $ 7.7 billion a year; this represents nearly 20% of the health budget and 10% of the total budget of Quebec. It is therefore imperative that the Liberal government ensure better control over their costs and their use. The Commissioner brings up several interesting courses of action which must be considered. For example, the periodic review of the drug lists of the basic prescription drug insurance plan and of health institutions would certainly lead to greater efficiency and savings. Sending each prescriber their individual prescription profile, as well as the annual publication of prescription profiles by region and associated costs, would also contribute to health efficiency gains. In addition, the proton pump inhibitors file, led by the Parti Québécois government and cited as an example by the Commissioner in his report, testifies, according to him, to the potential savings that could result from a revision of the list for a class of drugs. This amounts to saying that the government should take inspiration from the actions of its predecessor to generate savings, ”said Diane Lamarre.
&quot;We ask the Minister to be open and to listen to the proposals made to him which would generate far more savings for the network than all his bills put together. Expanding the role of the first-line pharmacist and promoting interdisciplinarity, while simplifying the prescribing processes for IPS, midwives, optometrists and podiatrists, are promising solutions put forward by the Commissioner. The tabling, each year in the National Assembly, of a report on the contributions provided by the pharmaceutical industry to establishments and the transparency of the pharmacy bill are also other proposals that the Minister should seriously study ”, added Jean-François Lisée.
“The development of a new drug policy and the adoption of an action plan on the prescription and use of drugs are also proposals that must not go unheeded. The Minister must act and, above all, target the right priorities, even if it seems difficult for him since taking office, ”concluded the deputies.
