Quebec, April 13, 2017 - The Parti Québécois spokespersons for public health and justice, Sylvain Pagé and Véronique Hivon, note that the bill tabled today by the federal government, which legalizes the consumption of marijuana for recreational purposes, raises many questions as to its practical application. Consequently, they say, a debate on the issue must absolutely be held in Quebec.
IN BRIEF- This bill raises many questions regarding its application in Quebec (distribution, public health and safety, etc.) .- The Couillard government had 18 months to prepare Quebec, but did not do so. Parti Québécois hopes that a mandate of initiative, accompanied by a public consultation, will be quickly set in motion in order to lead a Quebec reflection on the subject.- The health and safety of young people and of the population in general must guide all our decisions. **
“On the ground, Quebec will have to manage the consequences of this bill, particularly with regard to the distribution of cannabis and the effects of its legalization on public health and safety. Today, the spotlight is on Ottawa, which is introducing a bill; however, in the future, it is Quebec that will have to manage the consequences. Quebeckers are worried and the social debate has never taken place. It is very worrying, ”said Sylvain Pagé.
&quot;Will we entrust the distribution of the product to a public entity like the SAQ, or will we turn to the private sector?&quot; How will the product be taxed and by what percentage? What will be done with the income related to taxation? What should be done to prevent young people from inferring that it is okay to smoke? Should the minimum legal age be set at 18 or over? In our view, we cannot do without a non-partisan consultation that could go out in order to listen to Quebeckers and experts. Finally, we must not lose sight of the municipal level, which is often responsible for ensuring peace and good order in its territory. It will be necessary to assess the possibility of ensuring a uniform framework, ”added the deputy.
Moreover, the confusion surrounding the tabling of the bill concretely illustrates the dysfunctions of Canadian federalism, believes Véronique Hivon. “Quebec was completely excluded from the Ottawa process. He had the debate confiscated. We are faced with a fait accompli, without any collaboration or consultation, while it is Quebec that assumes all the impacts, whether in terms of public health, social issues or public safety. We must also not forget the costs that this whole organization will entail. In short, it is time for Quebec to be able to make all of its decisions! », She concluded.
