Quebec, December 4, 2019 - This morning at the National Assembly, the member for Rimouski and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois for seniors and caregivers as well as in matters of social solidarity, Harold LeBel, presented the project of Law No. 497, An Act to amend the Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms in order to strengthen the protection of the rights of the elderly and to create the function of Protector of the Elderly.
IN SHORT
To continue building a just society, it must imperatively equip itself with a resource dedicated entirely to protecting and defending the rights of seniors. &quot;As vice-president of the Commission des droits de la personne et des droits de la jeunesse, the Protector of the Elders will be able to support and accompany people in need, hear complaints and denunciations, inspect residences and make recommendations. in government, in short, to help ensure respect for the rights and dignity of seniors. It will act as a kind of &#39;fast lane&#39; for them, because they don&#39;t have the luxury of being able to wait, ”said Harold LeBel at first.
“The Protector of the Elders will have as a mandate to limit and prevent as much as possible mistreatment, whatever the face it takes. To do this, our bill extends the protection against exploitation granted to the elderly or disabled to all forms of mistreatment - be it physical, psychological, financial, sexual, etc. I invite the government to welcome our bill; it is what it can do best for seniors in Quebec, ”added the spokesperson.
“It is clear that every day brings a new horror story about an elder who is abused. Let us also think of organizational mistreatment, caused among other things by the lack of personnel - even if they do their best - poor working conditions and the obsolescence of equipment and facilities. However, the situation, if we look at the demographic curve, is not going to improve anytime soon; the number of seniors will continue to increase in Quebec, and rapidly. The defense of their rights is therefore becoming a major issue, one of the most important of the 21st century, moreover, ”concluded Harold LeBel.
