Quebec - The Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food, Mr. Gerry Ritz, and the Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, are pleased to announce the allocation of more than $ 24,500 in financial assistance to two businesses in Saint-Louis-du-Ha! Ha !, in Bas-Saint-Laurent, for carrying out soil conservation projects. These projects are funded under Part 1 of the 2013-2018 Prime-Vert program, in accordance with the Canada-Quebec Growing Forward 2 agreement.
&quot;An agricultural sector that respects the environment makes an important contribution to the economy of Quebec and Canada,&quot; said Mr. Gerry Ritz. Through Growing Forward 2, we are investing in projects that will promote the sustainable development of this sector of activity, while respecting the environment. &quot;
&quot;That we can encourage such projects thanks to Prime-Vert gives me great satisfaction, because this program encourages producers to adopt sustainable production methods and to practice agriculture that takes the environment into account, for the benefit of our generations. futures. These projects are also perfectly in line with the objectives set in the Food Sovereignty Policy of the Government of Quebec, ”said François Gendron.
Ferme Emmental SENC and Ferme Gérald Marquis inc. have taken action to correct soil erosion problems observed in their fields. The financial assistance of 12,647 dollars granted to the goat farm Ferme Emmental and that of 11,869 dollars received by the dairy company Ferme Gérald Marquis will enable them to carry out improvements to solve these erosion problems.
The interventions carried out at the Emmental Farm and the Gérald Marquis Farm are part of a collective measure to reduce diffuse pollution, like the interventions carried out in other farms located in the “phosphorus priority intervention zone”. From the Madawaska River.
For more information on the Prime-Vert program, please consult the website of the Ministère de l&#39;Agriculture, des Pêcheries et de l&#39;Alimentation at the following address: www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/primevert. To find out more about the Food Sovereignty Policy, visit the dedicated blog www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or browse the www.Mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA section of the Ministère&#39;s website. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at twitter.com/mapaquebec.
