Quebec - The member for Verchères and spokesperson for the official opposition in matters of ethics and integrity, Stéphane Bergeron, once again asks Yves Bolduc to waive his severance pay.
&quot;In addition to the many blunders of the former minister and his bonus of $ 215,000 received for the management of an unreasonable number of patients that he abandoned as soon as he became minister again, the bonus of about 150,000 $ that Yves Bolduc will cash in masterly spoils his exit. This premium is absolutely not justified, especially since he will soon be returning to medical practice and will again be able to benefit from an additional amount for each patient he will take care of, all at the expense of taxpayers. It was he who made the decision to leave, after having requested a popular mandate; he must therefore assume the consequences. Out of respect for the population who must come to terms with liberal austerity measures, he must set an example and give up his departure bonus, ”declared Stéphane Bergeron.
In just a few months, Yves Bolduc will have committed several blunders, in particular by imposing direct cuts in student aid, which affects academic success. He also ended funding for the Chapeau, les filles! Initiative, which required a budget of $ 64,000 annually, which is even less than half of the ex-minister&#39;s departure bonus. This very important competition aims to enhance and promote the place of women in traditionally male occupations. We also remember the unfortunate declaration of Yves Bolduc trivializing the lack of books in school libraries. However, the Literacy Foundation is currently holding the 16th edition of its Reading as a Gift campaign, through which thousands of underprivileged children aged 0 to 12 receive a new book. A financial contribution from the former Minister of Education would certainly have been welcome ...
&quot;The cut in Hat, girls!&quot; is a saving of candles. How can Yves Bolduc, without the slightest embarrassment, appropriate more than double this amount? After having starved commendable initiatives promoting equal opportunities and academic success, it seems to me that he should have made a more “respectful” outing, ”concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
It will be recalled that the Parti Québécois government presented Bill 33, An Act to amend the Act respecting the conditions of employment and the pension plan of the Members of the National Assembly, so that a Member cannot receive his bonus. departure if he leaves during the term of office, unless there are exceptional circumstances. The Liberals were stubbornly opposed to this bill. Since then, the liberals Emmanuel Dubourg, Raymond Bachand and Yves Bolduc have availed themselves of their starting bonus, while the caquist Christian Dubé and the péquiste Élaine Zakaïb have renounced it.
