Quebec - &quot;A government of the Parti Québécois is committed to abolishing the health tax and giving back to Quebec families the $ 400 that Jean Charest came to get in their pocket with the imposition of this regressive tax which strikes in the same way the most poor as well as the richest ”.
This is the commitment made today by the Leader of the Official Opposition and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, to some 4.7 million Quebecers who are preparing to complete their tax returns and pay this unfair contribution.
“The Parti Québécois wants to restore economic justice. This liberal health tax affects all Quebecers regardless of their income. It is the poorest and middle class families that Jean Charest has penalized by imposing this additional financial burden. At the Parti Québécois, we are committed to returning these $ 400 to the pockets of Quebec families, ”guaranteed Pauline Marois.
The official opposition public finance official and member for Rousseau, Nicolas Marceau, denounced Jean Charest&#39;s indifference to the middle class. “While our economy is slowing down, job losses are increasing and Quebecers&#39; disposable income is decreasing, the Charest government has doubled the amount of the health contribution in addition to increasing the QST, the gasoline tax, electricity tariffs and tuition fees. The middle class is always the one that pays, ”he explained, adding that by taking 200 dollars from the pocket of every Quebecer, it is not only their quality of life that is affected, it is 950 million. dollars that could have been spent to stimulate our economy.
The Parti Québécois is committed to doing this operation at zero cost. In the interests of economic justice, we propose to relieve the middle class by asking the richest in our society to contribute more.
“We will ask taxpayers with income over $ 130,000, and more particularly $ 250,000, to make an additional effort. We want to restore economic justice in Quebec by demanding that the wealthiest do a little more. We also propose to review the taxation applicable to part of the return on certain financial assets. There is no question of further worsening the situation of our public finances, ”said the leader of the Parti Québécois.
“With such a review of our tax structure, we are achieving two important goals. We are re-establishing economic justice between the middle class and the wealthiest, we are creating an economic stimulus of $ 950 million to revive consumption, ”said the member for Rousseau.
“The Liberal government is at its wit&#39;s end to find solutions to stimulate our economy. Jean Charest has indebted Quebec by $ 55 billion since he came to power. The debt strategy has reached its limits. We have to innovate to act on our economic growth without further deteriorating our public finances, ”concluded Pauline Marois, mentioning that the Parti Québécois is the only political formation that is committed to re-establishing economic justice and better distributing the tax burden of citizens. families.
