Montreal - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, today unveiled the 2014 National Policy for Research and Innovation (PNRI) -2019. This policy is part of the four strategic initiatives of Québec&#39;s economic policy, Priority employment, launched last week by the Premier. With the PNRI, the Government of Quebec will make an investment of $ 3.7 billion.
“I am pleased to announce that PNRI is benefiting from an unprecedented financial effort from our government. Compared to the previous SQRI (2010-2013) with a budget of $ 1.6 billion, the PNRI will count on an envelope of $ 2.1 billion for the next three years. Given the budgetary context, this additional effort of nearly $ 500 million bears witness to the importance that our government attaches to research and innovation as pillars of the development of our economy and our society, ”declared Minister Duchesne. .
In recent years, Quebec has experienced a decline in the share of its GDP devoted to research and development. This increased from 2.8% in 2003 to 2.4% in 2009. The minister stressed that the target of 3% is the central element which has guided all the work surrounding the PNRI, adding that the Achieving this target is essential if we are to achieve our goals of economic development and job creation.
Pierre Duchesne today unveiled the National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI) 2014-2019. // (c) MESRST
The company holds an important place within the PNRI and benefits from increased support. For example, a new tool will offer financial and technical assistance to SMEs wishing to undertake the filing of a first patent application. PNRI improves support for technology start-ups. It is launching a first job research program for college and university graduates. Measures also affect the promotion and transfer of research results as well as the centers of excellence of international caliber developed by companies.
Collaborations with international research teams are an important element of the PNRI. For example, the Quebec research innovation network will be created; it will promote better communication and establish close links between researchers, organizations and businesses. This network will benefit, among other things, from the QuébecInnove platform. Enhanced support will also be granted to the various sectoral industrial research groups to promote synergy between researchers and industrialists.
The Policy prioritizes seven strategic areas for which Québec has strong and recognized companies, qualified workers and renowned researchers. These are aeronautics, biofood, biotechnology, renewable energies and transport electrification, creative industries, personalized health care as well as information and communications technologies.
The Minister is proud to announce that the budgetary base of the National Research and Innovation Policy will extend over five years. This longer-term vision will ensure the sustainability of research funding to universities, college technology transfer centers (CCTTs), Quebec research funds as well as various organizations and research centers, a request long standing of these circles.
The government reiterates its support for the Quebec research funds and guarantees the protection of their budgets for the next five years. The budget base of the funds will be increased by 25% from 2014-2015 over five years. More than a billion dollars will be devoted to them. An increase of $ 142 million over the period, compared to 2012-2013.
Sums are reserved in the PNRI in order to increase the budget devoted to the CCTTs for their operation and for the establishment of three new centers. In this sense, the budget envelopes of the CCTTs will be increased by 10% over three years. The potential for spinoffs from collaborative research activities of CCTTs is immense. This is why the National Research and Innovation Policy wishes to build on these achievements to further stimulate synergy between researchers, businesses and practice environments.
Following on from a commitment made at the Higher Education Summit, it should be noted that the PNRI will further support university research, i.e. an additional $ 340 million over the next five years.
PNRI provides concrete and long-term solutions to indirect costs of research (FIR) by adding $ 286 million to the reinvestment of $ 340 million to cover the full costs of research. Unlike the federal government, the Quebec government will pay for all FIRs resulting from research projects sponsored in universities by Quebec departments and organizations. Full reimbursement of FIRs will benefit both researchers, universities, CCTTs and university health research centers.
An unprecedented effort of $ 25 million additional to current budgets will be invested for laboratories in public schools located in disadvantaged areas. Additional support is also planned to stimulate the next generation of science and to strengthen scientific culture, which will bring the financial effort to $ 70 million.
Collaboration is a central theme of the PNRI. It reiterates the importance of bringing together the driving forces of research and innovation in order to meet the societal challenges that are at our doorstep in terms of demography, environment and identity.
The PNRI also translates into:
Download the full PNRI document (PDF) Download the PNRI summary document (PDF) View the PNRI launch photo album
