Montreal - The Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, today unveiled his 2013-2017 Foreign Trade Development Plan, under which $ 82 million will be invested by the government to bring together Québec&#39;s export efforts and better support Québec exporting companies.
The objective of the Foreign Trade Development Plan (PDCE) is clear: to reduce Quebec&#39;s trade deficit by increasing exports and reducing oil imports. To do this, the action of the government and its partners will be maximized and will better meet the expectations of Québec exporting companies.
&quot;By 2017, the benefits of the Plan should enable businesses supported in markets outside Quebec to generate firm sales of more than $ 940 million and create more than 6,000 jobs in Quebec,&quot; said Minister Lisée. .
Of the $ 82 million announced, $ 60 million will be dedicated to an essential tool, the Export Québec Export Program, which will also be reviewed to increase its effectiveness.
“We are going to allow Quebec companies that so wish to give new impetus to their exports. In particular, we plan to support 2,500 businesses annually in markets outside Quebec and help identify 1,000 new exporting businesses. This is what gives us the means to achieve our ambitions, ”said the minister.
The Foreign Trade Development Plan is one of the four strategic initiatives linked to the Economic Policy Priority Employment, launched by the Prime Minister on October 7. The Plan was developed after an unprecedented consultation effort with businesses, associations and regional organizations from across Quebec. Concrete and innovative actions have been identified to support exporting companies, better understand their needs and issues, with the aim of offering simplified access to export services, a better match between the Quebec offer and the foreign demand, and concerted action by foreign trade players.
“The last real strategy specifically targeting foreign trade was published in the early 2000s by the last government of the Parti Québécois. It was time that we devote new efforts and resources to this important part of our economy which is eminently creator of wealth and jobs ”, specified the Minister.
The government intends to endow Quebec with a strong economic brand image, recognized and considered by investors and buyers around the world. The promotion of competitiveness, innovation, the quality of the workforce and infrastructures as well as the ease of doing business in Quebec will be put forward. Quebec will occupy, in an extremely competitive manner, the niches represented by sectors of excellence, in particular research and innovation, the electrification of transport, green energies and the mining sector.
The mining sector represents 2.7% of gross domestic product (GDP), or about 25% of Quebec exports, and generates tens of thousands of direct and indirect jobs in all regions of Quebec. The government intends to support 2,500 mining equipment suppliers who will showcase Québec expertise abroad.
While the United States continues to be the main destination for our exports, special attention is being paid to emerging economies. Almost 40% of the growth of Quebec products comes from the BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, India, China) and Quebec is well placed to join in the take-off of Africa which is experiencing its longest period of expansion. in sixty years.
Mexico&#39;s geographic proximity and strong demand for high value-added products also make it a market of choice, like several European Union member countries with which it will be necessary to take advantage of the economic and trade agreement that will come into force in the next few years.
It should be noted that the launch of the PDCE was carried out in consultation with the Conseil des relations internationales de Montréal (CORIM) and the Manufacturers and Exporters of Quebec (MEQ) in front of an audience of more than 450 business people. Economic partners, members of the Export Quebec advisory committee as well as the heads of post of Quebec&#39;s diplomatic network abroad were also present.
