Rougemont– The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, accompanied by the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and Minister responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, Mr. François Gendron, and the Member of Parliament for Iberville, Mrs. Marie Bouillé, announced the allocation of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 1.85 million to the company A. Lassonde.
The financial assistance granted will be used to carry out projects totaling $ 19 million at the Lassonde factories in Rougemont. These projects aim to modernize the multilayer packaging lines and set up two new production lines for preforms used to manufacture polyethylene terephthalate (PET) plastic bottles. The company also plans to add a warehouse with an area of 40,000 square feet.
&quot;With these projects, Lassonde is banking on the innovation and expertise of its employees to consolidate its place in a competitive market, where it is essential to ensure its productivity and competitiveness,&quot; declared Nicolas Marceau. This announcement is in line with the economic vision of our government, which has just launched the Economic Policy Priority Employment and the Québec Industrial Policy 2013-2017. The Quebec manufacturing sector must face increasingly fierce international competition. Our companies must design new products at more competitive costs. Our government is therefore proud to support these projects which will improve the automation of production, a crucial issue for the competitiveness of our manufacturing sector. &quot;
&quot;Lassonde, through its know-how and dynamism, is a flagship company in the Quebec biofood industry and an active member of the TransformAction niche of excellence,&quot; said François Gendron. By supporting these projects, our government is encouraging the deployment of our full potential and consolidating Québec&#39;s place among the most innovative and efficient companies in North America. &quot;
&quot;Industries Lassonde is a company that creates wealth and jobs in our region,&quot; added Marie Bouillé. These investment projects will allow the creation of 24 quality jobs resulting from the establishment of new preform production lines and the consolidation of 20 positions at the Rougemont factories. These are also structuring projects which, in the long term, will preserve more than 800 jobs in the five factories of Industries Lassonde in Quebec. &quot;
Founded in 1918, Lassonde Industries specializes in the manufacture of fruit and vegetable juices marketed under recognized brands, such as Fairlee, Fruity, Clement Pappas, Oasis and Rougemont. The company also manufactures specialty food products, such as broths and fondue sauces, under brands such as Antico and Canton. In addition, it imports and markets selected wines from several countries of origin and produces apple cider and wine-based drinks. The company is one of the largest apple processors in Quebec.
&quot;The support from the Quebec government will help increase our production capacity and modernize our facilities in order to maintain our competitiveness,&quot; said Jean Gattuso, President and Chief Operating Officer of Industries Lassonde. “The completion of these projects increases the strategic importance and value of our Quebec factories within Lassonde Industries and the North American biofood sector. &quot;
