Montreal - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announces that he has been given the mandate to proceed with the development of a bill to regulate the price of new printed and digital books in order to limit the discount on new products to 10% for nine months.
“I am proud to announce that the government is moving forward with this measure, which will protect Quebec&#39;s identity and culture. The book is not a commodity like any other. The regulation of the price of new printed and digital books will make it possible to consolidate the bookstore network which guarantees diversified access to books and to ensure distribution venues for our Quebec authors in all regions, ”explained Minister Kotto.
“We are acting for the benefit of all players in the book world, which constitutes the largest sector of the cultural industry with its some 12,000 jobs and annual spinoffs estimated at nearly $ 800 million. Our action will also be beneficial for readers and consumers who will be able to continue to have access to the expertise of booksellers and the thousands of titles they offer, ”he added.
The bill, which will be tabled during the next parliamentary session, will also amend the Act respecting the development of Québec enterprises in the book sector to make digital books subject to it. These two important measures are part of the follow-up to the parliamentary commission on the selling price to the public of new printed and digital books held last summer.
“The government wishes to help the network of bookstores whose financial situation is increasingly precarious. By proposing a bill lasting 36 months, we will be able to measure its impact on the vitality of bookstores, while allowing them to make a transition to digital, which will gain a lot of popularity in the coming years. . At the end of this period, the government will carry out an assessment to decide whether or not to maintain the measure, ”added the Minister.
With the proposed bill, the price of the book will continue to be set by the publisher, but the discount on new print and digital books would be capped at 10% for new releases for nine months. For example, a book priced at $ 20 by the publisher could sell for $ 18 for nine months after launch. After this period, the book could be sold at more than 10%.
“Booksellers are key players in our society. In addition to being promoters of our authors, they help to make new ones known. Without them, the Michel Tremblay, Dany Laferrière, Chrystine Brouillet, Jocelyne Saucier, Éric Dupont or Kim Thuy would not experience the success they have today, ”assured the Minister.
“The vitality of books in Quebec has always been a concern of our government. It is to Denis Vaugeois that we owe the most important law on books that Quebec has known and which still enjoys a consensus today. It was under our government that the Book and Reading Summit was held in 1998, chaired by Prime Minister Lucien Bouchard. Today, our government is once again making its contribution to the defense of Quebec books and to the defense of our identity, ”concluded Maka Kotto.
