Quebec - Following this morning&#39;s interpellation, MPs François Rebello and Sylvain Gaudreault, respectively the official opposition spokespersons for consumer protection and energy, were stunned to see the change the government&#39;s course on the constant rise in gasoline prices.
“In response to a question concerning the imposition of a ceiling price for gasoline last Thursday, Minister Normandeau replied that the Régie de l&#39;énergie was studying the proposal. However, the minister&#39;s representative for this morning&#39;s inquiry, Clément Gignac, told us that was not the case. In addition, we learned from the media that the Prime Minister was against this idea of a ceiling price. The Prime Minister not only said the opposite of his minister, but he is once again going against the will of Quebeckers, ”lamented the member for La Prairie.
“Beyond the beautiful promises, Quebeckers expected concrete actions from the government to limit the significant fluctuations in the price of gasoline. Unfortunately, this morning we came up against a refusal to act on the part of the replacement for the Minister of Natural Resources, Minister Clément Gignac, who had received an order from the boss to refuse any ceiling price proposal coming from the official opposition. », Affirmed François Rebello.
“We learned this morning that New Brunswick has obtained tangible results by implementing a ceiling price. Why couldn&#39;t what is good for them work here and why, once again, the Prime Minister refuses to look after the interests of Quebec, preferring to let Ottawa decide? », Added François Rebello.
For his part, Sylvain Gaudreault questioned the Minister about the estimated minimum price set by the Régie de l&#39;énergie. &quot;We asked the Minister that the Régie de l&#39;énergie set the estimated minimum price of gasoline on a daily basis instead of doing so on a weekly basis, in order to limit unforeseen and significant fluctuations in the price of gasoline. gasoline. This is not new, the government itself proposed this measure in 2007, but nothing has yet been done about it and obviously it has no intention of doing so, ”he lamented.
