Québec, August 28, 2020 - In light of what a recent survey by the Regroupement des aidants naturel du Québec (RANQ) indicates, the member for Rimouski and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois for seniors and caregivers, Harold LeBel , urges the Minister responsible for Seniors and Caregivers, Marguerite Blais, to implement measures that really and directly support family caregivers, as a matter of urgency.
IN SHORT
“It is estimated that one in four Quebecers can be considered a family caregiver. Everyone immediately admits that the contribution of these people is precious, even essential. But who will support them? Asks the member for Rimouski.
Because, according to data collected by the RANQ, caregivers face a host of difficulties, which the COVID-19 crisis has only exacerbated. “Financially, first: 20% of respondents said their role-related expenses had increased by about $ 900 per month this spring, while nearly two-thirds of them were ineligible. government programs, such as PCU. We must also consider that the pandemic has caused several services, such as housekeeping or transport, for example, to be suspended, which has further increased the burden on family caregivers. Add to that stress, isolation, exhaustion, not to mention that many caregivers are themselves elderly… their situation is simply untenable, even in the short term, ”Judge Harold LeBel.
This is why the deputy is appealing to the minister dedicated to them, Marguerite Blais. “In recent months, I have often heard Ms. Blais talk about seniors&#39; homes, but rarely about the challenges that family caregivers face, particularly due to the lack of home care and services. However, in the health chain, this link is one of the first importance! The minister may well have tabled a bill in June to recognize and support caregivers, until its adoption, nothing is planned for them. Not even in the action plan in the event of a second wave! », He lamented.
Moreover, during the study of the appropriations, Harold LeBel did try to learn more about the government&#39;s intentions with regard to family caregivers, but he was only entitled to a ping-pong match between the ministers Blais, Carmant and Dubé. “Ultimately, the minister responsible for Caregivers is Marguerite Blais. It is therefore his duty to take the real measure of the distress expressed by caregivers and community organizations in the field, and to quickly offer them concrete solutions. Otherwise, Quebec will have to face serious consequences, among others for the elderly, disabled or people with loss of autonomy, ”warned the member for Rimouski.
