Quebec - Noting several irregularities in the processing and routing of access to information requests to the Ministère des Transports du Québec (MTQ), the Parti Québécois demands that the Access to Information Commission (CAI) conduct an investigation formal.
“The processing of access to information requests differs, even though they are the same request for two different time periods. What is more, it is abnormal for the Minister or his cabinet to be informed not only of the request, but also of the processing and response to this access request. In this case, the CAI must investigate to put an end to this dubious and questionable practice at the MTQ, ”declared the MNA for Gouin and official opposition spokesperson for transport, Nicolas Girard.
Last September, the official opposition made an access to information request to the MTQ concerning contracts for which the Deputy Minister had authorized, as provided for in section 17 of the Act respecting contracts of public bodies, for the period between January 1, 2006 and April 30, 2010 and between June 2, 2011 and September 27, 2011. This request resulted from a previous identical request for a more limited period, that of May 1 2010 to June 1, 2011.
“The handling of the response is different. In the second request, suddenly the ministry added a table to justify so many extras for the contracts. Coincidentally, the Minister quoted the same answer today in the National Assembly! It is unhealthy to know that the Minister knows the requests made by everyone to his department through the Act respecting access to documents held by public bodies and the protection of personal information, ”continued Nicolas Girard.
In 2002, following a request for an investigation made by the deputy Jean-Marc Fournier, the CAI was concerned about this practice. In its quinquennial report of the same year, it maintained that the person in charge of access must therefore enjoy a great deal of independence in the exercise of his functions. Its autonomy must be strengthened and its role valued. Following this CAI investigation, the Department of Health and Social Services had to review its methods of processing access to information requests.
“Minister Pierre Moreau having said he was comfortable with the fact that the CAI can investigate the processing and progress of access requests at a press point, I therefore conclude that this investigation will take place. It is a good gesture for our democracy and it is in line with the culture of transparency that Minister Moreau said he wanted to instill in the MTQ. Today, he missed his chance by refusing to table in the House the document he was proudly waving. That says a lot about the document that it will make public shortly concerning the extras, ”concluded Nicolas Girard.
