Quebec - The Member of Parliament for Saint-Hyacinthe, Mr. Émilien Pelletier, on behalf of the Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to announce the award of &#39;&#39; financial assistance of $ 48,200 to three organizations in the Montérégie region. This financial support, which is granted under the 2013-2018 Prime-Vert program, will allow the completion of three projects relating to agro-environment and soil protection.
The first project is that of Action Semis Direct which organized, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, the Soil Health conference. The organization received $ 10,000 for the preparation and holding of this meeting which took place on January 7. On this occasion, activities and means of intervention were proposed to support the adoption of agricultural practices favorable to soil and water conservation.
The second project is that of the Agri Conseils Maska club, which was awarded $ 15,000 to improve soil health for the three types of clay that are most frequently found in soils in the Montérégie region.
Finally, financial assistance of $ 23,200 is granted to the Géomont organization for the support it provides in geomatics to advisers from agri-environmental clubs.
“Both in the implementation of the Prime-Vert program and in the deployment of the Food Sovereignty Policy, we ensure that agricultural activities such as the economic development of the various links of the biofood sector are harmonized with the protection and improvement of the environment ”, underlined Mr. François Gendron.
“I take great pride in the support that the Government of Quebec gives to projects focused on soil protection in my riding of Saint-Hyacinthe. The people of this Montérégie territory are recognized for their dynamism in agriculture and agri-environment. It is therefore pleasant to see that we are supporting the efforts being made to preserve or improve the land in the region, ”added Mr. Émilien Pelletier.
The three projects favor a form of agricultural development that meets the expectations of society in terms of respect for the environment and soil preservation. In this sense, they are consistent with the objectives set in the Food Sovereignty Policy launched in spring 2013.
Prime-Vert is an agri-environment support program that aims to help farms meet the challenges of protecting the environment. For more information on this program, please consult the website of the Ministère de l&#39;Agriculture, des Pêcheries et de l&#39;Alimentation at the following address: www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/primevert. To find out more about the Food Sovereignty Policy, visit the dedicated blog www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or browse the www.Mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA section of the Ministère&#39;s website. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at twitter.com / mapaquebec.
