Saint-Alexandre-des-Lacs– The Minister for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Matane-Matapédia, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, of Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the Municipality of Saint-Alexandre-des-Lacs will benefit from financial assistance of $ 917,732 for the upgrading of its drinking water installations. This assistance comes from the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
More specifically, the project targets the development of a new supply well along Principale Street, the addition of a supply pipe and the construction of a technical building including the installation of &#39;&#39; a chlorination disinfection system. The project also provides for the installation of a drinking water pipe on Principale Street in order to connect the well to the existing drinking water network, which will allow 22 residences currently supplied with water from individual wells to be served.
“I am very happy with the support announced today to the Municipality of Saint-Alexandre-des-Lacs for the implementation of these major drinking water infrastructure works. Ultimately, this project will provide better quality drinking water, thus promoting the good health and well-being of citizens, in addition to improving public services to the community. Access to quality drinking water is a fundamental right, an essential service for all, ”declared Minister Pascal Bérubé.
Under sub-component 1.4 of the PIQM, the contribution of the Government of Quebec granted to this project amounts to $ 917,732. For its part, the Municipality of Saint-Alexandre-des-Lacs is investing $ 305,911 in its upgrading project, bringing the total amount of investments to $ 1,223,643.
The Government of Quebec&#39;s contribution to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
