Dolbeau-Mistassini– The deputy for Roberval and parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (forestry section), Mr. Denis Trottier, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, that the City of Dolbeau-Mistassini will benefit from maximum government financial assistance of $ 376,100 for the replacement of water pipes in the municipality. This assistance comes from the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
More specifically, the project targets work to replace drinking water, wastewater and stormwater pipes under some segments of Boulevard Saint-Michel as well as sewer separation. It also provides for the replacement of storm water pipes and sewer separation under rue Chiquette, as well as road works on these two traffic lanes in Dolbeau-Mistassini. Thus, this work will complement those announced last January under rue Louis-Hémon, which have since been carried out.
“I am very happy with the financial support granted today to the City of Dolbeau-Mistassini. Our government recognizes the need to renew and replace drinking water, wastewater and storm sewer infrastructure in communities across Quebec. This is why, in partnership with the municipalities, we want to ensure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services for current and future generations, ”said MP Denis Trottier.
Completion of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 376,100, under section 1.5 of the PIQM. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this component of the PIQM program not only ensures the sustainability of infrastructure, but also improves the quality of life of the population and creates many jobs in all areas. regions of Quebec.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
