La Trinité-des-Monts– The Member for Rimouski, Mr. Irvin Pelletier, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is proud to announce financial assistance of $ 354,000 for the expansion of the premises of the Haut-Pays de la Neigette Consumers&#39; Cooperative of the Municipality of La Trinité-des-Monts. This amount comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship Infrastructure Program (PIEC).
More specifically, the project will allow the Cooperative&#39;s garage to be enlarged in order to set up a grocery store, including a Société des alcools du Québec point of sale. A light food service, a hardware store and a Desjardins counter will also be added. Thanks to this expansion, the Cooperative will house new services, in addition to the existing ones for mechanical repairs and gasoline sales.
“I am pleased with the announcement of financial assistance for the project to expand the premises of the Haut-Pays de la Neigette Consumers Cooperative. This social economy enterprise will influence the economic vitality of the region by creating jobs and offering a variety of local services for the 280 inhabitants of the Mucipalité de La Trinité-des-Monts and the Rimouski region. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the many volunteers and the staff of the Center local de développement (CLD) Rimouski-Neigette without whom this project would not have been possible, ”said MP Pelletier.
“I am very proud of the government assistance announced today for the expansion of the premises of the Haut-Pays de la Neigette Consumer Cooperative. Completion of this project will allow it not only to consolidate its existing services, but also to offer an enhanced range of local services. In this way, this cooperative will help revitalize its community and strengthen the attractiveness of its environment in addition to stimulating the economy of the community as a whole, ”said Minister Gaudreault.
The eligible cost of this project is $ 800,656. The Government of Quebec, within the framework of the CEIP, is contributing an amount of $ 354,000. It also grants a bonus of $ 58,859 to take into account the interest that the organization will have to pay during the period of payment of the assistance. Other partners are also participating in the project, notably the Social Economy Worksite Trust and the CLD Rimouski-Neigette.
For her part, the President of the Board of Directors of the Haut-Pays de la Neigette Consumer Cooperative, Ms. Jacinthe Lévesque, thanks the Government of Quebec for granting this financial assistance which will be used to carry out this project and will better serve its customers and the community.
Remember that the CEIP has a budget of $ 10 million. It aims to support social economy enterprises in the implementation of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition projects for commercial or industrial infrastructure. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, to contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories as well as to promote the preservation and enhancement of the environment.
