Saint-Alexandre-de-Kamouraska– The Minister for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Matane-Matapédia, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, of Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the Municipality of Saint-Alexandre-de-Kamouraska will benefit from maximum government financial assistance of $ 915,600 for the replacement of several water pipes in the municipality. This assistance comes from the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
The project consists of replacing several drinking water and wastewater pipes under several segments of rue Des Forges (North and South). There will also be sewer separation under these segments by adding storm sewer lines. At the end of this work, water pipes over more than half a kilometer of street will be renewed in Saint-Alexandre-de-Kamouraska.
“The support granted today to the Municipality of Saint-Alexandre-de-Kamouraska testifies to our government&#39;s desire to provide the population with quality infrastructure for all. Our government recognizes the need to renew and replace water infrastructure in communities across Quebec. That is why it is committed to providing Quebec municipalities with the support they need to ensure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services, ”declared Minister Pascal Bérubé.
Completion of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 915,600, under component 1.5 of the PIQM. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this new component of the PIQM program not only ensures the sustainability of infrastructure, but also improves the quality of life of the population and creates many jobs overall. regions of Quebec.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
