Buty– The deputy for Sherbrooke and vice-chairman of the Committee on Public Administration, Mr. Serge Cardin, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and deputy for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announces that the Municipality of Bury will receive financial assistance of $ 274,000 for the upgrading of its drinking water production facilities. This assistance comes from the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
The Bury drinking water distribution network serves approximately 550 people within the municipality&#39;s urbanization perimeter. Due to the obsolescence of the current drinking water reservoir dating from the 1930s and the risk of drinking water contamination, the municipality planned to demolish the existing reservoir and build a new one with a service building to house all of them. the required equipment. The realization of this project will allow the Municipality of Bury to meet the needs expressed by the population and to respect the standards in force in terms of drinking water.
“I am very happy with the support announced today to the Municipality of Bury for the implementation of these major drinking water infrastructure works. Ultimately, this project will provide better quality drinking water, thus promoting the good health and well-being of citizens, in addition to improving public services to the community. Access to quality drinking water is a fundamental right, an essential service for everyone, always with a view to sustainable development, ”said MP Serge Cardin.
Under sub-component 1.4 of the PIQM, the contribution of the Government of Quebec granted to this project amounts to $ 274,000. For its part, the Municipality of Bury is investing $ 274,000 in its upgrading project, bringing the total amount of investments to $ 548,000.
The Government of Quebec&#39;s contribution to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
