Township of Harrington - The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, Member of Parliament for Labelle, Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport (leisure and sport component) and responsible for the Laurentians region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé as well as the deputy for Argenteuil, Mr. Roland Richer, are pleased to announce the construction of a municipal garage and administrative offices in the Canton from Harrington. This assistance will be granted under new sub-component 5.1 of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM), which is devoted to municipal and community infrastructure projects.
“I am very proud to announce today our government&#39;s participation in the implementation of this important infrastructure project in the Laurentians region. The future public service building, eagerly awaited by the community and municipal authorities, will meet the needs expressed by the community. This new infrastructure will notably make it possible to improve the service offer to citizens in addition to ensuring employees a safe work environment, ”said MP Roland Richer.
“Our government has chosen to give priority to projects that stem from a major problem whose urgency could be demonstrated. I am very pleased with the financial assistance provided for the construction of a municipal garage and administrative offices in the Township of Harrington. The realization of this project will allow the municipality to provide quality services to all citizens, ”emphasized the MP and responsible for the Laurentian region Sylvain Pagé.
“The selection of projects for this second phase of RECIM project approval perfectly reflects my government&#39;s desire to put integrity at the heart of its decisions. The projects chosen respect the standards in force and take into account the objectives of occupation and the vitality of the territories for the benefit of all Quebecers ”, indicated Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
Under the rules and standards in force under sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM, financial assistance for the implementation of the Township of Harrington project is assessed at 65% of the amount of eligible costs.
With a budget of nearly $ 60 million over five years, sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM allows municipalities in Quebec to carry out construction projects, upgrading, rehabilitation or repair of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offer and the quality of life of citizens in addition to compensating for the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI), made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
