Sainte-florence– The Minister for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Matane-Matapédia, Pascal Bérubé, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and &#39;&#39; Occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the Municipality of Sainte-Florence will benefit from government financial assistance of $ 6,976,800 for its waterworks, sewers and wastewater treatment project. waste. This assistance comes from the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
“I am very happy with the financial assistance announced today for the Municipality of Sainte-Florence, which testifies to our government&#39;s desire to provide the population with quality infrastructure for all. This major investment will make it possible to guarantee an essential service to Florencians by providing them with better drinking water in sufficient quantity. While contributing to the well-being of this community, this work will help to preserve the environment from a sustainable development perspective, ”said Minister Bérubé.
The project consists of the establishment of infrastructures for the collection, treatment and distribution of drinking water as well as the establishment of infrastructures for the collection, interception and treatment of wastewater in the Municipality of Sainte-Florence. . More specifically, this involves the construction of two drinking water collection wells at the south end of rue des Loisirs as well as the construction of a service building including a treatment system for manganese. Also, the project provides for the construction of two wastewater pumping stations as well as the installation of wastewater treatment facilities by aerated pond. The project will benefit a population of nearly 235 people.
It should be noted that all of the work that will be carried out aims to improve the quality of drinking water and reduce the quantity and improve the quality of wastewater discharges into the environment, thus meeting standards. in force.
Under section 1.4 of the PIQM, the contribution of the Government of Quebec granted to the Sainte-Florence project amounts to $ 6,976,800. For its part, the Municipality of Sainte-Florence is investing $ 367,200 in its wastewater collection project, bringing the total amount of investments to $ 7,344,000.
The Government of Quebec&#39;s contribution to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
For his part, the mayor of the Municipality of Sainte-Florence, Mr. Gaston Martin, is delighted with the support of the Government of Quebec for the realization of this project which will make it possible to guarantee essential services to the community.
