Jonquière - The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce the granting of financial assistance of $ 70,000 for the standards and exterior restoration of the Lac Kéno Solidarity Cooperative building. This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship Infrastructure Program (PIEC).
Concretely, this financial support is aimed at renovating the current building of the Le Baladeur convenience store in the Lac-Kénogami sector. The project consists of bringing the building up to standard, particularly with regard to fire safety, the supply of drinking water as well as the electricity supply and air conditioning, which will allow the Solidarity Cooperative Lac Kéno to consolidate its convenience store service and develop additional services to the population in its vacant premises.
More specifically, the organization also wishes to offer health and food services, including a bistro sandwich shop. In addition, the Lac Kéno Solidarity Cooperative would like to further support the social and cultural activities of the sector.
“Coop Lac Kéno offers local services that contribute to the socioeconomic vitality of a sector of the Jonquière borough and the assistance granted is one way for our government to recognize this. I am very proud of the investment announced today for the renovation and upgrading of the current cooperative building. In addition to meeting the needs of the Lac-Kénogami population and vacationers, the organization, founded in 2011, is a fine example of local development being taken over by people from the community. I thank the promoters for their efforts, ”declared Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
Completion of this project requires a total investment estimated at $ 152,000. The Government of Quebec, within the framework of the CEIP, contributes a maximum amount of $ 70,000.
Recognized as a social economy enterprise by the regional social economy center of the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region, the Coopérative de solidarité Lac Kéno has more than 205 members. In addition, this organization has the financial support of several organizations, in particular Sobey&#39;s, the CLD of the city of Saguenay as well as the Caisse d&#39;économie solidaire Desjardins.
“Ultimately, this project will make it possible to maintain and develop local services for the entire community. This initiative clearly demonstrates the dynamism and mutual aid of the people of our region and will have a positive impact on the entire community, ”added Minister Gaudreault.
For his part, the president of the Coopérative de solidarité Lac Kéno, Mr. Louis Pilote, is very happy with the support of the Government of Quebec, which will allow the organization to carry out its renovation project and pursue its mission of serving the community.
With an investment envelope of $ 10 million, the CEIP aims to support social economy enterprises in the implementation of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition projects for commercial infrastructures. or industrial. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, to contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories and to promote the preservation and enhancement of the quality of the environment.
