Saint-Rémi - The Member of Parliament for Sanguinet and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Alain Therrien, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière , Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, are pleased to announce today the payment of total financial assistance of $ 42,500, granted in the as part of the 2011-2012 call for projects, in the City of Saint-Rémi, in the Montérégie region. This financial assistance, which will be used to set up a training circuit for seniors, comes from the Quebec-Municipalities-Municipality friendly to seniors infrastructure program (PIQM-MADA).
Thanks to the Quebec-Municipalities-Age-friendly Municipality infrastructure program, municipalities involved in the ADM process have access to funds to support them in carrying out small infrastructure projects for seniors and their families.
“Today&#39;s announcement supports the commitment made by the City of Saint-Rémi to seniors. Thus, the assistance granted will make it possible to set up safe and accessible infrastructures for the elderly, in order to promote an active lifestyle among the elderly and to promote healthy lifestyles within the community. This is a project in line with the action plan of the Family and Seniors Policy, which meets the needs of seniors, in particular to improve their quality of life and promote active aging ”, declared the deputy Alain Therrien.
&quot;I am proud of our government&#39;s commitment to this great initiative put forward a few years ago and for which the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupation, for which I am responsible, is associate. Improving the living conditions of our seniors means contributing to their development as individuals in the community. It means assuming together a responsibility that challenges us all in order to make Quebec a place where it is good to age, ”said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
“This project, like many others that are emerging in all regions of Quebec, confirms the priority that our government gives to the quality of life of seniors. I would like to salute the initiative of the municipality and those responsible for the implementation of training circuits in Saint-Rémi, which will allow seniors to take advantage of safe recreational infrastructures that encourage them to practice physical activity and thus contribute to their well-being and good health, ”added Minister Réjean Hébert.
The project includes setting up outdoor training circuits suitable for seniors at two places that are heavily used by this clientele, namely Jean-Paul Ferdais Park and the Nature Interpretation Center. The circuits will include high quality outdoor fitness equipment that is safe for seniors, which will be linked by small trails.
The PIQM-MADA has an annual envelope of $ 3 million from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, reserved for the financing of infrastructure meeting the needs of seniors. For the first two years of the program, 89 projects from across Quebec benefit from this envelope, which is only accessible to municipalities engaged in the Age-friendly Municipality initiative. These investments are part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. The PIQM-MADA program is also an action included in the Aging and Living Together policy, at home, in one&#39;s community, in Quebec.
Today, with the support of 579 municipalities or MRCs, the MADA process was implemented in Quebec by the Secrétariat aux abîmes in 2008 and continues under the responsibility of the minister responsible for seniors and the minister of health and social services. This approach is inspired by an approach developed by the World Health Organization (WHO), and the model it proposes was designed to allow citizens to age while remaining active in their communities. The collaboration of the entire community is one of the winning conditions of the process, but it could not be fully successful without the participation of the seniors themselves and that of the local organizations that represent them. Quebec is considered by the WHO as the most advanced society in the world in the application of this approach based on the adaptation of municipal policies and services to the aging of the population.
