Saint-Stanislas– The Member of Parliament for Champlain and President of the Committee on Regional Planning, Mrs. Noëlla Champagne, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce the granting of additional assistance of $ 2,340,598 to the municipalities of Saint-Stanislas and Saint-Prosper-de-Champlain to complete major water infrastructure work in these two municipalities. Thus, the Municipality of Saint-Stanislas will receive an additional amount of $ 522,045 increasing government assistance to $ 2,475,110, while the Municipality of Saint-Prosper-de-Champlain will benefit from an increase of $ 1,818,553. government assistance to $ 2,271,640.
The additional assistance granted to these two municipalities comes from the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM) and will be used to carry out joint infrastructure work for the storage and treatment of drinking water, including the replacement of a water distribution pipe.
“I am very proud of the additional assistance granted today to the municipalities of Saint-Stanislas and Saint-Prosper-de-Champlain, which will allow them to jointly complete major water infrastructure work. This support demonstrates our government&#39;s commitment to provide Quebec municipalities with infrastructures that meet current standards. This is why, in partnership with the municipalities, we want to ensure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services for current and future generations, ”said MP Champagne.
“Our government wants to provide Quebeckers with quality infrastructure for all. That is why I am very happy with the additional support granted today to the municipalities of Saint-Stanislas and Saint-Prosper-de-Champlain. This work represents a major and most valuable investment for the future of these two municipalities, since it will allow them to distribute quality drinking water in addition to contributing to better management of drinking water and renewing public infrastructure. . Our government is constantly working with municipalities to ensure that every citizen can benefit from essential public services, ”Minister Gaudreault said.
Carrying out this work will allow the municipalities of Saint-Prosper-de-Champlain and Saint-Stanislas to improve the quality of the water distributed in accordance with the Regulation respecting the quality of drinking water (RQEP), in addition to contributing better management of drinking water.
Under sub-component 1.4 of the PIQM, the contribution of the Government of Quebec granted to the Municipality of Saint-Stanislas is increased by $ 522,045, thus bringing the initial assistance from $ 1,953,065 to $ 2,475,110, on a new maximum eligible cost of $ 3,712,663.
As for the total assistance granted to the Municipality of Saint-Prosper-de-Champlain, it now stands at $ 2,271,640, representing an increase of $ 1,818,553, out of a higher total maximum admissible cost, i.e. 2 $ 391,200.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for these projects is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public in April 2013. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion. dollars for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the costs associated with them and thus to make informed choices.
