Compton– The Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Seniors, Minister responsible for the Estrie region and Member of Parliament for Saint-François, Doctor Réjean Hébert, is pleased to announce, on his behalf and on behalf of by the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the municipalities of Compton and Dixville will benefit from government assistance from the Quebec Infrastructure Program- Municipalities - Age-friendly municipality (PIQM-MADA) for their infrastructure projects for seniors. Thus, the Municipality of Compton will receive $ 52,881, and the Municipality of Dixville will obtain $ 14,400 for the realization of their respective project.
Thanks to the Quebec-Municipalities-Age-friendly Municipality infrastructure program, municipalities involved in the ADM process have access to funds to support them in carrying out small infrastructure projects that meet the needs of seniors.
“I am very pleased with the financial support granted by our government for the realization of infrastructure projects for seniors in Compton and Dixville. These projects, like many others that are emerging in all regions of Quebec, confirm the priority that our government gives to the quality of life of seniors. I would like to salute the initiative of the municipalities of Compton and Dixville for carrying out these projects which meet the needs of seniors, in addition to contributing to their safety and quality of life while allowing them to remain active on the day. as long as possible, ”added Minister Hébert.
&quot;I am very proud of our government&#39;s commitment to seniors as part of the MADA process, this great initiative put forward a few years ago and with which the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and of the Occupation of the territory. Improving the living conditions of our seniors means contributing to their development as a person in the community. It also means jointly assuming a responsibility that concerns us all in order to make Quebec a good place to age, ”Minister Sylvain Gaudreault said.
The Municipality of Compton&#39;s project consists of developing a walking route connecting two parks and three streets where the elderly mainly live. This route will be extended to the location of municipal, postal and commercial services. This future circuit will also include rest stations promoting active transport for users while allowing them to move more easily over greater distances and to have easier access to municipal services and to take advantage of public spaces of interest. .
The project also provides for the construction of a pavilion next to the municipal chalet, which will notably include a room for skaters and a room for activities. The development of a path around Récré-O-Parc and the addition of benches and picnic tables near the pavilion will complete this project.
The implementation of this project is based on a maximum eligible cost established at $ 105,762, under component 2.5 of the PIQM, which is assumed equally by the Government of Quebec and the Municipality of Compton for a respective contribution of $ 52,881. .
The Municipality of Dixville&#39;s project aims to improve Parc Lanouette in order to provide it with adequate leisure infrastructure for seniors, in particular the installation of two shuffleboard games, the renovation of the pavilion&#39;s roof as well as the construction of park benches.
This project is based on a maximum eligible cost established at $ 18,000 under component 2.5 of the PIQM. The Government of Quebec is investing $ 14,400 while the Municipality of Dixville is allocating an amount of $ 3,600.
Remember that the PIQM-MADA has an annual budget of $ 3M from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, reserved for the financing of infrastructure meeting the needs of seniors. Since 2010, 137 projects have benefited from this envelope accessible to municipalities involved in the Age-friendly Municipality initiative. These investments are part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. The PIQM-MADA program is also an action included in the policy of Aging and living together, at home, in one&#39;s community, in Quebec.
Today, with the support of 704 municipalities or MRCs, the MADA process was implemented in Quebec by the Secrétariat aux frères in 2008 and continues under the responsibility of the minister responsible for seniors and the minister of health and social services. This approach is inspired by an approach developed by the World Health Organization (WHO), and the model it proposes was designed to allow citizens to age while remaining active in their communities. The collaboration of the entire community is one of the winning conditions of the process, but it could not be fully successful without the participation of the seniors themselves and that of the local organizations that represent them. Quebec is considered by the WHO as the most advanced society in the world in the application of this approach based on the adaptation of municipal policies and services to the aging of the population.
