Sherbrooke– The Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Seniors and Minister responsible for the Estrie region, Réjean Hébert, accompanied by the Member of Parliament for Sherbrooke, Serge Cardin, today announced financial assistance of 190,236 $ over three years to support the implementation of the Immigrant Seniors Active in Their Communities project of the Federation of Cultural Communities of Estrie. This funding was granted under the Support for Community Actions component of the Quebec Friend of Seniors program.
“The project of the Federation of Cultural Communities of Estrie is unique in that it is aimed at immigrant seniors. This group of people is experiencing a double integration challenge: as elders, integration into community life; as immigrants, they face the challenge of integrating into their new community. This innovative project will also help maintain their overall good health, ”said Minister Hébert.
In fact, by offering immigrant seniors various active and cultural leisure activities, this project promotes the adoption of healthy lifestyles while helping them adapt to their new community. These leisure activities can take different forms: community garden, training, twinning, artistic workshops, awareness-raising and knowledge transfer activities, intergenerational and collective activities, and many others. These activities aim to break the isolation of immigrant seniors, help them acquire new skills, promote intercultural and intergenerational connections and awaken their sense of belonging to their community.
“This project benefits the entire Sherbrooke and Estrie community since it helps integrate immigrant seniors into social and community life. I would like to thank the Federation of Cultural Communities of the Eastern Townships for this great initiative which is part of the action plan of the City of Sherbrooke&#39;s Senior Friendly Municipality and which contributes to making our environment even more welcoming to seniors and for immigrants, ”for his part said the deputy for Sherbrooke, Serge Cardin.
It should be remembered that the Seniors-Friendly Québec program aims to provide financial support for local, regional and national initiatives that make it possible to adapt living environments to the realities of seniors to allow them to stay in their living environment as long as possible. It promotes their active participation in Quebec society by making their environments more welcoming.
“Our government has the firm will to adapt Quebec to the aging of the population, and projects like the one supported today are making a major contribution to this. Above all, this is in perfect complementarity with our autonomy insurance and home care projects, ”concluded Minister Hébert.
