An investment of the Government of Quebec of $ 1 million
Alma– The Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs and Sovereignty Governance and Member of Parliament for Lac-Saint-Jean, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, takes advantage the first shovelful of the earth marking the launch of the modernization work of the Mario-Tremblay Center to announce the financial commitment of the Government of Quebec of $ 1,000,000 granted to the City of Alma for the realization of this project. This assistance comes from component 2.1 of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
According to Minister Cloutier: “after five years of work in collaboration with community partners, I am very proud to participate in the launch of the modernization work. The Mario-Tremblay Center is essential for the people of Alma and Lac-Saint-Jean. &quot;
The project aims to expand the building, part of the work of which will be financed by the Government of Quebec. The work planned on the ground floor, for this subsidized phase, includes a secondary entrance hall, five players&#39; rooms, an access corridor to the ice, rooms for the storage and storage of equipment and equipment. administrative premises. Upstairs, we will mainly fit out a catering area and a bar, multipurpose rooms, combat surfaces as well as sanitary blocks.
It should be noted that the building housing the Mario-Tremblay Center was built in 1972 and requires major modernization, due to its increasing use and the exceptional level of its traffic. The Mario-Tremblay Center constitutes an important sports infrastructure for the City of Alma, the MRC of Lac-Saint-Jean-Est and the entire territory of Lac-Saint-Jean, which requires major modifications in order to better respond to the needs of the local and regional population. In addition to the practice of sports and recreational activities, the center also allows the holding of about twenty events, with the participation of more than 30,000 people annually.
The mayor of the City of Alma, Mr. Marc Asselin, adds: “although the municipal council is very happy to see that the site has officially started, it is above all of the citizens that we are thinking today. They waited very patiently for the start of modernization work on the Mario-Tremblay Center. Rest assured that we will maintain our efforts to carry out the second phase of the work that we also wish to see carried out. &quot;
