Duhamel– The Minister of Public Security, Minister responsible for the Outaouais region and Member of Parliament for Verchères, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy , Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the realization of a RECIM project in the Outaouais region. Thus, the Municipality of Duhamel will receive government assistance for the construction of a new municipal garage. This assistance will be granted under new sub-component 5.1 of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM), which is devoted only to municipal or community infrastructure projects.
“I am very proud to announce today the participation of our government in the implementation of this important infrastructure project in the Outaouais region. The future municipal garage is a highly anticipated project that will meet the expectations of the community. In addition, this new infrastructure will ensure the health and safety of its employees as well as the adequate maintenance of the municipal road services, in the best interest of the community, ”said Minister Stéphane Bergeron.
The Municipality of Duhamel&#39;s project aims to build a new municipal garage, due to the obsolescence and non-compliance of the current public services building. Thus, the new municipal garage will make it possible to maintain the municipal road services for many years. Under the rules and standards in force in sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM, financial assistance for the realization of the project from the Municipality of Duhamel is evaluated at 70% of the amount of eligible costs.
With a budget of nearly $ 60 million over five years, sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM allows municipalities in Quebec to carry out construction projects, upgrading, rehabilitation or repair of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offer and the quality of life for citizens, in addition to compensating for the obsolescence and lack of space in existing infrastructures.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
