Bécancour– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Minister responsible for the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec region and Member of Parliament for Johnson, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the City of Bécancour will benefit from government financial assistance of 759,175 $ for the replacement of the ozonation system of the drinking water treatment plant. This assistance comes from the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
“I am very happy with the financial assistance granted to the City of Bécancour, which testifies to our government&#39;s desire to provide the population with quality infrastructure for all. This major investment will make it possible to guarantee an essential service to the population by providing them with better drinking water. In addition, in partnership with municipalities, we want to ensure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services for current and future generations, ”said Minister Blanchet.
The project mainly consists of replacing the ozonation treatment system at the City of Bécancour&#39;s drinking water production plant, which has become obsolete. The project firstly foresees the dismantling of the existing ozonation system and then the installation of a new gas preparation system, ozonators as well as a control and electrical supply system for ozonators. This work also includes the installation of systems for the diffusion of ozone in water and those for analysis of dissolved and gaseous ozone, as well as the destroyer of gaseous ozone by combustion. The completion of this project will benefit a population of over 12,700 people.
Under component 1.4 of the PIQM, the contribution of the Government of Quebec granted to the Bécancour project amounts to $ 759,175. For its part, the City of Bécancour is also investing $ 759,175 in its project, bringing the total amount of investments to $ 1,518,350.
The Government of Quebec&#39;s contribution to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
For her part, the mayoress of the City of Bécancour, Mrs. Gaétane Désilets, is delighted with the support of the Government of Quebec for the realization of this project which will make it possible to guarantee essential services to the community.
