Saint-Hippolyte– The Minister of Finance and the Economy and Member of Parliament for Rousseau, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the realization of a RECIM project in the Laurentians region. Thus, the Municipality of Saint-Hippolyte will receive government assistance for the construction of a fire station. This assistance will be granted under new sub-component 5.1 of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM), which is devoted only to municipal or community infrastructure projects.
“I am very proud to announce today the government&#39;s participation in the implementation of this important municipal infrastructure project in the Laurentides region. The future fire station in Saint-Hippolyte will allow the municipality to ensure the safety of its citizens as well as those of the MRC de la Rivière-du-Nord, ”declared Minister Nicolas Marceau.
The Municipality of Saint-Hippolyte&#39;s project consists of building a fire station within an eight-kilometer radius of the most populated residential areas. Ultimately, this project will benefit a population of some 8,100 inhabitants as well as more than 20,000 occasional vacationers. Under the rules and standards in force in sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM, financial assistance for the realization of the project from the Municipality of Saint-Hippolyte is assessed at 50% of the amount of eligible costs.
With a budget of nearly $ 60 million over five years, sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM allows Quebec municipalities to carry out construction projects, upgrading, rehabilitation or repair of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offer and the quality of life of citizens in addition to compensating for the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
