Quebec- The Minister for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Matane-Matapédia, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the granting of government assistance of $ 85,000 to the Corporation de Observatoire du Témiscouata-Aster for the restoration of its building. This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship Infrastructure Program (PIEC).
“I am very happy with the support of the Government of Quebec for the realization of this project, which will make it possible both to contribute to the territorial anchoring and to the collective use of an infrastructure which is very important for the region. This astronomical observatory is a major attraction for Témiscouata and Bas-Saint-Laurent. At the end of the work, the observatory will allow visitors and astronomy enthusiasts to enjoy captivating experiences, ”said Minister Pascal Bérubé.
More precisely, the project consists of the restoration of the building housing the Témiscouata observatory as well as the science museum. The work aims to bring the building up to standard, particularly with regard to security, elevators and electricity. Note that the project also provides for the installation of a new exhibition.
Carrying out the restoration work requires a total investment estimated at $ 870,199. The Government of Quebec will provide an amount of $ 85,000 under CEIP. Remember that the Ministry of Culture and Communications, under the Capital Assistance program, has already contributed to the project for an amount of $ 509,800 and Investissement Québec has granted a loan of $ 150,000. Aster is a popularization and scientific recreation station and an interpretation center aimed at both school and general public. It was recognized as a museum institution by the Ministry of Culture and Communications in 2001. Aster pursues a dual mandate of scientific interpretation and animation. Its dome houses a permanent exhibition.
With an investment envelope of $ 10 million, the PIEC aims to support social economy enterprises in the implementation of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition projects for commercial or commercial infrastructure. industrial. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, to contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories and to promote the preservation and enhancement of the quality of the environment.
