Quebec - The Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron, today announced measures totaling $ 11.3 million to help Quebec agricultural producers affected by the federal cuts to risk management programs.
“I made a commitment to take concrete action to support agricultural producers who are hard hit by federal government cuts and who are not protected by farm income stabilization insurance. What I am announcing today responds to this commitment. From the outset, I indicated that Quebec could not fill all the shortfall, but the measures that will act as a culvert are important and will provide oxygen to thousands of producers, ”said Mr. François Gendron.
Concretely, in 2013, an adjustment was made to the risk management programs administered by La Financière agricole du Québec for agricultural businesses that do not benefit from supply management or the Agricultural Income Stabilization Insurance Program ( ASRA). This adjustment results in two measures, namely:
It should be remembered that the changes resulting from the Canada-Quebec Growing Forward 2 agreement would have resulted in a considerable drop in the annual payments made to Quebec producers from government funds for risk management. This decrease would have had the effect of weakening a number of companies carrying out activities in sectors which are not targeted by ASRA and which do not benefit from supply management.
“There was no question of letting our farmers down and we quickly set out to find solutions to arrive at fair measures that respect our principles and the ability of the Government of Quebec to pay. In a context where we want to give our Food Sovereignty Policy the full scope it deserves, it is essential to be able to count on a strong agricultural sector which will contribute in its proper way to meeting this great challenge, so that our farmers and the entire economy of Quebec derive maximum benefit from it, ”said the Minister.
It should be remembered that with investments of $ 2.3 billion and an annual food demand of nearly $ 34 billion which supports 475,000 jobs, the biofood industry is a powerful engine of the Quebec economy.
For more information on the Government of Quebec&#39;s Food Sovereignty Policy, you can visit the blog www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca dedicated to it or go to the pagewww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSAd on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
