Papineauville– The Minister of Public Security, Minister responsible for the Outaouais region and Member of Parliament for Verchères, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament de Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, is proud to announce that the Municipality of Papineauville will receive maximum government assistance of $ 852,050 for the renewal of several municipal drinking water pipes. This contribution comes from the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
More specifically, the project targets work to replace drinking water pipes under certain segments of Henri-Bourassa and Saint-Julien streets. At the end of this work, water pipes along nearly a kilometer of streets will be renewed.
“I am very happy with the financial support granted today to the Municipality of Papineauville. Our government recognizes the need to renew drinking water, wastewater and storm sewer infrastructure in communities across Quebec. This is why, in partnership with the municipalities, we want to ensure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services for current and future generations, ”declared Minister Bergeron.
Completion of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 852,050, under component 1.5 of the PIQM. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this new component of the PIQM program not only ensures the sustainability of infrastructure, but also improves the quality of life of the population and creates many jobs overall. regions of Quebec.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for these projects is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public in April 2013. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion. dollars for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make informed choices.
