Quebec - Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, Minister responsible for Government Administration, President of the Treasury Board, Minister responsible for the region of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean and MNA for Chicoutimi, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, as well as the MNA for Dubuc, Mr. Jean-Marie Claveau, are pleased to announce that the Municipality of Rivière-Éternité will benefit from government assistance for the construction of a fire station. This assistance is granted under the new sub-component 5.1 of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM), which is devoted to municipal and community infrastructure projects.
“I am very proud to announce today my government&#39;s support for the implementation of this important municipal infrastructure project in Rivière-Éternité. The future fire station will allow the municipality to comply with environmental requirements for the supply of drinking water in addition to ensuring the health and safety of its employees, in the best interest of the population ”, declared the deputy Jean-Marie Claveau.
“Our government has chosen to give priority to projects that stem from a major problem whose urgency could be demonstrated. I am very happy with the financial assistance granted for the construction of the fire station in Rivière-Éternité. The realization of this project will allow the municipality to offer quality services to the population, ”said Minister Stéphane Bédard.
“The selection of projects for this second phase of RECIM project approval perfectly reflects my government&#39;s desire to put integrity at the heart of its decisions. The projects chosen respect the standards in force and take into account the objectives of occupation and vitality of the territory for the benefit of all Quebecers ”, indicated Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
Under the rules and standards in force in sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM, financial assistance for the realization of the project from the Municipality of Rivière-Éternité is assessed at 65% of the amount of eligible costs.
With a budget of nearly $ 60 million over five years, sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM allows municipalities in Quebec to carry out construction projects, upgrading, rehabilitation or repair of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offer and the quality of life of citizens in addition to compensating for the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
