Girardville - The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the Member of Parliament for Roberval and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (forestry section), Mr. Denis Trottier, are pleased to announce that the Municipality of Girardville could benefit from government financial assistance of up to $ 2 million for the repair of rang Saint-Joseph Nord and for the installation of cell phone towers. This assistance comes from the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
“My government is aware of the major challenge posed by the vastness of the northern territory in terms of access and transport and communications infrastructure. That is why I am very proud of our participation in the implementation of these two municipal infrastructure projects, which constitute an essential contribution to the development of the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region. By supporting these projects, my government is demonstrating its commitment to supporting northern development, both in terms of transportation and telecommunications, ”said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
“Improved transport and telecommunications will promote the region&#39;s economic development and job creation. It will allow the municipality of Girardville to develop and offer quality public services to its population. Accessibility to these services will help improve the quality of life for the entire community, ”added MP Denis Trottier.
The project aims to repair Rang Saint-Joseph Nord in order to improve and strengthen this road in anticipation of an increase in the traffic of vehicles and heavy trucks attributable in particular to the establishment of the MDN mine in this sector. The work will improve this section of road and make it safer for users, in addition to facilitating the movement of goods on the territory.
Note that Rang Saint-Joseph Nord is a road used mainly for forestry and vacation activities, and that it gives access to the public land located north of Girardville.
As for the project to install cell phone towers, this project fills a void in this region. No cell phone service is currently offered. Two towers will therefore be installed to meet the needs of businesses and the population of this northern region. These towers consist of antennas and electronic equipment that serve as hub stations for cell phones and local wireless networks.
This project will contribute to the economic and social development of northern Quebec and will guarantee accessibility to a range of services for residents of this municipality and the region.
Under the rules and standards in force in Part 4 of the PIQM, financial assistance for the realization of these two projects from the Municipality of Girardville is estimated at $ 2 million.
This component aims to enable municipalities located in northern Quebec to carry out infrastructure projects in order to meet the development needs generated by northern development. Thus, the municipalities will be able to benefit from specific aid for the realization of their project.
Remember that the Government of Quebec made public, on May 7, 2013, the new 2013-2018 endowment for public investments financed by the Northern Development Fund. This fund will make it possible to finance investments of $ 867.7 million. The investments will notably ensure the construction of road infrastructure, social housing, national parks and multifunctional centers for vocational training. The North for All is defined according to a northern development strategy focused on the social development of northern communities, respect for the environment and biodiversity, and economic development.
