Dolbeau-Mistassini– The Member for Roberval and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Forests section), Mr. Denis Trottier, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce the granting of financial assistance of $ 99,087 for the expansion and renovation of the building housing the Club de golf Dolbeau inc. This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship Infrastructure Program (PIEC).
“I am very pleased with the investment announced today for the expansion and restoration of the current Club de golf Dolbeau inc. Building. which will not only meet the needs of the people who benefit directly from them, but also the entire community of Dolbeau-Mistassini, which will be able to use these renovated infrastructures, ”declared MP Denis Trottier.
More specifically, this financial support targets the expansion, on two floors, of the current building of the Dolbeau Golf Club as well as the renovation of its various service areas. The project also includes various interior finishing works, the renewal of the floor coverings and the repair of the roof.
It should be noted that the club&#39;s expansion and restoration project has become essential to maintaining the Club&#39;s activities. This is part of the company&#39;s strategic plan, to which are added a water supply project, the acquisition of the land, as well as the development of the golf course.
Completion of this project requires a total investment estimated at $ 505,500. The Government of Quebec, within the framework of the CEIP, contributes a maximum amount of $ 99,087.
Established in Dolbeau since 1953 and recognized by the Social Economy Pole of the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region as a social economy enterprise, the Dolbeau Golf Club employs around ten full-time people. Through its activities, it contributes to the socioeconomic vitality of the region.
For his part, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Club de Golf Dolbeau, Mr. Junior Juneau, said he was very happy with the support of the Government of Quebec, which will allow the organization to carry out its expansion project and modernization in order to better serve its customers and the community.
The chairman of the board of directors of the Club de Golf Dolbeau inc., Mr. Junior Juneau and the member for Roberval and parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (forestry component), Mr. Denis Trottier. (Source: CNW Group / Minister&#39;s office of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy) Let us remember that the CEIP has a budget of $ 10 million. It aims to support social economy enterprises in the implementation of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition projects for commercial or industrial infrastructure. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, to contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories as well as to promote the preservation and enhancement of the environment.
