La Pocatière– The Minister for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas? Saint? Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Matane? Matapedia, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, of the Regions and of Land Occupation, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the granting of financial assistance of $ 374,000 for the expansion of the building of the Center de développement bioalimentaire du Québec (CDBQ) in La Pocatière . This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship Infrastructure Program (PIEC).
More specifically, the project aims to expand the current CDBQ building to install modular incubation rooms, a cold room and a biotech product packaging room. The work also includes the renovation of current laboratories to better adapt them to the uses and management of chemicals according to the standards in force.
Completion of this project will allow the development of new agro-biotechnology products on a pre-industrial scale by offering a full range of professional services in food processing.
“I am very proud of the government assistance granted today for the expansion of the building of the Center de développement bioalimentaire du Québec. The completion of this project will allow this social economy enterprise to contribute to the development of the Kamouraska region and the entire community by creating jobs and offering research support services in technological innovation, and this, in a sustainable development approach, ”said Minister Pascal Bérubé.
The eligible cost of this project is $ 3,742,564. The Government of Quebec, within the framework of the CEIP, is contributing an amount of $ 374,000. It also grants a bonus of $ 62,184 to take into account the interest that the organization will have to pay during the period of payment of the assistance.
Recognized as a social economy enterprise, the CDBQ hosts 14 companies working in the fields of food processing with which it collaborates. Established in 1995, the CDBQ has continued to grow for several years and to make its mark in the agrifood sector as a public research center.
For his part, the president of the CDBQ, Mr. Gilles Martin, thanks the government of Quebec for the granting of this financial assistance which will be used to carry out all the work and will encourage research and serve the community.
Remember that the CEIP has a budget of $ 10 million. It aims to support social economy enterprises in the implementation of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition projects for commercial or industrial infrastructure. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, to contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories as well as to promote the preservation and enhancement of the environment.
