Scott - The Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, today announced financial support of $ 1.9 million, in the form of a loan, to the promoters of La Cache à Maxime for the development of a project totaling 5.3 M $ under the Support Program for the Development of Tourist Attractions (PADAT). In addition, Investissement Québec granted a loan guarantee of $ 1 million for this project, from its regular financial products.
“I am proud to announce the first PADAT project. This program is an accessible tool that will allow several companies to find part of the financing necessary for their development. It will help stimulate private investment and ensure the growth of tourism businesses in Quebec, an essential element in the development of our tourist destination. The La Cache à Maxime project is fully in line with PADAT&#39;s vision and is, in itself, a model of economic and tourist development, which has established itself, grown and innovated. This initiative will allow the creation of 20 new full-time and 20 part-time jobs over the next 5 years, while consolidating the current 80 jobs, which will have significant impacts for the region ”, declared Minister Bérubé.
Launched in March 2013 by the Premier of Quebec, Madame Pauline Marois, PADAT aims to offer Quebec tourism businesses flexible financial solutions adapted to the realities of the tourism industry, by granting a loan to term or loan guarantee. To this end, support for the promoters of La Cache à Maxime will help improve the attractions of the Chaudière-Appalaches region in terms of cultural tourism, business and conventions.
“This financial support will enhance the range of services offered by La Cache to Maxime and, by the same token, offer enhanced service to our customers. The planned investments will make it possible to welcome national and even international organizations, and will certainly contribute to the development of the tourism potential of the Chaudière-Appalaches region ”, indicated the director of La Cache à Maxime, Mr. Olivier Berthiaume.
La Cache à Maxime is a rural and recreational tourism area grouping together on the same site several activities including accommodation, catering, a shop of local products, meeting and reception rooms, a theater, a vineyard and a Health center. PADAT&#39;s financial support will make it possible to expand the current complex with a view to creating a mini-convention center with performance halls, private lounges and the establishment of a leisure center. The multifunctionality of the room configurations and the addition of specialized equipment will make it possible to adequately meet the varied needs of various clienteles, and the company expects to be able to accommodate up to 500 people.
Stemming from the 2012-2020 Tourism Industry Development Plan, PADAT has an envelope of $ 85 million spread equally over 5 years. This envelope is available for existing, mature or growing tourism businesses in the form of a loan or loan guarantee. Financial interventions can reach from $ 150,000 to $ 2 million. Initiated by Tourisme Québec, PADAT is managed and administered by Investissement Québec, through its new Tourism division.
To find out the complete conditions relating to this program and to obtain the project presentation forms, consult one of the following pages: www.tourisme.gouv.qc.ca/programmes-services/aide/padat .html
