Quebec - The member for Roberval, Mr. Denis Trottier, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to announce the award of a $ 10,000 in financial assistance to Club Conseil Bleuet. This financial assistance, which is granted under the Prime-Vert program, aims to produce a guide to good practices concerning the development and rehabilitation of dunes for the exploitation of blueberry fields.
“I am always happy to learn that we are encouraging initiatives such as that of Club Conseil Bleuet. Both in the implementation of the Prime-Vert program and in the deployment of the Food Sovereignty Policy, we want agricultural activities to be harmonized with environmental protection and sustainable development ”, underlined Mr. François. Gendron.
“I take great pride in the support that the Government of Quebec is giving to the realization of the Club Conseil Bleuet project, which aims to resolve environmental issues specific to our region. Raising producers&#39; awareness of the problems of erosion and soil degradation in blueberry fields helps to minimize the environmental impact of agricultural activities, ”said Denis Trottier.
Prime-Vert is an agri-environment support program that aims to help farms meet the challenges of protecting the environment. The financial assistance granted is linked to sub-component 3.1 “Regional approach” of the Prime-Vert program. It will allow Club Conseil Bleuet, in collaboration with the scientific committee of the Syndicat des producteurs de bleuets du Québec and the Ministère de l&#39;Agriculture, des Pêcheries et de l&#39;Alimentation, to create a guide for producers on the subject of good practices to adopt in blueberry fields. It should be noted that five operators will help to produce this tool. Also, in the summer of 2014, an information day will be held at one of them to present the results of the Club Conseil Bleuet initiative.
For more information on the Prime-Vert program, please consult the website of the Ministère de l&#39;Agriculture, des Pêcheries et de l&#39;Alimentation at the following address: www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/primevert. To find out more about the Food Sovereignty Policy, visit the dedicated blog www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or browse the www.Mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA section of the Ministère&#39;s website. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at twitter.com / mapaquebec.
