Petit-Saguenay– The MP for Dubuc, Mr. Jean-Marie Claveau, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce the granting of $ 330,000 in financial assistance to the Petit-Saguenay Consumer Co-operative for the relocation of its facilities. This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship Infrastructure Program (PIEC).
More specifically, this financial support aims to move the Petit-Saguenay Consumer Co-operative to new 7,000 square foot premises that will bring together all the local services of the municipality, in particular, a grocery store, a hardware store, a restaurant and a store offering seasonal products. In addition to consolidating local services, the cooperative thus wishes to ensure the sustainability of the gas station.
“The Petit-Saguenay Consumer Co-operative plays an essential role in the community and the assistance granted to the organization today is a way for our government to recognize this. I am very proud of the investment announced for the relocation of the Cooperative in a new building. Carrying out this project will allow the Cooperative to bring together all local services under one roof, in addition to maintaining the economic vitality and occupation of this sector of Bas-Saguenay, ”said MP Jean-Marie Claveau.
This initiative requires a total investment estimated at $ 1,703,000. The Government of Quebec, within the framework of the CEIP, contributes a maximum amount of $ 330,000. This contribution will be increased by an amount of $ 54,868 to take into account the interest that the organization will have to pay during the period of payment of the assistance.
Other partners are also participating in the project, notably the Saguenay Fjord local economic development center, the Fjord community development assistance company and the Petit-Saguenay economic development corporation.
For his part, the president of the Petit-Saguenay Consumer Cooperative, Mr. Michel Houde, said he was very happy with the support of the Government of Quebec for the realization of its relocation project which will allow it to offer better services to its customers and to the community.
Founded by farmers in 1958, the Petit-Saguenay Consumer Co-operative offers unparalleled products and services to people in the community. This company, which has been able to adapt and transform over time, is rooted in its community since it has nearly 400 members out of a population of 730 residents.
Remember that the CEIP has a budget of $ 10 million. It aims to support social economy enterprises in the implementation of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition projects for commercial or industrial infrastructure. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, to contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories as well as to promote the preservation and enhancement of the environment.
