Labelle– The Member of Parliament for Labelle and government official for the Laurentides region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and from the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, is pleased to announce the payment of financial assistance of up to $ 100,000 to the Municipality of Labelle, in the Laurentians region. This contribution, which comes from the Quebec-Municipalities-Municipality friendly to seniors (PIQM-MADA) infrastructure program, will be used to repair the sidewalks on rue de l&#39;Église.
Thanks to the PIQM-MADA, the municipalities involved in the MADA process have access to funds intended to support them in carrying out small infrastructure projects for seniors and their families.
“Today&#39;s announcement supports the Municipality of Labelle&#39;s commitment to seniors. Thus, the replacement of damaged sidewalks on rue de l&#39;Église will allow the municipality to better meet the needs of seniors, in particular by encouraging them to practice walking to keep them in good physical shape. Carrying out this work will also benefit wheelchair users, who will be able to move around more safely on this street. This is a project that is part of a concerted approach with the elderly with the aim of improving their quality of life and promoting active aging, ”declared the Member of Parliament for Labelle, Mr. Sylvain Pagé.
&quot;I am proud of our government&#39;s commitment to seniors as part of the MADA process, this great initiative put forward a few years ago and in which the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the territory. Improving the living conditions of our seniors means contributing to their development in the community. It means assuming together a responsibility that concerns us all in order to make Quebec a good place to age, ”said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
“This project, like many others that are emerging in all regions of Quebec, confirms the priority that our government gives to the quality of life of seniors. I would like to salute the initiative of the Municipality of Labelle, which will allow seniors to move more safely in rue de l&#39;Église. Ultimately, this project will help improve their quality of life while allowing them to remain active as long as possible, ”added Minister Réjean Hébert.
Basically, the project consists of replacing the damaged sidewalks on rue de l&#39;Église to build wider ones. This will promote the practice of walking for seniors and allow wheelchair users to access the various services in a safe manner. In total, around 580 meters of sidewalks will be renewed in Labelle.
Remember that the PIQM-MADA has an annual budget of $ 3M from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, reserved for the financing of infrastructure adapted to the needs of seniors. Since 2010, more than 130 projects have benefited from this envelope accessible to municipalities engaged in the MADA process. These investments are part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. The PIQM-MADA program is also an action included in the Aging and Living Together policy, at home, in one&#39;s community, in Quebec.
Today, with the support of 719 municipalities or MRCs, the MADA process was implemented in Quebec by the Secrétariat aux Aînés in 2008 and continues under the responsibility of the Minister responsible for Seniors and Minister of Health and Social Services. This approach is inspired by an approach developed by the World Health Organization (WHO), and the model it proposes was designed to allow citizens to age while remaining active in their communities. The collaboration of the entire community is one of the winning conditions of the process, but it could not be fully successful without the participation of the seniors themselves and that of the local organizations that represent them. Quebec is considered by the WHO as the most advanced society in the world in the application of this approach based on the adaptation of municipal policies and services to the aging of the population.
