Quebec - The official opposition spokesperson for language and Member of Parliament for Drummond, Yves-François Blanchet, denounces Jean Charest who is now saying the opposite of what he has always said concerning the programming of the Festival d&#39;été de Quebec.
“On a mission in France, the Prime Minister says he wants more French-speaking programming for the festival. The rest of the year, here, he says through the voice of his Minister of Culture that he does not have to intervene. It is difficult to follow! », Affirmed the deputy.
Several times in recent years, citizen movements and representatives of Quebec artists have criticized the place occupied by international English-speaking artists in the festival&#39;s programming. “No intervention has even been considered when it comes to promoting Quebec music. This time, because it is the French-speaking image of Quebec internationally and it wants to look good, it is ready to force its hand at the festival, ”denounced the deputy, qualifying as hypocritical the double talk of Jean Charest.
The member for Drummond said he was worried about the controversy that has taken place in recent years. “The government must not act in a coercive manner against a tourist or cultural event. It would be questionable interference. However, as a major funder, it can encourage an event to ensure a better representation of our culture in its programming. It is done by talking to each other, when contracts are negotiated, not through the voice of the newspapers, ”continued Yves-François Blanchet.
Finally, the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois said it respects the independence of the Festival d&#39;été de Québec in terms of programming: “The festival can take advantage of the immense tourist success that results from its international programming to offer more Quebec artists from better technical, financial and promotional conditions. I am sure that the Quebec Summer Festival team has this concern in mind when it builds its programming, year after year ”.
Yves-François Blanchet therefore sided with the Quebec City Summer Festival following Jean Charest&#39;s comment: “The end of disqualification expressed by the festival is perfectly legitimate. Tourist and cultural events as well as Quebec artists are not at the service of Jean Charest&#39;s political ambitions, ”concluded the Member for Drummond.
