Sainte-Anne-des-Lacs - The Member for Berthier and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. André Villeneuve, accompanied by the Member for Bertrand and Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Claude Cousineau, is pleased to announce today, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the completion of a project of RECIM in the Laurentians region. Thus, the Municipality of Sainte-Anne-des-Lacs will receive government assistance for the construction of a fire station. This financial assistance will be granted under the new sub-component 5.1 of the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM), which is devoted only to municipal or community infrastructure projects.
“I am very proud to announce today the participation of our government in the realization of this important municipal infrastructure project in the Laurentians region. The future fire station in Sainte-Anne-des-Lacs will allow the municipality to ensure the safety of its employees and its citizens, in addition to responding more adequately to the requirements of the fire service, in the best possible way. interest of the population. That is why our government is committed to providing municipalities with the support they need to renew and develop their infrastructure, ”said MP André Villeneuve.
“I am very happy with this announcement in Sainte-Anne-des-Lacs. This investment constitutes an essential contribution which will make it possible to provide quality services to the citizens of this beautiful municipality, ”added Deputy Claude Cousineau, Vice-President of the National Assembly.
Currently, the municipal garage is used as a fire station, which presents a significant risk in terms of safety at work, due to the small size of the premises. Thanks to government support, the Municipality of Sainte-Anne-des-Lacs is able to equip itself with a fire station of sufficient size for the trucks as well as for the storage of the various required equipment. Ultimately, this project will benefit a population of some 3,499 inhabitants.
Under the current rules and standards of sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM, financial assistance for the realization of the project from the Municipality of Sainte-Anne-des-Lacs is assessed at 65% of the amount of eligible costs.
With a budget of nearly $ 60 million over five years, sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM allows municipalities in Quebec to carry out construction projects, upgrading, rehabilitation or repair of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offer and the quality of life of citizens in addition to compensating for the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
