Quebec - The Member of Iberville, Mrs. Marie Bouillé, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to announce the award of a $ 9,000 in financial assistance to the Agri-Durable advisory club in Saint-Césaire for a project aimed at improving soil health in agricultural settings. The financial support granted to initiate this project comes from the Prime-Vert program.
“I am always happy to hear that we are encouraging initiatives like the Agri-Durable advisory club. Both in the implementation of the Prime-Vert program and in the deployment of the Food Sovereignty Policy, we ensure that agricultural activities such as the economic development of the various links of the biofood sector are harmonized with the protection and improvement of the environment, ”said François Gendron.
“I take great pride in the support that the Government of Quebec is giving to the realization of this project to improve the quality and health of soils in the Montérégie. This proves that we take into account the specific problems of the regions and also that we are working to improve crop yields, while respecting the environment, ”said Marie Bouillé.
Prime-Vert is an agri-environment support program that aims to help farms meet the challenges of protecting the environment. The Agri-Durable Advisory Club project is carried out in accordance with the Regional Approach Action Plan established in the context of the Prime-Vert program and intended to solve agri-environmental problems specific to the region. In concrete terms, we will sow winter wheat in fields in the Montérégie region in order to study and develop the conditions necessary for the establishment of a third rotation crop. Wheat could be an attractive alternative from an economic, agronomic and environmental point of view by contributing to the improvement of soil health.
For more information on the Prime-Vert program, please consult the website of the Ministère de l&#39;Agriculture, des Pêcheries et de l&#39;Alimentation at the following address: www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/primevert. To find out more about the Food Sovereignty Policy, visit the dedicated blog www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or browse the www.Mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA section of the Ministère&#39;s website. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at twitter.com / mapaquebec.
