Rimouski - The Member for Rimouski and Chairman of the Committee on Public Finance, Mr. Irvin Pelletier, is pleased to announce today, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the Rimouski-Neigette RCM will receive financial assistance of $ 327,796 for the establishment and maintenance of technical expertise. This assistance comes from the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
Briefly, this assistance will allow the municipalities of the MRC de Rimouski-Neigette to have access to technical expertise that will help them better identify and evaluate the services they need to carry out certain infrastructure mandates. The municipalities may in particular be supported in the execution of certain projects.
This financial support is mainly intended to reimburse gross salaries and social benefits paid for carrying out technical expertise mandates carried out for municipalities. Eligible mandates include, on the one hand, technical support in engineering and contract management relating to the carrying out of construction, repair and rehabilitation work and, on the other hand, an independent second opinion with regard to services that are offered to municipalities.
&quot;I am delighted with the assistance granted today to the MRC de Rimouski-Neigette, because it will allow municipalities to obtain technical support, consulting services and also to acquire additional tools for the realization. of their different mandates. By being able to count on new resources, municipalities will be able to better plan the management of their infrastructures in the long term, while developing their own expertise. They will thus be able to ensure adequate monitoring of their infrastructure investments, ”said MP Irvin Pelletier.
“Before undertaking infrastructure work, technical expertise is required at several stages, in particular for pre-project studies, intervention plans, the preliminary estimate of the works as well as the preparation of calls for tender. bids or bid analysis. This expertise comes at a cost and the government&#39;s financial assistance is a boost to the Rimouski-Neigette RCM which wishes to make its infrastructure projects profitable, ”added Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
It should be remembered that this financial assistance comes from component 3 of the PIQM, which provides the MRCs of Quebec with financial support of $ 25 million to encourage them to offer expertise in engineering and contract management to their municipalities.
