Quebec - The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports and Minister responsible for the Montérégie region, Ms. Marie Malavoy, is proud to announce on behalf of the Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and of Food, Mr. François Gendron, the allocation of financial assistance of $ 150,000 to three organizations in the Montérégie for the implementation of integrated water management projects by watershed affecting three water courses. water from the region. This financial support is granted under the Prime-Vert program.
Thus, three agri-environment advisory clubs will each receive financial assistance of $ 50,000 to adopt the watershed water management approach for three waterways in the Montérégie region. Datasol, which will focus its efforts on the Norton stream, Techno-Champ 2000, which is interested in the Lacolle river, and Agro-Moisson Lac St-Louis, which will focus on the Fèves river. It should be noted that integrated water management by watershed consists in particular of applying certain measures to reduce the environmental risks associated with agricultural activities.
“The approach that these three promoters have adopted not only promotes the sound management of water systems, but also the maintenance of good quality water in agricultural environments. I am very proud to support such projects which contribute to the development of agriculture that respects the environment, ”said Ms. Malavoy.
Prime-Vert is a support program focused on the quality of the agroenvironment and its aim is to help farms meet the challenges of protecting the environment. The projects of the three agri-environmental advisory clubs will be carried out thanks to the second component of the Prime-Vert program, which supports collective water management measures by watershed and which is part of the Intervention Plan on blue-green algae from the Quebec government. In total, nearly 200 agricultural businesses will directly benefit from the benefits of these three projects.
“Protecting the environment is something that agricultural producers must take into account on a daily basis. For this reason, we are always pleased to support the initiatives of companies seeking to harmonize agricultural activities with the environment and to embark resolutely on the path of sustainable development. It is in this perspective that we adopted the Food Sovereignty Policy last spring, ”added François Gendron.
For more information about the Prime-Vert program, visit the website of the Ministère de l&#39;Agriculture, des Pêcheries et de l&#39;Alimentation at the following address: www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/primevert. To find out more about the Food Sovereignty Policy, visit the dedicated blog www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or browse the www.Mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA section of the Ministère&#39;s website. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at twitter.com/mapaquebec.
