Quebec– The Honorable Denis Lebel, Minister of Infrastructure and Communities and Minister of the Economic Development Agency of Canada, and the Member for Roberval, Mr. Denis Trottier, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of &#39;Agriculture, Fisheries, and Food, Mr. François Gendron, are pleased to announce the allocation of financial assistance of nearly $ 28,000 to the Union of Quebec Blueberry Producers for the realization of the project &quot; Strategic planning for the wild blueberry industry in Quebec ”. Financial assistance is granted under the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, which is linked to the Agri-flexibility Fund of Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada.
The project involves carrying out strategic planning for the entire Quebec wild blueberry industry. Stakeholders agreed to work together to address common challenges and ensure the growth of their industry. This is a mobilizing project that will allow the wild blueberry industry to give itself a vision of its own, to define strategic orientations and to determine priority actions in order to support its development for the next five years.
“This is good news for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region, which is known for its blueberries. A common strategy will ensure concerted development among all entrepreneurs and will undoubtedly contribute to the expansion of the market ”, declared Minister Lebel.
“The wild blueberry sector is growing and is playing an increasingly important role in Quebec&#39;s economic activity. In this context, it must plan its development in order to innovate and remain competitive. Enhancing the economic potential of the biofood sector is also one of the pillars of the Government of Quebec&#39;s Food Sovereignty Policy, and it is for this reason that we confidently support such initiatives, ”said Denis Trottier.
It should be remembered that the governments of Canada and Quebec announced on March 25, 2011, the signing of the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, which includes an investment of $ 16.7 million over a period of 4 years. This program aims to promote both the adaptation and the growth of agrifood business sectors in the face of a constantly changing competitive business context.
For a complete description of the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, go to the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food: www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/strategiessectorielles. For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministère de l&#39;Agriculture, des Pêcheries et de la &#39;Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
