Pohénégamook– The Minister for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Matane-Matapédia, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transports and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce the granting of financial assistance of $ 189,431 to the Center de tourisme de la Tête-du-Lac Pohénégamook inc. for the construction of a multi-purpose building with a roof terrace. This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship Infrastructure Program (PIEC).
“The Tête-du-Lac Pohénégamook tourism center inc. plays an essential role in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and the assistance granted to the organization is one way for our government to recognize this. I am very proud of the investment announced today. This beach has enjoyed excellent notoriety and popularity for over 20 years. The replacement of the buildings on the beach had therefore become necessary to allow the organization to pursue its mission and to offer a unifying place that benefits the entire community, ”said Minister Bérubé.
More specifically, this financial support targets the construction of a multipurpose building with a roof terrace, at the western entrance to the municipal beach of Pohénégamook. This new building will replace the existing one, which has become dilapidated. It will serve as a reception station, rest area, catering service and location for health services. In addition, the development of a 162-place campsite on land located a few meters from the multi-purpose building is also planned.
Completion of this project requires an investment estimated at $ 1,000,489. The Government of Quebec, within the framework of the CEIP, is contributing a sum of $ 189,431. This contribution will be increased by an amount of $ 31,496 to take into account the interest that the organization will have to pay during the period of payment of the assistance.
Note that the Tête-du-Lac Pohénégamook tourist center inc. has for mission to promote and develop the beach in order to offer the best services and to contribute to the conservation and the enhancement of the environment of the lake.
“Ultimately, this project will make it possible to maintain and develop local services for the entire community. This initiative clearly demonstrates the dynamism and mutual aid of the people of our region and will have a positive impact on the entire community, ”Minister Gaudreault said.
Remember that the CEIP has a budget of $ 10 million. It aims to support social economy enterprises in the implementation of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition projects for commercial or industrial infrastructure. The objectives of the CEIP are to encourage the development of social economy enterprises, to contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories as well as to promote the preservation and enhancement of the environment.
