Quebec - The Minister of Justice, Attorney General and Minister responsible for the fight against homophobia, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, took advantage last Saturday of his visit to the Gala Arc-en-ciel 2013 of the Quebec LGBT Council to officially launch the 2013-2014 call for projects of the Fight against homophobia program.
“Fighting against all forms of homophobia is a priority for the Government of Quebec. This commitment was notably reflected in the establishment of this program aimed at supporting community-based projects that help combat homophobic attitudes and behavior and promote the full recognition of persons from sexual minorities, ”declared the Minister. Bertrand St-Arnaud.
This year, financial assistance will be granted to carry out projects aimed at countering homophobic and transphobic violence and intimidation in all their forms. It will also support the holding of cultural activities that significantly contribute to the fight against homophobia. An amount of $ 331,195 is allocated to all of these new projects. Proposals are expected no later than December 13, 2013.
For organizations wishing to submit an application, a complete information guide on the Fight against homophobia program is available on the website of the Ministère de la Justice: www.justice.gouv.qc.ca/homophobie.
“The contribution of LGBT [lesbians, gays and bisexual, transsexual and transgender people] community organizations is important in all aspects of the fight against homophobia. This significant support of $ 330,000 from the Government of Quebec will make it possible to strengthen the interventions of these organizations on the ground on a daily basis and to take a further step in this quest to build a Quebec open to difference, a Quebec for all ”, concluded Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud.
It should be remembered that, over the past year, the government&#39;s commitment to the fight against homophobia has notably resulted in an increase in financial support of more than $ 600,000 to some twenty organizations promoting and promoting. defense of the rights of persons of sexual minorities; through a national media awareness campaign; and by the tabling, last April, of Bill 35, An Act to amend the Civil Code in matters of civil status, inheritance and publication of rights, which proposes to remove certain obstacles which transsexual and transgender people must face. face within the government apparatus.
