Saint-Prime– The Member for Roberval and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Forests section), Mr. Denis Trottier, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, takes advantage of the end of the work to announce the maximum government financial assistance of $ 541,200 granted to the Municipality of Saint-Prime for the replacement of water pipes in the municipality. This assistance was granted under the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
More specifically, the project targeted work to replace drinking water and wastewater pipes under some segments of rue Principale. At the end of this work, water pipes covering nearly half a kilometer of street were renewed in the Municipality of Saint-Prime.
“I am very happy to participate today in this event marking the end of the work, which was carried out thanks to the financial support granted to the Municipality of Saint-Prime. Our government recognizes the need to renew and replace drinking water, wastewater and storm sewer infrastructure in communities across Quebec. This is why, in partnership with the municipalities, we want to ensure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services for current and future generations, ”said MP Denis Trottier.
“Every Quebecer must be able to benefit from access to quality public services. That is why our government is committed to providing municipalities with the support they need to renew and develop their infrastructure, ”Minister Sylvain Gaudreault said.
Completion of this project required maximum government financial assistance of $ 541,200 under component 1.5 of the PIQM. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this component of the PIQM program not only ensures the sustainability of infrastructure, but also improves the quality of life of the population and creates many jobs in all areas. regions of Quebec.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
