Sainte-Anne-des-Plaines– The member for Labelle, government official for the Laurentides region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, is pleased to announce today, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of territory, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the realization of a RECIM project in the Laurentians region. Thus, the City of Sainte-Anne-des-Plaines will receive government assistance for the construction of a new fire station. This assistance will be granted under new sub-component 5.1 of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM), which is devoted only to municipal or community infrastructure projects.
“I am very proud to announce today the government&#39;s participation in the implementation of this important municipal infrastructure project in the Laurentides region. The future fire station at http://www.infrastructures.gouv.qc.ca/plan-infrastructure/index.aspp will allow the city to ensure the safety of its employees and its citizens, in addition to meeting the requirements more adequately. of the fire department, in the best interest of the population, ”said MP Sylvain Pagé.
The current fire station is very overcrowded due to the small size of the premises and no longer meets the requirements in terms of health and safety at work, given the non-regulatory clearances. Thus, the Sainte-Anne-des-Plaines project consists of building a new fire station on new land belonging to the City. The future barracks will be able to accommodate inside all emergency vehicles including the future tanker for interventions outside the urban area as well as the facilities required for staff training. Ultimately, this project will benefit a population of some 14,790 inhabitants.
Under the rules and standards in force in sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM, financial assistance for the implementation of the project from the City of Sainte-Anne-des-Plaines is assessed at 55% of the amount of eligible costs.
With a budget of nearly $ 60 million over five years, sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM allows Quebec municipalities to carry out construction projects, upgrading, rehabilitation or repair of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offer and the quality of life of citizens in addition to compensating for the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
“We are obviously very happy with this financial support from the Quebec government, which will allow us to meet our obligations with respect to the new fire risk coverage plan. This announcement allows us to tap less into the pockets of our citizens who are already in great demand, ”added the mayor of Sainte-Anne-des-Plaines, Mr. Guy Charbonneau.
