Sept-Îles– The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy and Minister of Transport, Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, are pleased to &#39;&#39; announce that the Côte-Nord region will benefit from government financial assistance estimated at nearly $ 85 million for the implementation of twelve priority municipal projects within the framework of northern development. This assistance, which comes from Part 4 of the Quebec Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM), was announced at a press conference in the presence of the MP for Duplessis, Lorraine Richard.
“Our government is committed to supporting concrete initiatives to promote the exploitation and enhancement of our natural resources, in the best interests of Quebec, its municipalities and its population. In this regard, the coming years will be full of challenges and I have no doubt that the government and the municipalities will be able to combine their efforts to meet them advantageously, for the well-being of our fellow citizens, ”said the Premier. .
The municipalities of Fermont, Port-Cartier, Schefferville, Havre-Saint-Pierre and Sept-Îles are targeted by the implementation of these new projects which meet the objectives of northern development, such as the development of potential energy, mining, forestry, bio-food and tourism. This public investment will allow municipalities to replace, maintain, bring up to standards and develop their drinking water and wastewater infrastructures, including local roads, in addition to modernizing infrastructures that allow the development of the Côte- North.
“Northern development puts strong pressure on their infrastructure for the municipalities in this area, particularly because of the arrival of new residents and industrial business opportunities. In addition to creating several jobs in the region, the selected projects will help improve the living conditions of communities and protect the environment, ”added Minister Gaudreault.
Component 4 of the PIQM includes an overall envelope of $ 200 million intended for eligible municipalities wishing to carry out infrastructure projects generated by northern deployment. It provides financial support to municipalities in carrying out construction, repair or expansion of infrastructure.
The Côte-Nord regional government coordination office will be present to allow local communities to benefit from government expertise to establish priority needs. He will be the privileged regional interlocutor in matters of consultation and coordination.
“We want to develop the North responsibly to ensure the well-being and development of communities. We believe that the establishment and modernization of infrastructures are essential to improve the quality of life of the communities of the North Shore. This financial assistance is concrete testimony to our government&#39;s desire to identify the most advantageous solutions to increase the accessibility of infrastructure, while respecting local communities and the environment, ”concluded Minister Ouellet.
The Northern Development Secretariat, for its part, will support northern communities by supporting the government in the application of its strategies and policies in northern areas. In particular, it will be responsible for ensuring that all the resources, both private and public, made available to the northern territory are optimized with a view to facilitating harmonious, ethical development that respects the populations.
