Chesterville - The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert , take advantage of the inauguration of the Parc des Aînés to announce financial assistance of $ 69,680, granted as part of the 2011-2012 call for projects to the Municipality of Chesterville, in the Center-du-Québec region. This financial assistance, which will be used for the redevelopment of municipal land used by seniors, comes from the Quebec-Municipalities-Municipality, senior-friendly infrastructure program (PIQM-MADA).
Thanks to the Quebec-Municipalities-Age-friendly Municipality infrastructure program, municipalities involved in the ADM process have access to funds to support them in carrying out small infrastructure projects that meet the needs of seniors.
“I would like to salute the completion of this project for seniors in Chesterville. Seniors will now be able to take full advantage of this common place and practice their activities in complete safety. I am also proud of our government&#39;s commitment to this great initiative put forward a few years ago and for which the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupation, for which I am responsible, is associate. Improving the living conditions of our seniors means contributing to their development as individuals in the community. It means assuming together a responsibility that challenges us all in order to make Quebec a place where it is good to age, ”said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
“This project, like many others that are emerging in all regions of Quebec, confirms the priority that our government gives to the quality of life of seniors. I would like to salute the initiative of the Municipality of Chesterville and the efforts made by those responsible for the realization of this project, which henceforth allows seniors to enjoy safe access to improved municipal land and an entertaining and recreational place. stimulating, ”added Minister Hébert.
Basically, the project consists of carrying out the work required to redevelop the municipal land and allow the elderly to access it safely. The main works include, in particular, the development of pedestrian paths and a central square with benches, the addition of street furniture, a gazebo and a lamppost, the repair of the pétanque field and the parking lot, landscaping of the land, as well as various additional works. These interventions and additions will promote optimal operation while allowing everyone to benefit from the improved municipal land.
The PIQM-MADA has an annual envelope of $ 3 million from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, reserved for the financing of infrastructure meeting the needs of seniors. For the first two years of the program, nearly 90 projects from across Quebec benefit from this envelope accessible to municipalities involved in the Age-friendly Municipality initiative. These investments are part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. The PIQM-MADA program is also an action included in the policy of Aging and living together, at home, in one&#39;s community, in Quebec.
Today, with the support of 579 municipalities or MRCs, the MADA process was implemented in Quebec by the Secrétariat aux abîmes in 2008 and continues under the responsibility of the minister responsible for seniors and the minister of health and social services. This approach is inspired by an approach developed by the World Health Organization (WHO), and the model it proposes was designed to allow citizens to age while remaining active in their communities. The collaboration of the entire community is one of the winning conditions of the process, but it could not be fully successful without the participation of the seniors themselves and that of the local organizations that represent them. Quebec is considered by the WHO as the most advanced society in the world in the application of this approach based on the adaptation of municipal policies and services to the aging of the population.
