Saint-Hyacinthe– The MNA for Saint-Hyacinthe, Mr. Émilien Pelletier, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and MNA for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, confirms that the Société d Agriculture de Saint-Hyacinthe will receive financial assistance of $ 1.5 million for the construction of a new exhibition pavilion. This assistance comes from the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
The project of the Société d&#39;Agriculture de Saint-Hyacinthe consists of building a large exhibition pavilion of approximately 28,000 square feet on land located on Beauparlant Street in Saint-Hyacinthe and already belonging to the organization. The work consists of setting up a large exhibition hall which will occupy most of the ground floor. At the front of the pavilion, there will be an entrance hall, cloakroom, ticket office, office and bleachers. Other arrangements will be made upstairs, including an entrance hall with cloakrooms, meeting rooms, a kitchen with bar and storage spaces for the organization of seminars and conferences.
“I am very pleased with the support our government has given to the Société d&#39;Agriculture de Saint-Hyacinthe. This aid will make it possible to fill a lack of spaces for organizers of exhibitions and trade fairs in the agricultural, agrifood and bio-food sectors. These future infrastructures will also be used by Expo agricole de Saint-Hyacinthe for its various activities and by organizations and institutions that request them. In addition, the Société d&#39;Agriculture de Saint-Hyacinthe will house in the lobby of the new pavilion the Quebec Agriculture Hall of Fame, which has honored, for more than 20 years, people whose contribution to Quebec agriculture has been remarkable ”, said deputy Émilien Pelletier.
“My government is proud to contribute to the development of the Société d&#39;Agriculture de Saint-Hyacinthe project. The addition of a new pavilion will increase traffic by some 25,000 visitors annually, the creation of new direct and indirect jobs as well as a synergy between business people, the cultural community and the agrifood. Ultimately, this new infrastructure will contribute to the expansion of the Société d&#39;Agriculture de Saint-Hyacinthe, in particular through the creation of major events on agriculture and agri-food, in addition to supporting economic and tourism development. of the region, ”said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
Note that the Société d&#39;Agriculture de Saint-Hyacinthe is a non-profit organization that has existed since 1936 and whose primary mission is to promote agriculture on its territory. Its main activities consist in particular of promoting the marketing and technological exchanges of agrifood products, encouraging the improvement of agriculture in all its forms and making the urban environment aware of the experience and reality of agricultural producers.
Completion of this entire project requires a total eligible investment of $ 3M, under the PIQM, which is assumed by the Government of Quebec for an amount of $ 1.5M, and by the Société d&#39;Agriculture de Saint-Hyacinthe to the tune of $ 1.5 million.
The Government of Quebec&#39;s contribution to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
