Vallée-Jonction - The Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions and Member of Parliament for Taschereau, Ms. Agnès Maltais, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce that the Municipality of Vallée-Jonction will receive a financial contribution of $ 653,250 for the replacement of drinking water and sewer pipes. This assistance is granted under the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
More specifically, the project targets work to replace drinking water pipes and sewers under Giguère and Turcotte streets. At the end of this work, water pipes over 445 meters will be renewed.
“I am very happy with the financial support granted to the Municipality of Vallée-Jonction. Our government recognizes the need to renew and develop drinking water, wastewater and stormwater infrastructure in communities across Quebec. This is why, in partnership with the municipalities, we want to ensure that citizens benefit from quality sustainable public services for current and future generations, ”said Minister Maltais.
Completion of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 653,250, under component 1.5 of the PIQM. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this new component of the PIQM program not only ensures the sustainability of infrastructure, but also improves the quality of life of the population and creates many jobs overall. regions of Quebec.
About the Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) The support of the Government of Quebec for this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public in April 2013. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will result in, ultimately, investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the costs associated with them and thus to make informed choices.
