Saint-Roch-des-Aulnaies– The Member for Taschereau, Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions , Mrs. Agnès Maltais, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the Parish of Saint-Roch-des -Aulnaies will benefit from government financial assistance of more than $ 13.6 million for the realization of major water infrastructure works in the urbanized sector. This assistance comes from the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
“I am very happy with the financial assistance announced today in Saint-Roch-des-Aulnaies, which demonstrates our government&#39;s desire to provide the population with quality infrastructure for all. Ultimately, this project will guarantee an essential service to citizens, who will be able to benefit from infrastructures that meet the standards in force. Thus, this achievement will contribute to better protection of the environment, with a view to sustainable development, ”declared Minister Maltais.
Overall, this project provides for the establishment of drinking water distribution and wastewater collection networks combined with the construction of a wastewater treatment plant in the urbanized sector of Saint-Roch-des-Aulnaies. Concretely, the planned works aim, in particular, to install drinking water distribution pipes to supply water to users of the sector, to install a domestic sewer network for collection and interception. wastewater including pumping stations and delivery pipes.
The project also requires the construction of an aerated pond-type purification station for the treatment of wastewater comprising a service building, mechanical equipment, a gravity outfall discharging into the river as well as various additional works. These interventions will allow the municipality to reduce the quantity and improve the quality of wastewater discharges into the environment and thus comply with the environmental requirements of the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks ( MDDEFP). About 385 people will benefit from this work.
This project is based on a maximum eligible cost established at $ 14,327,616, under section 1.4 of the PIQM. The government of Quebec is contributing $ 13,611,235 to the project, while the municipality of Saint-Roch-des-Aulnaies is investing $ 716,381.
This government assistance is part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan.
For his part, the mayor of Saint-Roch des Aulnaies, Mr. Michel Castonguay, is delighted with the support of the Government of Quebec for the realization of this project, which will enhance essential services to the community.
