Gracefield– The Minister of Public Security, Minister responsible for the Outaouais region and Member of Parliament for Verchères, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy , Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the realization of two RECIM projects in the Outaouais region. Thus, the Municipality of Denholm will receive government assistance for the reconstruction of the community hall, while the Municipality of Cayamant will also receive assistance for the construction of a fire station. This assistance will be granted under the new sub-component 5.1 of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM), which is devoted only to municipal or community infrastructure projects.
“I am proud to announce today the government&#39;s participation in the implementation of these two major municipal infrastructure projects in the Outaouais region. The reconstruction of the community hall in Denholm will help improve the service offer and, consequently, the quality of life of the citizens of this community. In addition, the future fire station in Cayamant will allow the municipality to ensure the health, safety and efficiency of its employees, in addition to responding more adequately to the requirements of the fire service, in the best possible way. interest of the population over which it watches, ”declared Minister Stéphane Bergeron.
The project of the Municipality of Denholm aims to rebuild the community hall destroyed following a fire in 2010. The new hall will include, in particular, an office for organizations, a meeting room, a community kitchen as well as a computer room. These interventions will benefit approximately 580 people.
Under the rules and standards in force in sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM, financial assistance for the realization of the project from the Municipality of Denholm is assessed at 75% of the amount of eligible costs.
As for the project of the Municipality of Cayamant, it consists of the expansion of the municipal garage in order to integrate an independent fire station in accordance with the standards in force. Ultimately, this project will benefit 875 people.
Under the current rules and standards of sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM, financial assistance for the implementation of the project from the Municipality of Cayamant is assessed at 65% of the amount of eligible costs.
With a budget of nearly $ 60 million over five years, sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM allows Quebec municipalities to carry out construction projects, upgrading, rehabilitation or repair of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offer and the quality of life of citizens in addition to compensating for the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
