Saint-Pierre-de-Broughton– The MNA for Taschereau, Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions, Mrs. Agnès Maltais, is happy to &#39;&#39; announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the Municipality of Saint-Pierre-de-Broughton will benefit from financial assistance government grant of $ 10 million to carry out major water infrastructure works in the urbanized sector. This assistance comes from the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
“Our government wants to provide the population with quality infrastructure for all. That is why I am happy with the financial assistance announced today in Saint-Pierre-de-Broughton. Ultimately, this project will guarantee an essential service to citizens, who will be able to benefit from infrastructures that meet current standards and also promote good health and well-being, in addition to improving the quality of public services offered to them. the community, ”said Minister Maltais.
Overall, the project provides for the upgrading of drinking water installations and the establishment of the drinking water distribution network and the wastewater collection network, combined with the construction of a wastewater treatment plant. of wastewater in the urbanized sector of Saint-Pierre-de-Broughton.
More specifically, the project includes the addition of new collection structures, the installation of a filtration system as well as the equipment required to ensure disinfection by ultraviolet and sodium hypochlorite (chlorine), installation of a drinking water tank and a pumping station. The project also provides for the construction of a wastewater treatment plant and its outfall, the addition of the mechanical equipment required for dephosphatation as well as various additional works.
These interventions will allow the municipality to distribute better quality drinking water and reduce the quantity and improve the quality of wastewater discharges into the environment in order to meet the environmental requirements of the Ministry of Sustainable Development, &#39;Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP). All of this work will benefit around 300 people in the urban sector.
This project is based on a maximum eligible cost established at $ 9,998,789, under section 1.4 of the PIQM. The Government of Quebec is contributing $ 9,498,850 to this project, while the Municipality of Saint-Pierre-de-Broughton is investing $ 499,939.
The Government of Quebec&#39;s contribution to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
For her part, the mayor of Saint-Pierre-de-Broughton, Ms. Nicole Bourque, is delighted with the support of the Government of Quebec for the realization of this project, which will enhance essential services to the community.
