Gatineau– The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Public Security and Minister responsible for the Outaouais region, Stéphane Bergeron, is pleased to confirm the construction of a multifunctional sports and cultural center in Gatineau.
“We have been talking about this great unifying project for a long time, which will allow the city of Gatineau to position itself in the major event markets. The work of this large-scale project will begin quickly so that the population of Gatineau can finally benefit from a modern and quality multifunctional sports and cultural center, at the height of one of the largest cities in Quebec ”, declared the Prime Minister.
Estimated at nearly $ 60 million, the project consists of the construction of a multifunctional sports and cultural complex of approximately 14,000 m2, comprising approximately 4,400 seats and 40 boxes for companies. The complex will include an ice rink, administrative offices, players&#39; rooms, a ticket office, a mechanical room and a press gallery.
In addition to meeting the needs of the region&#39;s population and young athletes, this modern sports infrastructure will meet the high demands of the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League. The Gatineau Olympiques team will therefore benefit from a residence worthy of the name to play all of its local matches.
The total assistance of $ 26.5 million granted by the Government of Quebec comes from sub-component 2.1 of the PIQM, which aims to allow municipalities to carry out projects that have an impact on the economic development or the quality of life of the communities. . This financial assistance is part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, which provides for nearly $ 44.18 billion for the 2011-2016 period.
“I am delighted with the confirmation of this financial assistance which will allow the construction of a multifunctional center in Gatineau. Such an investment will generate significant economic benefits on the territory of the city and in the surrounding area. The project will also have a positive impact on the creation or maintenance of jobs, in addition to contributing to the influence of the city through the holding of major cultural and sporting events. The entire Outaouais region will therefore benefit from the new amphitheater, ”concluded Minister Bergeron.
