Rivière-du-Loup– The Minister for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Matane-Matapédia, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, the Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the granting of government assistance of $ 76,592 to renovate the building housing the Coopérative de gestion en commun du Vieux-Manège à Rivière- the wolf&#39;s.
“I am very pleased with the support from the Government of Quebec for the renovation of the building housing the Vieux-Manège Joint Management Cooperative, which has assumed a social and community vocation in the region for more than 10 years. The Cooperative&#39;s project is in line with the priorities of the community and the objectives of the City of Rivière-du-Loup, in particular that of ensuring full citizen participation for all. A place of animation and reference in the community domain, the Cooperative has an extremely significant impact on the territory. The planned improvements to its building will allow its tenants to continue their activities in safer premises, ”said Minister Pascal Bérubé.
More specifically, the project of the Coopérative de gestion en commun du Vieux-Manège aims to carry out major renovations to the old armory, including repairing the roof, changing the windows and the door. as well as masonry and sanding work. It should be noted that many of these works have become essential due to water infiltration into the building.
Carrying out the restoration work requires a total investment estimated at $ 95,740. The Government of Quebec will provide a maximum amount of $ 47,870 under CEIP, as well as a contribution of $ 28,722 from the DCF. The Coopérative de gestion en commun du Vieux-Manège is also contributing $ 19,148 to this project.
Located in Rivière-du-Loup in a former armory dating from 1910, the Vieux-Manège joint management cooperative, established in 1992, is recognized as a social economy enterprise by the Regional Social Economy Center and the Center local development (CLD) of the Rivière-du-Loup region. Its mission is to bring together community organizations in order to promote a better exchange of information, the sharing of equipment and access to premises at lower costs.
It should be noted that the cooperative, as a community center, is an integral part of the life of the community and of several partners, among others, the Center de santé et des services sociaux (CSSS), Tourisme Rivière-du-Loup and the Chambre de trade of business people.
For her part, the president of the Coopérative de gestion en commun du Vieux-Manège, Ms. Cyd Lamirande, is very pleased with the support of the Government of Quebec for this project, which will allow the Cooperative to continue its activities with community organizations in the MRC de Rivière-du-Loup.
With an investment envelope of $ 10 million, the PIEC aims to support social economy enterprises in the implementation of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition projects for commercial or commercial infrastructure. industrial. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, to contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories and to promote the preservation and enhancement of the quality of the environment.
It should be noted that the FCD aims to support initiatives that contribute in particular to economic, social, cultural, tourist, environmental and technological development. These initiatives may also aim to promote the occupation and revitalization of the various territories of Quebec.
