Quebec– Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, Minister responsible for Government Administration, President of the Treasury Board, Minister responsible for the region of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean and Member of Parliament for Chicoutimi, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, and the Minister the Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Minister responsible for the Nord-du-Québec region and Member of Parliament for Lac-Saint-Jean, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, are pleased to announce that the village of Hébertville-Station will benefit from government assistance for the reconstruction of the town hall. This assistance is granted under the new sub-component 5.1 of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM), which is devoted to municipal and community infrastructure projects.
“I am very happy with my government&#39;s decision to support this infrastructure project in the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region. The future public services building in the village of Hébertville-Station, eagerly awaited by the community and municipal authorities, will meet the needs expressed by the community. This new infrastructure will once again make it possible to offer quality services to citizens in addition to providing employees with a safe work environment, ”said Minister Alexandre Cloutier.
“Our government has chosen to give priority to projects that stem from a major problem whose urgency could be demonstrated. I am very happy with the financial assistance granted for the reconstruction of the town hall in the village of Hébertville-Station. The realization of this project will allow the municipality to provide quality services to all citizens, ”said Minister Stéphane Bédard.
“The selection of projects for this second phase of RECIM project approval perfectly reflects my government&#39;s desire to put integrity at the heart of its decisions. The projects chosen respect the standards in force and take into account the objectives of occupation and the vitality of the territories for the benefit of all Quebecers ”, indicated Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
Under the rules and standards in force in sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM, financial assistance for carrying out the Hébertville-Station project is assessed at 65% of the amount of eligible costs.
With a budget of nearly $ 60 million over five years, sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM allows municipalities in Quebec to carry out construction projects, upgrading, rehabilitation or repair of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offer and the quality of life of citizens in addition to compensating for the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
