Quebec - The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, announces that an agreement has been reached which allows for the extension of the Animal Health Improvement Program in Quebec for a period of time. three years, from April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2016. In 2013-2014, an amount of $ 15.1 million will be devoted to this.
“My government is very proud to make a concrete contribution to the protection of animal and public health and to ensure the delivery of veterinary services in all regions of Quebec. This is directly linked to one of our priorities, ”said François Gendron. It should be noted that these services are provided by 460 veterinarians, for the benefit of more than 12,000 agricultural producers in Quebec.
The new agreement provides that the Ministère de l&#39;Agriculture, des Pêcheries et de l&#39;Alimentation (MAPAQ) will commit, in support of the Quebec Animal Health and Welfare Strategy, one million dollars over the next three years. to facilitate the collection of data related to the use of veterinary drugs, through electronic transfer, and for the implementation of new surveillance activities.
Specific measures, aimed in particular at providing support for the next generation in remote regions, are allocated a budget of $ 2.4 million for the three years of the agreement. Also, $ 1.84 million will be devoted to covering part of the complex veterinary care directed to the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine of the University of Montreal. This sum will thus help to support teaching activities.
The Union des producteurs agricoles, the Association of Veterinary Practitioners of Quebec and the Veterinary Drugs Distribution Center are MAPAQ&#39;s partners in this agreement. Remember that the Animal Health Improvement Program in Quebec reimburses part of the cost of veterinary services, of a preventive or curative nature, which are given on the farm, excluding embryo transfer. This program has been in existence since 1971 and its purpose is to promote animal health and ensure access for agricultural producers in all regions of Quebec to quality veterinary care.
