Amqui- The Minister for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Matane-Matapédia, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transports and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, today announced financial assistance of $ 50,000 to the Revermont Golf Club for the expansion and interior redevelopment of the Club&#39;s main chalet. This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship Infrastructure Program (PIEC).
&quot;I am very pleased with the investment announced today for the expansion and interior redevelopment of the main chalet at Club de golf Revermont, which will meet the needs not only of the people who benefit directly from it, but also to the whole. the community of the Matapedia region, which will be able to benefit from these renovated infrastructures, ”declared Minister Pascal Bérubé.
More specifically, the project consists of enlarging the main chalet and redeveloping the reception hall in order to accommodate larger groups, thus increasing the reception capacity from 150 to 190 places. Also, upgrading and renovation work will be carried out, in particular at the various service areas, including the kitchen and cold rooms.
Completion of this project requires a total investment estimated at $ 400,000. The Government of Quebec, within the framework of the CEIP, contributes a maximum amount of $ 50,000. Other partners are also participating in the project, notably the Social Economy Worksite Trust, Canada Economic Development and the Matapedia Local Development Center (CLD).
Recognized by the Bas-Saint-Laurent Regional Social Economy Pole as a social economy enterprise, the Revermont Golf Club has 250 members and employs more than 30 full-time people during the season. The organization can also count on the support of some fifteen volunteers. Through its activities, the Club contributes to the socioeconomic vitality of the region.
For his part, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Revermont Golf Club, Mr. Claude Jacques, said he was very happy with the support of the Government of Quebec, which will allow the organization to carry out its expansion project and modernization in order to better serve its customers and the community.
Remember that the CEIP has a budget of $ 10 million. It aims to support social economy enterprises in the implementation of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition projects for commercial or industrial infrastructure. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, to contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories as well as to promote the preservation and enhancement of the environment.
