Chambly– The Minister of Justice and Member of Parliament for Chambly, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, is proud to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the City of Chambly will benefit from maximum government financial assistance of $ 703,200 for the replacement of drinking water, wastewater and stormwater pipes in the city. This assistance comes from the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
More specifically, the project aims to replace drinking water and wastewater pipes and add a stormwater pipe under Saint-Georges and Galipeau streets. At the end of this work, nearly 450 meters of water pipes will be renewed in Chambly.
“Every Quebecer must be able to benefit from access to quality public services. Our government&#39;s commitment is to provide municipalities with the support they need to move forward with their drinking water, wastewater and storm sewer infrastructure projects. Thus, the assistance granted to the City of Chambly will make it possible to guarantee essential services to citizens, in addition to providing this city with infrastructures meeting the standards in force and improving the quality of public services, ”declared the Member for Chambly. and Minister of Justice, Bertrand St-Arnaud.
Completion of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 703,200 under component 1.5 of the PIQM. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this component of the PIQM program not only ensures the sustainability of infrastructure, but also improves the quality of life of the population and creates many jobs in all areas. regions of Quebec.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
