Quebec– The parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (wildlife and parks component) and Member of Parliament for Bonaventure, Mr. Sylvain Roy, today announced that the Municipal Office of habitation de Saint-François-d&#39;Assise received confirmation from the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ) that 8 community housing units were reserved for it for the realization of a project submitted as part of the AccèsLogis Québec program.
This announcement is an important step for this organization, which is now invited to submit to the SHQ the documents necessary for the further analysis of its request for financial assistance.
“This announcement is excellent news for our region, which faces many challenges in terms of land use and sustainable development. This is why our government encourages local initiatives like this one in order to improve the housing conditions of citizens and thus ensure that they enjoy a better quality of life. Community housing projects help develop stimulating, safe and enriching living environments that will benefit current and future generations, ”said MP Sylvain Roy.
The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Sylvain Gaudreault, added his voice to that of his colleague to specify that &quot;the investments of the Government of Quebec for creating affordable housing is part of a vast plan based on social solidarity and which aims to ensure that every Quebecer has access to decent living conditions and can play an active role in society ”. He added that it was &quot;important to continue interventions in housing, since they represent an excellent way to fight poverty and promote greater equality between citizens&quot;.
Since the implementation of the SHQ&#39;s AccèsLogis Québec and Affordable Housing Québec programs, 644 community housing units have been built or are in the process of being built in the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, which represents investments totaling more than $ 80 million.
Remember that in its most recent budget, the Government of Quebec announced an envelope of $ 231 million for the construction of 3,000 housing units.
The SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Each year, thanks to its programs and its many partners, it helps more than 230,000 Quebec households. For more information on its programs and services, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca.
