Deux-Montagnes– The MNA for Deux-Montagnes, Mr. Daniel Goyer, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and MNA for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault , that the City of Deux-Montagnes will benefit from maximum government financial assistance of $ 2,667,600 for the rehabilitation of several drinking water and wastewater pipes in the city. This assistance is granted under the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
More specifically, the project targets work for the trenchless rehabilitation of drinking water pipes under Gagnon, Henri-Dunant and Sunny Side streets as well as under the 3rd, 5th, 7th, 9th, 10th, 11th and 19th streets. It also provides for the trenchless rehabilitation of drinking water and wastewater pipes under 12th Avenue. At the end of this work, water pipes on more than 5.2 kilometers of streets will be renewed in the City of Deux-Montagnes.
“I am very happy with the financial support granted today to the City of Deux-Montagnes. Our government recognizes the need to renew and replace drinking water, wastewater and storm sewer infrastructure in communities across Quebec. This is why, in partnership with the municipalities, we want to ensure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services for current generations and those to come, ”said MP Daniel Goyer.
“Every Quebecer must be able to benefit from access to quality public services. That is why my government is committed to providing municipalities with the support they need to renew and develop their infrastructure, ”Minister Sylvain Gaudreault said.
Completion of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 2,667,600 under component 1.5 of the PIQM. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this component of the PIQM program not only ensures the sustainability of infrastructure, but also improves the quality of life of the population and creates many jobs in all areas. regions of Quebec.
“In recent years, the City of Deux-Montagnes has been investing major sums in the maintenance and rehabilitation of its infrastructures, whether for their updating or to comply with the various standards in force. In 2013, we will rehabilitate aqueducts on 14 streets, for a total of 5.2 km of pipes, which represents 7% of our entire network. This work is essential because it will extend the useful life of drinking water pipes, eliminate water leaks and improve water quality. We are very happy to be able to count on the government&#39;s financial assistance in carrying out this major work, ”said the mayor of Deux-Montagnes, Mr. Marc Lauzon.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
