Laval– The member for Laval-des-Rapides, Mr. Léo Bureau-Blouin, is proud to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne , that a project was selected in the Montreal metropolitan area as part of the Universities-Colleges Bridging Program and will receive grants totaling $ 370,000.
“This project will provide educational support to teachers who have to deal with a diverse student body. I find the idea of universal design for learning very interesting. Education, this gateway to a better quality of life, must be accessible by all means. Here, we have proof of the vitality of our higher education establishments ”, declared Mr. Bureau-Blouin.
Led by the Research Center for the Academic and Professional Inclusion of Students with Disabilities (CRISPESH) of the Cégep du Vieux Montréal with the collaboration of Cégep Marie-Victorin, Collège Montmorency, the University of Montreal and the Université du Québec à Montréal, this project aims to develop educational applications that will meet the needs of students with disabilities as well as all students attending the same class. These proposals for teaching solutions designed according to the AUC will focus on course planning rather than on meeting individual needs.
Today&#39;s announcement, which represents grants totaling $ 370,000, is part of the overall sum of $ 5 million announced by Minister Duchesnele last September 5. The sums granted will enable 12 universities and 26 colleges to carry out 16 projects in partnership, in particular promoting the development of educational tools, the sharing of expertise and research.
Thanks to the results obtained in the past and given the importance of strengthening collaboration between higher education institutions, the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, and Minister Duchesne announced, on the occasion of the Summit on Higher Education , that the new program called the University-College Linkage Program will henceforth benefit from a budget of $ 15 million in 2014-2015. While the objective of increasing synergy between universities and public or private colleges remains the same, new orientations have been added to the program, including DEC-BAC agreements, integrated programs and cooperative studies, which will henceforth make it part.
“The links between universities and colleges generate greater synergy from which the communities can benefit because of the complementary expertise of these two levels of education. That is why we decided at the Higher Education Summit to triple the envelope for this program. This better cooperation between college and university research groups will facilitate the advancement and transfer of knowledge, ”Minister Duchesne said.
Through its policies and actions, the Ministry supports the development of higher education, research, science and technology, in particular by promoting the coordination and consultation of the various actors working in these areas of expertise. It also encourages an increase in the level of education of Quebecers and facilitates access to the highest forms of knowledge and culture, among other things through programs relating to financial aid for studies. Finally, the Department supports and promotes the advancement of research, science, innovation and technology in academic, industrial and social circles, with a view to sustainable development.
For more information on the Department&#39;s programs and services, visit www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca.
