Sainte-Luce– The Minister for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Matane-Matapédia, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the municipalities of Sainte-Luce and Sainte-Flavie will benefit from government financial assistance for the replacement of drinking water and water pipes worn. Thus, the Municipality of Sainte-Luce will benefit from a total financial assistance of $ 1,757,455, while the Municipality of Sainte-Flavie will obtain financial assistance of $ 310,950. These contributions come from the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
“I am very happy with the financial support granted today to the municipalities of Sainte-Luce and Sainte-Flavie. Our government recognizes the need to renew drinking water, wastewater and storm sewer infrastructure in communities across Quebec. This is why, in partnership with the municipalities, we want to ensure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services for current and future generations, ”said Minister Pascal Bérubé.
The project aims to replace drinking water and wastewater pipes under several segments of Route 132 West and Saint-Alphonse, Saint-Michel, des Érables and Saint-Antoine streets. There will also be sewer separation under some of these segments by adding storm sewer lines. At the end of this work, drinking water and wastewater pipes will be replaced on nearly three kilometers of streets in Sainte-Luce.
Completion of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 1,757,455 under component 1.5 of the PIQM.
As for the project of the Municipality of Sainte-Flavie, it consists of replacing drinking water pipes under several segments of the airport road. At the end of this work, water pipes over more than half a kilometer will be renewed in Sainte-Flavie.
Completion of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 310,950 under component 1.5 of the PIQM.
With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this new component of the PIQM program not only ensures the sustainability of infrastructure, but also improves the quality of life of the population and creates many jobs overall. regions of Quebec.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
