Quebec - The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Minister responsible for the region of Montérégie and Member of Parliament for Taillon, Mrs. Marie Malavoy, as well as the Minister of Justice and Member of Parliament for Chambly, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, are pleased to announce that the City of Carignan will benefit from government assistance for the establishment of fire station. This assistance is granted under the new sub-component 5.1 of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM), which is devoted to municipal and community infrastructure projects.
“I am very happy to announce today the government&#39;s participation in the implementation of this important municipal infrastructure project in the Montérégie region. The establishment of a fire station in Carignan will allow the municipality to ensure the safety of its citizens, in addition to adequately meeting the requirements of the fire service, and this, in the best interest of the population ”, declared Minister Marie Malavoy.
“Our government has chosen to give priority to projects that stem from a major problem whose urgency could be demonstrated. I am very happy with the financial assistance granted for the establishment of a fire station in Carignan. The realization of this project will allow the municipality to ensure the safety of the population, in a perspective of sustainable development ”, underlined Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud.
“The selection of projects for this second phase of RECIM project approval perfectly reflects my government&#39;s desire to put integrity at the heart of its decisions. The projects chosen respect the standards in force and take into account the objectives of occupation and the vitality of the territories for the benefit of all Quebecers ”, indicated Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
Under the rules and standards in force under sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM, financial assistance for the implementation of the project from the City of Carignan is assessed at 55% of the amount of eligible costs.
With a budget of nearly $ 60 million over five years, sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM allows municipalities in Quebec to carry out construction projects, upgrading, rehabilitation or repair of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offer and the quality of life of citizens in addition to compensating for the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
