** Sainte-Anne-de-la-Pérade- The MNA for Champlain, Noëlla Champagne, today announced the granting of financial assistance of $ 156,800 to support the realization of a promising project in the region of the Mauricie. She made the announcement on behalf of the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert. Spread over a period of one to three years, these projects benefit from this support within the framework of the Support for community actions component of the new Quebec, age-friendly program.
“Our government has the firm desire to adapt Quebec to the aging of the population, and these projects are making a major contribution to this. Through the Support for Community Actions component, we help seniors stay longer at home, in their community, by adapting their living environments to their realities. We also promote their active participation in Quebec society by helping to make their environments healthier, safer and more welcoming, ”declared MP Noëlla Champagne.
With a global envelope of $ 60 million spread over five years, the Support for Community Actions component of the Age-Friendly Quebec program aims to support the implementation of concrete local or regional projects that are supported by the community, and in which people elders are involved. The financial assistance announced today has been granted to the AQDR des Chenaux for its living environment project for small private residences for seniors.
“Since they help to better integrate seniors into social and community life, these projects benefit not only seniors, but the community as a whole. I encourage all regional and local organizations to continue their efforts in this direction, and even to accentuate them, because this is how we will succeed, together, in building a Quebec for all, and consequently, a Quebec that is friend of the elderly. ”, Concluded the member for Champlain.
It should be remembered that in 2012-2013, a total amount of $ 7,669,112 was granted under the Québec friend of seniors program: $ 2,999,679 through the Support for national projects and experimentation component for completion of 13 projects, and $ 4,669,433 through the Support for Community Actions component for the completion of 67 projects, including the project announced today in the Mauricie region.
