Rimouski - The Minister for Tourism and Minister of the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, announces financial support of $ 390,000, in the form of a loan, from the Support Program for the Development of Tourist Attractions (PADAT ), at the Pointe-au-Père Maritime Historic Site, for the construction of a multipurpose room, a project totaling an investment of $ 1,039,000.
The project consists of the construction of a multipurpose room, Hangar 14, with an area of 330 m2 with around 150 seats in a wooden building behind the Empress of Ireland museum. The building will accommodate the various commemorative activities surrounding the centenary of the shipwreck.
“This innovative project is fully in line with PADAT&#39;s vision and is, in itself, a model of economic and tourism development that will help make Quebec an original and unmissable world-class destination. The project will also promote the development of the St. Lawrence River by improving its access, knowledge and animation. It will thereby participate in making the St. Lawrence an international tourist icon, ”Minister Bérubé declared.
For his part, the member for Rimouski, Mr. Irvin Pelletier, welcomed this announcement for his region. “The Empress of Ireland project actively participates in developing the potential of tourist regions and is part of cultural and event tourism, a promising facet identified in the tourism development of the regions. The construction of Hangar 14 will allow the consolidation of one job and the creation of 4 new positions, in addition to increasing the reputation of the destination. I am therefore delighted with the support that the government is giving to this promising project for the region ”.
Finally, the general manager of the Pointe-au-Père Maritime Historic Site, Mr. Serge Guay, added that “this financial support will add a strong element to an already existing complex. Indeed, the uniqueness of our product, in addition to its government heritage recognition, constitutes an undeniable strength for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region. The significant annual traffic to the site of more than 50,000 visitors is undoubtedly a guarantee of success for our Hangar 14 project ”.
In addition to the evening show, the program planned by the organization to commemorate the sinking includes, among other things, an evening of tales and legends, thematic exhibitions, excursions to the wreck, testimony activities, a commemorative dinner, the establishment of a commemorative monument and other occasional activities on the site.
It should be remembered that the Empress of Ireland project is also supported by financial assistance of $ 100,000 from the Strategic Assistance for Tourism Projects component of Tourisme Québec and $ 100,000 from the Lower Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement. Saint Laurent.
The goal of PADAT is to offer Quebec tourism businesses flexible financial solutions adapted to the realities of the tourism industry, by granting a term loan or a loan guarantee. Stemming from the 2012-2020 Tourism Industry Development Plan, PADAT has an envelope of $ 85 million spread equally over five years. Financial interventions are between $ 150,000 and $ 2 million. Initiated by Tourisme Québec, PADAT is managed and administered by Investissement Québec, through its new Tourism division.
For complete conditions relating to this program and to obtain financial assistance application forms, consult one of the following pages:
www.tourisme.gouv.qc.ca/programmes-services/aide/padat.html
www.investquebec.com/fr/index.aspx?page=3190
