East Broughton– The Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions and Member of Parliament for Taschereau, Ms. Agnès Maltais, at name of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce that the Municipality of East Broughton will benefit from government financial assistance of 2 $ 688,307 for two major water infrastructure projects. This amount comes from the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
“Our government wants to provide Quebeckers with quality infrastructure for all. This is why I am very happy with this financial assistance to East Broughton for the realization of projects which represent a most precious investment for the future. Thanks to this work, the Municipality will be able to guarantee an essential service to the citizens who will be able to benefit from quality drinking water in accordance with the standards in force, thus promoting good health and well-being in addition to enhancing the quality of drinking water. quality of the public services offered to the community for many years, ”declared Minister Maltais.
The project involves the construction of an infiltration gallery in the Lac du Cinq sector in order to meet users&#39; water demand. More specifically, the work includes the installation of the P-8 well, combined with a new treatment station including a green sand filter for the removal of manganese, an anion exchanger and a double disinfection. The installation of a supply pipe between the P-8 well and the R-1 reservoir over a length of 730 meters is also planned.
Other work will also be carried out, including modifications to the treatment station of the PP-1 reservoir for the installation of a green sand treatment system in order to maintain the supply of combined water from the P wells. -4, P-5, P-6 and P-7 as well as various complementary works.
These interventions will allow the municipality to distribute quality drinking water in sufficient quantity and meet the requirements of the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks. All of this work will benefit approximately 2,220 people.
This project is based on a maximum eligible cost established at $ 4,032,274, under component 1.4 of the PIQM. The Government of Quebec and the Municipality of East Broughton are contributing equally to this project for a respective amount of $ 2,016,137.
The project involves the replacement of drinking water pipes, domestic sewer and storm sewer under 13th Street West, between 10th Avenue North and 7th Rang. Upon completion of this work, water pipes approximately 415 meters in length will be renewed in the Municipality of East Broughton.
Completion of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 672,170 under component 1.5 of the PIQM. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this component of the PIQM program not only ensures the sustainability of infrastructure, but also improves the quality of life of the population and creates many jobs in all areas. regions of Quebec.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for these two projects is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public in April 2013. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of 8.1 billion dollars for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the costs associated with them and thus to make informed choices.
