Quebec - The Minister for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Matane-Matapédia, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and &#39;Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to announce the allocation of financial support of $ 25,000 to the agro-environmental club Agro-Futur Matane for the implementation of measures intended to limit the risks of contamination of the source of drinking water from the municipality of Sainte-Luce. Financial assistance is granted under the Prime-Vert program.
“It is essential to take all the necessary means to preserve the sources of drinking water and to ensure that agricultural activities are carried out with the greatest respect for the environment. This is why we support the measures provided for in the joint project of Agro-Futur Matane and the municipality of Sainte-Luce. Moreover, this initiative coincides perfectly with one of the four axes of our Food Sovereignty Policy, namely sustainable development ”, underlined Mr. François Gendron.
“I was delighted when I learned that the Agro-Futur Matane agroenvironmental club will benefit from financial assistance from the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. The project he will carry out will have positive spinoffs not only for local agriculture, but also for all citizens of the municipality of Sainte-Luce, ”added Pascal Bérubé.
The measures envisaged are aimed in particular at the following objectives:
It should be noted that Prime-Vert is a support program focused on agri-environment which aims to help farms meet the challenges of protecting the environment. It aims to promote and make known good agricultural practices, to support agricultural holdings in the adoption of environmentally friendly production methods and to encourage collective initiatives aimed at solving problems detrimental to the quality of agriculture. air, soil health, biological diversity or human health as well as issues related to climate change.
For more information about the Prime-Vert program, you can visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food at www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca. To find out more about the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can consult the blog www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca dedicated to it or the sectionwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSAd of the Ministère&#39;s website. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at twitter.com / mapaquebec.
