Val-des-Lacs– The Member for Berthier and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. André Villeneuve, accompanied by the Member for Bertrand and Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Claude Cousineau, is pleased to announce today, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the completion of a RECIM project in the Laurentians region. Thus, the Municipality of Val-des-Lacs will receive government assistance for the renovation of the community hall. This assistance comes from the new sub-component 5.1 of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM), devoted only to municipal or community infrastructure projects.
“I am very proud to announce today our government&#39;s participation in the implementation of this important municipal infrastructure project in the Laurentides region. The renovation of the Val-des-Lacs community hall will contribute both to the better life of citizens and to the sustainability of this infrastructure, with a view to sustainable development, ”declared MP André Villeneuve. .
“I am very happy with this announcement in Val-des-Lacs. This investment constitutes a considerable contribution that will make it possible to meet the community, cultural and recreational needs of the population, in addition to offering quality services to the citizens of this beautiful municipality, ”added the deputy Claude Cousineau, vice-president of the &#39;National Assembly.
The old church of Val-des-Lacs, which was converted into a community hall a few years ago to meet the needs of citizens, requires renovation work.
Briefly, the project provides for work on the structure and the roof as well as certain interventions aimed at solving problems of insulation, water infiltration, heating and deterioration of the exterior cladding. All of this work will allow citizens to have a safe place for the various activities of the community.
Under the rules and standards in force in sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM, financial assistance for the realization of the project from the Municipality of Val-des-Lacs is assessed at 65% of the amount of eligible costs.
With a budget of nearly $ 60 million over five years, sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM allows municipalities in Quebec to carry out construction projects, upgrading, rehabilitation or repair of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offer and the quality of life of citizens in addition to compensating for the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
