Saint-Ludger-de-Milot– The Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Minister responsible for the Nord-du-Québec region and Member of Parliament for Lac-Saint-Jean, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, is proud to announce that the municipality of Saint-Ludger-de-Milot will receive government assistance of $ 836,550 for the renewal of several of its water pipes. This contribution comes from the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
More specifically, the project aims to replace drinking water, wastewater and stormwater pipes under some segments of rue Pedneault and avenue Lévesque. At the end of this work, water pipes on 670 meters of streets will be renewed in the municipality of Saint-Ludger-de-Milot.
“I am very happy with the financial support granted to the municipality of Saint-Ludger-de-Milot. In partnership with municipalities, we want to ensure that citizens benefit from quality sustainable public services for current and future generations, ”said Minister Cloutier. Completion of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 836,550, under section 1.5 of the PIQM. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this new component of the PIQM program not only ensures the sustainability of infrastructure, but also improves the quality of life of the population and creates many jobs overall. regions of Quebec.
The Government of Quebec&#39;s support for this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public in April 2013. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion. for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the costs associated with them and thus to make informed choices.
