Saint-Mathieu-du-Parc– The MNA for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and MNA for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce that the Municipality of Saint-Mathieu-du-Parc will receive government assistance of $ 734,267 for its wastewater interception and treatment project in the Mountain sector. This assistance comes from the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
“I am very proud of our government&#39;s support for the Municipality of Saint-Mathieu-du-Parc for the implementation of this important infrastructure work. The completion of this project represents a most precious investment for the future of the Municipality, which will be able to offer infrastructures that comply with the standards in force, thus promoting good health and well-being in addition to improving the quality of public services offered to the municipality. the community, ”said MP Trudel.
“Every Quebecer must be able to benefit from access to quality public services. That is why our government is committed to providing municipalities with the support they need to renew and develop their infrastructure. Thus, the aid granted will make it possible to guarantee essential services to the citizens of the Mountain sector in Saint-Mathieu-du-Parc, ”stated Minister Gaudreault.
Briefly, the project consists of setting up a system of interception and treatment of wastewater. The work includes, in particular, the installation of a treatment plant near the Shawinigan River, the installation of two septic tanks and two biological reactors, an ultraviolet ray disinfection system and related equipment. The project also includes the addition of an interception pipe, the construction of a main pumping station (PP-1) and a service building as well as the installation of an outfall pipe between the wastewater treatment plant and the current outfall pipe. Various works will complete this project.
These interventions will allow the municipality to reduce the quantity and improve the quality of wastewater discharges into the environment in order to meet the environmental requirements of the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks. . All of this work will benefit residents of the Mountain sector.
Completion of this project requires a maximum eligible investment of $ 772,913, under component 1.4 of the PIQM. The contribution of the Government of Quebec amounts to $ 734,267 and that of the Municipality of Saint-Mathieu-du-Parc to $ 38,646.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public in April 2013. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately lead to investments of $ 8.1 billion. dollars for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the costs associated with them and to make informed choices.
