Saint-Robert– The Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food of Canada, Mr. Gerry Ritz and the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec and Member of Parliament for Richelieu, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, are pleased to announce the allocation of financial assistance of $ 300,000 to the company Élevages Buffalo Maciocia for the production and processing of buffalo milk in Quebec. The realization of this project is funded by the governments of Canada and Quebec under the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies.
“Our government continues to focus on creating jobs, growth and prosperity by making targeted investments in agriculture. This assistance will allow Les Élevages Buffalo Maciocia to increase commercial opportunities for its unique product and stimulate the Canadian economy, ”said Minister Gerry Ritz.
Buffalo Maciocia Farms owns the only buffalo dairy farm in Quebec. The company is leading a project in partnership with Fromagerie Polyethnique which aims to develop value-added products for the North American market. A first step in the project is to process buffalo milk and market products such as cheese and yogurt.
“The Government of Quebec is proud to support Élevages Buffalo Maciocia. The high value-added products that this company is developing will diversify the economy, the Quebec agricultural portrait and the consumer&#39;s plate, and will also open up access to new markets. I am all the more delighted that this initiative fits perfectly with our Food Sovereignty Policy since it aims to establish a new sector and boost the Quebec biofood sector, ”declared François Gendron.
“I am proud that the Government of Quebec is supporting an innovative project in my region and even more so in my riding of Richelieu. Montérégie and Richelieu are a model of agricultural dynamism and I am happy to know that this vigor will be reinforced by this project, which will promote the establishment of a new agricultural sector in Quebec, ”added Ms. Élaine Zakaïb.
Remember that the governments of Canada and Quebec announced on March 25, 2011, the signing of the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, an investment of $ 16.7 million over a period of 4 years. This program was recently renewed and now has four components which relate respectively to sector development, sectoral strategic plans, value chains and sector consultation. This last component is new compared to the previous version of the Program. It should allow sector consultation organizations to hire development agents who will act as project managers to facilitate the design and implementation of sector development activities and measures.
By signing the Growing Forward 2 bilateral agreement, the governments of Canada and Quebec have associated $ 293 million in funding over a 5-year period, from 2013 to 2018. This major agreement is aimed at to support strategic initiatives in terms of innovation, competitiveness and market development, both for the benefit of the agricultural sector and for the benefit of the food processing sector.
For more information on the pan-Canadian Growing Forward 2 initiatives, those interested can visit Internetwww.agr.gc.ca/cultivonslavenir.ca. To find out more about the shared-cost Growing Forward 2 programs implemented in Quebec, they can consult www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/cultivonslavenir.
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, visit the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www. mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
