Matane– The Minister for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Matane-Matapédia, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transports and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce government assistance of $ 84,450 to the Solidarity Corporation La Co. Mode Verte for the carrying out of renovation and redevelopment work on its building. This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship Infrastructure Program (PIEC).
“I am very proud of our government&#39;s participation in the implementation of renovation and redevelopment work on the La Co.Mode Verte solidarity cooperative building. This support will allow this social economy enterprise to pursue its mission of promoting a variety of used products through recovery and sale. The organization also aims to raise awareness and educate the community on the behaviors to adopt to protect the environment, with a view to sustainable development, ”declared Minister Pascal Bérubé.
Briefly, this project aims to carry out major renovation and redevelopment work including electrical, plumbing and ventilation work as well as various repairs, especially the roof drain, cracks on the exterior walls and the concrete slab. The project also provides for the addition of windows, a goods door, the development of a landing stage, the installation of a material lift, as well as modifications to the emergency exits and the staircase in order to make them safe. In addition, the sales area and certain areas of the building will be redeveloped, including repair workshops, a meeting room and a room for integration activities.
These interventions will allow La Co.Mode Verte to continue its activities, the main objective of which is to reduce the waste produced, by offering recycling and reuse as a real waste recovery channel. They will also help improve its sales and optimize the treatment of residual materials to better meet the needs related to integration activities. The Cooperative will thus be able to seize the opportunities offered to it in the treatment of textiles.
Completion of this project requires a total investment estimated at $ 281,500. The Government of Quebec will pay a maximum amount of $ 84,450 under CEIP. Other partners are also contributing to this project, notably Recyc-Québec and the Center local de développement (CLD) de la Matanie.
The director of the Solidarity Corporation La Co.Mode Verte, Mrs. Marie Fortin, as well as the prefect of the MRC de la Matanie, Mr. Pierre Thibodeau, and the mayor of the City of Matane, Mr. Claude Canuel, said they were very happy. support from the Government of Quebec for this project, which will allow the Corporation not only to pursue its mission but also to develop further to serve the community.
With an investment envelope of $ 10 million, the CEIP aims to support social economy enterprises in the implementation of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition projects for commercial infrastructures. or industrial. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, to contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories and to promote the preservation and enhancement of the quality of the environment.
