Saint-Fabien– The Member for Rimouski and President of the Committee on Public Finance, Mr. Irvin Pelletier, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament de Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the Municipality of Saint-Fabien will benefit from a maximum government financial assistance of $ 459,180 for the replacement of water pipes in the city. This assistance comes from the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
Briefly, the project aims to replace drinking water pipes under 4th Street, as well as drinking water and rainwater pipes under 6th Street in Saint-Fabien.
“I am very happy with the financial support granted today to the Municipality of Saint-Fabien. Our government recognizes the need to renew and replace drinking water, wastewater and storm sewer infrastructure in communities across Quebec. This is why, in partnership with the municipalities, we want to ensure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services for current and future generations, ”said MP Irvin Pelletier.
Completion of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 459,180, under section 1.5 of the PIQM. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this new component of the PIQM program not only ensures the sustainability of infrastructure, but also improves the quality of life of the population and creates many jobs overall. regions of Quebec.
The Government of Quebec&#39;s contribution to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
