Ferme-Neuve - The member for Labelle and government official for the Laurentides region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, is pleased to announce today, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, that the Montagne du Diable Regional Park will receive financial assistance of $ 170,000 for the construction of eight shelters. This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship Infrastructure Program (PIEC). Note that this is the very first project authorized this year under the PIEC program for the Laurentides region.
“I am very pleased with the investment announced today for the construction of eight shelters at the Montagne du Diable Regional Park. These new shelters, located at the foot of the mountain, will help improve the accommodation offer and increase its capacity. In addition, the completion of this project will promote the development of the region through the diversification of tourism activities, in addition to meeting the expectations of many customers who benefit directly, but also to the entire community of the region. of the Laurentians who will be able to benefit from it, ”declared MP Sylvain Pagé.
The project aims to build eight new shelters near the reception pavilion, close to services, at the foot of the mountain. These refuges will serve as lodges for hikers and outdoor enthusiasts. As the current shelters are located at the top of the mountain, this initiative will make it possible to offer a different type of accommodation to the customers of the Montagne du Diable Regional Park and to offer a variety of outdoor activities in addition to attracting tourists who are Mountain biking, cross-country skiing, snowshoeing and hiking enthusiasts. This project is part of a regional park development plan and will undoubtedly have positive spinoffs both socially and economically from which the entire community can benefit.
Completion of this project requires a total investment estimated at $ 600,000. The Government of Quebec, within the framework of the CEIP, contributes a maximum amount of $ 170,000. Other partners are also participating in the project, notably the Social Economy Fund, the Chantier de l&#39;Économie sociale and the Desjardins caisses of Mont-Laurier and Ferme-Neuve.
Note that the Montagne du Diable is the second highest peak in the Laurentians and that it is a dominant tourist attraction in the Antoine-Labelle RCM. Created in September 2012 and located 80% on the territory of Ferme-Neuve and 20% on that of Mont-Laurier, the Montagne du Diable Regional Park aims to ensure the cohabitation and harmonization of activities over an area of 100 km2.
The Solidarity Coop of Social Economy Enterprises in the Laurentians recognizes the Montagne du Diable Regional Park as a social economy enterprise. Through its development and the consolidation of its activities in the tourism sector, the Park contributes greatly to the socioeconomic vitality of the region.
For his part, the president of the Corporation du Parc Montagne du Diable and mayor of the Municipality of Ferme-Neuve, Mr. Gilbert Pilote, said he was very happy with the support of the Government of Quebec which will allow the organization to achieve its regional park development project in order to better serve its customers and the community.
Remember that the CEIP has a budget of $ 10 million. It aims to support social economy enterprises in the implementation of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition projects for commercial or industrial infrastructure. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, to contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories as well as to promote the preservation and enhancement of the environment.
