Sainte-Thérèse– The member for Labelle and government official for the Laurentides region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, is pleased to announce today, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, that the City of Sainte-Thérèse will benefit from maximum government financial assistance of $ 441,180 for the replacement of several water pipes in the city. This assistance is granted under the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
Overall, the project aims to replace several drinking water and wastewater pipes as well as the separation of the combined sewer network by adding storm water pipes under Saint-Charles Street. At the end of this work, water pipes on nearly 250 meters of street will be renewed in the City of Sainte-Thérèse.
“I am very happy with the financial support granted today to the City of Sainte-Thérèse. Our government recognizes the need to renew and replace drinking water, wastewater and storm sewer infrastructure in communities across Quebec. This is why, in partnership with the municipalities, we want to ensure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services for current and future generations, ”declared MP Sylvain Pagé.
“Every Quebecer must be able to benefit from access to quality public services. That is why our government is committed to providing municipalities with the support they need to renew and develop their infrastructure, ”Minister Sylvain Gaudreault said.
Completion of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 441,180 under section 1.5 of the PIQM. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this component of the PIQM program not only ensures the sustainability of infrastructure, but also improves the quality of life of the population and creates many jobs in all areas. regions of Quebec.
“The City of Sainte-Thérèse makes a point of planning the short, medium and long term infrastructure work on its territory. This proactive approach allows us to save significant sums while ensuring the Teresian population a reliable network in good condition ”, declared the mayoress of Sainte-Thérèse, Mrs. Sylvie Surprenant.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
