Amqui– The Minister for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Matane-Matapédia, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transports and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, announces additional assistance of $ 82,500 for the Revermont Golf Club. This assistance is in addition to that of $ 50,000, announced in June 2013, bringing the total amount of the contribution to $ 132,500. This sum, which comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship Infrastructure Program (PIEC), will be used to carry out all of the work at the club&#39;s main chalet.
The increase in government assistance will allow the kitchen to be brought up to standard, the expansion of the hot and cold rooms, the fitting out of the bathrooms and the complete extension of the chalet facade. This work is in addition to the initial expansion project for the main chalet and the reception hall.
“I am very proud of the additional government assistance announced today for the expansion and upgrading of the main chalet at Club de golf Revermont. These improvements will not only meet the needs of the people who benefit directly from them, but also the entire community of the Matapedia region, which will be able to benefit from these expanded and renovated infrastructures, ”said Minister Bérubé.
Completion of this project requires an eligible investment revised upward in the order of $ 507,005. In addition to this additional contribution, the Government of Quebec is granting an increase of $ 22,030 to take into account the interest that the organization will have to pay during the period of payment of the assistance, thus bringing the maximum financial assistance to 154,530. $. Other partners are also contributing to the project, in particular the Amqui Development Company (SODAM), the Community Development Assistance Fund (FADM), the City of Amqui and the Local Development Center (CLD) of the Matapedia.
Recognized as a social economy enterprise, the Revermont Golf Club has 250 members and employs more than thirty full-time people during the season. The organization can also count on the support of some fifteen volunteers. Through its activities, the Club contributes to the socioeconomic vitality of the region.
For his part, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Revermont Golf Club, Mr. Claude Jacques, thanks the Government of Quebec for granting this additional assistance which will allow it to better serve its customers and the community.
Remember that the CEIP has a budget of $ 10 million. It aims to support social economy enterprises in the implementation of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition projects for commercial or industrial infrastructure. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, to contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories as well as to promote the preservation and enhancement of the environment.
