Quebec - The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce that changes to the Program Adaptation de domicile (PAD) from the SHQ will reduce the processing time for certain requests.
Thus, a new measure will be gradually implemented so that the work necessary to allow disabled people to access their homes can be carried out more quickly. This measure will give entitlement to financial assistance allowing the installation of an access ramp or an elevating platform requiring the presence of a caregiver. The beneficiaries of this measure will thus have the advantage of carrying out access work to their home more quickly and can subsequently, if necessary, have other adaptation work carried out inside their home.
&quot;We have decided to intervene more effectively with people with disabilities in order to reduce the risks associated with inadequate home access, to promote a rapid return of these people to their environment and to facilitate their travel so that they receive appropriate care and that they lead an active social life, ”indicated Minister Gaudreault.
For several years, the SHQ has been working, together with its municipal partners and its partners in the health and social services network, to develop and propose various solutions in order to optimize the application of the PAD and reduce the processing time. files presented within the framework of this program. The average processing time for applications thus fell from 45 months in 2006-2007 to 26 months in 2012-2013.
“As Minister responsible for Social Services and Youth Protection and Minister responsible for people with disabilities, I am delighted by this happy news. The groups of people with disabilities have long called for the speeding up of the processing of applications in order to allow them to benefit from a suitable living environment within a shorter timeframe. The measure announced today is a concrete demonstration that the collaboration of partners, combined with real political will, leads to the achievement of tangible progress for the accessibility of places, support for the quest for autonomy and improving the quality of life of people with disabilities, ”concluded Minister Véronique Hivon.
Remember that in 2012-2013, the SHQ invested $ 20.7 million to financially support the adaptation of 1,347 housing units in Quebec, which represents an average subsidy of nearly $ 15,400 per unit. In addition, during the same period, the SHQ paid $ 1.9 million to respond to 3,810 requests for the repair of specialized equipment and committed to providing total financial assistance of $ 1.4 million for the replacement of 67 specialized equipment consisting mainly of lifting platforms for people in wheelchairs.
To date, the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec has helped more than 18,000 people with disabilities to benefit from housing that is better suited to their needs. These interventions have also made it easier for these people to stay at home and have helped reduce the use of public services intended for them.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You will also be able to consult Espace Habitat, a new Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of the SHQ&#39;s interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
