An investment of the Government of Quebec of $ 1 million
Alma– The Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Member of Parliament for Lac-Saint-Jean, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, is proud to participate, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and &#39;Occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, at the inauguration of the first phase of modernization of the Center Mario-Tremblay. He takes this opportunity to recall the financial commitment of the Government of Quebec of $ 1,000,000 granted to the City of Alma for the realization of this project. This assistance comes from the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
“I am very happy to be here today to inaugurate the first phase of the expansion of the Mario-Tremblay Center. A year ago, almost to the day, I announced financial assistance for the realization of the project. It is a major sports infrastructure for the City of Alma, the MRC of Lac-Saint-Jean-Est and the entire territory of Lac-Saint-Jean. The renovated building now makes it possible to better meet the needs of the population in addition to strengthening the recreational and cultural vocation of the Center, contributing to the socioeconomic development of the region and fostering a feeling of belonging to the community, ”declared the Minister. Alexandre Cloutier.
More specifically, government assistance made it possible to expand the building area by 12,000 square feet over two floors. Among the main improvements carried out, let us mention the addition, on the ground floor, of a secondary entrance hall, five players&#39; rooms, an access corridor to the ice, rooms for storage and storage of equipment as well as administrative premises. Other work was also carried out upstairs in order to set up a catering area, multipurpose rooms, combat surfaces as well as sanitary blocks.
It should be noted that the building housing the Mario-Tremblay Center was built in 1972 and that it required major modernization work due to the increasing use of this infrastructure. Also, this complex offers services to a school clientele and citizens of the City and the MRC. In addition to the practice of sports and recreational activities, the center also allows the holding of about twenty events, with the participation of more than 30,000 people annually.
The maximum eligible cost of the first phase of modernization of the Mario-Tremblay Center has been established at $ 1,500,000, under the PIQM. The contribution from the Government of Quebec amounts to $ 1,000,000.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for this project is part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI). It should be remembered that the 2013-2023 plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
