Deux-Montagnes– The MNA for Deux-Montagnes, Mr. Daniel Goyer, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and MNA for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announces that the City of Deux-Montagnes will receive a major financial contribution of up to $ 3,609,500 for the trenchless rehabilitation of drinking water and wastewater pipes in the city. This assistance is granted under the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
More specifically, the project targets work to reinforce drinking water and wastewater pipes under several segments of Belvédère, Henri-Brabant, Hudson, Lakeview, Lakewood, Marquette, Olympia and du Lac Boulevard streets. The project also provides for the restoration of approximately five kilometers of water pipes distributed under ten avenues. At the end of this work, water pipes over nearly seven and a half kilometers will be rehabilitated.
“I am very happy to participate in this event which marks the start of the work, which will be carried out thanks to the government support granted to the City of Deux-Montagnes. Our government recognizes the need to renew and replace drinking water, wastewater and storm sewer infrastructure in communities across Quebec. This is why he is committed to providing municipalities with the support they need to ensure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services, such as access to drinking water, a right fundamental, an essential service for all, ”said MP Goyer.
“Every Quebecer must be able to benefit from access to quality public services. That is why our government is committed to providing municipalities with the support they need to renew and develop their infrastructure, ”Minister Gaudreault said.
Completion of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 3,609,500, under component 1.5 of the PIQM. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this component of the PIQM program not only ensures the sustainability of infrastructure, but also improves the quality of life of the population and creates many jobs in all areas. regions of Quebec.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the costs associated with them and thus to make informed choices.
