Saint-Edmond-les-Plaines- The Member of Parliament for Roberval and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (forestry section), Mr. Denis Trottier, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transports and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce that the Corporation de développement de St-Edmond des Plaines Inc. will receive financial assistance of $ 98,000 for the acquisition and transformation of the former rectory. . This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship Infrastructure Program (PIEC).
The completion of the Auberge des Plaines project allows citizens and visitors to Saint-Edmond-les-Plaines to benefit from local services, in particular a convenience store and a restaurant open all year round. A tourist reception office providing information on the various attractions of the region and a campsite rental service is also set up on its premises. The Auberge des Plaines also offers accommodation services, including five rooms, and room rental.
“I am very pleased with the support our government has given to the Corporation de développement de St-Edmond des Plaines. The Auberge des Plaines thus contributes to the socio-economic and tourist development of the municipality and the region. In addition to consolidating and supporting the activities of the municipality, the Auberge showcases the works of artists and local products and contributes to improving the quality of life of citizens by giving them access to local services. », Declared the deputy Denis Trottier.
“Projects like the one announced today contribute to local and regional development. That is why I am very proud of the investment made for the acquisition and transformation of the Saint-Edmond-les-Plaines presbytery. Thus, the Auberge des Plaines makes it possible to increase services to the population, in addition to promoting the development of cultural and tourist activities in the MRC and in the region. This is a structuring project that will have positive repercussions both socially and economically on the entire community, ”said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
The realization of this project requires a total investment estimated at $ 408,060. The Government of Quebec, within the framework of the CEIP, is paying an amount of $ 98,000 to the Corporation de développement de St-Edmond des Plaines Inc. Other partners are also participating in this project, in particular the Local Development Center (CLD). and the Regional County Municipality (MRC) of Maria-Chapdelaine as well as the Caisse populaire Desjardins des Plaines boréales.
Note that the municipality of Saint-Edmond-les-Plaines hosts two major tourist events each year, the Saint-Jean Festival and the Winter Carnival. The Auberge des Plaines, which is recognized as a social economy enterprise, will thus be able to meet the accommodation needs of passing tourists.
Remember that the presbytery of Saint-Edmond-les-Plaines is a heritage building that was built in 1924 on the site of Val-Jalbert. In 1938, the municipality of Saint-Edmond-les-Plaines took steps to obtain and move the rectory of Val-Jalbert on its territory. Last year, the Corporation de développement de St-Edmond des Plaines acquired it in order to make it accessible to the population and to preserve the municipality&#39;s heritage.
With an investment envelope of $ 10 million, the CEIP aims to support social economy enterprises in the implementation of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition projects for commercial infrastructures. or industrial. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, to contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories and to promote the preservation and enhancement of the quality of the environment.
