Val-d&#39;Or– The Minister for Native Affairs and Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Est, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, is pleased to announce today, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy , Minister of Transport and MNA for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, the granting of maximum government assistance of $ 279,800 to Technobois SOS Emploi (Abitibi-Est) for the construction of a new plant. This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship Infrastructure Program (PIEC). Note that this is the very first project authorized under the CEIP program for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region.
“I am very proud of the assistance granted today by our government to the Technobois project, which is a way of recognizing the important contribution of this company to the community. Thus, the construction of a new factory will allow Technobois, currently in full growth, to equip itself with adequate and modern spaces to maintain and develop, for the greatest benefit of people entering the labor market. and the community, ”said Minister Élizabeth Larouche.
Briefly, Technobois&#39; project aims to build a new plant in order to relocate its operations, given the small and not very functional spaces of the current building. This future infrastructure has become essential for the pursuit of Technobois&#39; activities, the main objective of which is to allow, on an annual basis, the employment of some forty young people who are far from the labor market.
Completion of this project requires a total investment estimated at $ 2,791,570. The Government of Quebec contributes a maximum amount of $ 279,800 under CEIP. Other partners are also contributing to this project, in particular the Center local de développement (CLD) of the Vallée-de-l&#39;Or as well as Canada Economic Development (CED).
Founded in 1997, Technobois is recognized and supported in its community as a social economy enterprise, whose mission is to offer concrete work experience allowing its workers to acquire the skills and competencies necessary to obtain and to keep a job. Since its inception, Technobois has helped more than 500 people enter the job market. With its fifteen years of existence, this integration company specializes in wood processing, that is to say the manufacture in factory of wood articles for residential, commercial and industrial uses. The company&#39;s greatest strength lies in its ability to quickly produce tailor-made products to meet the specific needs of its customers. The Chairman of the Board of Directors of Technobois, Mr. Vincent Rousson, as well as the Mayor of the City of Val-d&#39;Or, Mr. Fernand Trahan, are very pleased with the support of the Government of Quebec for the realization of this project which will allow the company to carry out its activities in suitable spaces, in addition to protecting the current seven permanent jobs and creating a few more.
With an investment envelope of $ 10 million, the CEIP aims to support social economy enterprises in the implementation of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition projects for commercial infrastructures. or industrial. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, to contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories and to promote the preservation and enhancement of the quality of the environment.
