Alma– The Minister responsible for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Minister responsible for the Nord-du-Québec region and Member of Parliament for Lac-Saint-Jean, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, on behalf of the Minister of Affairs Municipalities, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce the granting of government assistance of $ 54,000 to the Information et Référence organization Region 02 (IRR-02) for the acquisition of a building in Alma. This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship Infrastructure Program (PIEC).
Located in Alma and working for more than 35 years in Lac-Saint-Jean, IRR-02 works to improve the quality of life of people. Committed to the elderly, single-parent and destitute families and people living in poverty, the social and community vocation enterprise helps its customers to become as independent as possible in their various procedures. She offers personalized help and support and fills a lack of resources in her community. It also provides various services to the community, including an income statement, mobile tax and form writing service. In addition, it hosts the Information Center for Seniors and coordinates four service points located at Ascension, Métabetchouan-Lac-à-la-Croix, Roberval and Dolbeau-Mistassini.
“I am very proud of the investment granted to Information et Référence Région 02 for the acquisition of its building. Our government&#39;s support for this project is one way of recognizing the important contribution of this organization to the community. Thus, the company will not only be able to consolidate, but above all develop its activities and bring together under one roof several services provided by various organizations, ”said Minister Cloutier.
The government assistance granted to the IRR-02 organization enables it to acquire a building in order to compensate in particular for the lack of space and staff. Thanks to its new premises, this company will be able to continue its activities and thus meet the needs of a greater number of people who wish to benefit from its services.
The total eligible cost of the project is $ 188,735. The Government of Quebec, within the framework of CEIP, contributes a maximum amount of $ 54,000. Other partners are also contributing to this project, notably the City of Alma.
For his part, the president of IRR-02, Mr. Jean-Noël Tremblay, is very pleased with the support of the Government of Quebec for the building acquisition project which will allow the organization to better serve its customers and the community.
With an investment envelope of $ 10 million, the CEIP aims to support social economy enterprises in the implementation of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition projects for commercial infrastructures. or industrial. The objectives of this program are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, to contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories and to promote the preservation and enhancement of the quality of the environment.
