Quebec - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology and Member of Parliament for Borduas, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is proud to announce, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture , of Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, the allocation of financial assistance of 100,000 dollars to Verger Paul Jodoin inc. This sum will allow the company to acquire the equipment required to process the water required for its processing activities.
&quot;It is a pleasure for me to support a company which, like Vergers Paul Jodoin inc., Is working to improve its processes in order to carry out its activities while respecting the environment,&quot; said Mr. Gendron.
&quot;I am always proud to know that we support Montérégie businesses, especially when this assistance allows them, through the use of new technologies, to embark on the path of sustainable development while successfully pursuing their activities,&quot; added Pierre Duchesne.
Financial assistance is granted under part 1 of the Prime-Vert program, a part of which the objective is to support farms in the implementation of actions, agri-environmental practices and production methods aimed at reducing pollution. of agricultural origin and to conserve biodiversity.
“We are concerned about the impact of our agricultural activities on the environment. This financial assistance from the Government of Quebec will therefore allow us to continue our actions in this direction ”declared Alexandre Jodoin, des Vergers Paul Jodoin inc.
Les Vergers Paul Jodoin inc. were founded in 1970. Still owned by the Jodoin family, this agricultural company now specializes in the production, processing and marketing of apple products.
“The adoption of sustainable processing methods by Vergers Paul Jodoin inc. is the perfect example of actions that are consistent with the Food Sovereignty Policy tabled last May, ”Minister Gendron concluded.
For more information about the Prime-vert program, you can visit the website of the Ministère de l&#39;Agriculture, des Pêcheries et de l&#39;Alimentation at www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca / primevert. To find out more about the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can consult the blog www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or the sectionwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSAd of the Department&#39;s website. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at twitter.com / mapaquebec.
