Canton de Saint-Camille - The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Seniors, Minister responsible for the Estrie region and Member of Parliament for Saint-François, Mr. Réjean Hébert, are pleased to announce that the Canton of Saint-Camille will benefit from government assistance for the transformation of the church of Saint-Camille into multifunctional center. This assistance will be granted under new sub-component 5.1 of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM), which is devoted to municipal and community infrastructure projects.
“I am very happy with my government&#39;s decision to support this project to transform the church of Saint-Camille into a multifunctional center. This future building, eagerly awaited by the community and municipal authorities, will meet the needs expressed by the community. This new infrastructure will make it possible in particular to improve the service offer to citizens, improve their quality of life, while ensuring the sustainability of infrastructure in addition to strengthening the community&#39;s sense of belonging to its environment, to his municipality, his region, ”declared Minister Réjean Hébert.
“The selection of projects for this second phase of RECIM project approval perfectly reflects my government&#39;s desire to put integrity at the heart of its decisions. The projects chosen respect the standards in force and take into account the objectives of occupation and vitality of the territory for the benefit of all Quebecers ”, indicated Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
With a budget of nearly $ 60 million over five years, sub-component 5.1 of the PIQM allows municipalities in Quebec to carry out construction projects, upgrading, rehabilitation or repair of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offer and the quality of life of citizens in addition to compensating for the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
