Notre-Dame-de-Pontmain– The member for Labelle and government official for the Laurentides region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister des Transports and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, that the Municipality of Notre-Dame-de-Pontmain will benefit from a maximum government financial assistance of $ 1,105,999 for the supply of drinking water to the municipality. This assistance comes from the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
“I am very happy with the financial support announced today for Notre-Dame-de-Pontmain. Ultimately, this project will make it possible to provide better quality drinking water for many years to come, thus promoting good health and well-being in the community, in addition to improving public services for all, in a sustainable manner. sustainable development perspective, ”said MP Sylvain Pagé.
Briefly, the project notably includes the installation of a membrane filtration treatment system, a chlorination system and measuring and control instruments. It also includes the installation of connection pipes between the two wells and the treatment system and also between the projected reservoir and the existing water network. In addition, the project provides for the construction of an underground reservoir to store drinking water, the addition of a distribution pumping system as well as various additional works.
These interventions will allow the Municipality of Notre-Dame-de-Pontmain to distribute drinking water of better quality to approximately 230 people as well as to three municipal buildings, in addition to respecting the requirements of the Regulation respecting the quality of drinking water ( RQEP).
Completion of this project represents a maximum eligible investment of $ 1,556,000, under section 1.4 of the PIQM. The Government of Quebec is contributing $ 1,105,999 to the project, and the Municipality of Notre-Dame-de-Pontmain for an amount of $ 450,001.
This government assistance is part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, which provides for nearly $ 44.18 billion for the 2011-2016 period.
