Quebec - On behalf of the Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, the MP for Duplessis, Ms. Lorraine Richard, is pleased to announce the allocation of assistance funding totaling $ 150,000 to three businesses on the North Shore for their participation in the collective project “Economic diversification and northern agriculture development in Gros-Mécatina”. This aid is granted under the Pilot Program to Support the Multifunctionality of Agriculture and the Support Program for the Development of Agriculture and Agrifood in the Regions.
This project will allow the deforestation of land located in a northern territory, that of the Lower North Shore, with a view to establishing new fruit and vegetable crops. It also aims to supply the community with fresh vegetables as well as to intensify the culture of cloudberry in a natural environment.
“I am always delighted to see businesses that are committed to boosting agricultural activity in their community and thus contributing to the economic diversification of their region. This project will undoubtedly promote the development of agriculture in northeastern Quebec, ”said MP Lorraine Richard.
The three agricultural businesses that will receive assistance for the collective realization of this project are the Mécatina Economic Diversification Group ($ 81,000), Enviro-Llecte inc. ($ 36,000) and the Sports and Recreation Development Corporation ($ 33,000).
“It is important to support companies that set up initiatives like this one. Such projects not only make it possible to develop the agricultural potential of the region, but also to optimize land use. I am very happy to offer them this support, which fits perfectly with the objectives of the Food Sovereignty Policy ”, specified Minister François Gendron.
The Pilot Program to Support Multifunctionality of Agriculture encourages farmers to adopt practices that have positive benefits both for the environment and for communities. From the launch of the program in April 2011 until March 31, 2013, nearly three million dollars were paid to 224 companies for the realization of projects promoting the multifunctionality of agriculture. For more information on this program, see the Web page http://www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/multifonctionnalite/.
To find out more about the Food Sovereignty Policy, consult the blog (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or the web page www.mapaq.gouv) on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. .qc.ca / PolitiqueSA) devoted to it. You can also follow the Department&#39;s activities on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
