Saint-Charles-sur-Richelieu– The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology and Member of Parliament for Borduas, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is pleased to announce today, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the government financial assistance granted to the Municipality of Saint-Charles-sur-Richelieu has been revised upwards and increased from $ 3,750,000 to $ 5,153,542, which is an increase of $ 1,403,542.
Government assistance was thus increased because of the modifications made to the initially planned project, in particular for the completion of all the work required for the joint wastewater treatment of the municipalities of Saint-Charles-sur-Richelieu and Saint- Marc-sur-Richelieu. This assistance is in addition to that already announced in the comprehensive wastewater treatment and water main repair project for these two municipalities.
“I am very happy with the additional financial support granted today to the Municipality of Saint-Charles-sur-Richelieu to complete its joint project with the Municipality of Saint-Marc-sur-Richelieu. This support demonstrates our government&#39;s commitment to provide Quebec municipalities with infrastructures that meet current standards. That is why, in partnership with the municipalities, we want to ensure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services for current and future generations, ”said Minister Pierre Duchesne.
Recall that the original project aimed to provide the Municipality of Saint-Charles-sur-Richelieu with wastewater treatment infrastructure requiring the installation of a network of sanitary sewer pipes for the collection, a interception system, including several pumping stations, joint wastewater treatment with Saint-Marc-sur-Richelieu including the construction of an aerated pond-type treatment plant as well as various additional works.
In addition, the Municipality of Saint-Charles-sur-Richelieu took this opportunity to replace the pipes of the aqueduct network in place under ten streets, for a total length of approximately 1,716 meters, as well as the pipes. of the combined sewer system that could not be kept as storm pipes. All of these interventions benefit a local and neighboring population of nearly 1,600 people, including 807 residents of the Municipality of Saint-Charles-sur-Richelieu.
Under sub-components 1.1 and 1.2 of the PIQM, the contribution of the Government of Quebec granted to the entire project now stands at $ 8,470,093, or $ 5,153,542 for the Municipality of Saint-Charles-sur-Richelieu , following an increase of $ 1,403,542, and $ 3,316,551 already announced for the Municipality of Saint-Marc-sur-Richelieu. The total cost of the project is $ 13,876,238.
The Government of Quebec&#39;s contribution to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
