Saint-Tite-des-Caps– The Premier of Quebec and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix – Côte-de-Beaupré, Pauline Marois, is pleased to announce financial assistance of $ 282,613 to the Coopérative de travail du Collège des Hauts Sommets for the renovation of its facilities. This amount comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship Infrastructure Program (PIEC).
“This subsidy granted to the Coopérative de travail du Collège des Hauts Sommets is a way for the government to recognize the merits of the educational mission of this institution. We have the responsibility of building a Quebec of knowledge. That is why I am proud of the improvements that will be made to the current facilities of the Collège des Hauts Sommets. They will not only meet the needs of the people who benefit from them, but also the entire community, ”said the Premier.
Concretely, this financial support will be used to bring the main college building and school residences up to standard, as well as to modernize one of the adjoining buildings. Briefly, the work includes changing windows, installing new floors, repairing walls and skylights as well as fitting out a new multipurpose room in the main building. In addition to consolidating infrastructure, these improvements will allow the establishment to improve its service offering and offer new activities to its students.
Located in an exceptional natural environment, at the top of a mountain overlooking the St.Lawrence River, the Collège des Hauts Sommets welcomes students who wish to live an experience of surpassing themselves likely to give them back the hope of success. By offering them various training options, the college promotes their development.
Completion of this project requires a total investment estimated at $ 484,646. The Government of Quebec, within the framework of the CEIP, is contributing to this project for a maximum amount of $ 282,613 and the Fondation du Collège des Hauts Sommets is contributing up to $ 192,323.
The president of the board of directors of the Collège des Hauts Sommets work cooperative, Sonia Lefrançois, is very happy with the support of the Government of Quebec, which will allow the organization to pursue its educational mission under better conditions.
Recognized as a social economy enterprise by the regional social economy center of the National Capital, the Work Cooperative of the College of Hauts Sommets was created by the staff of the establishment in 2003. Its aim is to ensure the sustainability of the Collège des Hauts Sommets. The only private French-language coeducational institution with school residences in the region of Quebec and Eastern Quebec, the college offers regular education with appropriate follow-up to more than 150 high school students from all regions of Quebec. Quebec.
It should be noted that the Secrétariat à la Capitale-Nationale has issued a favorable opinion on the project to renovate the establishment of the Collège des Hauts Sommets, considering that it generates positive socioeconomic benefits.
The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, to contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories and to promote the preservation and enhancement of the quality of the environment. With an investment envelope of $ 10 million, this program supports social economy enterprises in the implementation of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition projects of commercial or industrial infrastructure. .
