Longueuil– The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Minister responsible for the Montérégie region and Member of Parliament for Taillon, Mrs. Marie Malavoy, today confirmed the reservation, through the AccèsLogis Québec program of the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), of 274 housing units for the realization of three community housing projects that will see the light of day in the territory of Longueuil.
“Over the past few years, I have actively campaigned for the creation of social housing for the citizens of my riding. Today&#39;s announcement is another step towards fulfilling one of my dearest wishes as the Member of Parliament for Taillon, namely to provide affordable and quality housing to people. low income. Projects like these promote social solidarity and equality between citizens which are values dear to our government and which we share with all our partners who invest their time and energy so that a greater number of citizens have access to adequate housing conditions ”, declared Minister Marie Malavoy.
The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Sylvain Gaudreault, added his voice to that of his colleague to specify that it is &quot;important to pursue housing interventions, since they represent an excellent means of combating poverty and social exclusion ”.
Today&#39;s announcement is an important step for the organizations that initiated these three projects, and which are now invited to submit to the SHQ the documents necessary for further analysis of their request for financial assistance.
“Announcements like the one today, Longueuil would like there to be every day. It&#39;s good for our city, so it&#39;s good for our world. The reservation of 274 housing units, through the SHQ&#39;s AccèsLogis Québec program, could not have come at a better time. We will thus be able to ensure the completion of three community housing projects, long awaited in Longueuil, ”said the mayor of Longueuil, Caroline St-Hilaire.
Since the implementation of the SHQ&#39;s AccèsLogis Québec and Affordable Housing Québec programs, 3,316 community housing units have been built or are in the process of being built in the Montérégie region, representing investments totaling more than $ 354 million. .
Remember that in its most recent budget, the Government of Quebec announced a budget envelope of $ 231 million for the construction of 3,000 affordable housing units.
The SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Each year, thanks to its programs and its many partners, it helps more than 230,000 Quebec households. For more information on its programs and services, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca.
