Quebec - The Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Minister responsible for the Nord-du-Québec region and Member of Parliament for Lac-Saint-Jean, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, on behalf of the Minister of Affairs Municipalities, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, are pleased to announce that the municipalities of Hébertville-Station, Saint-Gédéon and L&#39;Ascension-de-Notre-Seigneur will benefit from government financial assistance from the Quebec-Municipalities-Age-friendly Municipality Infrastructure Program (PIQM-MADA) . Thus, Hébertville-Station and Saint-Gédon will each receive $ 100,000 and L&#39;Ascension-de-Notre-Seigneur $ 70,962 for the realization of their respective projects.
Thanks to the PIQM-MADA, the municipalities involved in the MADA process have access to funds intended to support them in carrying out small infrastructure projects that meet the needs of seniors.
“I am very happy with the support our government has given to carry out infrastructure projects for seniors in these three municipalities in the region. I am particularly proud of our government&#39;s commitment to seniors as part of the MADA process: this great initiative put forward a few years ago and in which the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the territory. Improving the living conditions of our seniors and promoting active aging means contributing to their development as a person in the community; it means jointly assuming a responsibility that concerns us all in order to make Quebec a place where it is good to age, ”said Minister Cloutier.
“These projects, like many others that are emerging in all regions of Quebec, confirm the priority that our government gives to the quality of life of seniors. I would like to salute the initiative of the municipalities of Hébertville-Station, L&#39;Ascension-de-Notre-Seigneur and Saint-Gédéon as well as all the efforts made by those responsible for the realization of these projects which will allow seniors to benefit from infrastructures better suited to their needs, ”said Minister Hébert.
The Hébertville-Station project consists of carrying out work to bring the community center up to standard and repair it. These interventions will allow seniors and people with reduced mobility to benefit more from the various activities and services offered at the community center.
The Ascension-de-Notre-Seigneur project provides for modifications to the basement of the municipal building to improve access and configuration of the Internet room. The front door will be changed and the divisions will be rearranged to make better use of the space. These improvements will allow seniors to benefit from infrastructures better suited to their needs, while allowing everyone to benefit from the Internet room.
The Saint-Gédéon project mainly targets the expansion of the municipal building for the installation of a lifting platform to make it accessible to seniors. The work includes, in particular, the redevelopment of the entrance, modifications to the windows and interior doors as well as various additional work.
These projects are part of an approach undertaken by these three municipalities to improve the quality of life of seniors and promote active aging.
Remember that the PIQM-MADA has an annual budget of $ 3M from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, reserved for the financing of infrastructure adapted to the needs of seniors. Since 2010, more than 130 projects have benefited from this envelope accessible to municipalities engaged in the MADA process. These investments are part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. The PIQM-MADA program is also an action included in the Aging and Living Together policy, at home, in one&#39;s community, in Quebec.
Today, with the support of 704 municipalities or MRCs, the MADA process was implemented in Quebec by the Secrétariat aux frères in 2008 and continues under the responsibility of the minister responsible for seniors and the minister of health and social services. This approach is inspired by an approach developed by the World Health Organization (WHO), and the model it proposes was designed to allow citizens to age while remaining active in their communities. The collaboration of the entire community is one of the winning conditions of the process, but it could not be fully successful without the participation of the seniors themselves and that of the local organizations that represent them. Quebec is considered by the WHO as the most advanced society in the world in the application of this approach based on the adaptation of municipal policies and services to the aging of the population.
