Saint-Mathieu-de-Beloeil– The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology and Member of Parliament for Borduas, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, of Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the Municipality of Saint-Mathieu-de-Beloeil will benefit from government financial assistance of $ 1,092,000 for its fundraising project wastewater in the Terrasse-Préfontaine sector. This assistance comes from the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
Briefly, the project consists of installing sanitary sewer pipes in several sections, namely Montée Saint-Jean-Baptiste, rue du Brasier, rue des Loisirs and rue Préfontaine, as well as chemin du Ruisseau Sud and chemin du Ruisseau Nord. It includes a pumping station at the intersection of Montée Saint-Jean-Baptiste and Chemin du Ruisseau Sud, as well as the installation of a delivery pipe of approximately 630 meters which is discharged into the existing network at the intersection of Chemin de l&#39;Industrie. These interventions will benefit a population of some 250 people living in the Terrasse-Préfontaine sector.
“I am very happy with the financial assistance announced today in Saint-Mathieu-de-Beloeil, which testifies to our government&#39;s desire to provide the population with sustainable and quality infrastructures for all. Ultimately, this project will both ensure the well-being of citizens and offer facilities that meet current standards. Carrying out this project will help reduce the quantity and improve the quality of wastewater discharges and, by the same token, protect the environment of this sector with a view to sustainable development, ”declared Minister Pierre Duchesne. .
Under section 1.4 of the PIQM, the contribution of the Government of Quebec granted to the Saint-Mathieu-de-Beloeil project amounts to $ 1,092,000. As for the Municipality of Saint-Mathieu-de-Beloeil, it is investing $ 3,343,644 in its wastewater collection project, bringing the total amount of investments to $ 4,435,644.
The Government of Quebec&#39;s contribution to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
