Saint-Pierre– The Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Minister responsible for the Lanaudière region and Member of Parliament for Joliette, Ms. Véronique Hivon, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of territory, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, is pleased to announce today the payment of financial assistance total of $ 100,000, granted as part of the 2011-2012 call for projects, to the Village of Saint-Pierre, in the Lanaudière region. This financial assistance, dedicated to the development of the community hall for seniors and people with disabilities, comes from the Quebec-Municipalities-Municipality of Seniors-Friendly Infrastructure Program (PIQM-MADA).
Thanks to the Quebec-Municipalities-Age-friendly Municipality infrastructure program, municipalities involved in the ADM process have access to funds to support them in carrying out small infrastructure projects for seniors and their families.
“Today&#39;s announcement supports the commitment made by the Village of Saint-Pierre to seniors. Thus, the assistance granted will make it possible to offer seniors with reduced mobility easy and safe access to the community hall. Thanks to this project, seniors will be able to take full advantage of this common place and participate in activities organized by the municipality, the MRC de Joliette, the CLSC and the Club de l&#39;Âge d&#39;Or. This is a project that is part of a concerted approach with seniors in order to improve their quality of life and promote active aging, ”said Minister Véronique Hivon.
&quot;I am proud of our government&#39;s commitment to this great initiative put forward a few years ago and for which the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupation, for which I am responsible, is associate. Improving the living conditions of our seniors means contributing to their development as individuals in the community. It means assuming together a responsibility that challenges us all in order to make Quebec a place where it is good to age, ”said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
“This project, like many others that are emerging in all regions of Quebec, confirms the priority that our government gives to the quality of life of seniors. I would like to salute the initiative of the municipality and those in charge of the community hall as well as the efforts made to carry out this project, which allows seniors and people with disabilities to enjoy safe access to the community hall while at the same time. offering an enriching and stimulating place of leisure, ”added Minister Hébert.
The project consists of carrying out the work required to secure the premises and allow the elderly and the disabled to access the community hall. The main works include the replacement of the main entrance door, the installation of an exterior access ramp and two bathrooms accessible to people with reduced mobility, the installation of integrated furniture, including counters and the taps, as well as various additional works. These modifications and additions will promote optimal functioning while allowing everyone to enjoy the community hall.
The PIQM-MADA has an annual envelope of $ 3 million from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, reserved for the financing of infrastructure meeting the needs of seniors. For the first two years of the program, 89 projects from across Quebec benefit from this envelope, which is only accessible to municipalities engaged in the Age-friendly Municipality initiative. These investments are part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. The PIQM-MADA program is also an action included in the Aging and Living Together policy, at home, in one&#39;s community, in Quebec.
Today, with the support of 579 municipalities or MRCs, the MADA process was implemented in Quebec by the Secrétariat aux abîmes in 2008 and continues under the responsibility of the minister responsible for seniors and the minister of health and social services. This approach is inspired by an approach developed by the World Health Organization (WHO), and the model it proposes was designed to allow citizens to age while remaining active in their communities. The collaboration of the entire community is one of the winning conditions of the process, but it could not be fully successful without the participation of the seniors themselves and that of the local organizations that represent them. Quebec is considered by the WHO as the most advanced society in the world in the application of this approach based on the adaptation of municipal policies and services to the aging of the population.
