Rouyn-Noranda– The Member for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Labor, Mr. Gilles Chapadeau, is proud to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister des Transports and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, that the City of Rouyn-Noranda will receive a financial contribution of $ 588,390 for the replacement of drinking water, wastewater and stormwater pipes. This assistance is granted under the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
More specifically, this contribution will be used to replace drinking water, wastewater and stormwater pipes under several sections of Chemin Tremoy in the City of Rouyn-Noranda. In total, more than three hundred meters of water pipes will be renewed.
“I am very happy with the financial support granted today to the City of Rouyn-Noranda for the implementation of this water infrastructure work. Our government is aware of the need to renew and develop water infrastructure in communities across Quebec. This is why it works in partnership with the invaluable partners that are the municipalities, in order to allow access to quality public services for all, and this, with a view to sustainable development, ”said MP Gilles. Hat.
Completion of this project requires government financial assistance of $ 588,390, under component 1.5 of the PIQM. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this component of the PIQM program not only ensures the sustainability of infrastructure, but also improves the quality of life of the population and creates many jobs in all areas. regions of Quebec.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make informed choices.
