Quebec - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is pleased to announce the award of grants totaling five million dollars over three years under the Program university-college linkage. The sums granted will enable twelve universities and twenty-six colleges to carry out 16 projects in partnership, in particular promoting the development of educational tools, the sharing of expertise and research.
Following the results obtained in the past and in view of the importance of strengthening collaboration between higher education institutions, the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, and Minister Duchesne announced, on the occasion of the Summit on Education that the University-College Collaboration Program launched in 2008 is replaced by the University-College Linkage Program. It will henceforth benefit from an envelope of $ 15 million, starting in 2014-2015.
“Thanks to the links between universities and colleges, communities can benefit from both the expertise and the synergy of these two levels of higher education. That is why we decided at the Higher Education Summit to triple the envelope for this program. We are convinced that better cooperation between research groups from colleges and universities will facilitate the advancement and transfer of knowledge, ”said Minister Duchesne.
The objective of this program will remain the same, that is to say to increase the synergy between universities and public and private colleges. New orientations, such as DEC-BAC agreements, integrated programs and cooperative studies, will henceforth be part of the program.
Minister Pierre Duchesne announces $ 5M for the completion of 16 projects in 2013-2014 and a commitment of $ 15M for next year // © Joël Bouchard
While at the University of Quebec, the Minister unveiled the project presented by three institutions in this network and by six colleges in the regions of Abitibi-Témiscamingue, Bas-Saint-Laurent and Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean. . The latter pooled their knowledge and experiences to develop initiatives related to the educational development of first generation students (EPGs), that is to say those whose parents did not go to college or university.
Based on the results of the work and experiments that will be carried out by this community of practice, an intervention model with EPGs will be created in order to intervene in the most sensitive moments of their school career, from the 2nd cycle of primary school. up to the graduate level of the university.
“In regions like Abitibi-Témiscamingue where part of the economy is based on the exploitation of natural resources, the importance of education is unfortunately not fully understood. The promotion and accessibility of higher education therefore remain key issues. Our institutions welcome a majority of first generation students and we must support them in their study project and give them the means to succeed. Thus, we will help train highly qualified professionals, essential to the development of our regions, ”added the rector of the University of Quebec in Abitibi-Témiscamingue, Ms. Johanne Jean, who took part in this announcement.
It should be noted that first-generation students are found in all Quebec university educational establishments. According to the ICOPE survey (Indicators of conditions for continuing studies), carried out by the University of Quebec in 2011, they represent from 53% to 72% of students enrolled in the first year of the baccalaureate in its network, 31% of students enrolled in English-speaking universities and 46% in other French-speaking universities.
“The partner institutions in this project have decided to jointly invest their efforts and expertise to identify interventions that correspond to the profile and needs of first generation students. This project will ultimately help to increase the participation of the Quebec population in higher education, as well as to promote access to studies for anyone who has the will and the skills, ”said Sylvie Beauchamp, President of the University. of Quebec.
Minister Pierre Duchesne with Kévin Bouchard who testified as a first generation graduate. He is a doctoral student in information science and technology. // © Joël Bouchard
“Over the past few months, I have repeatedly mentioned the importance of first generation graduates who open the door to subsequent generations. I am a first generation graduate. I know how it made my mom and dad proud. It is important to multiply this kind of situation. This is why I congratulate the partner establishments for this great initiative. Having a diploma opens the doors to knowledge. I was able to measure, and still measure, what effect this has had on my life. That is why at the Higher Education Summit, I repeatedly stressed the importance of expanding knowledge. Our mission must be to bring knowledge to more people. A society mobilized in this direction can only enrich itself socially and economically, ”concluded Minister Duchesne.
For more information on the Department&#39;s programs and services, visit www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca.
