Quebec - The member for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, and the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for social services and youth protection, Jean- François Lisée, welcome the opinion of the Québec Ombudsman on incidental health and social services costs published today. MEPs demand that the Minister of Health renounce legalizing and extending the surcharges imposed on patients.
“We are asking the Minister of Health to listen to the Québec Ombudsman and to give up his desire to charge patients for insured services while guaranteeing an additional profit margin for physicians. We fully agree with the protector, Ms. Raymonde Saint-Germain, who affirms, in her report, that &quot;this way of doing things risks contributing to the emergence of a two-speed system: a fast track in the clinic for those who have the means to pay and a slow lane leading to the hospital for others &quot;, and that&quot; any change which aims to legalize direct billing to users, for incidental costs for which physicians participating in the public plan are already paid, and for certain services not covered by the public plan, constitutes an unfair avenue &quot;. The minister must give up once and for all to make pay yet another increase in the remuneration of doctors by patients ”, declared the deputies.
Several other extracts from this opinion confirm the concerns of groups and actors in the health network and civil society who have risen up in recent months to denounce the liberal strategy, in particular:
“Direct billing to users of costs incidental to insured services compromises the principles of universality and accessibility at the base of the public system. In fact, financial barriers would be introduced here which would limit access to medically required insured services. Affecting the entire population, these constraints would further penalize certain [more vulnerable] segments of the population ”(page 5).
&quot;The reflection on the incidental costs of the Minister of Health and Social Services must be done in full transparency and openness [and] this reflection cannot progress through closed-door mechanisms, ignoring the public interest in its view. wider ”(page 21).
“This voice is not the least: it is that of the ombudsman for all Quebecers. It must be heard by the government and, in this sense, we invite all citizens and all Liberal members to put pressure on the minister to bring him to his senses. For the Parti Québécois, there is no doubt that the only viable solution is, as recommended by Ms. Saint-Germain, to completely prohibit the billing of incidental costs to patients, ”concluded the deputies.
