Quebec - The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the transport spokesperson for the Parti Québécois, Alain Therrien, today deplored that members of the Liberal government voted against the establishment of &#39;&#39; a parliamentary commission on the Metropolitan Electricity Network (REM), a project piloted by the Caisse de dépôt et placement (CDPQ Infra).
“In light of the testimony of experts, the elected representatives of the National Assembly had the opportunity to discuss the largest investment project that Quebec could experience in the 21st century, the REM, a project of nearly $ 6 billion. from the Caisse de dépôt. A parliamentary commission would have enabled us to clarify the impacts of the project, in particular for future users and taxpayers. But the government decided that would not take place. Is he trying to hide the fact that the REM will ultimately have to be heavily subsidized, when he had promised otherwise? », Asks Jean-François Lisée.
“Is it a good idea to invest in a major public transit project in Montreal? Obviously yes !, continued the leader of the official opposition. But are the Liberals managing the finances of this project well? That is not clear. And to refuse to hold a parliamentary committee on the REM is to refuse to clarify the situation. We denounce this lack of transparency. &quot;
A new tax 450
“We have been asking questions about the REM project for several weeks. In the National Assembly, the Ministers of Transport and Finance remain unable to answer them. However, the project raises several concerns, including that concerning the financial package. In fact, the government had promised that the REM would not receive any subsidy from the government of Quebec or the municipalities; what about the new liberal tax imposed on 450? A sum of $ 32 million will have to be assumed by the citizens of the northern and southern suburbs of Montreal: that means $ 30 per inhabitant in Laval, $ 66 in Chambly, $ 71 in Châteauguay. In short, not only will the REM be subsidized but, in addition, it will be through a new tax passed on to the citizens of 450! The government must abandon this idea, ”added Alain Therrien.
&quot;Added to all this is the fact that Hydro-Québec must contribute $ 300 million,&quot; added the leader of the official opposition. So each Hydro user, whether they live in Saguenay, Abitibi, or anywhere else in Quebec, will pay for the REM. Let&#39;s recap: the first layer of the cake is Hydro? Quebec. The second, the liberal tax 450. Let us not forget the third floor, at a cost of approximately $ 200 million, that the cities will share to subsidize the REM. In short, the questions are numerous; the Liberals must reverse their decision and agree to a parliamentary committee. &quot;
The motion rejected by the Liberal government reads as follows:
“That the Committee on Transportation and the Environment study as soon as possible the Metropolitan Electric Network project of the Caisse de dépôt et placement;
That to this end, the commission hear all the persons and all the organizations that it deems necessary to convene;
That the organization of the mandate be entrusted to the members of the commission;
Finally, that this motion be an order of the National Assembly. &quot;
