Quebec - “The masks have fallen: the Liberal government is in favor of the aerodrome project in Neuville. The deputy Michel Matte will have a hard time explaining to the citizens of Neuville the major rebuff he inflicts on his fellow citizens, having been unable to convince his Prime Minister and his fellow Liberal deputies to vote a motion of the National Assembly that could have been put an end to the controversial aerodrome project ”.
This is what the member for Taschereau and official opposition spokesperson for the Capitale-Nationale, Agnès Maltais, said, denouncing the government&#39;s refusal to support a motion to prevent Hydro-Québec from connecting the aerodrome project.
The motion read as follows:
“That the National Assembly order Hydro-Québec not to supply or deliver electricity to the Neuville Aerodrome operated by the Neuville Aéro company. Let this motion become an order of the Assembly. &quot;
It was at the invitation of Hydro-Québec&#39;s president and CEO, Thierry Vandal, that the Parti Québécois presented this motion today. Mr. Vandal indicated in a parliamentary committee last week that with a motion from the National Assembly in hand, Hydro-Quebec could not connect the aerodrome, a project rejected by a majority of citizens.
“Contrary to the assertions of the Minister of Laval-des-Rapides, Alain Paquet, the current law authorizes Hydro-Québec not to supply electricity to a customer or a potential customer. The Liberal government refuses to use the law. It is inexplicable, ”declared, for his part, the member for Marie-Victorin and official opposition critic for energy and Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Bernard Drainville.
He cited paragraph 1 of article 12.3 of Hydro-Québec&#39;s conditions of electricity service which states:
_ “(…) Hydro-Québec refuses to supply or deliver electricity or interrupts service or delivery in the following cases:
1o a federal, provincial or municipal body having jurisdiction in the matter orders it. &quot;_
“The motion was clear: we wanted Parliament to order Hydro-Québec not to supply electricity, as provided for by law. The Liberals refused. We must therefore conclude that they are now in favor of the aerodrome project. Once again, the private interest comes before the collective interest. It&#39;s shameful, ”concluded Agnès Maltais and Bernard Drainville.
