Sherbrooke– The Member for Sherbrooke and Vice-President of the Committee on Public Administration, Mr. Serge Cardin, announced, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb , the allocation of financial assistance of $ 400,000 for the realization of a thermoelectric power plant demonstration project valued at $ 2,876,000.
Thanks to the Support Program for the Development of Strategic Sectors and Niches of Excellence, Rackam, the University of Sherbrooke and Cascades, all three project partners, will be able to develop and offer a clean, sustainable and profitable technological solution by ahead of solar energy. This project is part of the niche of excellence of the Quebec Electronic Systems Industry (CISEQ), formerly known as MicroTeQ-10.
&quot;I am very proud to be able to underline the efforts and the commitment of companies in our region which actively participate in the ACCORD process,&quot; said Serge Cardin. “Today&#39;s announcement clearly proves our region&#39;s ability to mobilize, innovate and stand out in a niche of excellence that will allow Quebec to become a leader in clean energy. &quot;
The project targets three demonstrations of thermoelectric power stations and the creation of two combined solutions potentially marketable within two years. All of this will have the unique benefit of allowing the generation of electrical energy that can be postponed over time, in particular by storing heat, which opens the way to clean electricity production. The team in place will carry out the demonstrations in stages and the first two installations will be located on the site of the University of Sherbrooke.
“In recent years, Quebec has embarked on the path of sustainable development,” said Élaine Zakaïb. “Our government has adopted several policies and implemented tools to promote the use of clean and renewable energies and the development of a green economy. With today&#39;s announcement, the Eastern Townships are clearly part of the creation of a green and prosperous Quebec. &quot;
The ACCORD approach (Concerted action for regional development cooperation), created in 2002, is a priority of government action aimed at boosting the economy of the regions of Quebec. It is based on regional strengths, the mobilization and dynamism of regional business people, as well as on the search for excellence in key sectors of Quebec. It aims to build a competitive regional production system on a North American and global level in each region of Quebec, by defining and developing niches of excellence that can become their brand image.
&quot;CISEQ wishes to favor the collaboration of innovative companies and cutting-edge researchers in order to create and market new technological applications&quot;, underlined Mr. Érik Michaelsen, co-president of the ACCORD niche. &quot;A similar project, resulting from the collaboration of partners, contributes to the vision we have for the niche, which is to ensure that Quebec is recognized as a world-class pole of excellence in the development and manufacture of systems. electronic ”, mentioned Mr. Normand Bourbonnais, co-president of the ACCORD niche.
The Université de Sherbrooke welcomes more than 30,000 students, including more than 14,000 full-time. The faculty numbers more than 2,300 people, including lecturers as well as clinical teaching professors. The establishment maintains a balance between its teaching and research missions. It achieves this by contributing to the evolution of Quebec society through the quality and innovative nature of its training programs, the high level of its research work, the exercise of its critical function and its participation in socio-economic development. of his community.
Rackam is a company specializing in the realization of innovative technical projects linked in particular to solar technologies and energy efficiency. Its team is responsible for planning, designing and promoting promising projects that promote the growth of businesses, while offering them a global energy solution. Rackam is building the world of tomorrow by prioritizing the development and implementation of clean, profitable and efficient technologies for today&#39;s needs.
&quot;We are very happy to be able to count on the support of the government for this investment project&quot;, declared Mr. Mathieu Chagnon, president of Rackam. “One of our missions is to complete partnerships that promote a paradigm shift in large-scale energy production and consumption. The collaboration announced today will once again enable continuous improvement of the systems and services we can offer. &quot;
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
