Quebec - In anticipation of the consultations on Bill 86 on the reform of school organization, the leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the Parti Québécois spokesperson for education, Alexandre Cloutier , asked the Liberal government to put things right and to agree to hear from the key players in the education network, including school boards.
“This is a fundamental bill for the education network and the Minister intends to conduct the exercise without consulting all the players concerned. As soon as it was tabled, the Parti Québécois asked for general consultations to ensure that all stakeholders can come and speak in parliamentary committee. The government rejected the proposal out of hand, showing instead its intention to reduce the debate to a limited list of speakers. It does not make sense for any government to carry out such a major reorganization without hearing all the parties concerned, ”declared the leader of the official opposition.
“&#39;All players&#39; means school boards as well. For example, the Commission scolaire de Montréal and the Commission scolaire English-Montréal have respectively more than 112,000 students in 191 establishments and more than 38,000 students in 89 establishments. The least thing would have been to give them the opportunity to be heard. Not giving them the chance to express themselves is representative of the management in isolation of the Liberal government, ”added Alexandre Cloutier.
“We are shocked by the fact that the government refuses to engage in dialogue with the English-speaking community. He rejects the participation of English-language school boards in the consultations, which is nonsense. If it wishes to reform the governance of school boards, the Government of Quebec must respect the rights of the English-speaking minority, and invite them to participate in the consultations, ”continued Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“We are calling on the government to take regional diversity into account. It must ensure that the school boards of each region have the opportunity to come together to come and present their own realities in parliamentary committee, ”for his part insisted Alexandre Cloutier.
The member for Lac-Saint-Jean reiterated, moreover, that the priority of the Parti Québécois in education remains the success of our students, and that this requires a reinvestment in the services offered to them, as well as the hiring of staff. support to support our teachers. “Nothing in the intermixing of structures proposed by Minister Blais will be able to compensate for the disaster caused by the recent cuts to our education network. If he wants to help our young people to succeed, the Minister must imperatively review his strategy, ”concluded the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois.
