Québec, February 26, 2021 - Sylvain Gaudreault, MP for Jonquière and Parti Québécois energy spokesperson, is concerned about the impact that the LNG Québec natural gas liquefaction plant project could have on Quebecers&#39; electricity bill. Indeed, according to the Union des consommateurs, the industrial complex will require electricity that Hydro-Québec does not have, which, inevitably, will cause prices to rise. Under these conditions, does the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, Jonatan Julien, continue to support the project?
IN SHORT
Through a letter, the Union des consommateurs made known its opposition to the LNG Quebec project, arguing that the start-up of the natural gas liquefaction plant in 2027 will cause a &quot;tariff shock&quot; for Quebec women. and Quebecers connected to Hydro-Quebec. The organization explains that the plant will consume around 5 terawatt-hours (TWh) annually upon commissioning, a huge amount of electricity that Hydro-Quebec has not yet included in its supply plan.
“In clear terms, this means that Hydro-Québec will not necessarily have the energy to supply the plant - let us remember that the state-owned company predicts that in 2027, it will no longer have any surplus electricity. . What to do then? In all likelihood, resorting to calls for tenders to obtain electricity at a high price, ”explained the member for Jonquière.
According to calculations by the Union des consommateurs, which take into account the fact that the plant would have access to a preferential hydroelectricity tariff, the shortfall that the state corporation or the government will have to make up could amount to some $ 300 million per year between 2027 and 2030. But, subsequently, Hydro-Québec will be authorized to pass the bill on to consumers. The organization underlines in passing that its estimates, cautious, do not even include the electricity needs of the gas pipeline of 780 kilometers connected to the plant.
“It is as if all of a sudden, we added a city of 250,000 inhabitants to the network. Hydro-Quebec customers - that&#39;s a lot of people, that - can therefore expect to see their electricity bill increase by 4% as of 2030. While normally the increase is capped at 2% annually, ”a recalled Sylvain Gaudreault.
The MP believes that it would be much more judicious to use our hydroelectricity to supply future projects that will further contribute to the energy transition and the fight against climate change. “LNG Quebec will consume a huge amount of our clean energy to transform fossil fuels, and in addition risks subjecting Quebec consumers to a significant price shock. I want to know what Minister Julien thinks about it; Does he still support this white elephant from another era? », He concluded.
– 30 –
SOURCE :
Laura Chouinard-Thuly
Press Officer
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois
514 880-9594
Laura.Chouinard-Thuly@assnat.qc.ca
