Quebec - “The Prime Minister is still showing today his lack of respect for institutions and his closeness to any discussion. This is what the member for Rousseau and the Parti Québécois spokesperson for finances and revenue, Nicolas Marceau, said about the pressure on the opposition parties to quickly adopt the bill. Law 38, An Act to allow the construction of infrastructures by the Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec. His colleague, MP for Chicoutimi and parliamentary leader, Stéphane Bédard, agrees.
“The Prime Minister goes above and beyond. During the gag order on Bill 28, increasing the tariffs for childcare services and amending nearly 60 laws, there had only been ten hours of study article by article. This time around, there wasn&#39;t even a single minute of studying the articles! », Continued Nicolas Marceau.
Bill 38 has barely completed the public consultation stage. About fifteen groups came to present their constructive recommendations. “Philippe Couillard is closed to any improvement to his bill. However, the groups have proposed several, whether we think of transparency regarding the pricing of future services, expropriations - which are permitted by the bill - or linking with existing transport systems. The government must explain certain aspects of the bill that are not clear. This is what the clause-by-clause study is for, which, I would remind you, has not yet started, ”added the member for Rousseau.
“Instead of listening to himself talk, the Prime Minister should hear the citizens and groups who have come to present their recommendations to us. Obviously, he did not bother to read the memoirs, ”said Stéphane Bédard for his part.
It should be remembered that before being ratified, a bill must go through several stages: tabling, public consultations, clause-by-clause study, then final adoption. However, the government having 100% control of the parliamentary agenda, it alone decides when the consideration of clauses begins, which has not yet happened for Bill 38. “I will propose to the Prime Minister an information session on parliamentarism, ”added the member for Chicoutimi.
Independence of the Fund
By putting pressure on the rapid completion of public transit projects by the Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec, Philippe Couillard is clearly flouting his independence. “When the person who appoints the president and chief executive officer of the Caisse de dépôt et placement asks for the rapid implementation of projects and the equally rapid adoption of the bill, he plunges with both hands into the internal management of the Caisse. How will she now be able to refuse a project that would be unprofitable? », Concluded the member for Rousseau.
