Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank of Quebec, Élaine Zakaïb, today announced the payment of a non-refundable financial contribution of 5 million dollars to GMCR Canada, a subsidiary of the US company Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, specializing in the production and sale of coffee. The financial assistance will enable a $ 55 million modernization project to be carried out at its Montreal plant located in the Villeray – Saint-Michel – Parc-Extension borough, which the company has called the “Café Quartier”.
&quot;Innovation is at the heart of the success of GMCR Canada and its subsidiaries, and has significant spinoffs for the city and all of Quebec,&quot; said Pauline Marois. With this large-scale project, the company will create 180 jobs, thus exceeding 1,000 jobs for its Montreal facilities. These investments will make it possible to reduce the quantity of imported products and even to increase exports, which is in line with the objectives of food sovereignty and strengthens the agrifood sector. But above all, GMCR thus confirms its positioning on the North American scene, justifying the maintenance of its Canadian head office in Montreal. It is therefore with pride that we support it in its growth strategy. &quot;
The investment project aims to improve the productivity of the Saint-Michel plant, to diversify its range of products and to enable it to develop new markets. Among other things, the company wants to modernize its roasting and packaging facilities to adapt to new market realities, which tend towards the consumption of coffee in pods. The project also includes the creation of a processing room for flavored coffees and the addition of new packaging lines for new products such as hot chocolate.
&quot;GMCR Canada is a model in terms of manufacturing recovery,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. The company does not hesitate to invest in the modernization of its equipment, to increase its competitiveness, and in the development of new products, to adapt to the needs of consumers. These investments increase its competitiveness and strengthen its vitality. We are proud of its dynamism, which contributes to enhancing Montreal&#39;s reputation economically. &quot;
Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. and its Holding subsidiary GMCR Canada Inc. specialize in the production and distribution of coffee and beverages from well-known brands, such as Van Houtte®, Timothy&#39;s World Coffee® and Barista Prima®. GMCR also offers Keurig® One Serve Brewing Systems.
&quot;The support from the Government of Quebec will help us increase our production capacity and modernize our facilities to meet new market realities, particularly with regard to the increased demand for K-Cup® pods,&quot; said the President of GMCR Canada. , Sylvain Toutant. The completion of this project demonstrates our desire to distinguish ourselves in a market that offers excellent growth prospects. &quot;
