Québec, February 17, 2020 - The deputy for René-Lévesque and Parti Québécois spokesperson for the Conseil du trésor as well as in matters of finance, economy and digital strategy, Martin Ouellet, warns the president of the Conseil du trésor, Christian Dubé: his Bill 37, An Act mainly to establish the Center for Government Acquisitions and Infrastruc- tures of Technology Quebec, is likely to harm Quebec SMEs.
IN SHORT
Bill 37 aims in particular to achieve economies of scale by consolidating government purchases of supplies and services. It will abolish the Center de services sociaux du Québec and replace it with two entities, the Government Acquisitions Center - responsible for providing public organizations with goods and services - and Infrastructures technologie Québec - whose mandate is to support public organizations. in their digital transformation, among others. “Once again, the government is trying to pass a catch-all bill, which is scattered and has many loopholes. The first thing to do would have been to split it, ”said Martin Ouellet.
With regard to the Government Acquisitions Center, a regulatory impact analysis of the bill, dated last September, clearly warns the Treasury Board: it states in full that &quot;there is a risk that SMEs will not be able to bid on certain tenders because they will not have the resources to meet demand. As a result, this could lead to a reduction in their access to public procurement ”. And the bill does not provide for any measure to counter this perverse effect.
To illustrate his point, the member used a very concrete example. “A Baie ‑ Comeau company, Librairie Côté, fears losing more sales, which has already borne the brunt of a first wave of centralization of purchases when the CISSS was created. &quot;
“I am asking the President of the Conseil du trésor to amend his bill so that it does not represent a threat to SMEs in Quebec. Weakening what constitutes the heart of our economy, in all regions, is certainly not a good idea, ”concluded the spokesperson.
