Québec, December 8, 2019 - Sylvain Gaudreault, MP for Jonquière and Parti Québécois energy spokesperson, as well as René-Lévesque MP and parliamentary leader, Martin Ouellet, denounced the gag order adoption of the Bill 34, An Act to simplify the process for establishing electricity distribution rates.
IN SHORT
Martin Ouellet describes the course of Bill 34 as a “fiasco”. “The debate could not be more serious, but the CAQ government has made it a symbol of partisanship and arrogance. I would like to remind him that the three opposition groups, consumer associations, employers, unions and even FADOQ are united against this bill. We proposed to split the bill in two, to avoid the gag order, but the government is stubbornly, ”recalled the member for René ‑ Lévesque.
“By making a boucane show with a petition filed by the member for Saint-Hyacinthe while she was in opposition, the CAQ had undertaken to reimburse Quebecers for Hydro-Quebec overpayments, estimated at $ 1.5 billion, continued his colleague Sylvain Gaudreault. However, that is not at all what this bill does, despite what Minister Julien claims. The truth is that citizens will only receive a third of this sum next year, and that the increase in tariffs, for the years to follow, will be substantially higher than what the Régie de l&#39;énergie allowed in the past. Another broken promise! And that will cost Quebecers $ 600 million, ”he denounced.
The spokesperson goes even further, accusing the Prime Minister of not telling the truth. “In reality, if he really wanted to reimburse the overpayments, François Legault would absolutely not need Bill 34. In fact, the gag only serves to impose the Caquist reform and to prevent the Régie of energy to grant lower electricity tariffs, ”he continued.
&quot; That is true; if the government had the will, it would pay the billion and a half overpayments directly to Quebec families before Christmas. He doesn&#39;t need the bill for that, and families would know what to do with the money. But he was stubborn, once again, in addition to having mismanaged his parliamentary calendar, ”added Martin Ouellet.
