Quebec - The Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, denounces the decision of the Liberal Party and the CAQ to oppose the adoption in principle of the draft mining law.
“We witnessed a very sad spectacle, the Liberal and Caquist deputies rose to deny the principle of one of the most awaited bills. So much irresponsibility on the part of the opposition parties is beyond me. They sabotaged a necessary bill and are helping to fuel uncertainty in this key sector of the Quebec economy, ”deplores Martine Ouellet.
The Caquists who said they wanted a quick adoption did an about-face. “As for the CAQ, it&#39;s a major turnaround. Once again, the members of the CAQ betray their commitment by affirming one thing and voting its opposite, ”added the Minister of Natural Resources.
While provinces like New Brunswick, Nova Scotia and Newfoundland have already followed modern legislation on transformation, the opposition condemns Quebec to the status quo. “We have been working from the start with stakeholders in the mining sector, environmental groups, municipalities and citizen groups to improve government action in the areas of exploration, exploitation and processing. We have proposed a realistic and modern project that responds to today&#39;s reality. Unfortunately, the Liberal members a priori defend the interests of their own party, while we defend the interests of all Quebeckers. This misplaced partisanship harms an entire industry and its workers for unjustifiable reasons, ”said Martine Ouellet.
For the Government of Quebec, it is important that clear rules be put in place. Bill 43 offered stability, predictability and acceptability. There is an unequivocal consensus among the population for the Mining Act to be modernized. “At the demands of the opposition and several groups, I have repeatedly shown my openness to making changes to improve the bill. In particular, on the question of transformation, where I undertook to table an amendment in order to clarify that it was about an opportunity and market study that we wanted. I also affirmed my desire to see two committees set up, namely an environmental monitoring committee and a committee for the maximization of economic spinoffs. I am also committed to reviewing the power of the Minister following the adoption of the development plan by the regional county municipalities (MRC). Finally, I reiterated my desire to better define consultations with Aboriginal communities by observing what the Sustainable Forest Development Act does in the area, ”recalled Martine Ouellet.
Let us recall that Bill 43 incorporates nearly 80% of the articles presented in Bills 14 and 79 of the former government, to which are added elements for transformation, for municipal power and for the environment. The legislative process provides that, after the adoption of the principle, the detailed clause-by-clause study allows parliamentarians to discuss and propose amendments to the Minister. “What saddens me is to see this important debate be personalized. The opposition attacks against me show a flagrant lack of arguments against what we are proposing in the bill. The Liberals just could not accept seeing us succeed where they failed twice. I believe that Quebeckers deserve better than the petty politics proposed by the Liberals and the Caquists, ”said the Minister.
Earlier this week, during the announcement of the Foreign Trade Development Plan, the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade very clearly established the mining sector as a strategic sector. The Minister noted the importance of this sector responsible for a quarter of Quebec exports and which generates tens of thousands of direct and indirect jobs in all regions of Quebec. “To maintain our attractiveness abroad, we had the duty to adopt clear rules, however the oppositions decided otherwise. The government will therefore have to react to the lack of vision inflicted by the Liberals&#39; economic obstruction, ”concludes Martine Ouellet.
