Saguenay– The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, accompanied by the Minister responsible for Government Administration and Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region , Mr. Stéphane Bédard, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced the payment of a $ 600,000 grant to the company Nordia inc. for the establishment, in the city of Saguenay, of a customer service center scheduled to open in the spring of 2014. This project, estimated at more than $ 7 million, will create 462 jobs in the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region.
“I am very enthusiastic about the upcoming arrival in downtown Jonquière of a Nordia customer service center. This company is one of the leaders in the implementation of call centers and its presence here will contribute to the economic dynamism of the region, in addition to creating hundreds of jobs likely to interest workers of all ages. », Declared Sylvain Gaudreault.
Founded in 1999, Nordia operates in the telecommunications sector. A subsidiary of Bell, it provides telephone support services to its parent company&#39;s customers. Nordia currently operates seven centers located in different regions in Quebec and elsewhere in Canada.
“What we are announcing today are jobs for families here. The establishment of this company in the telecommunications sector is very good news for the creation of wealth in Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean. We are very pleased with the concerted efforts made by the Bell subsidiary, the government and the other partners. We salute the choice of the company, and the work of Mr. Luc Vandal and his team who made the project happen today, ”said Stéphane Bédard.
&quot;Our government is supporting the implementation of job-creating projects, such as the future Nordia customer service center in Saguenay,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb.
&quot;By making public the Economic Policy - Priority employment and its four flagship measures, in particular the one aimed at stimulating investment by individuals and businesses, our government strongly reaffirmed that the creation of sustainable jobs throughout Quebec was a priority,&quot; added the minister.
&quot;Bell continually invests in Quebec and is extremely proud to increase its presence in Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, in accordance with its commitment to offer the best communications networks and an unparalleled customer experience&quot;, declared Ms. Martine Turcotte, vice -executive president, Quebec, of Bell. “Thanks to the excellent collaboration of all levels of government, we are now creating more than 450 new positions in Saguenay. Bell, which currently employs 18,000 Quebecers, is continuing to grow in Quebec. &quot;
For more information on the Economic Policy - Priority Employment, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueeconomique.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
