Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Bank of Economic Development of Quebec, Élaine Zakaïb, announced the award non-repayable financial support of $ 10 million to Ericsson Canada, the Canadian subsidiary of the multinational Ericsson, for the establishment of an information and communications technology center in Vaudreuil-Dorion, in the greater region from Montreal.
The company will benefit from Hydro-Québec&#39;s L rate, an advantageous rate granted to large-scale projects, and could also be entitled to the 10-year tax holiday, announced in the budget speech, for investment projects. &#39;at least $ 300 million.
The project announced today will create 60 new engineering positions and consolidate 200 jobs in the R&amp;D sector. In addition, it will generate investments of more than $ 1 billion over the next three years. Let us recall that in January 2013, on the occasion of the Davos Summit, within the framework of a working meeting with Mr. Hans Vestberg, world president of the multinational Ericsson, the Prime Minister had defended the candidacy of Quebec as a place of establishment of a new information and communications technology center.
“This decisive meeting made it possible to highlight Quebec&#39;s strengths with Ericsson and, today, I am delighted with the impact of the establishment of this new information and communications technology center for the metropolis and Quebec, said Pauline Marois. This project is a recognition of our strengths and a mark of confidence in the strength of our economy. It is undoubtedly a testament to Quebec&#39;s power of attraction for major investment projects. The economic development and influence of Quebec are our priorities, and my government will take all measures to increase private and foreign investment ”.
&quot;The great availability of hydroelectricity, a renewable energy, is without any doubt one of the major assets of Quebec and makes it a privileged place for the implementation of this project,&quot; declared Minister Nicolas Marceau. Combined with the expertise of our workforce in information and communications technologies, this energy wealth contributes to the development of a competitive Quebec cloud computing sector and sustainable development for Quebec. &quot;
&quot;The completion of this project will stimulate the development of cloud computing in Quebec, a field of the future that promises to bring changes in several sectors of activity and which could become a major driver of the Quebec technology industry. &#39;information and communications,&#39; said Minister Delegate Élaine Zakaïb.
Cloud computing is a computer model where processing traditionally carried out on local servers or on client workstations is outsourced to remote servers.
