Quebec - As the special consultations on Bill 20 begin today, the member for Taillon and official opposition spokesperson for health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, denounces the attitude of Minister of Health and Social Services, Gaétan Barrette, who refuses to table the draft regulations giving the true portrait of Bill 20.
“The consultations have barely started and the minister is still blindly applying the same power play strategy, keeping the real scenario to himself. The minister already mentioned, on February 9, the possibility of once again gagging the opposition and all those who do not think like him. This morning, we learned that the FMOQ and the Barreau du Québec have requested more time to better prepare to appear before a parliamentary committee. The minister, for his part, does not see why we could not pass the bill before June. Always the same rush and the same bulldozer operating. I invite the minister to take the time to listen to the groups that will come to speak to us in parliamentary committee. Maybe he will find out that he does not have the absolute truth, ”said Diane Lamarre.
In Bill 20, there are no less than 36 references to the future regulatory framework, and some of these regulations are not subject to the Regulations Act. However, it is there, among other things, that we will find the equations for calculating quotas and the attendance rate of physicians. However, these ratios, like their exceptions, are essential in measuring the scope of the bill. It should be remembered that the Minister has already avoided publication of the regulatory framework when it comes to Bill 10, despite criticism from the Québec Ombudsman.
“Bill 20 carries serious risks, not to improve access, but to make it more difficult for very ill people, especially older people who may need more time during a consultation and to have recourse to the emergency room more often. The minister is once again tabling an improvised bill which will nevertheless have serious consequences, not only for physicians, but also for patients to whom promises are made which are based only on eccentric mathematical assumptions; we have no guarantee that the population will be better protected. Infertile couples will also pay the price of this bill, since it slows down, on the sly, access to the assisted procreation program; moreover, this question should be treated separately from the rest, and we ask that the bill be split, ”added the deputy.
Lack of transparency
“In his opening speech last May, the Prime Minister made a commitment to transparency. Once again, we see that this promise was just hype. Last week, I tabled a motion asking the government to make public the draft regulations resulting from Bill 20 on quotas for physicians and assisted procreation; We will thus be able to have a real enlightened debate and allow groups to know the real content of the bill and to assess its impacts, ”added Diane Lamarre.
“Without this regulatory framework, we will play a riddle with the minister because the bill, in itself, contains very little decisive information as to its application. Adopting a bill is not making a mystery word where we only discover at the last minute the end of the game. We have before us a government that refuses to give all the information necessary to parliamentarians so that they can are debating a major bill. We ask for the promised transparency. The minister&#39;s refusal constitutes a lack of respect for all parliamentarians in this House and for all those who are directly affected by this bill, and there are many of them, ”concluded Member for Taillon.
