Québec - The MNA for Marie-Victorin and Official Opposition spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, as well as the MNA for Jonquière and spokesperson for sustainable development and the environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, demand from the Liberal government that it resume leadership in the TransCanada Energy East project.
“The abandonment of the oil port construction project is a great victory for the citizens of Quebec and Cacouna, with whom we have fought this long battle. However, this TransCanada decision reminds us that after several months, Quebecers still do not know the final route of the pipeline. The government must regain full control of the matter. The situation has gone on long enough, ”said Bernard Drainville.
In addition, the government has still not obtained the documents from TransCanada, which prevents it from starting the work of the BAPE. &quot;We ask the government to put pressure on the company so that it immediately submits to the Ministry of the Environment the complete documents that are necessary to trigger the consultations of the BAPE, because they must be held as quickly as possible,&quot; he added. declared Sylvain Gaudreault.
The government must indeed put its foot down and demand that TransCanada file, in particular, the final route of the pipeline and emergency plans in the event of an oil spill. &quot;How long will the government wait to find out about TransCanada&#39;s plans?&quot; In this cat and mouse game, it is up to the Government of Quebec to impose its rules, because it is our territorial integrity that is at issue here. In this matter, Quebec must stop falling behind TransCanada and the National Energy Board, ”added Bernard Drainville.
“We are also asking the government to call on Bill 390 so that Quebec becomes sovereign in environmental matters. It does not matter whether there is an oil port or not, it is up to Quebec, and therefore to Quebecers, to make the decisions as to what will or will not happen in their territory, ”concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
