Quebec - Taking stock of the first week of consultations on Bill 20, the member for Taillon and official opposition critic for health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, and the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesperson for the status of women, Carole Poirier, denounce Minister Gaétan Barrette&#39;s intention to create a real barrier to access to the assisted procreation program. Not only does the minister make a mistake by removing in vitro fertilization (IVF) from the basket of services paid for by the State, but he also errs by ruling, in a legislative text, on the criteria for access and the standards of good practice. medical conditions to be favored in terms of IVF.
“It is totally illogical for the Minister to legislate on the medical practices to be adopted, when the latter should rather be included in the guidelines prepared by the College of Physicians. These lines contain recommendations which, not being included in a law, can be modified and adapted quickly according to the constant evolution of scientific knowledge. We agree to add guidelines to the program but, in his bill, Minister Barrette goes too far and exceeds his area of jurisdiction, ”said Diane Lamarre.
The Association des obstétriciens et gynécologues du Québec correctly pointed out that a 45-year-old woman could have a much more favorable medical condition for successful IVF than a 35-year-old woman in less good health. . Yet the bill makes it outright illegal for a woman over 42 to use it, even if she wants to pay the costs. Let us recall that in his recommendations, in June 2014, the Commissioner for Health and Welfare had instead proposed that the decision to limit the age be taken in the light of several parameters, in order to avoid the perverse effects of a uniform age limit.
In a parliamentary committee on Wednesday, the patients&#39; lawyer, Me Jean-Pierre Ménard, also expressed fears about the minister&#39;s willingness to legislate on the number of sexual relations that an infertile couple should have before being able to legally resort to IVF. The Council for the Status of Women has also raised the case of homosexual couples, for whom the precondition of having sexual relations for a minimum of three years is a completely absurd access criterion.
“These provisions constitute an attack on women&#39;s freedom and are inconsistent with our charter of rights and freedoms. Minister Barrette should stop trying to give himself all the powers and leave it to clinical experts and women to judge the relevant criteria to be determined in order to resort to IVF. De-insuring the service is a choice we do not agree with, but it is legal. However, making the use of IVF illegal is unacceptable; this reflects a serious lack of judgment, ”concluded Carole Poirier.
