Quebec - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, vigorously denounces the attitude adopted by the opposition parties to the parliamentary committee responsible for studying the draft Law No. 45 on the legal constitution of the ministry.
Tabled on May 15, Bill 45 is made up of 208 articles, most of which constitute consequential amendments. Since that date, nearly 28 hours have been devoted in parliamentary committee to the study of this bill. Just over half of the articles were adopted. At this rate, it will take several weeks of study in parliamentary committee for the law to emerge that creates the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology.
“Obviously, the Liberals and Caquists are indulging in unfilibusteren rule for reasons that I do not understand. It is not a matter of politics here, but simply of giving legal existence to a new ministry created by a democratically elected government in September 2012, ”said Minister Duchesne.
This dam in good standing is likely to complicate things quickly when bills are tabled this fall to implement the reforms resulting from the work of the Summit on higher education. Without the legal existence of the Ministry, these reforms may even be compromised.
“I dare not believe that the goal sought by the Liberals and the Caquists is to undermine as much as possible the reforms that we want to put in place, largely based on the consensus that emerged at the Summit last winter. I dare not believe that the oppositions have given themselves an electoral agenda. I ask the leaders of the two opposition parties to bring their representatives on the parliamentary committee to their senses so that Bill 45 is quickly adopted for the common good of Quebecers, ”Minister Duchesne worried.
“My cabinet is always available to meet with opposition parties in order to take their observations into consideration and, if necessary, prepare amendment proposals. However, the Liberal Party of Quebec has always declined our invitations. &quot;
Watch Minister Pierre Duchesne&#39;s press conference.
Examples of similar bills
Act respecting the Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities
Law on the Ministry of Tourism
