Quebec - With its current source contaminated, the town of Waukesha, Wisconsin, plans to draw 40 million liters of drinking water daily from the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence Basin. The situation greatly worries the Parti Québécois spokesperson for sustainable development, the environment and the fight against climate change, Mathieu Traversy. It demands that Minister Heurtel be transparent by immediately revealing to Quebecers his position on the subject, as well as all the information and all the analyzes of the Government of Quebec in connection with this project.
“Have all the possibilities been evaluated to avoid this massive project of water transfer out of the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence watershed? What are the cumulative impacts of this project? David Heurtel has a duty to speak out, ”said Mathieu Traversy.
According to the MP, the Waukesha project would set a dangerous precedent under the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence River Basin Sustainable Water Resources Agreement. If it were to be authorized with Quebec&#39;s consent, it would pave the way for similar projects. Already, other cities are thinking about it very seriously.
“David Heurtel indicated that the government of Quebec would refuse to rule ... before the very last stage of decision. This is unacceptable! Can the minister show leadership and transparency, as requested by several Quebec municipalities, including Quebec, Salaberry-de-Valleyfield, Sorel-Tracy and now Montreal? Added the member for Terrebonne.
Currently, Quebecers are only minimally consulted by the Regional Council for Water Resources of the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River. “All that exists to inform the population of this consultation are four small paragraphs on a lost page of the website of the Ministry of the Environment. Is this the importance given by the minister to a project that threatens water resources? Asked Mathieu Traversy.
The minister has a duty to do more to consult the public. It should be remembered that the water law also includes the principles of transparency and public participation. The government is clearly violating these two essential principles of sustainable development. By refusing to speak out at this stage, Quebec is abdicating its responsibilities in terms of water protection. “We ask that David Heurtel file all the opinions produced by his ministry and those collected from other ministries. It must also publish on its website all the information available on this project, ”continued the member for Terrebonne.
The law on water provides that the government of Quebec must remain &quot;the guardian of the interests of the nation in the water resource&quot;. “Minister Heurtel has the duty to ensure the protection, restoration, development and management of water resources. We want it to learn lessons from flushgate and to prove that it can manage water properly, ”concluded Mathieu Traversy.
