Quebec - The member for Taillon and official opposition spokesperson for health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, deplores the fact that the Minister of Health and Social Services, Gaétan Barrette, made the arbitrary choice of withdrawing in vitro fertilization (IVF) treatments from the services provided by the public health insurance plan.
The deputy recalled that the minister made several setbacks following the representations of experts, patients and questions from the official opposition: on the age limit of 42 years beyond which he made IVF illegal, on the 3 years of obligatory sexual relations and on the elements falling under the treatment guidelines of the Collège des médecins du Québec. The spokesperson urges the minister to take another step.
“In Quebec, currently, 2.7% of births result from IVF. Common sense would be for the minister to at least allow infertile couples to have access to a first cycle of IVF while keeping it insured. In this way, we would avoid depriving many couples of the hope of starting a family. For many, advancing $ 10,000 for treatment is an insurmountable obstacle that means giving up having a child forever, ”said Diane Lamarre.
&quot;The Minister may say that he is trying to correct the gaps and abuses in the program, I would like to remind him that infertile couples are not the cause. If he is looking for someone to blame, I invite him to turn to his predecessor, Yves Bolduc, who failed to include beacons and ensure the planned control mechanisms, ”she continued. .
Diane Lamarre recalled that the Commissioner for Health and Welfare, who was given the mandate to evaluate the assisted procreation program and to make recommendations to reduce costs, never raised the possibility of withdrawing the IVF of the basket of insured services. On the contrary, even; its report mentions that “[t] he positive effects [of the assisted procreation program], as well as the risks linked to maintaining assisted procreation activities outside the health and social services system, mean that everything is necessary. implement to maintain the program and improve its performance. The Commissioner therefore recommends that the program be maintained ”.
“By withdrawing IVF from insured services, the Minister made a personal choice, without taking into account anybody&#39;s opinion. Can he put himself for a single minute in the shoes of an infertile middle-class couple? Today we extend our hand to him; he must accept our compromise and abandon the idea of making infertile couples pay the bill for liberal laxity, ”concluded the Member for Taillon.
