Quebec - The member for Sanguinet and official opposition spokesperson for the Conseil du trésor, Alain Therrien, deplores another aberrant consequence arising from the improvisation of Minister Gaétan Barrette with regard to Bill 10, adopted under gag.
Indeed, the severance payments of the 1,300 executives of the health network, whose positions were abolished by the structural reform, were poorly managed by Minister Gaétan Barrette. He forgot to indicate, in the last article specifying the date of entry into force of the law (April 1), that article 136 had to come into force on the date of assent (February 9). , so that executives can obtain severance pay of 12 months instead of 24 months, as the minister wanted.
“Barely a month after the adoption of the law, and even before its official entry into force, the minister is preparing to amend it by decree. He presented a badly put together bill, written on the corner of a table, passed in a hurry, under gag order. He realizes too late, thanks to the sharp eyes of the groups, that he was wrong about the date of entry into force of certain provisions of his bill. Once again, the minister shows contempt for managers and has no regard for them. They, however, are dedicated to health and believe in our network, ”said Alain Therrien.
“Will the savings promised by the minister be real? On the contrary, we believe that this structural reform will generate costs of more than half a billion dollars. What will be his next &quot;oversights&quot; causing costs or leading to a legal dispute? The minister never understood the importance of following the steps leading to the adoption of a law. His ways of doing things are deplorable; it is once again realized that the imposed gag order prevented the study of important articles in which there were inconsistencies. Bypassing the democratic process and the progress of a bill in this way can only lead to such consequences. Instead of interfering in the management of establishments, the minister should concentrate on tying up his bills and take the time to draft them rigorously, ”added the deputy.
Minister must step down
“This is further proof that the minister has to step down; his &quot;bulldozing&quot; methods only lead to clashes and mistakes that he must correct afterwards. When it is not blackmail and threats, it is improvisation as well as haste, and this greatly harms our health and social services network, ”concluded Alain Therrien.
