Quebec - The member for Terrebonne and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of the environment and the fight against climate change, Mathieu Traversy, denounces the exclusion of several groups and relevant stakeholders from the parliamentary committee on Bill no. 106, An Act respecting the implementation of the 2030 Energy Policy and amending various legislative provisions.
The deputy pointed out that certain excluded groups turned out to be concertation organizations or leading institutional players, such as the Sustainable Development Commissioner, the Table de concertation sur les hydrocaralités des Îles-de-la-Madeleine, the Regroupement des organizations de watersheds of Quebec, or the Assembly of First Nations of Quebec and Labrador. &quot;These organizations are essential because of their mandate, given by the government, their role in consultation with water stakeholders and their representativeness of the First Nations&quot;, he illustrated.
“In addition, despite the need to make decisions informed by science, several experts in the field have been put aside, such as the Institut des sciences de la mer de Rimouski, the international reference center on the life cycle of products. , processes and services, or the National Institute of Public Health of Quebec. Eminent professors, like Normand Mousseau, of the University of Montreal, will not be heard either, unlike others. However, it is vital to be based on science to make the best decisions, ”added the spokesperson.
Finally, several groups or national groups in the environmental sector should be heard, being involved in the debates surrounding hydrocarbons on a daily basis. Let us think in particular of the Saint-Laurent Coalition, the Quebec Association for the Fight against Atmospheric Pollution, Nature Quebec, the David Suzuki Foundation and Greenpeace. “These groups promote the achievement of the environmental objectives set by the government. It would be normal to let them speak, ”concluded Mathieu Traversy.
