Quebec - “The initiative of the member for Borduas, Pierre Curzi, is significant. This is tough work and a worthwhile process. We share the same concerns and the same goals. We must take much bolder action than those put forward by the Liberal government, which is showing negligence and complicity in the anglicization of Quebec. &quot;
It was in these terms that Drummond MP and spokesman for the official opposition on language, Yves-François Blanchet, reacted after a first reading of Bill 593 tabled in the Assembly today. by the independent MP for Borduas, Pierre Curzi.
Like Pierre Curzi, the Parti Québécois is very concerned about the situation of French in Quebec and particularly in Montreal. The member for Drummond notes that most of the proposals contained in this bill are included in the Parti Québécois program adopted by Congress in April 2011. However, other proposals are new and, according to Yves-François Blanchet, could merit consideration. possible more in-depth reflection on the part of government lawyers.
“The situation of French continues to deteriorate in Quebec, in full view of the government. Our language is declining in terms of signage and work in addition to still not being the main language of convergence for new Quebecers. Without the slightest fear of sanctions, municipalities and government corporations knowingly bypass Bill 101. As if that were not enough, the dossier presented by L&#39;actualité magazine on the Anglophone community&#39;s relationship with French has threw a cold shower on those who were still harboring illusions: French is still not the common language in Quebec and the Minister refuses to share a finding that is nevertheless obvious, ”explained Yves-François Blanchet.
Let us remember that the Parti Québécois has made a commitment to rewrite the Charter of the French language, to strengthen it and restore its spirit. “After 35 years of evolution in Quebec society and a record that is strongly marked by the repeated assaults of the Supreme Court of Canada, the exercise is as legitimate as it is necessary. In the best interests of all Quebecers, the Charter of the French language must be rewritten, and above all, applied, ”concluded the member for Drummond.
