Quebec - Jean-François Lisée, the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, underlined the end of the detailed study yesterday. of Bill 44, An Act to strengthen tobacco control.
“This law is a desirable addition to what Quebec has to reduce smoking and its harmful effects. We know that in Quebec, one in three hospitalizations is due to smoking, and one in two tobacco users will one day die of its consequences. Quebec had fallen considerably behind Australia, the United Kingdom, France and even other provinces. It was therefore important to make up for this delay. We also had the opportunity to take additional steps forward; unfortunately, our good momentum was hampered by the excessive timidity of the Couillard government, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
Several gains thanks to the work of the Parti Québécois
The Parti Québécois obtained several improvements to Bill 44. “First, the CEGEPs, universities and hospitals will have a certain delay so that their grounds gradually become smoke-free places, and support for smoking cessation will be there. Free. Likewise, we have obtained that tobacco companies can no longer retain convenience stores in order to promote the sale of tobacco products. In addition, smokers will now have to provide proof of photo identification, which was not the case in the minister&#39;s proposal. We also wanted to protect retailers and bar owners: they no longer bear an exaggerated responsibility. Finally, the maximum fine that can now be imposed on a retailer for a first offense has been reduced by half, from $ 125,000 to $ 62,500 ”, illustrated the spokesperson.
Missed opportunities
Unfortunately, the excessive timidity of the minister and the government will cause Quebeckers to miss out on great opportunities to advance in the fight against smoking. “Our proposal to impose a moratorium on all new tobacco products was rejected, as was the proposal to ban &#39;slim&#39; cigarettes, which are more attractive to girls. The government has also refused to regulate electronic cigarettes and their content, ”lamented Jean-François Lisée. He also recalled that public health budgets have been reduced by a third in the regions of Quebec. “In the United States, through a licensing system, tobacco companies fund tobacco control programs. We proposed this self-financing system to the government, but it refused, ”he continued.
In short, the law allows for some great progress, but it will surely not make Quebec a leader in the fight against smoking. &quot;The Liberal government missed a great opportunity to give Quebeckers a pioneering law that truly meets the real challenges in this matter,&quot; concluded the member for Rosemont.
