Québec– The member for Gouin and spokesperson for Québec solidaire, Françoise David, as well as the member for Saint-Jean and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in the areas of employment, social economy, the fight against poverty and Solidarity, Dave Turcotte, allowed groups that were excluded from special consultations and public hearings on Bill 70 to tell Minister Blais what they thought of his bill.
Denise Boileau, vice-president of the Syndicat de la function publique et parapublique du Québec (SFPQ), which represents employees of local employment centers, Claude Leblond, president of the Order of Social Workers and Marriage and Family Therapists of Quebec , and Jean-François Mary, coordinator of the Réseau Solidarité Itinérance du Québec (RSIQ), were categorical: this bill will do more harm than good to social assistance recipients. “Bill 70 will produce homelessness in Quebec, making a critical situation downright unlivable. It goes against the National Homelessness Policy and the resulting interministerial action plan, ”said Mr. Mary.
“For several years, cuts have multiplied in local employment centers and have had a direct impact on services. Rather than applying sanctions, the government should commit to guaranteeing access to appropriate measures and sustained support, in order to truly promote sustainable social and professional integration, ”Denise Boileau asked.
“For social workers, a bill that directly affects the most vulnerable must not only be inspired by the Act to combat poverty and social exclusion, but above all contribute to its implementation. It is a question of fairness and consistency. However, Bill 70 does not go in this direction, quite the contrary. This is why we are calling for its withdrawal and the implementation of measures aimed at the full integration of vulnerable people into society, ”added Claude Leblond.
“We were asking for general consultations and we find it unfortunate that certain groups were left out. Several of them, such as the SFPQ and the RSIQ, are the first to be affected by the bill. They are the ones who, for the most part, will reap the rewards, ”said Dave Turcotte.
“After having heard the testimonies of stakeholders who work directly with people on social assistance, we understand why the Minister did not want to receive them in parliamentary committee! Those who know the reality of the poorest people denounce workfare knowingly. I invite the minister to pull himself together: Bill 70 presents a simplistic solution to complex problems. Worse, the minister hopes to save money. Yet he is the Minister of Social Solidarity! Its mission is therefore to help impoverished people to live decently and to find the path to employability in a voluntary process, with all the necessary resources, ”considers Françoise David.
