Quebec - As the detailed study of Bill 10 resumes, the MNA for Taillon and official opposition critic for health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, recalls the requests and concerns that it will continue to formulate during the parliamentary committee.
“While Minister Gaétan Barrette continues to qualify our parliamentary work as obstruction, I would remind him that to argue is not to obstruct; it is to represent the concerns of the health and social services network. If he had consulted this network before writing his bill, it would contain a lot less ambiguities, random elements, and fewer corrections would have to be made. The Minister has also tabled 160 pages of amendments, which do little to address the well-founded concerns that were expressed. His draft, written quickly on a corner of the table and without consulting anyone, he wanted to implement it in a hurry, that is to say in less than 4 months; this will upset the entire network, ”said Diane Lamarre.
“The hypothetical savings predicted by the minister will never happen, on the contrary. This reform will cost at least 500 million, notably for change management, salary insurance and signage. We won&#39;t save any money. This will only result in a great disruption of the network, and it, for a few years, will not be able to concentrate on the essentials, namely the improvement of services and care, because its energy will be monopolized by this reform of structures and the unprecedented centralization it offers, ”added the deputy.
Demands aimed at improving access to care and services for Quebecers The MP recalls the gains that the Parti Québécois has obtained, after long discussions, and taking into account the minister&#39;s lack of openness to modify his law: first, there will be three CISSS in Montérégie; then, the CEOs will be appointed by the government and not by the minister alone; finally, institutions with a university mission in the social field will be recognized.
Diane Lamarre also reiterates the official opposition&#39;s demands:
the maintenance of local consultative bodies, respect for the citizen voice and the integration of local and regional actors in the management of establishments;
the balance between the “health” and “social services” fields of competence for each of the “CEO and Deputy CEO” duos;
the preservation of the current expertise and autonomy of the youth protection network;
the realistic and balanced distribution of powers between regional and ministerial bodies;
consideration of regional particularities, including geographic and demographic aspects, in the division of the proposed territory;
midwives must have a place on boards of directors;
“Our sole objective is to improve access to care for Quebecers, and we will continue our constructive work to ensure that concerns and criticisms are heard and understood by the Minister. Each of our interventions is documented and reflects the concerns expressed by citizens and groups. The Minister, for his part, only responds superficially and with contempt, ”she concluded.
