Quebec - Liberal Minister Serge Simard systematically blocks the study of Bill 14 on mines. Once again, he refuses the government to give itself the means to create wealth for Quebeckers. &quot;Instead of ensuring that it is the private companies who put the profits obtained by the exploitation of our natural resources into their pockets, the Liberal government should have the interests of Quebecers in mind,&quot; game the MNA for Vachon and official opposition critic for mines and shale gas, Martine Ouellet.
&quot;The Parti Québécois proposes that the government give itself the means, within the mining or gas lease, a contract which binds the government and the private enterprise, to include conditions to allow the creation of the maximum wealth&quot;, said the member for Duplessis, Lorraine Richard.
“It is important for all Quebeckers, even more so for workers in the North who see the development of mines as a means to collectively enrich themselves, that these means be taken. We do not understand that Minister Simard does not understand the population, ”she continued.
&quot;An amendment like the one we proposed yesterday would allow the government to include conditions for training local labor, processing ore, royalties, creating a regional economic diversification fund that would be profitable.&quot; for the regions, but also for all of Quebec, ”added Martine Ouellet.
“The Liberal government is taking all conceivable means to prevent the Parti Québécois from improving the mining bill. We are in good faith and Minister Simard is involved in procedural wars with the sole objective of gagging all our proposals aimed at regaining control of our natural resources. What interests does it serve? Very clearly, not those of Quebeckers, ”added Ungava MP Luc Ferland.
“It is all the same incredible that a minister refuses to give himself the means to enrich Quebec. Does Jean Charest prefer that the billions obtained through the exploitation of our natural resources end up in the pockets of private companies rather than sharing fair and equitable between the private and the community? For the Parti Québécois, it is essential to act now. Quebec cannot watch the train go by with metal prices reaching new heights and the current mining boom. It is time to change and allow Quebeckers to benefit from the exploitation of our natural resources, ”concluded Martine Ouellet.
