Quebec - Following the final adoption of Bill 55, An Act respecting transparency measures in the mining, oil and gas industries, the member for Matane-Matapédia and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on energy and of natural resources, Pascal Bérubé, denounces the lack of courage and will of the Liberal government and the Coalition Avenir Québec when it comes to transparency.
It should be recalled that the objective of Bill 55 was to establish transparency measures in the mining, oil and gas industries by making compulsory, for companies in these sectors, the declaration of payments made within the framework of projects related to the exploration and exploitation of our natural resources.
“Bill 55 was a great opportunity to make Quebec a forward-thinking society in terms of transparency. Unfortunately, the Liberals and the Caquists have systematically voted against all the proposals aimed at providing Quebeckers with as much information as possible on the exploration and exploitation of their natural resources. The Liberal will to bring more transparency was limited to the Canadian will; we haven&#39;t taken one more step! The government refused to extend the disclosure obligation to all exploration and extraction companies operating in Quebec. It also refuses to make mandatory the disclosure of any form of commitment made by the instigator of a project, despite an explicit request from the Quebec Mining Exploration Association, which wants the thresholds to be lowered. so that exploration SMEs are subject to disclosure obligations. The federal government sets a minimum base, but why settle for the minimum when the industry was ready to go further? Asked the spokesperson.
“The Liberal government went so far as to ignore the warnings and recommendations of the Auditor General, who came to share her concerns with us during consultations on the bill. The Minister for Mines has in fact rejected all the amendment suggestions which followed the recommendations of the VG and aimed at filling in the gaps in the bill. All the proposed improvements were systematically rejected in the name of harmonization with Canada. The Liberals voluntarily chose to pass a bill full of holes, with the help of the Coalition Avenir Québec, which voted against all of our amendments. And let us emphasize that once again, although saying it is in favor of transparency, Québec solidaire has chosen not to participate in the work, ”added the deputy.
“The lack of courage and will of the Liberal government and the Coalition Avenir Québec, when it comes to transparency, is disconcerting. Why deny Quebeckers access to as much information as possible on the exploration and exploitation of their natural resources? Unlike the Liberals and the Caquists, we believe that all exploration and exploitation companies operating in Quebec should be subject to disclosure obligations. Bill 55 remains a missed opportunity to introduce the best possible legislation for Quebecers. We are still going to support it, because it is a first step. But we are disappointed to see that the government and the CAQ are content with half measures, ”concluded Pascal Bérubé.
