Québec - Martine Ouellet, MP for Vachon and official opposition critic for transport, maritime strategy and transportation electrification, as well as the MP for Verchères and spokesperson for Canadian intergovernmental affairs , Stéphane Bergeron, announce the start of a tour on the dangers of transporting oil by train, which will be joined by the MP for Rimouski, Harold LeBel, and the MP for Matane and spokesperson for public safety, Pascal Bérubé , during its passage through Bas-Saint-Laurent and the Matapedia valley.
This series of meetings with elected municipal officials and citizens&#39; groups will take place from August 17 to 31, and will focus on the Belledune project, which aims to export oil from the Alberta tar sands.
“I wanted to meet with citizens and elected municipal officials from the communities that will be affected by this important oil transport project. If it sees the light of day, 240 tank cars, or some 170,000 barrels of oil, would pass through municipalities such as Longueuil, Mont-Saint-Hilaire, Saint-Hyacinthe, Drummondville, Lévis, Rivière-du-Loup, Rimouski every day. , Mont-Joli and Amqui, which would not be without the risk of a significant accident, ”declared Martine Ouellet.
“In this matter, the Government of Quebec is standing idly by. If Quebec were sovereign, Quebeckers would have the last word. Instead, the passive, even complacent attitude of the Couillard government condemns us to have to assume all the risks, without the slightest positive fallout. The oil and rail companies should ask us for permission before sending oil wagons through the heart of our territory, ”continued Stéphane Bergeron. The deputy added that in the context of the federal election campaign, he hopes that the candidates and the leaders of the different parties will listen particularly attentively to the concerns and the reality of the communities which are very worried about the potential impacts, and that they will take them into consideration.
Remember that the project to transport oil to Belledune has already started to cause damage; let us think in particular of the salmon pit of Sainte-Florence which, last April, was filled with more than 6,000 tons of unwashed stone, without authorization. “This mistake by Canadian National will have serious long-term consequences for the salmon and the tourism industry in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region. Quebecers&#39; confidence in rail companies and Transport Canada is at an all-time low. Citizens and elected officials must voice their concerns now, before other unfortunate consequences arise, ”concluded Martine Ouellet.
Watch the press briefing.
