Quebec - In a press scrum this morning, the member for Taillon and official opposition spokesperson for health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, denounced the cancellation of the sessions of the parliamentary committee to make the detailed study of Bill 10. She also presented the demands of the Parti Québécois to ensure its improvement.
“Today, seven hours were scheduled to continue work. Instead, Minister Barrette decided to bulldoze the discussions; it is a real departure from the democratic process. There is no objective urgency to impose a gag order, except Minister Barrette&#39;s dream of centralizing decisions around himself, instead of placing the patient and care at the heart of the system. In the real life of Quebecers, there are so many other health priorities! The Minister seems to forget that he has become a legislator and that he is no longer a negotiator, ”said Diane Lamarre.
Clear demands from the Parti Québécois
“Even if the adoption will be by gag order, we will use all the time available to us to improve the bill. We constantly aim for improved care and accessibility. We think about the patients, as well as those who provide care in our health care system. Our priorities are to maintain the link with local authorities, to guarantee the balance between the fields of competence &quot;health&quot; and &quot;social services&quot;, in particular for each duo &quot;CEO and Deputy CEO&quot;, the preservation of the autonomy of the community environment and transparency, including that of the boards of directors of future CISSSs, ”added Diane Lamarre.
In accordance with these priorities, we have targeted nine clauses of the bill that we would like to study first: 131, 134, 34, 22.1, 161, 29, 55, 59 and 146. We ask for the cooperation of the minister so that tomorrow these articles be studied as a priority. If the members of the CAQ allow themselves to be put to sleep by Minister Barrette, their former colleague, the Parti Québécois, remains the sentinel of the citizens, ”concluded the spokesperson.
