Quebec - “Through its fault, the Liberal government wasted two years in having to completely rewrite the overhaul of the Mining Act. The first draft of the bill was so bad and disparaged that he had to start all over! », Said the member for Vachon and official opposition critic for mines and shale gas, Martine Ouellet.
“The Liberal argument that the Parti Québécois systematically obstructs the mining bill is an easy and dishonest way out on the part of the government, which is trying to hide its incompetence. Since the study of this bill began, we have been asking Quebeckers to derive as much income as possible from the exploitation of our non-renewable resources, and each time, the Liberal minister votes against, ”said the member.
Since last August, we have been working to improve the second version of the reform of the Mining Act. This bill does not go far enough. Nothing on royalties, nothing on processing, nothing on orphan sites, no transparency. While the price of metals is exploding, it is shameful that the Liberal government of Jean Charest is taking us back to the days of great darkness, a time when companies were masters and enriched themselves at the expense of the people of Quebec.
“It is urgent that we regain control of our natural resources. We are currently losing hundreds of millions of dollars a year because of a royalty regime that does not match the reality of metal prices. In addition, we must maximize the transformation of mining resources exploited in Quebec. It has been shown that transformation brings about three to five times more jobs than extraction. How can the Liberal government knowingly harm the collective enrichment of Quebecers? », Asked Martine Ouellet.
From the start, the Parti Québécois has supported better protection of the territory, both for mines and for shale gas. Article 91 of Bill 14, which was adopted with the support of the Parti Québécois, provides that the RCMs may exclude areas from mining activity.
However, despite a battle waged by the members of the Parti Québécois, the government still refuses that these same provisions apply to the exploitation of gas and oil. “The RCMs claim the right to preserve certain parts of their territory from the exploitation of gas and oil. The government refuses to respect and listen to citizens. In the Parti Québécois, we will continue to defend the interests of all regions and all Quebecers, ”concluded the Member for Vachon.
