The study in parliamentary committee of Bill 141, An Act aimed mainly at improving the regulation of the financial sector, the protection of money deposits and the operating regime of financial institutions, ended today, and the Parti Québécois is proud of the gains it has made for consumers. The official opposition finance critic, Nicolas Marceau, is particularly pleased to have succeeded in saving the Chamber from financial security and the Chamber from damage insurance, which the bill intended to abolish.
IN SHORT
The Parti Québécois has made significant gains for Quebeckers:
“Despite the stubbornness of the Minister of Finance, Carlos Leitão, we demanded and obtained the maintenance of the two Chambers. Their abolition was far from achieving consensus, and it would have been a setback for consumers, ”said Nicolas Marceau first. It should be noted that many stakeholders, including the Coalition of Consumer Associations of Quebec, also called for the maintenance of the two Chambers.
“By removing these provisions, we were able to adopt more consensual measures, such as amendments that ensure that brokerage firms can offer their clients quotes from multiple insurers. This is best for consumers and for the financial sector, ”the spokesperson continued.
During the detailed study of Bill 141, Nicolas Marceau also made many gains for Quebec consumers. “I have been successful in securing changes to the bill so that consumers are better protected when they purchase financial products. For example, reconciliation between a financial institution and a consumer will be free of charge for the latter. In addition, the sale of insurance online as well as brokerage firms will be better supervised by the Autorité des marchés financiers, and some victims of fraud will now be able to retroactively request compensation from the Financial Services Compensation Fund. Bill 141 is not perfect but, under the circumstances, I am happy to have succeeded in improving it, ”concluded the deputy.
