Quebec - Following special consultations on Bill 55, An Act respecting transparency measures in the mining, oil and gas industries, the Member for Marie-Victorin and official opposition critic for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, wonders about the government&#39;s real desire to increase transparency within these industries.
“Bill 55 aims to increase transparency in the mining, oil and gas industries. At present, we know that there are secret agreements under which companies exploring or exploiting natural resources pay - to municipalities, public bodies or even Indigenous communities - contributions in cash or in kind. The government has announced its intention to make the payments public, but only those totaling more than $ 100,000, and only for certain businesses, ”said Bernard Drainville.
“If the government really wants to increase the transparency of industries in the natural resources sector, all the amounts paid by all companies operating in Quebec should be made public. The citizens are the real owners of natural resources, which constitute a collective wealth. They have the right to know, ”continued the spokesperson.
Setbacks already announced
The will of the Liberal government is all the more doubtful since the minister announced, at the start of the consultations, changes to his own bill. Rather than requiring the disclosure of payments as soon as they total $ 100,000, the Minister has bent to the will of part of the industry and indicated his intention to limit mandatory disclosure; several contributions of less than $ 100,000, in various categories, could add up without being made public. For example, a company that paid $ 90,000 in royalties, $ 50,000 in taxes and $ 75,000 in miscellaneous costs would no longer be subject to the disclosure obligation, despite total payments of $ 215,000. In short, the minister increases the threshold by breaking it down into categories.
“By no longer considering the total payments, the Minister is clearly indicating his desire to limit the information disclosed. It looks like the stratagem of splitting contracts in the public sector to avoid having to hold a call for tenders. The minister is going in the wrong direction. On the contrary, we would like the bill to be tightened up so that Quebeckers benefit from as much information as possible on the exploration and exploitation of their natural resources. All exploration and exploitation companies operating in Quebec should be subject to the bill, and any contribution above $ 1 should be disclosed, ”added the member for Marie-Victorin.
“During the special consultations, certain stakeholders, including the Association de l&#39;Exploration Minière du Québec, the Coalition for the Betterment of Quebec and the Auditor General of Quebec, made interesting proposals to increase the scope of the bill. as regards control, disclosure and the number of companies subject to it. I invite the Minister to work in this direction in order to achieve the greatest possible transparency, ”concluded Bernard Drainville.
Let us recall that the Parti Québécois has acted forcefully to increase transparency measures in the mining sector. The Mining Law, adopted in 2013, notably added the obligation to disclose data on the production and value of the ore mined.
