Quebec– The MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and Official Opposition Critic for the Status of Women, Carole Poirier, as well as the MNA for Beauharnois and Critic for Labor, Guy Leclair, are pleased to announce that thanks to their work, and in the face of an inevitable merger, amendments protecting the independence of the Pay Equity Commission (CÉS) were made to Bill 42.
Currently at the detailed study stage, the bill provides in particular for the merging of the activities of the CÉS, the Commission des normes du travail (CNT) and the Commission de la santé et de la sécurité du travail (CSST ) to create the Commission des droits, de la santé et de la sécurité du travail. However, this will of the government is causing concern within employers&#39; associations and unions as well as women&#39;s groups.
“Unlike the government, which does not consult anyone before tabling its bills, we have listened to groups, workers and employers. We have obtained gains to ensure the maintenance of the activities and mission of the CÉS. The Liberals wishing to proceed at all costs with its merger with the CNT and the CSST, we had to make sure that pay equity issues continued to be treated with all the importance they deserved. In Quebec, pay equity is a law, ”said Guy Leclair.
“Our work has been particularly effective. First, we obtained the retention of three decision-making commissioners, who will have an exclusive mandate in pay equity matters. The same goes for the vice-president, who will deal full-time with matters relating to the Pay Equity Act. In addition, the budgets dedicated to pay equity will henceforth be under the responsibility of the Minister, to preserve the mission and the maintenance of the activities of the CÉS. In short, we have sheltered pay equity from an amalgamation with the mandates of the CNT and the CSST, ”added Carole Poirier.
MPs noted that this is the third time the Liberals have attempted to abolish CES. They undertake, for the rest of the detailed study, to maintain the pressure to avoid the loss of the expertise of the merged organizations, and to ensure that workers&#39; rights and the services offered to them are not threatened by government austerity measures. &quot;We will not tolerate any backsliding in terms of pay equity or in terms of labor law,&quot; they concluded.
