Quebec - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, the Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, the Minister of Transport, Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault , and the Member of Parliament for Ungava, Mr. Luc Ferland, confirm that a new agreement has been reached between the Government of Quebec and the company Les Diamants Stornoway (Canada) inc. to complete work on Route 167 leading to the Otish Mountains in Nord-du-Québec. This agreement thus ensures the realization of the Renard diamond project.
The Government of Quebec is therefore committed to finalizing the construction work of the regional road on a section of 143 kilometers, while Stornoway will take charge of the construction of a mining road on a section of 97 kilometers.
This decision will result in a reduction of $ 124 million in the contribution of the Government of Quebec for the realization of this road project. This substantial saving is based in part on a modification of the vocation of the last segments of Route 167, which become a mining road rather than a regional road.
Recall that the project was initially announced in 2009 in the amount of 260 million dollars. As of August 2012, the projected costs of the road extension were estimated at $ 472 million. Thanks to government intervention, the agreement announced today brings the total maximum costs down to $ 304 million.
&quot;This decision is the most economical thanks in particular to the increased involvement of Stornoway in the realization of this road project,&quot; said Minister Nicolas Marceau. This allows us to ensure the extension of Route 167 so that the company can undertake the construction of the infrastructure required for the development of the first diamond mine in Quebec, the Renard project, a private investment of $ 800 million that should create approximately 450 jobs in the Nord-du-Québec region. &quot;
Les Diamants Stornoway (Canada) inc. supports the construction of the second portion of the road at a cost of up to $ 85 million. The Government of Quebec will finance the company for this achievement through an interest-bearing loan.
“We have found the best solution for both parties in order to provide access to this territory while respecting viable and realistic deadlines. This is an advantageous proposition that significantly reduces costs. This agreement clearly demonstrates our government&#39;s desire to support major private investment projects in Quebec, thereby promoting job creation and economic development in northern Quebec, ”added Minister Martine Ouellet.
“Our government has made a responsible decision by negotiating this new agreement to complete the work on Route 167. Not only are we enabling the completion of an important project, but we are also ensuring savings of $ 124 million, in a a context in which infrastructure spending puts enormous pressure on Quebec&#39;s finances, ”Minister Gaudreault underlined.
“This is excellent news for the people of Nord-du-Québec. This new road, once completed, will support the economic development of the entire region, ”concluded the deputy from Ungava.
