To those who believe that the CAQ&#39;s promise to lower school taxes makes sense and a guarantee of fairness, Parti Québécois candidates Jean-Martin Aussant (Pointe-aux-Trembles) and Paul St-Pierre Plamondon (Prévost) have launched the next question: do you know who will actually benefit from it?
IN SHORT
“Since the start of the campaign, François Legault has been dangling school tax cuts to Quebec owners. But it doesn&#39;t say everything. He refuses to say, for example, that his promise will first benefit multimillionaires like him, ”denounced Jean-Martin Aussant.
Indeed, while the check that homeowners will receive will be, on average, $ 225, it is thousands of dollars that will be paid by people owning a house worth in the seven figures. François Legault, for example, will himself receive more than $ 3,200. Philippe Couillard, nearly $ 1,000. Jean-François Lisée? About $ 350. A sum that he would willingly do without, to put it to the benefit of schools which are falling into ruin.
“Note also that for tenants, nearly 40% of Quebecers, this promise from the CAQ means absolutely nothing. In some cities, like my home, in Sainte-Sophie, it&#39;s a big zero as well. So, may François Legault stop saying that his promise will restore equity, ”continued Paul St ‑ Pierre Plamondon.
“Our schools are full of mold. Almost half of them are judged to be in poor or even very poor condition. Why, then, does François Legault persist in wanting to deprive the education network of $ 700 million? Does he find that the pupils in difficulty have enough services, that the teachers are sufficiently supported in their tasks? He must tell Quebeckers the truth: combined with that of the Liberals, his promise to lower school taxes will deprive the network of 10% of its resources, for the benefit of people who certainly do not lack them, ”continued Jean-Martin Aussant. .
“At the Parti Québécois, we made other choices. We will facilitate access to property by improving the tax credit associated with the famous &quot;welcome tax&quot;, but we will not lower school taxes, because we give priority to services: for children, but also for children. families, seniors. We will abolish the family tax, to return to the single rate in childcare centers. We will give seniors with incomes up to $ 35,000 an additional tax credit of $ 350. And all Quebecers will benefit from the actions of the future Consumer Protection Bureau. True equity is there, ”concluded Paul St-Pierre Plamondon.
