Press conference where OUI-Quebec presented the agreement in principle concluded between the four separatist parties:
Live: Presentation of the agreement in principle concluded between the four separatist parties
Version reviewed, amended and adopted on April 10, 2017
INTRODUCTION
The delegations of the Parti Québécois, Québec solidaire, Option nationale and the Bloc Québécois, whose parties are committed to promoting the independence of Quebec, met between January and April 2017 around the Table of consultation of the United Organizations for Independence (OUI Quebec) to jointly develop a common approach to achieving independence, the content of which is given below.
VARIOUS COMPONENTS
1. Common process for achieving independence
The process of achieving independence for Quebec is based on the principle of popular sovereignty and includes:
the adoption of a transitional fundamental law which will serve as a legal framework in Quebec and which will guide its approach towards independence
the establishment of a Constituent Assembly responsible for drawing up a draft constitution for an independent Quebec following a broad public consultation;
These elements are now an integral part of any process leading to the independence of Quebec.
2. Creation of the Constituent Assembly
The Constituent Assembly is set up by a law of the National Assembly which determines its duration, mandate, modes of appointment, modalities of operation and powers. This project, which must be carried out within a single government mandate, will first have been the subject of a strong electoral commitment on the part of the pro-independence political parties which, in such a scenario, constitute a parliamentary majority.
3. The mandate of the Constituent Assembly
The Constituent Assembly has the following mandate:
Organize a broad public consultation, hear from the specialists it deems appropriate and draft (1) a draft constitution of an independent Quebec which includes the following themes:
Values, principles, rights and responsibilities to be provided for in a Quebec constitution;
Sharing of powers between the Quebec state and the regions to ensure the development and vitality of Quebecers;
Institutions and political system of the Quebec state;
Relations with First Nations and Inuit.
At the end of the process, the National Assembly undertakes to make public the draft constitution, the report and the recommendations of the Constituent Assembly within a time limit provided for by law, and asks the Chief Electoral Officer of Quebec to organize a referendum consultation that will allow Quebeckers to vote on both the political status of Quebec and the proposed constitution of an independent Quebec developed by the Constituent Assembly.
4. Composition of the Constituent Assembly and designation of its members:
The composition of the Constituent Assembly must ensure equitable representation of society which takes into account the following criteria:
Gender parity (threshold of 50% of women)
Representativeness of administrative regions
Representativeness of social groups
Representativeness of diversity
In line with the resolutions of the National Assembly of March 20, 1985 and May 30, 1989 recognizing the rights of the First Nations and the Inuit, they are respectively invited to participate in the work of the Constituent Assembly according to a status and a role. to be determined with them.
The designation of the members of the Constituent Assembly will be carried out according to the following methods:
In order to guarantee the equitable representation of society provided for above, the National Assembly launches a vast call for candidates to proceed with the nomination of Constituents and Constituents (3).
The delegations of the following political parties agreed on this proposal which they agreed to submit for adoption to their respective congresses:
For the Parti Québécois: Véronique Hivon and Alain Lupien
For Québec solidaire: Andrés Fontecilla and Monique Moisan
For National Option: Sol Zanetti and Viviane Martinova-Croteau
For the Bloc Québécois: Kédina Fleury-Samson.
This work was carried out under the aegis of OUI Quebec represented by Claudette Carbonneau and Jason Brochu-Valcourt, respectively president and vice-president of the organization.
Signed at Montreal on April 10, 2017 (2)
(1) The draft constitution will be drafted according to the epicene writing rules defined by the Office québécois de la langue française. (2) The original version signed by the representatives of the delegations mentioned above is made faith. (3) The number and proportions of the members of the Constituent Assembly designated by one or the other of the methods provided above remain to be determined. In addition, members of the deputation are excluded from the work of the Constituent Assembly.
