Quebec - Jean-François Lisée, the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, returns to the charge and asks the government to develop urgently a manufacturing standard for liquids used for electronic cigarettes. Because, for the moment, given the absence of regulations, these can threaten the health of users.
“Last fall, we alerted the government to the danger of leaving handymen the freedom to sell anything to consumers,” recalled the MP, who had tabled an amendment to the law in November. tobacco requiring the government to issue a manufacturing standard in the coming months. &quot;The refusal of the Minister for Public Health to accept our amendment was, and remains, incomprehensible&quot;, added Mr. Lisée, the day after a devastating report on the JE program on the prevailing &quot;far west&quot; in this industry and on the dangers that exist for users.
“We wanted to ensure that the content of electronic cigarettes is regulated. What&#39;s on the label has to match the content - right now there are all kinds of things there and sometimes the labels are false. We have been shown that the level of nicotine, for example, is not equivalent to what is written on the label. Sometimes it is written that there is no nicotine when there is. We know that regulations and standards are being developed all over the world. We submitted examples of this, and we wanted to give the Government of Quebec some time to design its own standards, without waiting for those of others. But the Liberal government refused to go in that direction, ”added the spokesperson.
“We believe that the switch from traditional tobacco to electronic cigarettes is good news for the health of smokers. But they still need to be reassured about the quality of this new product. The Parti Québécois believes that the government must assume its responsibilities and act without delay, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
The text of the amendment proposed by the Parti Québécois to Bill 44, An Act to strengthen tobacco control, is as follows:
&quot;29.0.1. Before January 1, 2017, the Government determines by regulation the standards to be observed with respect to the composition of the substances used in electronic cigarettes as well as any device or accessory necessary for its use. &quot;
You can see an excerpt from Mr Lisée&#39;s plea in parliamentary committee on this subject athttps: //youtu.be/uVwu_1e_iLo.
