Québec, November 26, 2019 - In anticipation of a working meeting to be held today, the MNA for Matane-Matapédia and parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois, Pascal Bérubé, as well as the MNA for René-Lévesque, parliamentary leader and finance and economic spokesperson, Martin Ouellet, revealed their expectations regarding the recommendations that will be formulated following special consultations and public hearings on the issue of the personal data leak that has occurred, among others, at Gardens.
IN SHORT
To improve the security of personal data, the Parti Québécois calls for:
As Pascal Bérubé recalled, the Parti Québécois was the first to demand the holding of a special parliamentary committee (of the Public Finance Committee) on the issue of personal data leaks. “As early as July, we called for hearings and consultations, to better understand and, above all, to find ways to prevent the theft of personal data. The government has finally made up its mind, but not without reducing the scope of the exercise - notably, it refuses to look in its own backyard. It therefore has an immense obligation of result: among other things, it must be able to guarantee Quebecers that negligence in the protection of personal information will henceforth be severely punished, ”he insisted.
During the hearings, several means to improve the security of personal data were identified. In addition to the imposition of higher fines, the Parti Québécois retains three main ones. “First, the creation of a Quebec digital identity. The use of the social insurance number is outdated. We are in the 21st century! We need to better secure our identification. Second, companies and the state must be forced to delete any outdated data as soon as the person concerned requests it. The fines imposed on offenders must also be much more severe, and modulated according to the retention period of said data, ”explained Martin Ouellet.
In addition, in one year, the Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada identified 28 million cases of individual data breaches. Ten million of these affect clients of Desjardins and Capital One, but it is not known who the 18 million other injured parties are. “Third, any leak should be made public; not only do citizens have the right to know if their personal information is wandering in nature, but it is only in this way that they will be able, if necessary, to react adequately to the situation ”, continued the parliamentary leader of the Party. Quebecer.
“The conclusions and recommendations of the commission must above all dispel doubt in the minds of Quebeckers. Beyond any other consideration, it is indeed essential that citizens regain confidence in companies and their institutions, ”concluded Pascal Bérubé.
