Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces the publication for public consultation of the draft Regulation respecting water withdrawals and their protection in order to effectively protect sources drinking water. These Regulations implement a set of measures that will make it possible, in particular, to regulate oil and gas exploration and exploitation projects in accordance with the safest requirements in North America.
This Regulation aims to meet the expectations of citizens, municipalities and industry by clearly and predictably governing hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation activities. Henceforth, it will be prohibited to carry out any drilling within 300 meters of a water withdrawal. This is a minimum distance that can be increased according to the potential risks determined by the hydrogeological study that will be required for each borehole. In addition, it will also be prohibited to carry out such boreholes in the remote protection area of a municipal groundwater withdrawal and in the intermediate protection area of a municipal surface water withdrawal.
Indeed, companies will be required to carry out a hydrogeological study and knowledge of the environment within a radius of two kilometers from the drilling site. They must also install a minimum of three groundwater observation wells within 100 meters of such a site. The government requires water monitoring measures before, during and after exploration and exploitation activities in order, if necessary, to intervene quickly to correct situations that may present a risk to the health and safety of citizens.
“If Quebec chooses to go ahead with the exploration or exploitation of its hydrocarbon resources, it will do so from now on by ensuring rigorous protection of the quality of its drinking water. All the measures provided for in the draft Regulation could make it possible to protect this wealth without, however, preventing the development of our hydrocarbon resources. Thus, our government is once again demonstrating that it is at the forefront in environmental matters, ”said Minister Blanchet.
The Regulation also allows the implementation of a new authorization regime for water withdrawals which strengthens the protection of this collective resource. This new regime recognizes the need to meet the population&#39;s drinking water needs as a priority and then to reconcile the needs of ecosystems and economic activities.
“Quebec has tremendous resources that must be used with respect for the environment and for the well-being of its citizens. We are committed to be exemplary and to demonstrate that economic and sustainable developments are not opposed. They must complement each other, ”concluded Minister Blanchet.
