Sainte-Catherine-de-la-Jacques-Cartier– On the occasion of the graduation ceremony for the 2013 cohort of wildlife protection officers, the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and des Parcs, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announced investments of $ 9.3M in the Duchesnay Tourist Station, which houses the training and development center for wildlife protection officers.
“We are investing with the aim of continuing to bring public service infrastructure up to standard and ensure the sustainability of the built heritage. In doing so, our government is creating, in the very short term, jobs that will accelerate Québec&#39;s economic growth, ”said the Minister.
This announcement is of great importance to wildlife protection officers as well as to the Duchesnay Tourist Station and the city of Sainte-Catherine-de-la-Jacques-Cartier. In the files relating to fauna, the renovation of the Center constitutes one of the priorities of Minister Blanchet, for whom &quot;the training of the agents must be done in the best possible environment&quot;.
Of this $ 9.3 million, $ 5.3 million will be devoted to the modernization of the Le Cerf pavilion so that it can perform its educational, administrative and accommodation functions. &quot;This money will provide wildlife protection officers with facilities and conditions commensurate with the importance our government places on them,&quot; said Mr. Blanchet.
Remember that the Training and Development Center offers future wildlife protection officers additional training that allows them to consolidate their skills through practical exercises. Thanks to this sum, the Société des establishments de plein air du Québec (Sépaq) will be able to launch a call for tenders to contractors no later than fall 2014, for a complete delivery of the modernized facilities in 2015-2016.
In addition, Minister Blanchet announced other investments in infrastructure used more specifically by the clientele of the Tourist Resort. A $ 4 million envelope will be used to renovate cabins on the shores of Lake Saint-Joseph and other pavilions at Station tourisme Duchesnay, a four-season resort managed by Sépaq.
All of these investments are part of the Quebec government&#39;s economic policy, entitled Priorité emploi and unveiled by the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, on October 7.
It should be remembered that the first part of this economic policy is based on four flagship measures to stimulate job creation now, in particular the acceleration of government investments in the renovation and modernization of public infrastructure. Under this component, a sum of $ 55 million is granted by the Government of Quebec for the carrying out of capital work aimed at improving Sépaq&#39;s facilities. Overall, these investments should create 377 jobs, including 200 direct jobs, and bring in $ 5.5 million in tax revenue to the state coffers by 2016.
“These investments confirm Sépaq&#39;s role as a lever for economic development in the regions,” said Sépaq President and CEO, Raymond Desjardins.
