Lac-Mégantic– The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, today inaugurated the new premises of the Center d&#39;études collégiales de Lac-Mégantic (CECLM). The new premises were fitted out in the building of the former Canadelle factory acquired by the City of Lac-Mégantic and will make way for the new municipal library.
“Our places of learning are the heart of our communities, of their future. It is with great emotion and great pride that I am inaugurating these premises today. This inauguration, after the tragedy experienced by Lac-Mégantic, is a powerful symbol of hope and renewal. I hope that many students will benefit from these new infrastructures. Their talents, dreams and ambitions are all driving forces for the region, ”said Minister Duchesne.
The Minister took advantage of the inauguration of the new premises of the Center d&#39;études collégiales de Lac-Mégantic to honor the memory of two students who died in the terrible tragedy of July 6.
In the presence of the parents of the victims, the mayoress of Lac-Mégantic, Mrs. Colette Roy-Laroche, and the authorities of the establishment, the Minister proceeded to the unveiling of a commemorative plaque and the planting of two trees which will remind never mind the disappearance of Jo-Annie Lapointe, 20, and Andrée-Anne Sévigny, 26, students at CECLM.
During the renovations at the CECLM, the library of the Center d&#39;études collégiales was temporarily housed in the municipal library of Lac-Mégantic. All of the CECLM&#39;s works were therefore destroyed during the gigantic fire of July 6. Minister Pierre Duchesne announced that his ministry would close the gap in damages compared to what will not be covered by the insurance company. This amount could reach $ 85,000.
In addition, in order to ensure that CECLM students have access to adequate psychosocial help, the Minister has also released a sum of $ 65,000 to allow the Center d&#39;études collégiales to offer support services. psychosocial throughout the 2013-2014 school year.
The relocation and redevelopment of premises covering an area of 1,500 m2 as well as the acquisition of equipment are financed by the Ministry through assistance paid to Cégep Beauce-Appalaches, to which the CECLM is attached. This assistance, which allows the Cégep to rent these new spaces and make the necessary adjustments, is distributed as follows:
The City of Lac-Mégantic enthusiastically welcomes the inauguration of the new Study Center. “Since its founding, the CECLM has enabled young people in our region to pursue higher education in their community,” notes Mayor Colette Roy-Laroche. The best facilities they will benefit from will make it possible to counter their exodus. The two or three additional years of study at Lac-Mégantic will encourage them to stay there at the end of their technical program or to come back after possible university studies ”.
The director general of Cégep Beauce-Appalaches, Mr. Mario Landry, thanked all the partners in this file for their collaboration. “The development of the Center d&#39;études collégiales and its relocation would not have been possible without the support of the City of Lac-Mégantic, the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology and many organizations and stakeholders in the region, he emphasizes. Knowledge is the instrument of economic development. The transmission of this knowledge in better facilities will make our students future actors in the economic development of the Granite region ”.
“We are very happy to occupy these new premises. Improving the quality of the educational environment will facilitate the success of students who choose our center. Easy access to the municipal library, which will soon be installed in the same building will also constitute added value for our students, ”declared the assistant director of studies of Cégep Beauce-Appalaches and responsible for the Center d&#39;études collégiales de Lac-Mégantic, Mr. Jean Hamel.
Since its creation in 1998, the Center d&#39;études collégiales de Lac-Mégantic has been housed in the premises of the Hauts-Cantons School Board. The CECLM offers the Tremplin DEC path as well as the pre-university Natural Sciences and Human Sciences programs. The following technical study programs are also offered on a rotating basis: Nursing, Early Childhood Education Techniques, Special Education Techniques, and Accounting and Management Techniques.
In 2012-2013 the staff of the Study Center reached 155 students.
