Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank of Quebec, Élaine Zakaïb, as well as the Minister of Public Security and Member of Parliament for Verchères, Stéphane Bergeron, a confirmed a government investment of $ 20 million in the Quebec company Enerkem, in the form of an equity investment in its share capital.
Enerkem manufactures biofuels and green chemicals from non-recyclable residual materials. The participation of the Government of Quebec announced today will support the company&#39;s growth strategy, as well as the start of the commercial phase of large-scale deployment of its technology in Quebec and elsewhere in the world.
&quot;Enerkem is a promising company in the Quebec clean technology sector,&quot; said the Premier. By becoming a partner in this endeavor, the government is reiterating its commitment to supporting the development of a greener and more sustainable economy, which will benefit all Quebecers. Our participation in the financing of Enerkem will promote the maintenance of its activities in Quebec and the creation of hundreds of specialized jobs. &quot;
By having several of the modules that make up its biofuel plants built in Quebec, Enerkem is helping to build a whole new green manufacturing infrastructure in Quebec. For its plant in Edmonton, Alberta, whose construction will be completed shortly, the economic spinoffs in Quebec are estimated at $ 29 million. The company is also developing a similar project in Varennes, in the Montérégie region. By 2015, therefore, 390 direct and indirect jobs will be created in Quebec thanks to the various Enerkem projects.
&quot;Enerkem is a Quebec-based company of international caliber, whose ability to innovate has a positive impact on several strategic sectors of our economy, including the manufacturing sector,&quot; said Minister Delegate Élaine Zakaïb. The government intends to promote the greening of this sector, in particular through its industrial policy, which will see the light of day in the coming months. In this sense, Enerkem is proving to be a valuable ally in the growth of the Quebec economy based on the principles of sustainable development. &quot;
“With the Greenfield Ethanol plant, the anaerobic digestion project of the Société d&#39;Économie Mixte de l&#39;Est de la Couronne Sud inc. and the Enerkem plant, which we are discussing today, the city of Varennes is positioning itself to become a benchmark in the field of sustainable development and a real pole of innovation in green and renewable energy, s&#39; is delighted the Minister of Public Security and Member of Parliament for Verchères, Stéphane Bergeron. It is with great pride that we contribute to the growth of this company, which operates in a key sector of our economy. Enerkem will strongly participate in the economic development of Varennes, in particular through the creation of many specialized jobs. &quot;
Enerkem operates a research center and a pilot plant in Sherbrooke, as well as a demonstration plant located in Westbury, in the Eastern Townships. The company employs a total of 120 people in Quebec, including about 50 at its head office in Montreal. It has developed and perfected a proprietary technology that allows it to produce methanol and ethanol from non-recyclable and non-compostable residual materials.
This technology can be applied to any biomass residue, including urban biomass (such as waste) that would otherwise be buried. For example, a ton of waste transformed using Enerkem&#39;s technology produces around 380 liters of ethanol.
&quot;Enerkem is one of the few companies in the world to have developed a technology paving the way for the recovery of non-recyclable residual materials by converting them into ethanol and renewable chemicals,&quot; said the President and CEO of &#39;Enerkem, Vincent Chornet. Enerkem&#39;s technology and plants help diversify energy sources and manufacture greener products, while providing a sustainable alternative to landfill. The support of the Government of Quebec will allow us to continue our growth in Quebec and elsewhere in the world, and to increase our contribution to the environment. &quot;
