Asbestos - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, drew up a positive assessment of the Economic Diversification Fund of the MRC des Sources, which, in 2013, made it possible to consolidate nearly 130 jobs, particularly in the manufacturing and service industries.
&quot;The MRC des Sources Economic Diversification Fund is an essential tool that allows the growth and development of our businesses, while fully contributing to the dynamism of the Estrie region,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “The projects announced in 2013 under this fund also promote the development of our entrepreneurial culture and stimulate job creation. &quot;
Through this fund, four grants totaling $ 167,585 and two interest-free loans totaling $ 940,000 were awarded to six investment projects valued at nearly $ 2.4 million. The companies that have benefited are Écovie Canada, Les Serres du St-Laurent, Aménagements Natur&#39;Eau-Lac, Solutech Packaging Systems, VR2 Distribution and Les Produits Groll.
During the past year, the members of the Economic Diversification Table of the MRC des Sources also presented the Economic Diversification Strategy for the territory of the MRC des Sources. Not only does this strategy aim to make the MRC&#39;s industrial offer more competitive, but it also responds to a vision of sustainable development for the Estrie region.
Several actions unveiled as part of this strategy are in progress, such as the development of development plans for each company, based on the challenges it faces and its growth possibilities, as well as support for entrepreneurs. local in the implementation of targeted projects. The members of the Economic Diversification Table of the MRC des Sources also ensure the participation and support of regional and national players as well as the various ministries associated with the diversification process.
An interministerial committee was also formed to ensure the region&#39;s economic revitalization through structuring projects. The initiatives linked to the economic diversification strategy and implemented by this committee and the various regional partners were also noted during a pre-Summit meeting held last October. These will be unveiled next spring, on the occasion of the Summit on economic diversification of the MRC des Sources, during which the results of the reflection of the interministerial committee and that of the regional partners will be presented.
In addition, Investissement Québec collaborates in the search for international business opportunities.
“The work is continuing: thirteen projects are currently under study,” added Élaine Zakaïb. “Our government is particularly proud to be able to count on a real mobilization of economic players and on companies determined to grow and prosper their region through future projects that diversify the economy of the MRC des Sources. &quot;
For more information on the MRC des Sources economic diversification strategy, table and fund as well as on supported projects, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/strategiemrcsources.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
