Québec, November 6, 2014 - The MNA for Vachon and official opposition critic for transport, Martine Ouellet, the MNA for Jonquière and critic for the environment and sustainable development, Sylvain Gaudreault, and the deputy for Marie-Victorin and spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, once again affirmed the opposition of the Parti Québécois to the reopening of the shale gas industry. Martine Ouellet also supported, today in the National Assembly, the filing of 30,000 refusal forms signed by citizens opposed to gas companies having access to the territory. If we take into account the 37,000 other forms filed in April 2012, more than 65,000 citizens say no to shale gas. “It has become very clear: the Liberal government persists and signs. He is trying to put in place the conditions that would allow the shale gas industry to return to Quebec. Industry and the liberal government are working hand in hand to impose a scenario of reopening this sector. The obstinacy of the liberals in supporting, against all common sense, the development of shale gas is very harmful. The citizens of the St. Lawrence Valley say it again today: the shale gas industry is not welcome on their land, ”said Martine Ouellet. Sylvain Gaudreault, for his part, emphasizes that the Liberal government is ignoring the severe conclusions of the strategic environmental assessment (SEA) on shale gas. “The government is thereby dismissing the worrying findings of the ESA concerning the industry, namely the risks of water contamination, the toxicity of hydraulic fracturing, and the increase in CO2 and methane emissions. The SEA also concluded that the main environmental and social impacts of the shale gas industry occur at the exploratory stage. This is why the Parti Québécois had tabled a moratorium project, which was unfortunately blocked by the Liberals and the CAQ, ”he added. “The Liberal government is not listening to the voice of Quebeckers, in particular that of the people who live in the St. Lawrence Valley. With the Liberals, Quebec is an open bar. Anyone can use it as they see fit to make a profit, regardless of the consequences and the will of Quebeckers. We, in the Parti Québécois, have chosen to listen to citizens and favor the precautionary principle, ”concluded Bernard Drainville.
