St-Jean-Baptiste-de-Rouville– The Parliamentary Secretary to the Prime Minister for Official Languages and for the Economic Development Agency for the Regions of Quebec, Mr. Jacques Gourde, on behalf of the Federal Minister of Agriculture, Mr. . Gerry Ritz, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, and the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, and Member of Parliament for Borduas, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, today announced the new Levier financial assistance program, on the occasion of the inauguration of the new Vergers Paul Jodoin warehouse, located in Saint-Jean-Baptiste in the Montérégie region. This new program, with a budget of $ 19.37 million over five years, will aim to support Quebec food processing companies. It is funded under the Canada-Quebec Growing Forward 2 agreement.
&quot;Our government is proud to support the food processing sector in Quebec, an important economic engine of the Quebec economy,&quot; said Parliamentary Secretary Gourde. “The program will encourage the growth and development of a diversified food processing sector in Quebec, capable of competing abroad and creating jobs at home. &quot;
The Levier financial assistance program emphasizes the implementation of structuring projects likely to improve the competitiveness of the food processing sector and supports the latter in its continual quest for high quality products. Further pursuing the objective of ensuring the sustainability of the sector, the program also supports projects to implement a sustainable development approach and to plan for entrepreneurial succession.
“The Lever program fits perfectly with the orientations of the Food Sovereignty Policy. The development of a prosperous biofood sector, generator of jobs, respectful of the environment and contributing to the dynamic occupation of the territory represents a benefit for the whole of Quebec society. Food processors need to harness their full potential so that we can preserve our collective pantry. The Leverage program will enable them to put in place the winning conditions to achieve this, ”indicated Minister Gendron.
Companies wishing to do so can submit a request by contacting the food processing advisor of the Ministère in their region or consult the www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/levier page on their website for this purpose.
It should be remembered that the governments of Canada and Quebec signed the Growing Forward 2 bilateral agreement, for which they granted $ 293 million in funding over a five-year period. This major agreement aims to support strategic initiatives in innovation, competitiveness and market development, for the benefit of both the agricultural sector and that of food processing.
For more information on the Government of Quebec&#39;s Food Sovereignty Policy, interested parties can regularly consult the blog www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or the pagewww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSAd on the website of the Ministère de Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at twitter.com / mapaquebec.
