Bécancour - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, believes that the establishment of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund is a success that has made it possible consolidate nearly 1,900 jobs and create more than 270 others, particularly in the manufacturing sector. Since the creation of the fund in 2013, financial support totaling more than $ 15.2 million has been granted to 25 projects valued at nearly $ 73 million.
&quot;Thanks to the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund, we are further supporting our efficient and innovative businesses, which diversify and boost the economy of these two regions,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “The 25 projects announced are also true creators of wealth and jobs for Quebec. In particular, they promote the development of innovative products and contribute to the growth of our companies, which are eloquent demonstrations of our immense potential. &quot;
Through this fund, 9 grants totaling $ 3,253,889 and 16 interest-free loans amounting to $ 11,952,536 were awarded to 25 projects (see the list of companies that have benefited from this support at the Annex I). These were authorized by a project review committee set up in 2013.
Over the past year, the members of the Table de diversification économique du Center-du-Québec et de la Mauricie have developed a mobilization and implementation strategy for the Plan de diversification économique du Center-du-Québec et de la Mauricie. Mauricie, in collaboration with the two regional directorates concerned of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy. Information sessions on the terms of the fund, intended for businesses and economic partners, were thus held in each of the regional county municipalities (RCMs) of Center-du-Québec and Mauricie.
The Ministry of Finance and the Economy is also planning to organize an awareness-raising activity for SMEs in connection with the economic diversification plan of these two regions. This activity would aim to raise awareness of the techniques used in college technology transfer centers (CCTTs) and to further stimulate their application in businesses.
In addition, the systematization of strategic advisory support by the Department will make it possible to designate in a more targeted manner the promising projects of companies, which would be eligible for financial support within the framework of the Center-du-Québec Economic Diversification Fund and of Mauricie.
Finally, the Center-du-Québec regional office is actively participating in the Chantier économique Bécancour 2014, which began on January 8.
&quot;We are counting on the mobilization of socioeconomic actors to arouse the interest of SMEs and stimulate investment projects,&quot; added Élaine Zakaïb. “Our initiatives to promote the fund are already bearing fruit. Currently, we have 43 projects under study for 2014. This is a fine example of the determination and commitment of our companies to ensuring the economic vitality of their regions! &quot;
For more information on the fund, the table and the plan relating to the economic diversification of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie, as well as the projects supported, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
Annex I
List of businesses that have benefited from support from the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund
Projects announced in 2013:
Projects announced from February 3 to 7, 2014:
