Quebec - The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of transport, maritime strategy, transport electrification and digital strategy, Martine Ouellet, as well as the spokesperson responsible for the Chaudière-Appalachian region, Harold LeBel, support the group &quot;No to an oil spill in the St. Lawrence&quot;, which has filed a petition with more than 10,000 signatures against the project to transport oil by rail by the company Chaleur Terminals. The group asks to be heard by the members of the Committee on Transport and the Environment, as provided for by parliamentary rules.
“Since the Lac-Mégantic disaster, citizens everywhere in Quebec have been worried about the impacts that transporting hydrocarbons by train can have. It is the least that the government accepts to meet the representatives of the group and to hear them in parliamentary committee. This project to transport millions of barrels of bituminous oil on our rails puts our populations at risk, ”said Martine Ouellet.
The Parti Québécois refuses that Quebec allows itself to be transformed into a highway for the export of oil to international markets, whether by train or by pipeline, and that it must assume all environmental risks without being able to hope to derive any economic benefit from it. it would be. The Prime Minister must finally stand up for the safety of Quebecers and face the oil lobby of Canada and the western provinces, instead of hiding behind equalization to justify his complicity.
“Citizens are asking for a BAPE, but the Minister of the Environment is opposed to it so far. In these circumstances, the group should at least have the opportunity to present and defend its petition in parliamentary committee. The citizens of Montérégie, Chaudière-Appalaches and my region, Bas-Saint-Laurent, are right to be worried and to oppose this project which provides for the transport, through their territory, of 170,000 barrels of oil per day. Quebeckers would derive absolutely no profit and would assume all the risks? There is absolutely no question of it, ”added Rimouski MNA Harold LeBel.
