Quebec - The MNA for Gouin, Françoise David, the MNA for Masson and parliamentary assistant to the Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Diane Gadoury-Hamelin, as well as the MNA for Saint-Henri-Sainte-Anne, Marguerite Blais, join their voices to ask members of the parliamentary committee on health and social services to examine the petition calling for a reform of services for the deaf and hard of hearing
“It is an honor for me to present this petition to the National Assembly. My colleagues and I want to familiarize the population with the reality of deaf people and make parliamentarians aware of the problems of access to a quality interpretation service so that the petition can be studied in parliamentary committee ”, indicated Ms. David.
Gathered for a press briefing, the parliamentarians expressed concern about the difficulties faced by deaf and hard of hearing people with regard to the lack of access to quality interpreting services.
“My colleague Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection and I are sensitive to the needs and concerns of the deaf and hard of hearing community. We welcome their requests with openness and believe that the collaborative work of parliamentarians will make it possible to identify interesting avenues for improving access and the quality of interpretation services, ”declared Ms. Gadoury-Hamelin.
“There is still a long way to go in Quebec in order to recognize the essential role of trained and accredited interpreters who serve as communication relays for the deaf and hard of hearing in their essential needs. There is also a long way to go in order to recognize LSQ as the language of the deaf in Quebec. Quebec is lagging behind in recognizing the rights of the deaf and for these reasons, I support this petition. This cause transcends parties and affects us all and I sincerely hope that the National Assembly will agree to take up this petition in a parliamentary committee, ”Ms. Blais said.
For the instigator of the petition, herself hard of hearing, Marie-Andrée Boivin, the right to accessibility for the deaf who form 10% of the population needs a boost. “Interpreters, essential linchpins of communication, practice a profession where training and bilingualism are not required. The scandal of the communication breakdown of the impostor interpreter at the funeral of Nelson Mandela is part of the daily life of the deaf in Quebec. &quot;
“To prevent a person from having to deal with an untrained and unassessed interpreter on a daily basis, what we need above all are guidelines to avoid duplication of structures and promote standardization, whether for the &#39;service offer, professional assessment, training or development of an accessible interpreter bank, ”said UQAM professor and researcher in LSQ linguistics, Anne-Marie Parisot.
Vincent Bilodeau, actor involved with the Fondation des sourds du Québec, summed up his thoughts with a quote from the Dictionary of Sign Language: “In any society, language is a privileged tool since it allows people to communicate with each other. others. The deaf also have a language, that of signs, which allows them to communicate not only among themselves, but also with the “hearing” environment.
