Quebec - The Parti Québécois spokesperson for the Treasury Board, Gaétan Lelièvre, is satisfied that the result of public sector employees&#39; negotiations with the government has resulted in a negotiated agreement. &quot;The Couillard government came to its senses and recognized that its first offers were an affront to our teachers, our nurses, and all other government employees,&quot; he declared.
However, the member for Gaspé is saddened by the fact that the children, parents and workers of Quebec have paid the price for the dogmatic position of the government in these negotiations. “The government tabled its initial offers in December 2014. However, it is only in recent weeks that it has launched a real negotiation and considered the demands of state workers. If the government, through the President of the Conseil du trésor, had acted reasonably, strikes could have been avoided, and many parents and the general population would have been much less affected, ”he continued.
The Parti Québécois wishes to give back to the state the high level of expertise it has already benefited from. To do this, the public service must be competitive and attractive to professionals and workers who want to get involved and offer Quebecers quality public services. Over the next few years, we will be able to see whether the current agreement will have made it possible to achieve this objective; let&#39;s hope so. Until then, the Couillard government and Minister Coiteux will have to change their attitude towards public service employees, ”added Gaétan Lelièvre.
Now that this issue is resolved, the Parti Québécois will continue to press on the government to back down on unreasonable cuts, particularly in the health and education sectors. “Our government employees, citizens, students have a right to services and deserve respect. Let us hope that the current Liberal government will demonstrate the vision and the determination necessary to ensure that all Quebecers can benefit from these services, across the country. The Parti Québécois, as the official opposition, will show unreserved determination in this regard, ”the spokesperson concluded.
