Quebec - The Ministère de l&#39;Agriculture, des Pêcheries et de l&#39;Alimentation and the Council for Reserved Designations and Enhancing Terms (CARTV) invite people and organizations who wish to express their opinion on the request for recognition of the indication. Protected Geographic (PGI) “Quebec Ice Cider” to take part in a public consultation to be held as of June 13, 2013 for a period of 45 days.
The Act respecting reserved designations and enhanced terms provides that the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food of Quebec, on the recommendation of the Council, may recognize an appellation and reserve its use for products certified by an organization accredited under the Act. In addition, the Regulation respecting the examination of applications for the recognition of designations specifies that a public consultation is mandatory before the Council decides on the recommendation to be made to the Minister regarding the designation requested.
“It took several years of work, initiated by the Cidriculteurs artisans du Québec (CAQ), for the ice cider industry to succeed in establishing the specifications that best define the product whose appellation it wants to protect. The public consultation is the final step in validating this consensus, ”emphasizes Ms. Anne-Marie Granger-Godbout, President and CEO of the Council on Reserved Designations and Enhancing Terms.
In this regard, the specifications of the IGP “Cidre de glace du Québec” as well as a summary sheet which summarizes the important points are made available to interested parties on the CARTV website: www.cartv. gouv.qc.ca/igp-cidre-glace-quebec. All the information on the consultation process is also published there.
If you wish to submit an observation concerning the request for recognition of this IGP, you have until July 27, 2013 to send a reasoned opinion.
After analyzing the results of the public consultation, approving the specifications and deciding on the accreditation of a certification body, the Council of reserved designations and rewarding terms will send the Minister its recommendation on the advisability of recognizing the appellation &quot;Quebec Ice Cider&quot;.
