The official opposition spokesperson for higher education and research, Alexandre Cloutier, this morning presented a bill aimed at protecting children and young people in Quebec from any possible cuts. budget, Law establishing a budget protection shield for education, child and youth protection services. Accompanied by the vice-chef and spokesperson for family matters, Véronique Hivon, the spokesperson for school perseverance and primary and secondary education, Carole Poirier, as well as the spokesperson for the protection of youth, Dave Turcotte, he gave an overview during a press briefing.
IN SHORT
The “shield” bill aims to protect the budgets of educational childcare services, education - from elementary to post-secondary level - and youth protection from cuts. “We must assure all children and young people in Quebec that they have every chance of success, regardless of the social or economic background from which they come. That their government is there for them, regardless of the budget situation. They need to know that they can think big, aspire to better, that their dreams are within their reach, that they will be supported. In short, that they will never again pay the price for austerity, because it will be prohibited by law. It is a strong, unprecedented gesture, ”said Alexandre Cloutier first.
“The main lever for the progress of our society is education. Likewise, the master key to all our success is the collective effort that we invest in education, that is to say the role that the State is called upon to play in this mission. To be successful, this state must be strong, flexible and efficient. It must be able to guarantee the availability and quality of services, and avoid an explosion of inequalities, ”added Véronique Hivon.
For her part, Carole Poirier highlights the contrast between the position of the PLQ and the CAQ, and that of the Parti Québécois. “The Liberals and the Caquists have the same vision: lower taxes, even if it means harming children&#39;s services. Even if it means jeopardizing the success and development of thousands of young people who would not have had the right year of birth. We are betting on the franchise: we are not going to reduce or increase the tax burden on Quebecers. We will ensure that the State maintains its capacity for action, so that it can support each young person in their journey, ”she said.
For his part, Dave Turcotte mentioned that “an independent third party, such as the Auditor General, will be responsible for ensuring that the law is respected and applied by all successive governments. “Cutbacks” will never rhyme with “education” again. And the safety and development of children will never again be compromised by administrative decisions. This is tangible proof that we want to make youth in general, and education in particular, the nation&#39;s permanent priority. &quot;
Finally, Alexandre Cloutier underlined that the figures unveiled this morning by the Institut du Quebec have something to think about. “In terms of the graduation rate after 5 years, we learn that Quebec, at 64%, is dead last in Canada. Six points behind Saskatchewan, ranked second to last. And 20 points behind the leaders. It is dramatic and unacceptable. There is an urgent need to act; it is essential, as the study recommends, to keep budgets above inflation and rising costs of services, ”he concluded.
