Quebec - As the largest group of real estate owners in Quebec votes against Ottawa&#39;s decision to impose a toll on the new Champlain Bridge, the Member for Vachon and official opposition critic for transport, Martine Ouellet, the MNA for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Metropolis, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the MNA for Verchères and spokesperson for Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, ask the Minister of Transport, Robert Poëti, to specify what he has done concretely to defend, against the federal government, the Quebec consensus against tolls.
“Several speakers are speaking out against the toll; today, it is the turn of the Quebec Urban Development Institute. According to the organization, whose members hold real estate assets valued at $ 30 billion, the toll would have the effect of isolating Montreal even further. The minister cannot afford to take the situation lightly; the toll would generate too many negative impacts for the South Shore and the metropolis. With lip service, Robert Poëti is opposed to the toll, but what has he done in concrete terms with Ottawa? Whatever he claims, it is clear that the federal government continues to ignore him, almost a year after his appointment, ”said Martine Ouellet.
“Several studies have shown it: a toll on the new Champlain Bridge would have catastrophic effects on the other bridges connecting the island to the South Shore and, ultimately, on the economy of Montreal. On the one hand, the federal government is obstinate in a decision that will be harmful to the metropolis and, on the other, the Government of Quebec is opposed only in words. Who will stand up to defend the interests of Quebeckers in this matter? Who will make the federal government understand that a toll on the new Champlain Bridge would be completely insane? », Added Jean-François Lisée.
“Philippe Couillard has funny priorities. For him, fighting against Ottawa&#39;s unilateral policies is just a fight, but cutting support for families, health and education is showing courage. The Liberals should realize that it is not enough to speak out against the toll; they must now move from words to deeds, and put pressure on the federal government to respond to the concerns of Quebeckers. Because we have seen it in the firearms registry file: the liberal method of going overboard in the face of Ottawa is not working, ”concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
