Quebec - The MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and official opposition spokesperson for seniors, Carole Poirier, called on the minister responsible for seniors, Marguerite Blais, this morning at the Blue Room of the National Assembly. “Without demonstrating complete insensitivity to the quality of life of seniors in Quebec, the Minister refuses to act. It does not take any concrete means to ensure that our elderly people improve their quality of life and that is deplorable, ”denounced Carole Poirier at the end of the two-hour debate.
“In Ontario, the minimum amount for the preparation of meals for seniors is $ 7.31 / day per senior and is enshrined in law. In Quebec, nothing is provided for in the law, which opens the door to significant differences between establishments and can lead to unfortunate cases of malnutrition among our seniors. It&#39;s intolerable. Why such a big disparity? The Minister has the power to include a minimum amount in the law and she refuses to do so, ”continued the MP.
“Same principle for the water temperature in the residences. After seeing several cases of scalded elderly people, does the Minister not think that it is time for the Régie du bâtiment to impose a maximum water temperature in residences? Does she wait for other cases before acting? This is absurd and the minister must take action by Christmas, she has the means to do it, what is she waiting for? &quot;
Carole Poirier also requested that a parliamentary committee be held to take stock of the first CHSLD PPP project. “The Savoie Group, which obtained the first CHSLD contract in PPP mode, is also a generous donor to the liberal fund. We have the impression of reliving the scandal of liberal daycare centers and construction contracts, but at what cost for our seniors? Asked the MP. &quot;Why does Marguerite Blais tolerate moreover that the beneficiary attendants who work in this type of CHSLD do not have the training that is required in the public network, all to the detriment of the seniors who live there?&quot; &quot;
The deputy for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve took advantage of this interpellation to submit to the minister the declaration of the National Rendez-vous of Generations organized by the Institut du Nouveau Monde which calls for &quot;a real policy of the ages which [...] will allow the aging, for the common good ”.
