Québec– Sylvain Gaudreault, MNA for Jonquière, Leader of the Official Opposition and Parti Québécois spokesperson for sustainable development, Mathieu Traversy, MNA for Terrebonne and spokesperson for the environment, as well as Martine Ouellet, MNA de Vachon and spokesperson for transport and transport electrification, strongly denounce the refusal of Philippe Couillard&#39;s government to take the turn of sustainable mobility.
“In terms of sustainable development, without major restructuring, the Government of Quebec is heading for assured failure; it will not meet its commitments to reduce GHG emissions. However, it is well known that the transport sector represents the main emitter of greenhouse gases in Quebec, cumulating, for the year 2013, nearly half of these emissions. Sustainable mobility is therefore proving to be an essential solution to fight against climate change, ”explained Sylvain Gaudreault.
“Since the Paris Conference, the Prime Minister has never converted his“ green ”speech into concrete actions. The Parti Québécois has shown it: beyond words, the programs financed by the Green Fund are poorly designed, often have no measurable objectives and, above all, do not achieve the expected results. This is particularly the case for the programs managed by the Ministry of Transport ”, for his part lamented Mathieu Traversy.
“When it comes to sustainable mobility, there is a perpetual crisis of confidence; this government was mainly characterized by chronic instability, with three successive transport ministers, and an underfunded transport electrification plan which will miss its target of 100,000 electric vehicles by 2020 by at least 20%, his own admission, ”added Martine Ouellet.
The deputies are categorical: the cosmetic adjustments under the Ministry of Transport, to add “Sustainable mobility” and “Electrification of transport”, will not change anything; no long-term vision for sustainable mobility has emerged within this mid-term government. “The Ministry of Transport must abandon its losing strategy of &#39;case by case&#39;. We demand that the government draw up a Québec sustainable mobility plan with ambitious and coherent targets, which will be supported by increased funding allowing a massive deployment of the public transport offer. This is necessary to achieve our GHG emission reduction targets, ”they asked.
Let us remember that the Parti Québécois, during its most recent coming to power, took structuring actions. In 2013, it notably tabled the 2013-2017 Transport Electrification Strategy, which received much more funding than the current liberal transport electrification plan. In 2014, the Parti Québécois also tabled a national sustainable mobility strategy that included a historic transfer of $ 1 billion to public transit infrastructure.
