Montreal - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announced an investment of $ 84M for the addition of 208 km of reserved lanes in the greater region of Montreal. For the occasion, he was accompanied by the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport and Minister responsible for the Montérégie region, Ms. Marie Malavoy and the Minister of Families and Minister responsible for the Laval region, Ms. Nicole Léger.
“The addition of public transit measures in the greater Montreal area is part of our government&#39;s vision to facilitate travel for users of the road network. The reserved lanes will make it possible to increase the efficiency of public transit and make it more competitive by improving the speed, punctuality and regularity of buses, ”said Minister Gaudreault. They will be added to the 209 km of reserved lanes already in existence in the metropolitan region.
Minister Gaudreault also indicated that “the financing of these measures by the MTQ will go from 75% to 100% and that all public transport companies in Quebec will be able to benefit from it. I saw fit to ask the Mobility Montreal Committee to coordinate the implementation of these reserved lanes, a job that it has already been doing for a few years now. We have also heard the demands of the citizens of Ahuntsic and of my colleague, Diane De Courcy. A joint committee will be created between the MTQ and the Secrétariat à la région métropolitaine (SRM) to answer questions of congestion on rue Papineau and the neighboring streets. &quot;
This committee also established, with the transportation companies of the Montreal region, an inventory of measures envisaged by these organizations. “The game plan that we have given ourselves has the advantage of allowing better integrated planning of public transport interventions. In this sense, I salute the work of the members of the committee who acted in line with the expectations of the government and the population. By putting in place preferential measures, we are now taking action, ”said Minister Lisée.
According to Minister Léger, “Laval has a number of transportation issues, particularly public transit. The new measures announced today, as well as those implemented in the last year, will improve the quality of life of families by reducing the travel time between their home and their work. &quot;
“Public transit is a priority for the Montérégie. The addition of reserved lanes and various congestion mitigation measures on the South Shore completes the significant investments unveiled in recent months in terms of transportation in our region. It is a clear response from our government to the major transportation challenges faced by citizens of the South Shore and a demonstration that we are working, with the stakeholders concerned, to put in place solutions to support the travel of citizens ”, he added. said Minister Malavoy.
These new measures are in addition to the $ 26.5 million announced last spring, as part of Mobilité Montréal, to facilitate travel around major road projects.
“To date, 70% of Mobilité Montréal&#39;s measurements have been carried out. The benefits are already being felt: in particular, there has been an increase of 13,676 annual subscriptions to the STM and AMT, 840 incentive parking spaces near stations have been added and measures to facilitate carpooling have been developed ”, he added. noted M. Gaudreault.
“The results of all these measures, 100% funded by the Ministry of Transport, are very encouraging. These are immediate and targeted measures that alleviate traffic problems and make life easier for users. In addition, increasing the supply of public transport will have the effect of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and promoting sustainable mobility in the Montreal region, ”added the Minister of Transport.
Today&#39;s announcement will also affect all transportation companies in Quebec. “All of the province&#39;s urban centers are affected by the phenomenon of road congestion. In the coming weeks, we will be in contact with the transport companies concerned to work with them on the establishment of reserved lanes in urban centers, ”concluded Minister Gaudreault.
