Chicoutimi - The Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, announces investments of $ 4.2 million for the improvement of the infrastructures of the Société des establishments de plein air du Québec (Sépaq) in the Monts-Valin and Fjord-du-Saguenay national parks, in the Saguenay-Saint-Laurent marine park as well as in the Laurentides and Ashuapmushuan wildlife reserves. “We are investing in order to enhance the St. Lawrence and also to improve accessibility to these magnificent territories, to continue upgrading public service infrastructures and to ensure the sustainability of the built heritage. In doing so, our government is creating, in the very short term, jobs that will accelerate Québec&#39;s economic growth, ”said the Minister.
The Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region has several Sépaq establishments, many of which are internationally renowned. Parc national des Monts-Valin, famous for its Vallée des Fantômes, will have its entry road paved with a sum of $ 500,000. Further south, in Parc national du Fjord-du-Saguenay, $ 300,000 will be invested to revive the Le Fjord trail that many hikers take each year in order to experience this magnificent landscape. Improvements to the Sainte-Marguerite footbridge will be part of this trail repair.
In addition, a total amount of $ 4.3 million has been authorized for work involving the Laurentides wildlife reserve, of which $ 812,000 will be allocated to the part of the reserve located in the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Laurent region. Jeans. As for those of the Ashuapmushuan wildlife reserve, which will amount to $ 1.1 million, this work will affect the road network and the upgrading of infrastructure dedicated to the reserve&#39;s clientele, in particular the cabins.
The Saguenay-Saint-Laurent marine park, jointly managed by Parcs Québec and Parks Canada, will be granted a sum of $ 1.5 million to implement the new technological application &quot;Parcs Parcours&quot;, developed by Parcs Québec in various places of discovery highlighting the peculiarities of this world-renowned marine environment.
All of these investments are part of the Quebec government&#39;s economic policy, entitled Priority employment, unveiled by the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, on October 7.
It should be remembered that this economic policy targets, in its first component, four flagship measures to stimulate job creation now, including the acceleration of government investments for the renovation and modernization of public infrastructure, including those of Sépaq.
The second part of the Priority Economic Policy aims in particular to stimulate the vigor of successful companies, such as the tourism industry in Quebec, in order to compete on the international scene. In this component, structural investments will enable Sépaq to participate in the tourism strategy within the framework of the enhancement of the St. Lawrence River and the development of winter tourism.
In total, the investments associated with these two components should create 702 jobs, including 384 direct jobs, and bring $ 10 million in tax revenues to the State coffers by 2016. “These investments confirm Sépaq&#39;s role as a lever for economic development in the regions of Quebec, ”said Sépaq President and CEO, Raymond Desjardins.
