Paris - At the invitation of President François Hollande, this first mission to France by the Prime Minister aimed to make contact with the French political authorities. Upon her arrival on Monday, Pauline Marois met with President Hollande.
“I am very satisfied with this first visit to France. We were warmly welcomed. Our relationship with France is based on a common history, but also on deep bonds of friendship. Quebec and France have maintained a direct and privileged relationship for more than 50 years. This visit enabled us to begin a new phase which will deepen this relationship on the political, cultural, social and economic levels ”, welcomed the Prime Minister.
On this occasion, the two governments launched the foundations for a new stage which is based on innovation and creativity, particularly concerning youth, culture and the economy, in order to concretely consecrate the uniqueness of the Franco-French relationship. -Quebec.
Ms. Marois also met her French counterpart, Mr. Jean-Marc Ayrault, who will be visiting Quebec as part of the alternate visits of prime ministers at the beginning of 2013.
In addition, she met with the Minister of the Economy and Finance, Mr. Pierre Moscovici, the President of the Senate, Mr. Jean-Pierre Bel, as well as the President of the National Assembly, Mr. Claude Bartolone. . Ms. Marois also addressed the French Institute of International Relations (IFRI), one of the most influential research institutes in France.
On the last day of her mission to France, the Prime Minister also met Mr. Alain Juppé, Mr. Jean-Pierre Raffarin and Mr. François Fillon, three former prime ministers of France.
These meetings were preceded, in the morning, by an exchange in front of a group of business people gathered at the initiative of the Mouvement des entreprises de France (MEDEF) International and Investissement Québec, during which she underlined the importance of economic relations between France and Quebec.
“France is a natural and essential economic partner for Quebec. In fact, this country ranks second in terms of the number of foreign companies established in Quebec, which represents some 300 subsidiaries of French companies that contribute to the development of our economy. In addition, nearly 150 Quebec companies are present in France, ”declared the Premier.
She also underlined that the joint actions carried out in connection with the draft comprehensive economic and trade agreement between Canada and the European Union, as well as the Quebec-France Agreement on the mutual recognition of professional qualifications, illustrate the innovation capacity of Franco-Quebec cooperation.
Finally, the Premier presented certain measures that Quebec intended to put forward in terms of economic development, in particular the creation of an Economic Development Bank as well as the development of a manufacturing development strategy and a entrepreneurial succession assistance program.
In 2011, trade with France totaled $ 4.1 billion, making it Quebec&#39;s fifth largest trading partner abroad.
