Chibougamau– The Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance and Minister responsible for the Nord-du-Québec region, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, accompanied by the Member of Parliament for Ungava and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources, Mr. Luc Ferland, announces, on behalf of the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, the allocation of financial assistance of 635 $ 613 over two years to Goldcorp mining to implement a workforce training plan.
The support of Emploi-Québec, approved by the Commission des Partenaires du marché du travail, is complementary to an investment of $ 1,906,837 by the company. The project will allow the hiring of 165 ore processing and maintenance employees who will work on a brand new mining complex with state-of-the-art technology, equipment and facilities.
“Our government is proud to be a partner in the Éléonore project, the objective of which is to make it one of the largest underground mines in North America. Goldcorp plans to hire more than 800 skilled workers by 2017 to fill quality, well-paying jobs, ”said Minister Cloutier. &quot;Our participation, which relies on the skills of workers to ensure the sustainability and competitiveness of the Éléonore project, testifies to our desire to support a company that will create jobs and help generate wealth in the North region. -du-Québec, ”added the Minister.
“The development of the North is a major issue for the Government of Quebec. We believe that it is by focusing on strong, sustainable development that takes care of the territory&#39;s natural resources that we will achieve this, for the benefit of the entire population of Nord-du-Québec. By supporting the training of Goldcorp&#39;s workforce, we are supporting the entire regional economy, ”added MP Ferland.
Despite their previous training and experience, all new employees, even the most qualified, will have to review or acquire certain basic knowledge in order to adjust to the type of ore processed, the nature of the processes used and the new technologies used therein. associated.
It should be noted that due to its remoteness from urban centers, Goldcorp has equipped itself with all the infrastructure necessary for the training and development of its 165 employees. In particular, Goldcorp has acquired a process simulator that will make it possible to offer courses at all times on its site, while reducing production losses.
“The sums invested in the Éléonore project are estimated at $ 1.7 billion. We are currently in the construction phase of the mine and production will begin in the last quarter of 2014. The goal is to process 7,000 tonnes of ore per day from 2017. To achieve this, we will absolutely have to rely on personnel. highly qualified and that is why we are pleased to obtain the support of the Government of Quebec in our project to develop the skills of our workforce, ”added the director of human resources for the Éléonore project at Goldcorp, Mr. Daniel Guay.
Goldcorp is one of the world&#39;s largest gold producers. It employs more than 14,000 people across the Americas. The Éléonore project is one of Goldcorp&#39;s most recent mining projects and its first gold mine project in Quebec.
