Port-Daniel – Gascons– On behalf of the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, for whom he is parliamentary assistant, Mr. Sylvain Roy, also Member of Parliament for Bonaventure, a announced investments of $ 0.5M in the Port-Daniel wildlife reserve, managed by the Société des establishments de plein air du Québec (Sépaq).
“We are investing with the aim of continuing to bring public service infrastructure up to standard and ensure the sustainability of the built heritage. In doing so, our government is creating, in the very short term, jobs that will accelerate Québec&#39;s economic growth, ”said the Member.
It should be noted that this amount of $ 0.5 million is in addition to the $ 12.05 million intended for several Sépaq establishments in the Gaspé region, including the Parc national de la Gaspésie, the Gîte du Mont-Albert, the Chic-Chocs mountain inn and the Chic-Chocs wildlife reserve.
The Port-Daniel wildlife reserve, this 57 km2 territory where there are 25 trout lakes and a dreamy salmon river, will benefit from an amount of $ 0.5 million to repair infrastructure dedicated to customers, in particular the improvement of the road network and the built heritage. The reconstruction of the bridge at the entrance to the reserve is also on the program of work to be carried out.
All of these investments are part of the Government of Quebec&#39;s economic policy, entitled Priorité emploi and unveiled by the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, on October 7.
It should be remembered that this economic policy targets, in its first component, four flagship measures to stimulate job creation now, including the acceleration of government investments for the renovation and modernization of public infrastructure, including those of Sépaq.
The second part of the Priority Jobs economic policy aims in particular to stimulate the vigor of successful businesses, such as the tourism industry in Quebec, in order to compete on the international scene. In this component, structural investments will enable Sépaq to participate in the tourism strategy within the framework of the enhancement of the St. Lawrence River and the development of winter tourism.
Overall, the investments associated with the various components of the Priorité emploi policy in Sépaq establishments in the Gaspé region will create 43 jobs, 38 of which are direct jobs. Across Quebec, these investments will create 702 jobs, including 384 direct jobs, and will bring $ 10 million in tax and parafiscal revenues to the state coffers by 2016. “These investments confirm Sépaq&#39;s role as a lever for economic development in the regions of Quebec, ”said Sépaq President and CEO, Raymond Desjardins.
