Mirabel - The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the region of Montreal, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, underline the allocation of financial assistance of $ 4 million over three years granted to Bombardier Aerospace for the implementation of two training plans for its workforce. The support of Emploi-Québec, approved by the Commission des Partenaires du marché du travail, is complementary to an investment of $ 12,438,935 on the part of the company.
Of the amount invested by Emploi-Québec, $ 2 million was allocated to the second phase of training on commercial aircraft of the CSeries program in September 2012, and was to help create 850 jobs over the next three years. An amount of $ 2 million was also allocated in June 2013 for the implementation of the training plan for the Global 7000 business class aircraft program, Global 8000 *, which will, over three years, create 600 new jobs.
“Quebec can be proud of its aerospace sector: the companies and the workforce that compose it make Quebec famous throughout the world. This cutting-edge industry generates more than 42,000 jobs, mainly in the metropolitan area. This is why it is important for the Government of Quebec to promote the growth of this dynamic and promising sector by supporting the improvement of workers&#39; skills. Bombardier is a flagship of the Quebec economy, which not only provides thousands of quality jobs in its own establishments, but which generates just as many in its large network of suppliers and subcontractors, ”declared Minister Maltais.
“I am happy to take part in this important announcement which will have considerable impact in the greater metropolitan area. Aerospace is the backbone of our economy. Its strength has significant positive effects, particularly in terms of employment, as well as exports. This assistance that we are providing today to Bombardier Aerospace allows us to kill two birds with one stone: it helps provide quality jobs to citizens of the greater Montreal area, while supporting the success of important projects for which the company has invested considerable sums and which constitute a real engine for this industry in Quebec, ”said Minister Lisée.
“Bombardier Aéronautique is proud of this partnership with Emploi-Québec, which allows it to develop the know-how of its employees. On behalf of Bombardier, we would like to thank you for this invaluable collaboration which helps to offer our employees quality training and thus increase the acquisition of essential skills within the company ”, underlined Sylvie Bourdon, Vice-President. , Human Resources, Bombardier Aerospace.
“I salute Bombardier&#39;s strategic decision to focus on the quality of its personnel to carry out its projects. These will have positive spinoffs for my region and my riding, ”concluded the MNA for Mirabel, Ms. Denise Beaudoin.
