Témiscaming - The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the Member for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Labor, Mr. Gilles Chapadeau, announced the allocation of financial assistance of $ 1,224,000 over three years to the Tembec company in Témiscaming for the implementation of a training plan for its workforce.
The support of Emploi-Québec, approved by the Commission des Partenaires du marché du travail, is complementary to an investment of $ 2,894,364 by the company. The training plan will create 88 new jobs and consolidate the jobs of 65 other workers.
“For the Government of Quebec, it is important to support the forestry industry and workforce. In this sense, Emploi-Québec&#39;s investment is a good example of this commitment since it allows, thanks to the improvement of workers&#39; skills, to help Tembec to create and maintain quality jobs. In the region. Ultimately, this assistance supports the company&#39;s shift towards the future niche of specialty cellulose and the resulting vast modernization project for its Témiscaming facilities, which will improve its competitiveness and improve its competitiveness. to promote its long-term prosperity, ”said Minister Maltais.
“As the region&#39;s largest employer, Tembec plays a leading role in regional economic dynamism. The Government of Quebec is not only proud to support the company&#39;s growth and diversification projects, but also to invest in the talent and knowledge of local people. The implementation of the workforce skills development project will have positive spinoffs for workers in the region, their families and our economy. It will also make it possible to retain forestry expertise in our region, ”added MP Gilles Chapadeau.
As the paper industry is going through a period of restructuring, Tembec has decided to focus on developing a growth niche, that of specialty cellulose, in order to become one of the largest producers in the world. The manufacture of this dissolving paste, the demand for which is growing very strongly in the market, requires significant investments in the Témiscaming industrial complex and more advanced expertise on the part of the workforce. This is why Tembec will deploy a training plan affecting a total of 153 employees where each will receive training of an average of 300 hours, followed by on-the-job training of the companion type. The trained personnel come from a variety of trades, including machine operators, mechanics, electricians and instrumentalists.
“I am happy to see that we have the support of the Government of Quebec in our efforts to increase Tembec&#39;s performance in Témiscaming. Already, the allocation of a loan from Investissement-Québec has enabled us to set in motion a vast project to modernize our facilities. These improvements will allow us to increase our production capacity and become one of the world&#39;s largest players in the pulp and paper sector. With the training plan for our staff, it is the growth of our company and the retention of our workforce that we will be able to ensure. One of the great challenges of our company will certainly be that of ensuring adequate workforce management allowing us to face the scarcity of human resources and the aging of the population ”, underlined Ms. Linda Coates, vice-president. -President of human resources and corporate affairs at Tembec.
Tembec is an integrated forest products manufacturing company with approximately 3,400 employees in Canada, the United States and France. The Témiscaming industrial complex includes four factories.
