Boucherville - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, and the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports and Minister responsible for the Montérégie region, Ms. Marie Malavoy, announced investments of $ 8.2M in the Îles-de-Boucherville National Park managed by the Société des establishments de plein air du Québec (Sépaq).
“We are investing in order to enhance the St. Lawrence. In doing so, our government is creating, over a three-year horizon, jobs that will accelerate Québec&#39;s economic growth, ”said Minister Blanchet.
For her part, Minister Malavoy said she was satisfied to confirm these investments. “The Îles-de-Boucherville National Park, with its facilities, is both a remarkable tourist product and a place of conservation and education of exceptional environmental value near the metropolis. &quot;
To the investment projects already underway in the Îles-de-Boucherville national park, which will notably allow the construction of a new discovery and services center and a river reception station, a sum of 8 , $ 2 million will be added to facilitate access to the entire archipelago: development of discovery stops to increase contact with the river, construction of a bridge to optimize access to the archipelago , development of an original accommodation offer and improvement of transportation possibilities from Montreal to the park via the river. Thus, the Îles-de-Boucherville National Park will become for city dwellers an easily accessible nature getaway, a unique place for outdoor initiation as well as a promotional showcase for other national parks in Quebec.
All of these investments are part of the Quebec government&#39;s economic policy, entitled Priority employment, unveiled by the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, last fall.
It should be remembered that this economic policy targets, in its first component, four flagship measures to stimulate job creation now, including the acceleration of government investments for the renovation and modernization of public infrastructure, including those of Sépaq.
The second part of the Priority Jobs economic policy aims in particular to stimulate the vigor of high-performance businesses, such as the tourist industry in Quebec, in order to compete on the international scene. In this component, structural investments will enable Sépaq to participate in the tourism strategy within the framework of the enhancement of the St. Lawrence River and the development of winter tourism.
Overall, the investments associated with the various components of the Priorité emploi policy in Sépaq establishments in the Montérégie region will create 81 jobs, of which 30 are direct jobs. Across Quebec, these investments will create 702 jobs, including 384 direct jobs, and will bring $ 10 million in tax and parafiscal revenues to the state coffers by 2016. “These investments confirm Sépaq&#39;s role as a lever for economic development in the regions of Quebec, ”said Sépaq President and CEO, Raymond Desjardins.
