Mont-Tremblant– The member for Labelle and government official for the Laurentides region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, announces investments of $ 9.03 million in national parks and wildlife reserves managed by the Société des establishments de plein air du Québec (Sépaq) in the Laurentians region. “We are investing with the aim of developing winter tourism, improving accessibility to these areas, continuing to bring public service infrastructure up to standard and ensuring the sustainability of the built heritage. In doing so, our government is creating, in the very short term, jobs that will accelerate Québec&#39;s economic growth, ”said the Member.
Identified as one of the major partners in the new tourism development strategy of the region&#39;s “7 poles”, Mont-Tremblant National Park already offers a winter offer that will be developed in connection with certain regional projects. Sépaq will deploy a circuit of high mountain peaks there, promoting Nordic skiing and off-piste snowshoeing. The project also aims to build a multifunctional trail that will complete the Grande-Boucle for the portion between Lake Monroe and the entrance to the park. This trail will link several attractions in the region such as the Mont-Tremblant Resort, the Domaine Saint-Bernard and the Fraternité-sur-Lac project. These investments of $ 3.5 million complete the offer of existing winter activities as well as the recent development phase which saw the creation of a new discovery and service center.
Also in Mont-Tremblant National Park, an additional $ 3.4 million will be invested, including $ 1.38 million in the Laurentians region to bring campsites in the La Diable and La Cachée sectors up to standard.
The region&#39;s wildlife reserves also obtain significant sums for improving the road network and bringing the infrastructure dedicated to their customers up to standard, in particular the cabins. The Papineau-Labelle wildlife reserve receives investments totaling $ 1.75 million, including $ 1 million in the Laurentians region, while the Rouge-Matawin wildlife reserve receives $ 1.1 million, including $ 600,000. $ will be used for work in this region.
At the end of these announcements, the member for Bertrand, Mr. Claude Cousineau, said he was very happy with these investments and the economic spinoffs they will generate in the region.
All of these investments are part of the Quebec government&#39;s economic policy, entitled Priority employment, unveiled by the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, on October 7.
It should be remembered that this economic policy targets, in its first component, four flagship measures to stimulate job creation now, including the acceleration of government investments for the renovation and modernization of public infrastructure, including those of Sépaq.
The second part of the Priority Jobs economic policy aims in particular to stimulate the vigor of successful businesses, such as the tourism industry in Quebec, in order to compete on the international scene. In this component, structural investments will enable Sépaq to participate in the tourism strategy within the framework of the enhancement of the St. Lawrence River and the development of winter tourism.
Overall, the investments associated with the various components of the Priorité emploi policy in Sépaq establishments in the Laurentides region will create nearly 45 jobs, half of which are direct jobs. Across Quebec, these investments will create 702 jobs, including 384 direct jobs, and will bring $ 10 million in tax and parafiscal revenues to the state coffers by 2016. “These investments confirm Sépaq&#39;s role as a lever for economic development in the regions of Quebec, ”said Sépaq President and CEO, Raymond Desjardins.
