Montreal - The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, announced the implementation of a support project to help staff affected by the closure of the Aveos factory in Montreal. This project will affect at least 700 ex-workers looking for a job. It will be operational from next week. The announcement was made in the company of Mr. Richard Guay, president of the Union of Aveos Employees.
“When the company closed, 1,800 workers were affected. It is important for the Quebec government to offer them help so that they can get back to work quickly. I want to assure these people that they can count on the services of Emploi-Québec. I am very sensitive to their difficult situation, since they are currently being left behind, ”said Ms. Agnès Maltais.
In the coming days, Emploi-Québec will set up a support project for former Aveos workers. This is to ensure that the majority of them can be reclassified to meet the labor needs of the aerospace industry. An action plan is currently being developed to ensure consultation with Emploi-Québec partners, including the union, industrial clusters and employability organizations.
Note that former Aveos workers have access to Emploi-Québec measures and services. The support project will make it possible to concentrate and better coordinate efforts in order to facilitate their rapid reintegration into the labor market.
It should be noted that the Aveos company is under federal jurisdiction and that, despite this fact, Emploi-Québec makes sure to offer the help that ex-workers of Aveos need. Born from the transfer of Air Canada Technical Services (ACTS) following the restructuring of Air Canada in 2004, Aveos closed its doors on March 19, 2012, leading to the layoff of 1,800 people in Montreal. “We have a duty to help people made redundant in Quebec, regardless of their employer&#39;s affiliation. The Quebec government will not let them down, ”concluded Minister Maltais.
