Quebec - Following the Council of Ministers meeting, Quebec Premier Pauline Marois declared: “All Quebecers are affected by the tragedy that has struck the community of Lac-Mégantic. We are overcome by a feeling of devastation, but also by a great solidarity. All of Quebec has been in mourning since that fateful night. She announced that the government was making $ 60 million available to help the community of Lac-Mégantic recover.
A first tranche of $ 25 million - available immediately - has been released for emergency aid. &quot;As of next Monday, evacuated families will be entitled to a lump-sum first-aid assistance, an amount of $ 1,000,&quot; said the Prime Minister.
In all, $ 8 million will be devoted to emergency aid for people and $ 7 million will be allocated to the municipality to help it deal with the most urgent. The direct costs incurred in responding to the incident will be reimbursed at 100%. The City will be compensated over a period of two years for the loss of tax revenue due to damaged or destroyed buildings for which it will no longer receive taxes.
For disaster-stricken businesses and their employees, the government has earmarked a sum of $ 10 million, again for emergency aid, which will allow their relocation and the resumption of their activities. &quot;These $ 25 million in emergency aid will be paid quickly, which will allow the community of Lac-Mégantic to move forward,&quot; added the Premier.
A second tranche of $ 25 million will be available to help the municipality. This sum will be used to plan the reconstruction of the city center and its infrastructures in order to make it a place where it will be good to live again. A modern, dynamic and safe city center, where green and commercial areas will come together.
The Prime Minister said it was “a first helping hand. It is little consolation, but we are going to help Lac-Mégantic rebuild a beautiful and attractive downtown. What I want is for this reconstruction to become a mobilizing project, both for the municipality and for its citizens. &quot;
The efforts of the Quebec state have been coordinated from the early hours by the Organization de la sécurité civile du Québec, which is setting up a help and information office that will be open from Monday morning.
The tragedy that befell this community has also had serious repercussions on the economy. To help its rapid revival, the Council of Ministers decided to create a special fund to help the economy of $ 10 million, the parameters of which will be defined later, in collaboration with the community.
To show the deep sadness and solidarity of the entire Quebec nation, the Premier asked that the Quebec flag be at half mast on all public buildings for a week. The flags will therefore be at half mast from tomorrow morning, July 11, until Wednesday July 17 at the end of the day.
The Prime Minister concluded by saying “that in addition to our sadness, we have a very legitimate feeling of anger. In due course, both the company and the authorities concerned will be held to account. Such an event should never have happened. The questions are many and all the answers will have to be given to us. But today, our concerns are focused on the community, the municipality and the environment. &quot;
For more information, consult the Government action plan relating to a rail accident that occurred on July 6, 2013 in the city of Lac-Mégantic (PDF)
Watch the press conference.
