Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale region, Agnès Maltais, announced investments of $ 27.6M for the development and consolidation of the tourist offer in the Capitale-Nationale region. These projects, which affect a national park, two wildlife reserves and two tourist centers managed by the Société des establishments de plein air du Québec (Sépaq), will help set Quebec apart on the international tourism scene.
“When the Priority Jobs economic policy was unveiled, we announced significant sums for tourism development. The investments we are presenting today are in line with our government vision. They will be used in particular for the development of winter tourism and the enhancement of the St. Lawrence. In addition, this will improve the accessibility of the targeted territories, continue to bring public service infrastructure up to standard and ensure the sustainability of the built heritage, ”declared the Premier.
In addition to the projects already underway at Parc de la Chute-Montmorency, for the development of a center of international tourist activities, an amount of $ 8 million has been added for the implementation, over three years, of the a passage behind Montmorency Falls. In addition, to further enhance the sensory experience of visitors, a boat fall approach project is also being developed for an amount of $ 1 million. Note that Chute-Montmorency Park is the second most visited attraction in the Capitale-Nationale region, after Old Quebec.
&quot;The enhancement of our river is a way of expressing our fundamental nature and of making Quebec shine on international tourist markets,&quot; added the Premier.
“The St. Lawrence River is an integral part of the landscape of the Capitale-Nationale region. It constitutes the basis of our identity and the common thread of our history ”, for her part indicated Minister Maltais.
Parc national de la Jacques-Cartier, located some 45 minutes from Quebec City, will receive an amount of $ 2 million to consolidate, within three years, its winter offer. A snow cruise as well as a nature discovery program are part of the projects.
“The Capitale-Nationale region is one of the snowiest in the world. This is why the development of winter tourism fits naturally into our intervention priorities to consolidate our positioning as a destination of choice for winter activities, ”explained Agnès Maltais.
An amount of $ 2.7 million has also been granted to Parc national de la Jacques-Cartier to rebuild the main road. For their part, the Laurentides and Portneuf wildlife reserves will benefit respectively from an amount of $ 3.49 million and $ 1.1 million for the repair of the wastewater systems as well as for the upgrading of the road networks. and infrastructure dedicated to customers, especially chalets.
To this is added an amount of $ 9.3 million intended for the Duchesnay Tourist Station, of which $ 5.3 million will be devoted to the modernization of the Le Cerf pavilion, which houses the Center de formation et de perfectionnement de la protection de la wildlife. Remember that the Center offers future wildlife protection officers refresher training.
In total, the investments associated with these two components should create 702 jobs, 384 of which are direct, and bring in $ 10 million in tax and parafiscal revenues to the State coffers by 2016. “These investments confirm Sépaq&#39;s role. as a lever for economic development in the regions of Quebec, ”said Sépaq President and CEO, Mr. Raymond Desjardins.
