Saint-Alexis-des-Monts– The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Mr. Élaine Zakaïb, on behalf of the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces investments of $ 2.4M for the improvement of the infrastructures of the Société des establishments de plein air du Québec (Sépaq) in the Mauricie region. “We are investing with the aim of improving accessibility to these areas, continuing to bring public service infrastructure up to standard and ensuring the sustainability of the built heritage. In doing so, our government is creating, in the very short term, jobs that will accelerate Québec&#39;s economic growth, ”said the Minister.
The region&#39;s wildlife reserves obtain the sum of $ 2.4 million for the improvement of the road network and the upgrading of the infrastructures dedicated to the clientele of the wildlife reserves, in particular the cabins. The Saint-Maurice wildlife reserve is the subject of investments totaling $ 1.4 million, while the Mastigouche wildlife reserve receives $ 2.2 million, of which $ 1 million will be used to carry out repair work in this area. region.
All of these investments are part of the Government of Quebec&#39;s economic policy, entitled Priorité emploi and unveiled by the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, last fall.
It should be remembered that this economic policy targets, in its first component, four flagship measures to stimulate job creation now, including the acceleration of government investments for the renovation and modernization of public infrastructure, including those of Sépaq.
The second part of the Priority Jobs economic policy aims in particular to stimulate the vigor of successful businesses, such as the Quebec tourism industry, in order to compete on the international scene. In this component, structural investments will allow Sépaq to participate in the tourism strategy within the framework of the enhancement of the St. Lawrence River and the development of winter tourism in various regions.
Overall, the investments associated with the Priority employment policy in Sépaq wildlife reserves in the Mauricie region will create 22 jobs, including 12 direct jobs. Across Quebec, the investments associated with the two components of this policy should create 702 jobs, including 384 direct jobs, and bring in $ 10 million in tax and parafiscal revenues in the State coffers by 2017. “These investments confirm Sépaq&#39;s role as a lever for economic development in the regions of Quebec, ”said Sépaq President and CEO, Raymond Desjardins.
