Amos - The Deputy Premier and Minister responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, Mr. François Gendron, announces investments of $ 2.63 million for the improvement of the infrastructures of the Société des establishments de plein air du Québec (Sépaq) in the Aiguebelle national park and in the La Vérendrye wildlife reserve. “We are investing with the aim of continuing to bring public service infrastructure up to standard and ensure the sustainability of the built heritage. In doing so, our government is creating, in the very short term, jobs that will accelerate Québec&#39;s economic growth, ”said the Minister.
A true natural gem of the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, Parc national d&#39;Aiguebelle will receive a sum of $ 1 million for the consolidation of its built heritage. The work will affect more particularly the discovery center, this very place where a visit to a national park often begins. This work will also make it possible to implement the new Parc Parcours technology, developed by Parcs Québec in the various places of discovery highlighting the peculiarities of a natural environment. From this same amount, the park will also bring its wastewater system up to standard.
In addition, a total amount of $ 3 million has been authorized for work in the La Vérendrye wildlife reserve, of which $ 1.63 million will be allocated to the part of the reserve located in the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region. These works will affect the road network and the upgrading of infrastructure dedicated to the reserve&#39;s clientele, in particular the chalets.
All of these investments are part of the Government of Quebec&#39;s economic policy, entitled Priorité emploi and unveiled by the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, on October 7.
It should be remembered that this economic policy targets, in its first component, four flagship measures to stimulate job creation now, including the acceleration of government investments for the renovation and modernization of public infrastructure, including those of Sépaq.
The second part of the Priority Jobs economic policy aims in particular to stimulate the vigor of successful businesses, such as the tourism industry in Quebec, in order to compete on the international scene. In this component, structural investments will enable Sépaq to participate in the tourism strategy within the framework of the enhancement of the St. Lawrence River and the development of winter tourism.
In total, the investments associated with these two components should create 702 jobs, including 384 direct jobs, and bring $ 10 million in tax revenues to the State coffers by 2016. “These investments confirm Sépaq&#39;s role as a lever for economic development in the regions of Quebec, ”said Sépaq President and CEO, Raymond Desjardins.
