Baie-Comeau– The MNA for René-Lévesque, Chief Government Whip and responsible for the Côte-Nord region, Mr. Marjolain Dufour, on behalf of the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, announces the creation of the Regional Table on Manpower in the Industrial and Construction Sectors.
“By creating this table, the Quebec government is demonstrating its desire to support employment in the region. There are currently major investment projects on the Côte-Nord and we must ensure that workers in the region contribute to their success and that the expected spinoffs benefit both citizens and local people. business and different communities. We are attentive to the concerns expressed by the workforce and the North Coast stakeholders and we are aware of the problems experienced in the territory, particularly those related to the phenomenon of commuting. The government is acting responsibly by setting up a new consultation and mobilization body, ”said Minister Maltais.
“The establishment of this new body responds to a major issue that we are experiencing in the region in specific sectors of activity. Regionally, we must question ourselves about the solutions to be put in place to ensure a promising future, both for our economy and for citizens and their families. With this new place of exchange, which brings together actors from all walks of life, including elected officials, unions and employers, we are raising regional consultation to a level. We can affirm that we are, all together, mobilized for employment on the North Shore, ”said MP Dufour.
The Table, which is under the responsibility of the Regional Council of Partners in the Côte-Nord Labor Market and coordinated by Emploi-Québec, is mandated to look into workforce issues, mainly in the sectors industrial and construction. It will have to shed light on the difficulties which have contributed to the current situation and propose lasting solutions to be implemented to remedy them effectively.
The Table is composed by:
