Québec– The Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, draws a very positive result from the 2013 Québec Mines congress, where nearly 5,000 participants presented themselves at the Québec City Convention Center from November 11 to 14.
On the theme Science-Innovation-Society, 1,900 delegates discussed the importance of research, new practices and social responsibility in mining development. “We want Quebec to be an example of responsible development, respectful of the environment and in dialogue with communities. And that&#39;s what a mobilizing event like Quebec Mines allows us to do, ”said Martine Ouellet.
The addition of an international component showcased Quebec expertise in mineral exploration and development to foreign delegates. It also gave concrete expression to the desire to make Québec Mines the most important mining congress in the Francophonie. In fact, delegates from 20 countries responded to Quebec&#39;s invitation. Delegations from Burkina-Faso, Cameroon, France, Gabon and Russia were present.
The Ministry of Natural Resources has unveiled the results of its annual work to acquire geoscientific knowledge. This year, this work made it possible to locate 45 new exploration targets. Their unveiling prompted the capture of around 100 claims in the minutes that followed.
Québec Minespour tous, the youth and general public component of Québec Mines, was a resounding success! Some 2,000 primary and secondary students, accompanied by their teachers, were captivated by the visit to the M4S Show. This interactive exhibition allowed them to make a foray into the world of geosciences and minerals, to learn about new developments in the mining sector, to meet the enthusiasts who work there and to discover the importance of this sector in their daily lives. &quot;This exhibition gives our young people a taste for going to jobs in the mining sector which are jobs of the future for Quebec,&quot; said Martine Ouellet. In addition, 600 citizens took advantage of the open house.
More than 250 job seekers came to the crossroads of employment and education. Participants were able to interact with employers in the Quebec mining sector and educational institutions. They also had the chance to learn more about jobs related to the mining development cycles and the skills in demand.
The Ministry of Natural Resources will hold its next convention from November 17 to 20, 2014.
Québec Mines is organized by the Ministry of Natural Resources in collaboration with the Association minière du Québec, the Canadian Institute of Mines, Metallurgy and Petroleum, the Sectorial Committee of Workforce of the Mining Industry, Québec international, the Institut national des mines and 48e Nord international.
