Saint-André-Avellin– The Minister responsible for the Outaouais region, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, announced investments of $ 3.11 million to improve the infrastructures of the Société des establishments de plein air du Québec (Sépaq ) in the Outaouais region. “We are investing with the aim of improving accessibility to these areas, continuing to bring public service infrastructure up to standard and ensuring the sustainability of the built heritage. In doing so, our government is creating, in the very short term, jobs that will accelerate Québec&#39;s economic growth, ”said the Minister.
The region&#39;s wildlife reserves obtain the sum of $ 2.11 million for the improvement of the road network and the upgrading of infrastructure dedicated to customers, in particular the cabins. The Papineau-Labelle wildlife reserve is the subject of investments totaling $ 1.75 million, of which $ 742,000 will be used for work in the Outaouais. For its part, the La Vérendryer wildlife reserve will receive $ 3 million, of which $ 1.372 million will be devoted to its infrastructures located in this region.
As for the Center tourisme du Lac-Simon, a major tourist attraction for the Outaouais, it will benefit from a sum of $ 1 million for the development of a children&#39;s play area and for the upgrading of its networks of aqueduct, sewer and electricity as well as for the repair of a bridge.
All of these investments are part of the Quebec government&#39;s economic policy, entitled Priority employment, unveiled by the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, on October 7.
It should be remembered that this economic policy targets, in its first component, four flagship measures to stimulate job creation now, including the acceleration of government investments for the renovation and modernization of public infrastructure, including those of Sépaq.
The second part of the Priority Jobs economic policy aims in particular to stimulate the vigor of successful businesses, such as the tourism industry in Quebec, in order to compete on the international scene. In this component, structural investments will enable Sépaq to participate in the tourism strategy within the framework of the enhancement of the St. Lawrence River and the development of winter tourism.
Overall, the investments associated with the various components of the Priorité emploi policy in Sépaq establishments in the Outaouais region will create 16 jobs, 12 of which are direct jobs. Across Quebec, these investments will create 702 jobs, including 384 direct jobs, and will bring $ 10 million in tax and parafiscal revenues to the state coffers by 2016. “These investments confirm Sépaq&#39;s role as a lever for economic development in the regions of Quebec, ”said Sépaq President and CEO, Raymond Desjardins.
