Quebec - The Destination 2030 consultation tour was in Nunavik from Wednesday October 9 to Friday October 11, in order to probe the concerns of young people in the region and discuss issues specific to their communities with them. As part of this stop on the tour, the Parliamentary Assistant to the Premier for Youth Affairs and Member of Parliament for Laval-des-Rapides, Mr. Léo Bureau-Blouin, met more than 30 young people and stakeholders from the region.
A meeting was organized on Wednesday in Kuujjuaq with young people from various communities, stakeholders, the president of the Association of Nunavik Youth Centers and the president of the Saputiit Youth Association. The opportunity was right to discuss the challenges that await the youth of the region in the coming years. On Thursday, Mr. Bureau-Blouin had the opportunity to participate in the 2013 Youth Conference in Kangiqsualujjuaq, where the vision for the future of young people in the region was discussed. Presentations at the conference focused, among other topics, on the challenges of pursuing post-secondary education and employment opportunities, as well as the importance of recreation for Inuit youth. The day ended with the presentation of an intergenerational show showcasing the talent and know-how of local residents. Back in Kuujjuaq on Friday, Mr. Bureau-Blouin was treated to a tour of the city of Kuujjuaq in the company of the mayor, Mr. Tunu Napartuk, and representatives of the Kativik Regional Government.
“This visit to the Nunavik region allowed me to understand the reality of young people here. Among other things, I had the chance to interact with young people from several northern villages with very different profiles who wanted to take part in the discussion that our government started with the Destination 2030 tour, ”said Mr. Bureau. -Blouin. Organized by the Secrétariat à la jeunesse in collaboration with the Kativik Regional Government, the objective of this visit was to gather the point of view of young people in the region within the framework of the work to renew the Québec Youth Policy.
“I am happy that representatives of young people from the region had the opportunity to discuss with Mr. Bureau-Blouin the problems that affect them. In Nunavik, 75% of the population is under 35 years old. Young people are not only our future, they are also our present. We must therefore take their concerns into account and include them in the renewal of the Québec Youth Policy. We look forward to continuing this much needed dialogue that began this week and adding our voice to that of other young Quebecers, ”said Maggie Emudluk, President of the Kativik Regional Government.
“After taking part in discussions with Mr. Bureau-Blouin and seeing the leadership and active participation of young Nunavimmiut, I am convinced that with perseverance and tenacity and by working as a team we will succeed in overcoming the difficulties we are facing, ”declared Ms. Jennifer Watkins, councilor for the northern village of Kuujjuaq and member of the Administrative Committee of the Kativik Regional Government.
The young people and stakeholders we met were also invited to contribute to the interactive site www.destination2030.gouv.qc.ca, and to promote it in their network. In addition to providing useful information, this website allows all citizens to participate in the discussion and directly influence government thinking on youth matters. &quot;We want to create a real community of citizens engaged in the process of building a public policy,&quot; explained Mr. Bureau-Blouin. The multiplication of points of view and their comparison with one another enrich the debate and nourish our reflection. &quot;
The objective of the regional tour is to meet young people, youth workers and youth partners from all regions in order to identify the problems, issues and actions that should be included in the new Quebec Youth Policy. The meetings will also make it possible to make young citizens aware of the challenges that await Quebec by 2030 and the importance of preparing the next generation of Quebecers to face demographic changes.
The Youth Secretariat&#39;s mandate is to advise the government on youth matters and to assist the Premier in exercising her responsibilities in this regard. It coordinates and monitors government action in this area.
