Quebec - The Minister of Families, Ms. Nicole Léger, is pleased to mark Quebec Child Care Week 2013, which is held until June 1 across Quebec. This week is an opportunity to highlight the links that are forged day after day between toddlers and the staff of educational childcare services, who ensure their well-being.
“Since the establishment of a real network of childcare services by a Parti Québécois government in 1997, Quebec has seen the development of a diversified network that meets the needs of parents. Early childhood centers (CPEs), family childcare providers and private daycare centers are important government partners in providing children with quality services, ”said Minister Nicole Léger.
Minister Nicole Léger praised the work and dedication of all stakeholders in the childcare network, in particular the important role of early childhood educators in the harmonious development of children. “In all regions of Quebec, early childhood educators contribute daily to the development and growth of young children and their families. I would like to underline their remarkable contribution and the major role they play with toddlers during their first years of life. &quot;
Early childhood educators are responsible for implementing an educational program that supports the quality of childcare services offered in Quebec. With professionalism and competence, they ensure the well-being of children by allowing them to develop as a whole. Educational childcare services offer solutions adapted to the various realities of Quebec families. They meet a need for work-family reconciliation to promote a better balance between family and professional responsibilities.
On the occasion of Daycare Services Week, the Minister of Families reaffirmed the government&#39;s commitment to Quebec families. “Better meeting the needs of children and families is a priority for our government. That is why we announced, last November, the creation, by 2016, of 28,000 new reduced-contribution spaces in the Quebec childcare network. The realization of these places is already well underway. Over the next few months, we will continue the work begun to promote the development of children and the well-being of all families in Quebec, ”concluded Minister Nicole Léger.
