Quebec - Leader of the Official Opposition Pierre Karl Péladeau and Parti Québécois Finance and Revenue Critic Nicolas Marceau denounce the interference and contempt of Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall that he posted to the elected representatives of Quebec from the Metropolitan Community of Montreal (CMM) who took a stand yesterday against the Energy East pipeline project. It should be noted that the mayors of the CMM represent 82 municipalities and speak on behalf of nearly 4 million Quebeckers, which is almost 4 times more people than the total population of Saskatchewan.
Let us recall that following the clear opposition of the elected representatives of the CMM to the pipeline of the Energy East project, Mr. Wall suggested that the mayors reimburse their share of equalization &quot;paid&quot; by the West.
“It&#39;s only up to Quebec to decide what is good for Quebec. We will never agree to subordinate the interests of Quebecers to that of other provinces. And a proud people like the people of Quebec will never agree to have their decisions dictated to them. The interference of the Premier of Saskatchewan in the affairs of Quebec, on the pretext that oil finances part of the equalization, is unacceptable. It cannot be tolerated. Elected officials from Montreal have spoken. They made a decision in the best interests of the citizens they represent. It is not for the Premier of Saskatchewan to question a decision made in Quebec for Quebecers, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“It is Quebeckers and only Quebeckers who decide what will happen on their territory. Brad Wall does not have to tell us what to do with our river, our rivers, our forests and our farmland. In addition, the oil economy in Western Canada has deconstructed the Quebec economy. We have lost tens of thousands of jobs to other provinces. Brad Wall should be ashamed of his words, especially since Saskatchewan has greatly contributed to making Canada a dunce in terms of the environment, ”concluded Nicolas Marceau.
Let us recall that last July, during the Council of the Federation, Mr. Wall declared: &quot;I believe that no province in this Confederation should be able to stand in the way of a pipeline project&quot;. For the Parti Québécois, no pipeline will override the expressed will and the choices made by Quebeckers, for Quebeckers.
