Quebec - Official Opposition House Leader and Ethics and Integrity Critic, Bernard Drainville, reacts to the publication of the report of the Commission of Inquiry into the Awarding and Management of Public Contracts in the construction industry. He is asking the Liberal government to continue the cleanup that the Parti Québécois has started.
“We welcome the conclusions of the Charbonneau commission. With regard to the observations and recommendations of the commissioners, we see that some of them can be implemented quickly, and we urge the government to act as soon as possible. Others would even deserve to be deepened, in order to further protect the interests and money of Quebecers, ”said Bernard Drainville.
“In addition, we note that since the arrival of the Liberal Party in power, the fight against corruption has slowed down. The DPCP has seen its number of prosecutors specifically assigned to the fight against corruption and organized crime decrease by 40%. It has a direct effect on UPAC; Investigations completed for months are waiting on the shelves, including those on the financing of the PLQ. The Liberals must now prove that they are capable of leading the fight against collusion and corruption, and it is urgent. What has the Couillard government done so far? Virtually nothing, other than cutting the number of prosecutors who indict the bandits. In addition, we are still waiting for the bill on municipal political financing, which had already been tabled by the Parti Québécois, ”continued the leader of the official opposition.
“The Parti Québécois had demanded for two years the holding of this commission of inquiry. He has asked over 300 questions in the House and tabled 10 motions on the subject, all defeated by the Liberal Party. The commission made it possible to reveal in broad daylight the occult stratagems which undermine democracy. The population expects exemplary management of public money. Quebecers have had enough shenanigans, and with good reason! The Parti Québécois did not wait to act. As soon as we came to power, we cleaned up, ”he added.
In 18 months, the Parti Québécois government has done a lot to fight corruption. Let us mention in particular:
“We are asking the Liberal government to make the fight against corruption a real priority. As far as we are concerned, we will remain vigilant so that it soon puts forward concrete solutions, ”concluded Bernard Drainville.
