Quebec - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, reacted to the report tabled today by the Auditor General of Quebec (VGQ) and signed by Mr. Michel Samson.
“The Auditor General shows that the financial framework unveiled in the update last November is based on revenue forecasts that are reasonable. Our financial framework is therefore credible, solid and realistic; the Auditor General found no error there. The alarmist statements by the Liberal Party and the Coalition Avenir Québec are therefore unfounded, ”said Mr. Marceau.
“As for the return to a balanced budget in 2015-2016, the government has always recognized that this is a demanding objective. For 2012-2013, we succeeded in controlling spending by keeping it at the lowest level of the decade, which the Auditor General also acknowledges in his report. Controlling spending is first and foremost dependent on the political will of the government, and I assure you that we have no shortage of it, ”added the Minister.
As part of its analysis, the VGQ recognizes the quality of the documents sent to it as well as the efforts made by the staff of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy.
Indeed, the Ministry devotes significant efforts to the preparation of forecasts necessary for the preparation of a budget or an economic and financial update. Over the years, the Department has developed economic and financial analysis models aimed at producing quality forecasts. Rigorous analyzes are carried out by a professional and experienced team. The VGQ also points out that the Quebec government is recognized for the quality of its forecasts and its process.
Remember that Quebec is the only Canadian province to have presented, in the fall of 2013, a detailed financial framework in an economic and financial update with a five-year perspective. In addition, Quebec is the only province that publishes a monthly report on financial transactions.
The Department has taken note of the recommendations that the VGQ presented in its analysis of the economic and financial update of November 2013. It accepts the ten recommendations formulated by the VGQ and will analyze how it intends to follow up on them, with a view to continuous improvement.
