Quebec - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, today tabled in the National Assembly the annual assessment report on photo radar entitled Photographic speedometers and photographic traffic control systems at red lights. This report describes several results and actions carried out, in particular in road safety. The results presented show that the use of photo radars encourages road users to comply more with the Highway Safety Code and, by the same token, to improve the road record. This report is the first of five that will be tabled annually in the National Assembly.
The report confirms that, from a road safety point of view, the use of automated monitoring devices on the Quebec road network has allowed, on the one hand, a reduction in speeds and, on the other hand, a reduction in accidents. with a more marked drop in accidents resulting in bodily injury.
“There has been a considerable decrease in the number of accidents resulting in bodily injury at sites where fixed photographic speedometers have been installed. Similar proportions are recorded where photographic traffic control systems at red lights and mobile photo radar devices have been deployed. Obviously, these devices improve Quebec&#39;s road safety record and, incidentally, they help to reduce the social costs attributable to road accidents, ”said Minister Gaudreault.
Among the actions listed in the report, let us note the realization of a survey carried out between May 15 and May 31, 2013, aimed at measuring the perceptions of road users concerning the use of automated control devices. Overall, respondents agree that the continued use of photo radars and red light surveillance devices improves safety, reduces speed and accidents, and increases control.
Moreover, support for photo radars and red light surveillance devices on our roads remains very high. It results in percentages above 80% in the majority of cities and agglomerations participating in the municipal cooperation pilot project, that is to say the cities of Laval (79%), Longueuil (89%), Gatineau (88%) and Quebec (87%). These cities are strongly in favor of installing devices in their municipality. In addition, 88% of survey respondents are in favor of the gradual deployment of photo radars and 90% approve of the installation of red light surveillance devices.
“Almost four years after the deployment of the first devices in Quebec, social acceptability remains high. This is proof that road safety is invaluable in the eyes of Quebecers, ”the Minister concluded.
It should be remembered that following the sanction, in 2012, of the Law modifying the framework for the use of photographic speedometers and photographic traffic control systems at red lights and other legislative provisions, the government confirmed the permanence the use of photo radars in Quebec. To this end, the Ministry of Transport will launch in the coming months a new call for tenders for the acquisition and maintenance of new photo radars and traffic light surveillance devices.
To find out more about photo radars and red light surveillance devices, visit www.objectifsecurite.gouv.qc.ca.
