Quebec - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announces that the Minister of Transport will launch a new call for tenders for the acquisition and maintenance of new photo radars and traffic light surveillance devices.
“The result of the call for tenders launched last March does not meet the government&#39;s expectations. In this context, the necessary decision is to launch a new call for tenders in order to ensure healthy competition and guarantee, in complete transparency, adequate management of public funds, ”declared the Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault.
This decision results in the postponement to a later date of the implementation of the second phase of installation of the devices on the roads of Quebec. In the meantime, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Public Security are considering determining new locations where speed limit compliance could be controlled by mobile devices already available to the Sûreté du Québec. The latter has also ensured its collaboration since this will allow it to carry out surveillance in more places within a few months.
On March 6, 2013, the Quebec Shared Services Center published a call for tenders for the acquisition of 37 devices (18 mobile photo radars, 6 fixed photo radars and 13 traffic light surveillance devices). This call for tenders was preceded by a notice of intent which was sent to 17 potential suppliers to encourage them to bid. Four potential suppliers obtained the documentation, but only one bidder submitted an offer.
However, the difference between the estimate and the proposed price being too great, the Department, in collaboration with the Center de services sociaux du Québec, has chosen to review its approach and launch a new call for tenders. The strategy for the acquisition of the devices will be modified in order to allow a greater number of suppliers to bid and thereby assume greater competitiveness in the market.
The Department will reassess the schedule for the deployment of the new devices, since their entry into service is delayed indefinitely. The various partners involved in this second phase have been notified, including the cities participating in the municipal cooperation pilot project, namely Gatineau and Laval as well as the cities of the agglomeration of Longueuil (Longueuil, Brossard, Boucherville, Saint-Bruno-de -Montarville) and those of the agglomeration of Quebec (Quebec, Ancienne-Lorette and Saint-Augustin-de-Desmaures).
To find out more about photo radars and traffic light surveillance devices, visit www.objectifsecurite.gouv.qc.ca.
