Quebec– Reacting to the words of the member for Rivière-du-Loup, Mr. Jean D&#39;Amour, the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault wanted to put the clocks by the hour. &quot;Jean D&#39;Amour is misleading the population when he says that the money needed for phase 3 of the 85 highway extension was provided by the former Liberal government,&quot; he said.
In the last few days, Mr. D&#39;Amour cited a confidential document from the Ministry of Transport, dated February 20, 2012, indicating, according to him, that the sums necessary for the construction of phase 3 were budgeted. &quot;What this document tells us is that the former Liberal government invested only $ 2.2M for phase 3, while the project is estimated at over $ 562M .nbsp;&quot;
“In addition, in this same document, we notice that the former liberal regime deceived the population by asserting that the 2018 deadline would be respected while it is indicated in black and white that this would not be the case since the project was largely under-budgeted! May Jean D&#39;Amour not come and lecture me! Nbsp; ”said Minister Gaudreault.
In fact, the sums needed to carry out the works, estimated at more than $ 430 million, were not provided for in the Quebec Infrastructure Program, the amounts entered for the work appearing in the official documents of the Ministry only as &#39;preliminary estimate.
The work of phase 3, like the work already carried out on Highway 85, will require the conclusion of an agreement with Ottawa for its financing. &quot;Nbsp; I have mandated officials from the Department of Transport to initiate discussions with their federal counterparts as soon as possible. If the amounts had been budgeted for by the old regime, it would have been done a long time ago, ”said the Minister of Transport.
“The extension of Autoroute 85 is a priority for the citizens of Bas-Saint-Laurent. The government of Quebec has the firm will to build this third and final phase, ”said Pascal Bérubé, Minister responsible for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Matane-Matapedia.
“We will act responsibly and we will give citizens the right facts, which the former Liberal government did not do,” concludes the Minister of Transport.
