Quebec - On the occasion of the presentation of the preliminary report on the solidarity cooperative SABSA, in Quebec, the member for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, and the deputy for Taschereau, Agnès Maltais, would like to remind the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, that the solution to the problems of access to health care does not lie solely with doctors.
In fact, researchers from Integrated Primary Care Teams (ESPI) and their partners, including the FIQ, estimate at 3,000 per year the number of consultations that could be performed by specialized nurse practitioners (IPS) at the Quebec City clinic. They add that this pilot project, if deployed on a permanent basis, would represent savings estimated at nearly $ 120,000 per year, per clinic.
“Quebec cannot do without its IPS; however, several developed countries make much better use of their professionals. We invite the Minister to consider supporting projects such as that of the SABSA cooperative, which make it possible to benefit from the skills and experience of many health professionals. Let us recall that the Prime Minister, during an election campaign, had promised to train 2000 IPS in 10 years; yet, at the current rate, achieving this promise will take more than 33 years, ”said Diane Lamarre.
Registration does not equal access
The report released today also sheds light on another problem with our health care system: being registered with a doctor unfortunately still does not guarantee that you will be able to see it when you need it. In fact, two thirds of the patients who consulted at the SABSA cooperative declared having a family doctor.
Agnès Maltais, for her part, thanked the local actors for their mobilization; they carried and carried out this project, and they were actively involved in finding solutions to the problems of access to our health network experienced by Quebecers, and more specifically certain vulnerable clienteles. “These committed people were able to count on my support from the start of the project, and they can continue to count on the Parti Québécois to obtain government support. Until then, we will continue to remind Minister Barrette that physicians are certainly crucial players in our health care system, but they are not the only ones. Since the solution to access problems does not go only to doctors, Gaétan Barrette must commit to initiatives such as the SABSA cooperative ”, she concluded.
