Quebec - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, welcomes the recommendations of the report of the Commission for ethics in science and technology on government research in Quebec .
The report clearly shows that the relationship between the federal government and its researchers is very strained both in terms of communications with the media and in the conduct of their research, the subject being well documented. In Quebec, the situation is far from being as restrictive, says the commission, “but we are not immune from questionable practices,” Minister Duchesne pointed out.
The Minister took note of the report which suggests these measures:
“The recommendations made by the commission deserve to be studied. I intend to consider them within the framework of the National Research and Innovation Policy which is currently being drafted. The idea of a code of conduct specific to research is attractive. In addition, we will go further to recognize the role of researchers in the analysis of the Quebec state by seeing how we could allow them to use government data for research purposes, ”announced Minister Duchesne.
Regarding the situation at the federal level, Minister Duchesne said: “I am appalled by the situation of researchers in Ottawa as illustrated in the report. Tensions are high between researchers and the federal government which prevents them from speaking. Moreover, the Information Commissioner of Canada, Ms. Suzanne Legault, has agreed to open an investigation into the allegations of federal scientists who claim to be muzzled by the Canadian government ”.
The Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology is currently developing its PNRI. This policy will be the result of numerous consultations held with stakeholders from all sectors concerned by research and innovation: businesses, educational establishments, the State and society. The PNRI will help advance Quebec in the knowledge and innovation society.
