Quebec - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, is satisfied with the tabling of the report of the Parliamentary Commission on the reversal of the flow of pipeline 9B from Enbridge. It also recommended that the project be carried out on the basis of eighteen conditions affecting the economy, safety and the environment.
Thus, the Minister recommended in particular that the Enbridge company undertake to transport oil only to refineries located in Quebec and that the latter submit it to the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks its inspection data so that an independent expert can assess the integrity of Pipeline 9B and Enbridge&#39;s maintenance and inspection practices. The Minister also proposed that a vigilance committee be set up and that Enbridge file a sufficient financial guarantee plan in the context of a possible disaster.
&quot;This large-scale project will strengthen our petrochemical industry, which has some 51,000 jobs in Quebec,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “It is also a project that will diversify the supply of our Quebec refineries. However, for all Quebecers to benefit from these spinoffs, it is essential that the reversal of pipeline 9B and its new use be carried out with total respect for citizens and the environment. This is a priority for our government and an obligation of the management of Enbridge. &quot;
Minister Zakaïb also recommended that refineries be subject to environmental assessments, should their refining operations use more heavy oil than at present, and that Enbridge put in place special protection measures at crossings of oil courses. &#39;water. In addition, she proposed that the federal government review all of its laws affecting oil transportation to optimize safety, and that Enbridge, as part of its work, maximize local economic benefits.
“Our government&#39;s goal is to achieve energy independence. In this sense, we recently tabled the Transport Electrification Strategy, which aims to reduce our consumption of petroleum products, ”added Minister Zakaïb.
It should be remembered that the Parliamentary Commission on the reversal of the flow of line 9B of the company Enbridge was held from November 26 to December 5. This consultation process enabled experts, environmental groups, municipalities and citizens interested in the Enbridge project to make their recommendations concerning the potential repercussions on Quebec&#39;s economy, safety and environment. The departments concerned as well as the executives of the company Enbridge also had the opportunity to provide more details concerning the stakes of the project.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
