Quebec - Stéphane Bergeron, the member for Verchères and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois for Quebec-Canada relations, as well as the member for Terrebonne and spokesperson for the environment and the fight against climate change, Mathieu Traversy, denounce the federal government&#39;s intention to ratify the Paris Climate Accord before reaching an agreement with Quebec on its implementation, with the approval of Quebec&#39;s Minister of the Environment, David Heurtel. However, the Canadian climate plan essentially consists of allocating Quebecers&#39; money to the most polluting provinces.
“Quebec will be the big loser of the Canadian climate plan. The 2016 federal budget stipulates that grants from Canada&#39;s climate plan will go to provinces with the highest GHG emissions. Federal money, and therefore Quebeckers&#39; money, will be used to finance coal-fired power stations in Nova Scotia, the tar sands in Alberta and the Energy East pipeline from TransCanada. David Heurtel also declared yesterday that he agreed that &quot;everyone&quot; should pay for the Alberta projects. Does Philippe Couillard endorse the words of his minister? Quebec must not become the turkey of the farce, ”warned Mathieu Traversy.
“Most of the measures to be put in place to achieve our climate commitments will be the responsibility of Quebec and the provinces. Despite this, the Minister of the Environment accepted that the federal Parliament ratify the Agreement without even negotiating an agreement with Quebec. David Heurtel makes a major concession here; it gives permission to the federal government to ignore the interests of Quebec. However, an agreement with the Canadian government is a prerequisite for any ratification! Philippe Couillard must correct the words of his Minister of the Environment and demand that this minimum condition be respected, ”for his part demanded Stéphane Bergeron.
“Quebec has developed its own energy sectors, including hydroelectricity, with no money coming from the federal government. Subsidizing other provinces to follow suit would be paying twice, which is grossly unfair and unacceptable. Quebec made the right choices in the past and that should pay off today, not penalize us, ”the spokespersons concluded.
