Quebec - The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, today sent a new direction to the Director of Criminal and Penal Prosecutions (DPCP) in matters of driving while impaired by alcohol or Drugs. He would like the provisions currently provided for in the Criminal Code to be applied even more severely in cases involving repeat offenders.
“We want to send a clear message: impaired driving is a social scourge that significantly compromises public safety. People who repeatedly commit such offenses represent a very serious danger. I therefore appeal to all criminal and penal prosecuting attorneys to show firmness and severity in cases involving repeat offenders, at all stages of the judicial process, ”declared the Minister of Justice. .
While recalling that public safety must be the main factor to be considered at the stage of the release investigation, the new direction of the Minister of Justice requires prosecutors to present evidence that goes beyond the sole circumstances of the case. violation at this stage of the proceedings.
&quot;The prosecutor must present to the court all the evidence allowing to adequately assess the dangerousness of the accused and insist on the risk that the community runs in the event of release&quot;, writes the minister before adding that in the event of remission. freedom of a repeat offender, the prosecutor will have to propose to the court the conditions allowing to manage the risk that this one represents.
At the sentencing stage, the Minister also wants the prosecutor to go beyond the seriousness of the offenses by targeting all the aggravating factors specific to the offender. He also insisted that the suggestion made to the court not only aim to set an example, but also to neutralize the danger posed by repeat offenders.
In all cases involving a repeat offender (third offense and more), the Minister expressly asks the criminal and penal prosecuting attorneys to take the necessary measures so that the vehicle used is seized and permanently withdrawn from the offender, as soon as the law and the circumstances of the file allow it. This element is quite new.
Throughout the proceedings, the prosecutor must also act taking into account the consequences of the offense for the victims and the community.
In addition to this new direction, Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud recalls that he is also acting on several fronts to achieve this mandate that the Prime Minister, Mrs. Pauline Marois, gave him during her swearing-in and that she reiterated during the opening speech of the parliamentary session. He thus initiated discussions with his colleague from Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, to assess the possibility of tightening up certain Quebec laws applicable in this area, such as the Highway Safety Code. Likewise, during the federal-provincial-territorial meeting of ministers responsible for justice held in Regina last October, Quebec in particular requested the federal government to initiate, as a priority, a reflection aimed at increasing the severity of prison sentences for repeat alcohol or drug-driving offenders, and consider applying the dangerous or long-term offender regime to them.
“What we ultimately want is an efficient and fair system that reduces recidivism and ensures better public safety. It is important to raise the bar to counter driving under the influence of drugs or alcohol, one of the main causes of injury and death on our roads, ”concluded the Minister of Justice.
