Quebec - While for several weeks, the opposition has been asking the Minister of Justice about the drop in the number of prosecutors that will result from the merger of the three offices specializing in the fight against corruption and organized crime of the Director of Prosecutions criminal and penal (DPCP), the minister finally confirmed to Véronique Hivon, spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of justice, that the workforce of the new merged office will be cut by 40%. Indeed, the Minister admitted that the number of prosecutors specifically dedicated full-time to this type of case will increase from 110 to 60.
The fact that the director of the Permanent Anti-Corruption Unit (UPAC) contradicted the Minister of Justice on this subject on Monday left Stéphanie Vallée with no other choice than to modify her speech. “While the minister insisted on repeating that there would be no drop in the workforce, the cat is finally out of the bag! It confirms the worst fears: there will be real impacts on the priority given to serious crime cases. It is extremely worrying! », Declared the member for Joliette.
The DPCP had already announced to its prosecutors that the reorganization of the fight against serious crime was taking place in a budgetary context which was henceforth restricted. &quot;By admitting that 40% of prosecutors specifically dedicated to the three specialized offices will henceforth be largely assigned to generalist tasks within courthouses, the Minister recognizes that the fight against corruption and organized crime is no longer a priority. for the Liberal government, ”added Véronique Hivon.
The member for Joliette considers it insane that the Liberals&#39; obsession with austerity goes as far as reducing the number of prosecutors specializing in the fight against our greatest crime, especially when we take into account all the efforts that have been invested in this sense in recent years. “I would like the Minister to tell us how she can accept that this priority that we have given ourselves collectively to fight, in a targeted and energetic manner, against organized crime, corruption and embezzlement be sacrificed. How can the minister and her government agree to no longer make it a priority? It&#39;s serious! The Minister must now pull herself together and act so that this drop in the workforce does not materialize, ”concluded Véronique Hivon.
