Quebec - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is pleased to announce the launch of a call for research projects aimed at reducing greenhouse gases. greenhouse (GES). Managed jointly with the Ministère du Développement durable, de l&#39;Environnement, de la Faune et des Parcs, this call for projects is part of the 2013-2020 Climate Change Action Plan.
“Several establishments and research organizations are innovating in terms of technologies aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions and their impact on our society. Their initiatives can make a difference and raise Quebec to the forefront of societies committed to redefining the relationship between humans, their community and their environment. This is why the Quebec government wishes to encourage them in their projects, ”said Minister Duchesne.
“Research and innovation allow us to better understand our environment and to find technical, economic and social solutions to the challenges we face. They are essential in a context of climate change. With this call for projects, we want to stimulate the creative genius that will strengthen the contribution of new technologies to the fight against climate change, ”declared the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks. , Yves-François Blanchet.
This call for proposals, which is in effect until March 10, 2014, will fund research and technological demonstration projects aimed at substantially reducing GHG emissions. These projects must be collaborative in nature between businesses and the research community. A total amount of $ 2.5 million will be invested by the government, for a maximum of $ 500,000 per project.
Eligible projects are grouped into two categories. The first is that of pre-competitive research projects. The second concerns projects for validation and demonstration of prototypes in the laboratory or under conditions simulating the field. The scope of the GHG problem to which the project responds, as well as the potential of the proposed solution to reduce GHG emissions by 2020, will be taken into account in the analysis.
“As mentioned in the National Research and Innovation Policy, the foundation of the concept of sustainable development unites economic, social and environmental aspects. The aim is to combine the imperatives of today&#39;s growth with the prosperity and quality of life of future generations. My government is proud to support projects that help achieve this objective, ”concluded Minister Duchesne.
The PNRI is part of the four strategic initiatives of Québec&#39;s economic policy, Priorité emploi, launched last fall by the Premier. It is the result of numerous consultations held with stakeholders from all sectors concerned by research and innovation: businesses, educational establishments, the State and society. With an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion over five years, it will help advance Québec in the knowledge and innovation society.
For more information on the terms and conditions of the call for proposals, see http://www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca/ministere/acces-a-linformation/programmes-de-soutien-financier/appel-de- age-reduction-projects.
