Saint-Jérôme– The member for Labelle and responsible for the Laurentides region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, today announced on behalf of the Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Ms. Véronique Hivon, a first step in the reconstruction and change of vocation project of the Pavillon Sainte-Marie, a private convention center serving the Laurentians region.
“Today&#39;s announcement is a first step towards the realization of this project, which will allow people with an intellectual disability combined with a serious behavioral disorder or a physical disability, as well as elderly people in loss of autonomy, to benefit from an environment adapted to their needs and their particular situation. This is a concrete gesture to offer a diversity of resources in the region in order to respond optimally to the needs of people, by reserving long-term accommodation for people with greater needs in this area ”, a declared Mr. Pagé.
The Pavillon Sainte-Marie currently has the mission of a rehabilitation center for intellectual disabilities and has around 100 places for people with a profound intellectual disability or pervasive developmental disorder. The new construction project, which will be carried out on the same site, will become a 128-place residential and long-term care center.
The new Pavillon Sainte-Marie will thus have 64 long-term accommodation beds, 32 geriatric beds with intellectual disabilities for some of the current users, as well as 32 beds in a separate unit, intended for adults under the age of 65 years old with a severe loss of autonomy attributable to a physical impairment or a degenerative disease. The 32 geriatric beds with intellectual disabilities will eventually become, through attrition, long-term care accommodation beds.
Some of the people living with an intellectual disability currently housed at the Pavillon Sainte-Marie and needing rehabilitation services will be taken care of, after a transition period, by the Center du Florès. The latter will also take charge of any new person with an intellectual disability requiring rehabilitation services.
The stage of the feasibility study announced today will be funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services as part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. This initiative is currently valued at approximately $ 38 million. However, it is the more in-depth analyzes planned as part of the phase announced today that will make it possible to determine the costs of the project more precisely.
&quot;This project has many advantages, including an improvement in the living environment of current residents, as well as a better balance in the offer of care, both for the elderly with loss of autonomy, for people with a intellectual disability and for adults with severe physical disabilities. I am delighted with this announcement and especially the positive spinoffs it will bring to the region. It should also be remembered that an additional recurring amount of $ 1.2 million was invested in the Laurentides region earlier this year in order to reduce the interregional gap in disability programs, another mark of our commitment to greater equity. and better services for all Quebecers, first and foremost, the most vulnerable among us, ”Minister Hivon concluded.
