Quebec - Following Premier Charest&#39;s confession of concern about the decline of French in Quebec, particularly in the region and on the island of Montreal, the member for Drummond and spokesperson for the official opposition in matters of immigration, cultural communities and language, Yves-François Blanchet calls for concrete action without delay. “These are figures from 2006. It took five years for the Prime Minister to admit that these statistics are worrying. It is therefore urgent to act to reverse this trend which threatens the very sustainability of French. It was already late for the Prime Minister to make this observation. Quebecers want him to act now! &quot;
Although it is little surprised by the results of these studies, the Parti Québécois strongly deplores the constant decline of French in Montreal since 2001. “Everyone already knew that Montreal was becoming anglicized. Now, it is no longer an impression, it is a confirmed reality, ”added the deputy.
According to Yves-François Blanchet, among the avalanche of figures made available last Friday by the Office québécois de la langue française, the one that deserves attention is undoubtedly the rate of language transfer from allophones to French which is 51 %. “I do not see how Minister St-Pierre and the Prime Minister can be happy with this statistic. It is astonishingly carefree. This figure means that half of allophones who adopt a language other than that of their country of origin - and not all do so - choose English. This is all the more alarming given that this language transfer rate includes newly arrived immigrants who already had knowledge of French before settling in Quebec and who adopt French at home. The others therefore continue to adopt English en masse. Should we be satisfied with the fact that Montreal is formally bilingual? Asked the spokesperson.
The Liberal government must quickly change course and adopt much more decisive measures to francize newcomers. “The current measures fail to francize immigrants. The observation is clear: the measures are insufficient and poorly organized. Welcoming immigrants is desirable, but it must be done in recognition of the common language of the host society: French. The current message is ambiguous at best, ”said the member for Drummond.
“Too many immigrants who arrive in Quebec, and especially in Montreal, do not integrate and will never integrate into French Quebec society. By allowing a message of linguistic choice to prevail, we create veritable ghettos where immigrants will remain among themselves. We are doing them a disservice by doing this. It is on this very specific issue that the change of direction is needed, ”reiterated the member for Drummond.
“For years the Liberal government has denigrated studies and statistics while we sounded the alarm bells. Now that the Premier of Quebec recognizes, with supporting figures, that the situation is worrying, he must intervene with vigor. Linguistic balance is currently being played out on the island of Montreal and with it the future of French in America, ”concluded Yves-François Blanchet.
