NOTES FOR A SPEECH BY THE LEADER OF THE QUEBEC PARTY, MR JEAN-FRANÇOIS LISÉE
NATIONAL COUNCIL OF THE QUÉBEC PARTY QUÉBEC, SATURDAY, JANUARY 14, 2017
To watch this speech, click here!
The pronounced version is authentic.
Rediscover the Parti Québécois.
It&#39;s a powerful message.
A message addressed to us, activists of the PQ.
A message addressed to all our fellow citizens, men and women, from all corners of Quebec and from all origins.
Rediscover.
It is that there is something to rediscover.
An impetus, a force, a project passed from decade to decade, from generation to generation, and which we, ourselves, in this room, for today and tomorrow.
Our founding fathers left their mark on today&#39;s Quebec.
René Lévesque by convincing Quebecers to nationalize electricity.
A crazy daring at the time and which transformed, which propelled Quebec.
Jacques Parizeau was the architect of the Caisse de dépôt et placement, the greatest economic lever in our history.
Together, in power, and with their successor prime ministers Lucien Bouchard, Bernard Landry and Pauline Marois, they made Quebec cross new borders.
Creating the Ministry of the Environment and launching water purification; inventing agricultural zoning, consumer protection and youth protection laws;
Also protecting the health and safety of employees, offering automobile insurance and drug insurance to all;
Lifting thousands of women out of poverty thanks to the automatic collection of child support,
Applying pay equity alone in North America;
Offering the best support on the continent to families, thanks to low-cost childcare and a generous parental leave program.
Whatever we do, wherever we look in Quebec today, we can find traces of the Parti Québécois&#39; action everywhere.
To give local and regional actors tools, power and resources, to take decisions together with civil society, to support cooperatives and the social economy.
All of this must be re-discovered.
Being a member of the Parti Québécois means carrying in your head, your guts and your heart the pride of numerous, concrete and extraordinarily positive achievements for Quebec.
The transformation of our economy.
The emergence of a French-speaking business class.
Local, then national, then international; it is to the Parti Québécois that we owe all this.
To the vision and the will of Jacques Parizeau and Lucien Bouchard.
The technological shift in Quebec City, Montreal and elsewhere is due to Bernard Landry, his vision and his will.
There was a year in which Quebec created 126,000 jobs, a year with the Parti Québécois team in power.
The Liberals never got there. The results are in.
Let&#39;s take the time to rediscover them together.
Who is the party of the economy in Quebec?
Let us first let the numbers answer:
The Lévesque government.
During the Bourassa years.
Under Premiers Parizeau, Bouchard and Landry.
During the years of Jean Charest.
During the Marois year.
Under Phillippe Couillard.
Now let&#39;s see for the overall average:
Liberal Party.
Parti Québécois.
So, I ask you the question: which party is the economy in Quebec?
What is the party of the economy in Quebec?
And what is the social justice party?
Economist Pierre Fortin compared the evolution of poverty in Quebec and in Canada in recent years.
We owe the greatest reduction in poverty in our history to the Parizeau-Bouchard and Landry governments.
With the Parti Québécois, poverty is falling.
When the Liberals come back, poverty increases.
So who is the party for social justice in Quebec?
We are the party that works.
And all this we did by trying, twice, to make Quebec cross the threshold of the community of nations and by adopting a major law that gave French the place it deserves in this corner of America: the first place!
Whether you took your Parti Québécois card when it was founded or five minutes ago, you are all bearers of this spirit, this daring, this requirement to always cross new borders in Quebec. You have to rediscover that in yourself.
As an activist, as an activist and as a party.
We must find the sources of this pride and make it contagious.
In recent years, many have turned away from us, not because they didn&#39;t know us well, but because they didn&#39;t recognize us.
We weren&#39;t clear.
We weren&#39;t clear. We were not consistent.
What if they rediscover us crisp, clear and consistent?
During our leadership race, you have chosen a new course.
In 2018, provide Quebec with the most urgent service possible, close the chapter on the liberal years and offer an honest, dynamic and competent government.
In 2022, obtain the mandate to achieve independence.
It is clear, it is clear, it is constant.
We are now all united to turn our backs on oil, to bet frankly and resolutely on electricity, renewable energy, sustainable jobs, refuse gas and shale oil, say no, no and no to Energy East.
The main proposal you have in your hands embodies a more determined ecological will than ever.
From now on, voting blue is voting green.
It is clear, crisp and constant.
On identity, on secularism, we will take great steps forward, structuring, measurable, clear and clear.
For French, we are going to show a new daring.
Never before have we proposed to demand a real knowledge of French to 100% of newcomers. Never.
We had never offered a French exam to obtain English-speaking CEGEP and university diplomas. Never.
We have a strengthened determination to maintain a clear majority of Francophones on the Island of Montreal, to extend Bill 101 to medium-sized businesses and businesses under federal jurisdiction, to turn our backs on institutional bilingualism.
The combined effect of these measures will enable us to halt the decline of French and powerfully extend the great effort of the law.
What if we together chose the fights that are both the most effective for the progress of French and the most unifying?
How about we try this for once? Efficient and unifying.
In the proposal that you are going to study and improve, you will find clear choices.
No to tax cuts that would benefit the richest.
But yes, to put more money in the pockets of families and those who really need it.
Yes, to reinvest in public education and health services which must become much more efficient than today, and respond much better to everyone&#39;s needs.
We will be clear, crisp and consistent.
In addition, you have chosen a new leader.
What if we showed consistency by keeping it for several years?
Re-discovering the Parti Québécois is also a way of showing off.
It is having the guts to come out of its shell, to go out to meet those who have left us, are not interested in us or have been convinced by our opponents that we are not respectable.
Remaining true to our convictions, we can, we must have a new attitude.
To surprise, to wink. There is one who seems to have found the formula.
Look!
Video link: https: //www.youtube.com/watch? V = BVMlzwLiwvc
Be convinced, be convincing, but without being overbearing or quibbling.
Be uninhibited.
Be zen.
Accept that we will not all agree on everything.
That we do not all go at the same pace.
And that the important thing is to go in the same direction and aim for the same destination.
Canada celebrates its 150th anniversary. It was thought that the PQ would approach this issue with a serious, sad, killjoy look.
Video link: https: //www.youtube.com/watch? V = WV2g3pp1Ka8
But no.
A new attitude is to approach the subject with a smirk, like this:
Some have told us that Quebeckers are not interested in the past.
If it was true, that would be sad and serious.
But it is the opposite.
On social media, our first image of L&#39;Autre 150e was one of the five most popular of everything we&#39;ve posted in the past year.
As you know, we are working on a new argument, 50 answers plus one on independence, in the coming months.
We are preparing with our sovereignist partners a roadmap towards independence which will be our common compass in 2022, but which we must start to develop together now.
We are going to talk about independence without inhibition, as I did when I addressed the convention of the Union des producteurs agricoles, or the convention of the large Unifor union, as I will do at the Montreal Chamber of Commerce at the end of January. , during my speeches at the National Assembly or by challenging Philippe Couillard to debate it with me, for an hour, on television.
My offer still stands.
Rarely, in recent years, have we had such a clear message, such a clear proposal, an inventive media production.
In order for our fellow citizens to rediscover our party and our message, we must be able to communicate it, reach our neighbors, our cousins, our colleagues.
And now we have an extraordinarily powerful tool in our hands.
Our activists.
Our members.
And their Internet connections.
If we all decide, the activists gathered in this room, and if we convince only half of our 90,000 members to put on our Facebook pages and our Twitter feeds one video clip per week, we will achieve, together , as many people as if we passed it on to Everyone&#39;s talking about it.
Imagine.
We have more members than all the other parties in Quebec combined.
Reunited.
We must re-discover them.
Put them to work.
Activate them.
We are, collectively, a massive communication tool.
Finally, and this is perhaps the most important, rediscover the Parti Québécois, it is a message that we send to every Quebecer.
We tell them: we know you are thirsty for change.
We know that you want honest and competent elected officials.
Clear answers.
A new determination.
We know that many of you are not yet ready to take the step into the country.
We respect your pace.
And if this issue was a screen between you and us, if it was an insurmountable obstacle, know that out of respect for you, we have lifted this obstacle, for the next election, the next term.
And that we can therefore work together on all the subjects that concern us on a daily basis.
You, liberals disappointed with your current leaders; you, coming from Chile, Algeria, India or China, who seek to participate fully in the future of your adopted Quebec;
You non-francophones, the Liberals take you for granted, without really representing or considering you.
You are no longer prisoners of a single party, you have the choice.
Discover us again.
And you, our separatist partners of Québec solidaire;
You made the right choice in December to open the dialogue towards convergence.
We are different, as were Mario Dumont, Lucien Bouchard and Jacques Parizeau in 1995.
And, believe me, they were very, very, very different.
But, while respecting their differences, they made common cause.
Today, you and we have enough in common to add our strengths and, together, move Quebec forward.
You, who have been tempted by the CAQ but see that it is no longer a coalition, know that the party of families and SMEs is here in the Parti Québécois.
Know that the party that wants efficient public services is here at the Parti Québécois.
Know that the unifying party which can, tomorrow, oust the Liberals, as it has done several times in the past, is here in the Parti Québécois.
Discover us again.
We must make the most of this lucid but difficult decision we made to postpone the referendum to forge links with all those who share our convictions on health, education, the economy and identity.
Teaming up with them, creating a real bond of trust during these years.
And invite them to do the rest of the way with us in 2022, towards the country.
Now that we know each other, now that we have improved Quebec together, now that we have had a snack, laughed, cried together.
Now that we trust each other, come on, let&#39;s make a country together.
You will see, you will like it. It&#39;s going to be awesome.
