The leader and vice-leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée and Véronique Hivon, as well as the candidates Nicolas Marceau (Rousseau), Sylvain Gaudreault (Jonquière), Daniel Breton (Saint-Hyacinthe), Jacques Tétreault (Johnson), Normand Beauregard (Louis-Hébert) and Diane Roy (Drummond – Bois-Francs), committed this morning to tackling Quebec&#39;s environmental debt, in order to leave future generations a healthier environment, healthier life.
IN SHORT
“For twenty years, we have rightly paid special attention to budget deficits and our national debt. But today, the time has come to give equal importance to our environmental debt. Think about it: the pollution of our lakes, our rivers, our river, our land, the air, the accumulation of waste in landfills, abandoned mining sites, pollution of industrial sites, active or inactive , contamination in our commercial or residential buildings… that&#39;s the environmental debt. And all of this must be taken seriously. Intergenerational equity is at stake, ”explained Jean-François Lisée.
A Parti Québécois government will establish a clear and official measure of Quebec&#39;s environmental debt. “We will give the mandate to the Ministry of Finance and that of Climate, Environment and Energy to determine, as precisely as possible, Quebec&#39;s environmental debt. In addition, they will have to establish the share of this debt that each level of government and the private sector will be called upon to assume, ”said Nicolas Marceau.
“From there, we can determine what needs to be done, in concrete terms, to pay off this debt to future generations. In fact, all of our unexpected budget surpluses will be used to clean up the living environments for our children and theirs, ”continued Daniel Breton.
“In the short term, the sums will be spent, for example, on soil decontamination. In the medium term, we will invest to improve water treatment systems and waste management, or to reduce the use of pesticides, among other things. In addition, from now on, any brief submitted to the Council of Ministers will have to include a new section, to indicate the possible impacts on the environmental debt. Thus, each decision emanating from the Council of Ministers will take it into account, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
“Every dollar invested to reduce our environmental debt pays off in the long run. Let’s never lose sight of that. Let&#39;s find solutions now, and we&#39;ll save money in the future. In addition, our children will be proud of us! », Concluded Véronique Hivon.
