Québec, September 14, 2020 - On the sidelines of the caucus for the re-entry of the parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois, the member for Matane-Matapédia, parliamentary leader and spokesperson for the French language, Pascal Bérubé, as well as the member for René-Lévesque and parliamentary leader, Martin Ouellet, identified, among other priorities, the minimum measures that must be included in any reform project of the Charter of the French language (Bill 101), so that it really responds to the challenges. that Quebec society is facing.
Here are the measures that the Parti Québécois considers essential to strengthen the status of French in Quebec:
Once again, therefore, the French language will be one of the priorities of the Parti Québécois during the first weeks of the new parliamentary session; Obviously, all the questions surrounding the management of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic will also be at the heart of its interventions.
“Regarding screening clinics, CHSLDs and hospitals, the government has no more excuses; he had time to prepare for the second wave, and Quebec must be ready. Let’s hope that things will happen differently than in schools, where the start of the school year is a real mess because of government directives that are constantly changing. It is high time the Minister of Education got his act together! “, Expressed Pascal Bérubé.
“Our team will also defend economic nationalism in the face of growing government failures, whether we think of Bombardier, Cirque du Soleil, Nemaska Lithium, Flying Whales or the help given to the jeweler Birks. Of course, we will accomplish all this while keeping in mind that we must leave the field open to the candidates for the leadership of our party, so that they can debate the major issues of the future for our society, until in the election which will take place on October 9, ”added the parliamentary leader.
&quot;We have found a way to make Parliament work during the pandemic and to preserve the right to speak of deputies, for his part recalled the parliamentary leader, Martin Ouellet. Unlike last spring, this fall democracy will not be quarantined. Every day, the government will have to account for its management - of the pandemic, in particular - to parliamentarians, and therefore to the population. It will have to be ready, because the members of the Parti Québécois and the members of our staff are ready to start this new parliamentary session! &quot;
