Cap-aux-Meules– The Member for Îles-de-la-Madeleine, Ms. Jeannine Richard, on behalf of the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, and the President of Tourisme Îles de la Madeleine, Mr. Sébastien Cummings, are proud to announce the renewal of the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement, which aims to promote the development of the tourism offer. By 2015, an amount of $ 367,996 will be invested to achieve this objective.
Under the terms of the agreement, Tourisme Québec and Tourisme Îles de la Madeleine will each invest an amount of $ 111,000 until 2015. The other financial partners are the Municipalité des Îles-de-la-Madeleine ($ 78,370) and the Regional Conference of Elected Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine ($ 67,626). Ultimately, the leverage effect of this fund is likely to generate investments valued at $ 3.7 million.
“The renewal of this agreement constitutes a regional lever to support businesses and organizations working in the tourism sector of the Magdalen Islands. To this end, I am delighted that the Government of Quebec is joining forces with those of the region&#39;s socio-economic partners to support the development of the tourism industry, which is so important for the number of jobs created on the Islands. I am convinced that this agreement will give rise to new investment projects in our region, which is distinguished by natural attractions that are both spectacular and very diverse, ”said the Member of Parliament for Îles-de-la-Madeleine, Ms. Jeannine Richard.
“The tourism industry is a major engine for the economy of the Magdalen Islands. I am happy with the partnership that has been renewed with the same partners as Tourisme Québec, the Municipality of the Îles-de-la-Madeleine and the Regional Conference of Elected Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine. This agreement will make it possible to support promoters in carrying out structuring projects for the development of the region&#39;s tourism offer, ”declared the president of Tourisme Îles de la Madeleine, Mr. Sébastien Cummings.
Under the terms of the 2008-2012 agreement, it should be noted that it contributed to the realization of 11 tourism projects for total investments of more than $ 1.2 million thanks to funding of $ 157,197.
Remember that the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement aims to renew the tourism offer based on regional priorities. The partners, namely Tourisme Québec, Tourisme Îles de la Madeleine, the Municipalité des Îles-de-la-Madeleine and the Regional Conference of Elected Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine, sit on the management committee of this agreement in which also participates. the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy.
A first call for projects is underway for the new 2012-2015 Agreement. For more information and to submit a request, you can contact Tourisme Îles de la Madeleine.
