Québec, September 14, 2020 - The deputy for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and transport spokesperson for the Parti Québécois, Joël Arseneau, argues that to stabilize the regional air transport market for the benefit of citizens and children carriers, it is imperative that a benchmark price policy be put in place.
IN SHORT
“Air Canada, as we know, has the ability to cut market prices to sideline its competitors, and then impose unreasonable prices on travelers. We must end once and for all with this virtual monopoly, this completely unfair competition, ”declared the member for Îles-de-la-Madeleine at the outset. This concern is also clearly present in the fifteen or so briefs obtained by MP Arseneau, out of the 22 submitted to the Ministry of Transport as part of the work of the Intervention Group for the Relaunch of Regional Air Services (GIRSAR), but to which its members did not have access.
To respond concretely to this issue, the Parti Québécois proposes that a reference price policy be established for each regional air link. &quot;Thus, if Air Canada posts a lower fare than the reference price for a given route, the government will be able to compensate other carriers so that they can offer the same service at the same price,&quot; explained Joël Arseneau; a healthier competitive environment will thus allow fairer pricing. &quot;
In addition to this measure, the member also calls on the government to maintain and promote the Air Fare Reduction Program. “Following its enhancement two years ago, this program has been very successful. This is proof beyond any doubt that an affordable price has a direct impact on ridership, ”he said.
Finally, Joël Arseneau reiterates his request for a parliamentary committee to look into the future of regional air transport in Quebec. “All the players in the industry, including small carriers and airport managers, need to be reassured and supported. They want predictability and long term solutions. Above all, they want to be heard publicly on issues that directly concern them, ”concluded the Parti Québécois spokesperson for transport.
