Quebec - The Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the management committee of the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement (EPRT) of the Quebec region, is pleased to announce financial assistance of $ 109,000 for improving the infrastructure of the German Christmas market in Quebec. The committee also supported the market development plan by granting $ 27,000 in assistance in 2012, thus totaling $ 136,000 in support for this event.
“The committee is proud to support this event, which aims to enrich Quebec City&#39;s tourist offer and strengthen its distinctive positioning as a winter destination. The German Community has demonstrated its rigor in the operation and management of the event so that to date, the number of visitors to the Christmas market is growing and even forecasts an increase in visitors from 55,000 in 2012 to 150,000 in 2017. The Christmas market is therefore a central attraction to launch the winter tourist season in Quebec, ”said the Minister for Tourism, Pascal Bérubé.
The $ 109,000 assistance granted made it possible to improve the market&#39;s infrastructures, in particular by adding and decorating kiosks, fitting out the two main entrances and mood lighting. These improvements will increase the urban attractiveness of the destination during the winter period and will allow the market to expand gradually and thus tend, in the short term, towards a standard of international caliber.
Organized since 2008 by the German community, the Christmas market has been held since 2009 in the heart of Old Quebec and offers shopping enthusiasts a different experience for the purchase of Christmas gifts. In addition to helping to reduce seasonality, the event is based on the orientations of the Tourist Development Plan of the Office du tourisme de Québec, which aims, in particular, to make the Québec region, by 2020, the capital of winter.
This financial support comes from the EPRT of the Quebec region, whose partners are Tourisme Quebec, the Office du tourisme de Quebec, the Secrétariat à la Capitale-Nationale, the Regional Conference of Elected Officials of the Capitale-Nationale and the Local Center. development of Quebec. Remember that the EPRT aims to renew the tourist offer by financially supporting structuring projects that take into account regional priorities and the distinctive character of the Quebec City region.
