Quebec, August 25, 2020 - The member for Rimouski and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of regional development and rurality, Harold LeBel, as well as the member for René-Lévesque and spokesperson for SMEs, Martin Ouellet, denounce a trick of the CAQ, which tries to convince the population that the Investissement Québec (IQ) offices in the regions are fully occupied, functional, and that they adequately meet the needs of entrepreneurs in Quebec.
IN SHORT
“By consulting the Investissement Québec website, one might think that a large number of officials are deployed in regional offices, exclusively at the service of entrepreneurs in our regions. However, an in-depth examination shows that apart from the employees of the Montreal and Quebec City offices, the vast majority of them are attached to more than one office, ”Martin Ouellet first pointed out.
“In other words, the people designated as regional stakeholders are not physically present in the offices to welcome the entrepreneurs. We cannot therefore, in all honesty, count them among the civil servants deployed in the regions, &quot;added his colleague from Rimouski. By carefully analyzing the data from the web pages of the regional network of IQ, the deputies and political advisers of the Parti Québécois have in fact was able to determine that the same person could be associated with 12, 16, or even up to 23 offices. Another would be part of the regular team in 12 different regions, which often have more than one office.
“In Montmagny, for example, you might think that 5 people occupy the office full time and are available for our entrepreneurs. But, in reality, only one seems to be a regular tether. Same thing at New Carlisle: only one employee is dedicated to this office, so the web page speaks of 7 people. Ditto in Val-d&#39;Or, in Chandler… As for the Drummondville office, it shares 9 of its 12 employees with that of Victoriaville, ”noted the MNA for René-Lévesque, among others.
Noting this, Harold LeBel therefore has many questions for the Minister for Regional Economic Development, Marie-Eve Proulx. “Why try to make Quebecers in general, and entrepreneurs in particular, believe that IQ&#39;s regional offices have more employees than in reality? To camouflage the harmful effects of the disappearance of the regional branches of the Ministry of the Economy and Innovation? Because it looks better? And what have been the benefits of redesigning IQ, in light of all this? &quot;
“One thing is certain, IQ officials are not adequately deployed in the territory. In fact, what is the share of decision-making power really located in the region? It is important that Quebeckers know this, ”concluded Martin Ouellet.
