Drummondville - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, accompanied by the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the regions of Center-du -Quebec and Mauricie, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announced the payment of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 50,000 to the Regional Council for the Environment of Center-du-Quebec (CRECQ).
Financial assistance is allocated for the realization of the Center-du-Québec Sustainable Development Vision pilot project, which aims to integrate a process of continuous improvement in sustainable development into regional business practices. Valued at over $ 155,000, this project was set up by the Regional Sustainable Development Table (Center-du-Québec) which, since June 2011, has brought together the main socio-economic partners of the Center-du-Québec region.
&quot;Our government has set itself the objective of realizing its vision of sustainable development, namely the achievement of a balance between economic growth, environmental protection and benefits for the current and future population,&quot; said Élaine. Zakaïb. “Sustainable development is far from being a brake on growth; rather, it generates interesting business opportunities which we must promote. However, such an approach necessarily requires continuous improvement in management practices. Our financial commitment will make it possible to offer socio-economic actors and decision-makers in the region the tools to provide effective support to companies interested in adopting a sustainable development approach. &quot;
&quot;The project stems from a common vision shared by the main socioeconomic players in Center-du-Québec,&quot; said Minister Yves-François Blanchet. “This is a wealth-creating project that will highlight the products and services of our organizations committed to sustainable development and through which regional know-how can be acquired and put to good use. It will allow the transfer of knowledge to businesses, very much in the spirit of the development model focused on locally owned SMEs, innovation and exports. &quot;
Created in 1997, CRECQ is a non-profit organization whose mandate is to promote the protection and improvement of the environment with a view to sustainable development. This consultative body brings together many environmental stakeholders from the Center-du-Québec region.
&quot;The financial assistance from the Government of Quebec allows us to take a step closer to better business practices combining economic development and respect for our environment,&quot; said Gilles Brochu, President of CRECQ. “I am delighted with the completion of this development project, which will be beneficial for Center-du-Québec and which could serve as an incentive for the creation of similar projects in other regions of Québec. &quot;
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
