Quebec - Stéphane Bédard, MP for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, as well as MP for Verchères and spokesperson for Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, deplore the fact that the Prime Minister has rejected the outstretched hand. inviting them to go to Ottawa to ask Prime Minister Stephen Harper to hand over the gun registry data to Quebecers, data that belongs to them.
“Yesterday, we unanimously adopted a motion urging the Prime Minister of Canada to back down on his decision to destroy the firearms registry and to order, instead, the immediate transfer of the data to the Government of Quebec, so that it ci can set up its own registry. What did Philippe Couillard do following this unanimous position? Did he pick up the phone? It is deplorable that no concrete gesture has been made. We offer him our support, and I am convinced that all the parties too; what is he waiting for to act? », Asked Stéphane Bédard.
“Beyond legality, the Supreme Court made it clear that this is a political decision. If this data is destroyed, it will be out of sheer ideological stubbornness on the part of the federal government. Collecting the data cost nearly $ 1.5 billion, of which some $ 400 million was paid by Quebecers. Isn&#39;t this a clear example of the failure of federalism when Ottawa destroys data that Quebec will have to collect again? », He raised.
“Quebecers have already paid for this data. It would be totally irresponsible for Ottawa to destroy them. We are not asking the impossible of Prime Minister Couillard; other premiers of Quebec have done so in the past, obtaining positive results. Why would it be impossible today? What is preventing the Prime Minister from fulfilling his obligation, if not his fear of being turned away by the federal government? Is its federalist commitment more important than the defense of the superior interests of Quebec? This would distinguish him from all the Liberal prime ministers before him, who have never agreed to sell off Quebec&#39;s interests for the sole purpose of not upsetting the federal government, ”concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
