Quebec - The member for Verchères and official opposition critic for Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, expressed his disappointment with the Supreme Court&#39;s decision concerning the data of the gun registry at fire, a decision that goes against the Quebec consensus in this area.
“The Supreme Court decision clearly indicates that beyond legality, there is a political decision that can be made by the federal government. In this context, we therefore ask Prime Minister Philippe Couillard and Ministers Jean-Marc Fournier and Lise Thériault to do everything possible, if it is not already too late, to convince Stephen Harper&#39;s government not to destroy Quebec data. The government can count on our political party to support it in this regard. The establishment of the federal register was paid, in large part, by the taxes of Quebecers; it would be the least of things for the data to be preserved and transferred for their benefit, ”said Stéphane Bergeron.
“Once again, the message of Quebeckers was not heard by the Supreme Court. Obviously, cooperative federalism is an illusion; it does not work! This situation clearly illustrates that the decisions of the federal government of Stephen Harper go against Quebec, against the Quebec consensus on the firearms registry; it also clearly illustrates that, ultimately, Ottawa&#39;s wishes take precedence over Quebec&#39;s expectations, needs and wishes. We do not respect Quebec, which has nevertheless continued to use the data in the registry because it is useful from a public safety perspective. Destroying data on thousands of firearms registered in Quebec is totally unacceptable, ”he added.
For a Quebec gun registry
The Minister of Public Security, Lise Thériault, affirms today that the steps to set up a Quebec registry of firearms would be initiated. Stéphane Bergeron offered the full and entire collaboration of his political party to this end.
“We had, moreover, when we were in government, tabled a bill creating a Quebec firearms registry, a bill that had achieved consensus. The government must put in place an effective registry at a reasonable cost for Quebecers; we offer him our collaboration to do this, ”concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
