Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, confirms that his Ministry is hard at work to facilitate the process leading to obtaining an authorization environmental.
“We, my Ministry and I, are aware of the consequences that delays in obtaining an environmental authorization create for applicants. And we do not intend to remain inactive. Actions are being taken to speed up the process of analyzing authorization requests. Our objective is, among other things, to reduce the time taken for administrative formalities for applicants by 20% by 2015. The necessary human resources will be deployed accordingly, ”declared Minister Blanchet.
The actions put forward by the MDDEFP are an integral part of its 2012-2015 Regulatory and Administrative Simplification Action Plan, which describes what the Department intends to do to respond to the recommendations of the Working Group on Regulatory and Administrative Simplification.
Recall that, on January 24, 2013, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, announced the creation of a monitoring committee on the implementation of the 63 recommendations of the report of the Working Group on regulatory simplification. and administrative. Four recommendations in this report relate specifically to the MDDEFP. They concern environmental regulations and administrative formalities and the MDDEFP has undertaken to follow up on them.
“By improving the support for authorization applicants, the process leading to authorization is facilitated, in particular by receiving more complete files when receiving authorization requests. In fact, the reception of complete files constitutes the key element for the rapid issuance of authorizations, ”continued the Minister.
The MDDEFP also intends to determine a certain number of legal and regulatory adjustments to be proposed in order to lighten and simplify the project authorization and monitoring process.
It is important to mention that even if various actions are put forward to facilitate obtaining an environmental authorization, this is done with the concern of maintaining the same high standards in terms of environmental protection.
. The MDDEFP&#39;s 2012-2015 regulatory and administrative simplification action plan can be viewed on the Ministère&#39;s website at the following address: www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca/ministere/simplification/plan-action-reglementaire- administrative.pdf
