Montreal - The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, and the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, launched today a government initiative that will lead to the strengthening of the teaching of national history at the elementary, secondary and college levels.
“A majority of Quebeckers say they are dissatisfied with the teaching of history in Quebec. They consider it necessary to give young people a good knowledge of the characters and the salient facts of this story. The government intends to show that it is listening to these legitimate expectations, ”said Minister Malavoy.
“It&#39;s time to discuss what defines us. This will help train students who are free in thought, citizens who are keen on action and Quebeckers endowed with more solid self-confidence, ”added Minister Duchesne.
The mandate to conduct a consultation was entrusted to Mr. Jacques Beauchemin, interim president and director general of the Office québécois de la langue française and associate deputy minister at the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities. A specialist in the sociology of Quebec society, Mr. Beauchemin will be accompanied in his task by Ms. Nadia Fahmy-Eid, professor of history at the University of Quebec in Montreal. Their mandate will consist of consulting the educational community and professionals in the field of history to specify the orientations that will lead to the development of new history programs at the elementary and secondary levels. In order to provide the public with a forum to express themselves on the issue, a Web section will be made available on the website of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport (MELS).
The report of this expert duo will be tabled at the end of the year. Once a first version of the new programs is available, pilot projects will be set up in a number of schools from September 2014.
&quot;The objective of strengthening the teaching of national history is to offer Québec students more in-depth training as well as to promote Québec identity and culture,&quot; added Minister Malavoy.
In the context of the addition of a compulsory course on the national history of contemporary Quebec at the college level, the General Education Advisory Committee will have the mandate to propose to the Minister the training objectives and standards that may be associated with this new course. He will also have to give him an opinion on the place that this course will occupy within the common college formation. It should be remembered that the General Education Advisory Committee is made up of representatives of teachers and college administrators, to which will be added representatives of the labor market and universities.
Amendments will have to be made to the Regulation respecting the college studies system to introduce training on the national history of contemporary Quebec in college education. The Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology (MESRST) will then request an opinion from the Higher Education Council and the population will be able to vote on the project.
“The teaching of history as well as the ability to analyze the constitutive events of our collective identity and to discuss them openly with dedicated professors will help young adults in colleges to develop their critical sense and to have a better knowledge of our society, ”said Minister Duchesne.
The General Education Advisory Committee&#39;s proposals are expected at the end of the year with a view to implementing the compulsory course for the cohort of students starting their studies in the fall of 2014.
The MESRST and the MELS will work jointly to strengthen the teaching of national history at the elementary, secondary and college levels.
Let us recall that Premier Marois, during her inaugural speech on October 31, 2012, expressed her firm intention to strengthen the teaching of Quebec history.
