Montreal - Following the tabling of the report of the two experts responsible for studying the issue of strengthening the teaching of national history, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, announces the implementation of pilot projects in history as of September 2014 in more than 90 secondary 3 year classes in Quebec.
“Thanks to the remarkable work accomplished by Mr. Jacques Beauchemin and Ms. Nadia Fahmy-Eid, the Department now has a solid foundation for developing a new program. By rediscovering the national fabric of our history, we will better understand the singularity of our collective journey, ”declared Minister Malavoy.
The new program, which will be entitled History of Quebec and Canada:
will be structured around a chronological framework spread over two years, ie Secondary 3 and 4;
introduce sharper threads to reconcile political history and social history integrated into a national fabric;
In addition, the Ministry will undertake work of reflection and consultation on the teaching of history at the elementary level.
&quot;I asked the author of the report, Mr. Jacques Beauchemin, to chair an advisory committee which will be responsible for ensuring that the program complies with the recommendations of the report,&quot; said Minister Malavoy.
The advisory committee will support the Ministry in setting up the future program, the pilot projects of which will be carried out from September 2014 for Secondary III. The other members of the committee are Ms. Nadia Fahmy-Eid and Mr. Julien Prud&#39;homme, associate researcher at the Center interuniversitaire de recherche sur la science et la technologie (CIRST) and associate professor at the University of Quebec in Montreal.
The pilot projects will be carried out from September 2014 for Secondary 3 in a minimum of 90 groups of students under the responsibility of around 30 teachers. The latter will be accompanied by professionals from the Ministry specially assigned to this task, thus ensuring constant feedback which will allow the program to be refined.
Teachers will send the Ministère their comments on the provisional program throughout 2014-2015, in anticipation of compulsory application of the program in Secondary III, in September 2015. For Secondary IV, the pilot projects will begin in the fall of 2015 with a view to mandatory application in September 2016.
It should be remembered that the duo of experts who wrote the report The Meaning of History was made up of Mr. Jacques Beauchemin, Associate Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities, and Ms. Nadia Fahmy-Eid, Professor retired history from the University of Quebec in Montreal, which has recognized expertise in the field of epistemology and methodology of history as well as the history of education. The consultation document was released to the public on November 10, 2013.
From November 26, 2013 to January 17, 2014, the committee held a total of 23 meetings with various stakeholders (teachers&#39; groups and unions, school groups, didacticians, historians, activist and community groups) and received a total of 68 briefs and written contributions, also from various backgrounds. In addition to the steps taken by their various representatives, no less than 116 teachers and educational advisers from several regions of Quebec signed on their own behalf one of the 22 briefs written by field workers.
On January 23, 2014, in an open letter published in a daily newspaper, some forty secondary history teachers said they were ready and motivated to apply the new high school history program in the fall of 2014.
The consultation document For the strengthening of the teaching of national history at the elementary and secondary levels and the report The meaning of history are available on the Ministry&#39;s website at www..mels.gouv.qc.ca.
