Montreal - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, was delighted to take part in the inauguration of the Kelly Aviation Center of Lockheed Martin Canada. The Quebec government has already announced a non-repayable financial contribution of $ 3.9 million as part of the measures put in place to relaunch the activities of the Aveos company, which closed in March 2012.
Lockheed Martin Canada invested more than $ 30 million to acquire the aircraft engine maintenance and overhaul facility located in Montreal and owned by Aveos. The company plans to add new technological equipment and create 220 skilled jobs over the next three years.
&quot;Lockheed Martin Canada and the Kelly Aviation Center made a wise choice by combining their forces in the field of civil aeronautics with those of Quebec,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “This large-scale project will promote the creation of highly specialized jobs as well as the maintenance of Quebec expertise in a booming sector essential to the growth of our economy. &quot;
Minister Zakaïb took the opportunity to underline, on behalf of the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Mrs. Agnès Maltais, the allocation of a grant to the company as part of a workforce training plan. The financial assistance granted by Emploi-Québec amounts to $ 587,000 and the employer&#39;s contribution is close to $ 1.8 million. &quot;It is essential to support the Kelly Aviation Center, while the 200 or so new employees will have to improve their know-how, in a cutting-edge field where technology is constantly evolving, to adjust to the company&quot;, underlined Ms. Maltais. &quot;It is about maintaining their jobs and the economic health of the organization.&quot;
The American company Lockheed Martin specializes in the aerospace, information and defense sectors. The company employs around 500 people in Canada, including around 100 in Montreal, who design software and electronic systems for the naval military sector.
&quot;The establishment of the Kelly Aviation Center in Montreal will allow us to diversify our activities and thus increase our exports,&quot; said the Vice-President and General Manager of the Kelly Aviation Center, Amy Gowder. “Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we will be able to offer high quality maintenance and overhaul services, which will help strengthen our position on international markets. &quot;
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
