Sherbrooke– The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, announced the allocation of a $ 12.5M loan to Neptune Technologies &amp; Bioressources for the relaunch of its Sherbrooke plant. For the company, which will eventually employ more than 140 people, including nearly a hundred at its Sherbrooke plant, this is an investment of $ 43 million.
&quot;Neptune Technologies &amp; Bioressources is a true leader in the natural health products industry, a rapidly growing sector in Quebec and internationally,&quot; said Pauline Marois. I am particularly proud of the relaunch of the Sherbrooke plant, which will help maintain Quebec expertise in this promising field. The project will also make it possible to put many of the employees affected by the tragedy of last November back to work, which is excellent news for the Estrie region. &quot;
Pauline Marois, accompanied by Élaine Zakaïb and Serge Cardin, announced the allocation of a $ 12.5 million loan to Neptune Technologies &amp; Bioressources for the relaunch of its plant in Sherbrooke. // (c) François Gilbert
&quot;By promoting the development of marine biomass products, Neptune Technologies &amp; Bioressources contributes to promoting the Biotech Santé niche of excellence in the Eastern Townships,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. In this region, there is recognized know-how and a highly qualified workforce that uses its skills to serve Quebecers. The relaunch of the Sherbrooke plant will therefore have positive spinoffs for the region and for all of Quebec. &quot;
Neptune Technologies &amp; Bioressources specializes in the development and marketing of marine biomass products, including krill (small shrimp) oil from Antarctica intended for the natural health product market, more specifically for the market. nutraceuticals. It also develops pharmaceutical products, through its subsidiaries Acasti Pharma inc. and NeuroBioPharm inc. The company has a head office in Laval and a manufacturing plant in Sherbrooke.
&quot;With the relaunch of our krill oil manufacturing plant, we will be able to ensure the growth of our company and our subsidiaries,&quot; said President and CEO of Neptune Technologies &amp; Bioressources, Henri Harland. The support of the Government of Quebec will also allow us to consolidate our reputation for excellence in the nutraceutical market and to increase our competitiveness on international markets. &quot;
