Quebec - After the interpellation this morning with the Minister of Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs at the Salon Bleu, the MP for Marie-Victorin, Bernard Drainville, comes to the conclusion that the Liberal government of Jean Charest is weakening Quebec by asking for nothing and getting nothing. During the two hours of the interpellation, the deputy returned to the charge by asking the following five questions several times:
1 - What is the government going to do to ensure that Bill C-10 does not apply in Quebec? 2 - What is the government going to do to recover the $ 500 million that C-10 will cost us? 3 - Has a copy of the Quebec data included in the firearms registry been made? 4 - Does the government intend to sign an administrative agreement on criminal law as provided for in the Liberal Party&#39;s program? 5 - Will the government demand that Bill 101 apply to all businesses under federal jurisdiction present in Quebec?
“Five questions - zero answers. It&#39;s discouraging! Declared the official opposition critic for Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Bernard Drainville.
In addition, Minister Vallières refused to reaffirm his party&#39;s ten constitutional demands contained in the Pelletier report, which were confirmed at the last Liberal Party convention last October. “It is as if the Liberals are afraid of being nationalists. Where did the legacy of the Jean Lesages, Robert Bourassa and Claude Ryan go, who were not afraid to make demands in Ottawa and had the courage to stand up to the federal government. Maîtres chez nous was a liberal slogan. We are now very far from it. Currently, our government is practicing powerless federalism. With Jean Charest, the interests of Canada come before those of Quebec! Exclaimed Bernard Drainville.
“It is sad to note that, despite the number of letters sent to the federal government and the number of pilgrimages made by Quebec ministers, the federal government does not care about Quebecers. Quebec no longer has a balance of power with the federal government. Our voice is weak, even extinct. However, it is the role of the Minister of Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs and of the Premier of Quebec to carry the voice of Quebec, to represent Quebecers and to defend their rights, their interests and their values, ”concluded Bernard Drainville.
