Québec, March 2, 2021 - Méganne Perry Mélançon, the member for Gaspé and Parti Québécois spokesperson for the status of women, notes that several indicators are in the red regarding the situation of women, disproportionately affected by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. She asks the government to admit it, first, and then act on it.
IN SHORT
The Parti Québécois proposes four courses of action to better support women, more affected by the pandemic:
&quot;Several recent studies have shown this, in particular the one conducted jointly by the Observatoire québécois des inequalités and the Association pour la santé publique du Québec: women are more severely affected by COVID-19, and inequalities between the sexes have increased. accentuated for a year. In fact, experts agree that the problems women face were already present, that governments shoveled everything forward for years and that, as a result, the pandemic only exacerbated them. The Prime Minister and his Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Isabelle Charest, must admit it, ”claims the Member for Gaspé.
It also specifies that the notion of “woman”, although it does include it, is not limited to work-family reconciliation, despite what François Legault seems to believe. “Our Prime Minister, in praising the help his government has provided to families, ignores many aspects of women&#39;s lives, whether they have children or not: physical and mental health, employment and the economy, access housing, conjugal and sexual violence… the pandemic has potentially influenced them all, in one way or another, bringing some women back decades in terms of their rights or their development ”, a continued Méganne Perry Mélançon.
“Not taking action is not an option. Concrete actions must be put forward to support women, considering that for many of them, the slope leading to a return to normalcy, equity and peace of mind will be even steeper. The government cannot remain deaf to this call, launched a few days ago by the women&#39;s centers, among others, in a joint declaration; it must take this into account in its post-pandemic recovery strategy, ”concluded the deputy.
– 30 –
SOURCE :
Laura Chouinard-Thuly
Press Officer
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois
514 880-9594
Laura.Chouinard-Thuly@assnat.qc.ca
