Quebec - The Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade (MRIFCE), Mr. Jean-François Lisée, and the Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French language, Ms. Diane De Courcy, announced the measures that Quebec will implement to help Filipinos affected by Typhoon Haiyan. Financial assistance of $ 300,000 is offered by the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ) ($ 200,000) and the MRIFCE ($ 100,000). Measures to facilitate immigration applications from people affected by this tragedy will also be put in place by the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities (MICC).
“On behalf of the Government of Quebec, I would like to express our deep sympathy to the Filipino people who must, with courage and determination, mobilize to overcome this harsh ordeal. We are also wholeheartedly with the Quebeckers who are affected by this tragedy. Through this gesture of solidarity, the Government of Quebec wishes to provide support and comfort to the victims of this terrible natural disaster, ”declared Minister Lisée.
The MRIFCE has an “Emergency Aid” component within the framework of the Quebec International Development Program. This component makes it possible to support some emergency interventions by Quebec international cooperation organizations in the event of natural disasters or large-scale humanitarian crises in poor countries. MRIFCE has been authorized to make a total contribution of $ 100,000 through this program. This aid will be distributed among recognized organizations active in the Philippines, such as Oxfam-Québec and the Red Cross.
Minister Lisée and Minister De Courcy were able to offer the sympathies of the Government of Quebec directly to members of the Filipino community during a meeting with representatives of organizations working with Filipinos in the Montreal region. The ministers were also able to discuss the various issues and needs facing the community following the passage of Typhoon Haiyan.
The MICC has put in place measures to speed up the processing of requests already received by those directly and significantly affected by the typhoon. Thus, it will give priority treatment to immigration applications targeting skilled workers and family reunification applications. In addition, Filipino nationals who are currently in Quebec on a temporary stay and hold a Quebec acceptance certificate may request an extension.
“We work closely with Citizenship and Immigration Canada, as we have done in previous natural disasters. Our priority is to speed up the arrival of people, victims of this disaster, who had planned to settle in Quebec to work or to join their families, ”said Minister De Courcy. People personally affected by Typhoon Haiyan can obtain more information on what the Department is implementing to speed up the processing of applications by visiting the page www.immigration-quebec.gouv.qc.ca/philippines-haiyan.
“For the Government of Quebec, it is important to come to the aid of the population affected by this natural disaster, especially since Quebec has developed unique expertise in this type of intervention, in particular thanks to force and vitality of its housing industry and its timber industry. For us, it is completely normal to put this expertise at the service of the Filipinos and to join the ranks of the important international mobilization which is being organized at present ”, declared the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Sylvain Gaudreault.
The sum of $ 200,000 from the SHQ will make it possible to provide around thirty prefabricated buildings that will be used for accommodation or services. These transitional homes have been specially designed to meet the needs of people displaced by natural disasters or conflicts.
The SHQ is not its first such initiative. In 2010, she actively participated in the reconstruction of a center for autistic children in L&#39;Aquila, Italy, which was destroyed in the tragic earthquake that shook the region in April 2009.
