Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces that the company Les Equipements de l&#39;énergieReliance Ltée (Reliance) has responded to the order that was served on it yesterday and that it agrees to abide by its terms. The Minister welcomes this response with cautious satisfaction and ensures that a constant follow-up will be carried out to ensure that the ordinance will be respected in its entirety. In addition, the police surveillance put in place on the site since August 27, 2013 will be maintained at the expense of the company and will remain as long as the means of securing the site required by the Ministry have not been implemented.
“The company told us last night its firm intention to work together without a loophole, but after weeks of unsuccessful attempts to get it to comply with our requirements. I therefore welcome Reliance&#39;s response with reservations. My level of mistrust is conditioned by the behavior of the leaders of the company in recent years, and is very low. The Act gives the company rights that we must respect, but I can assure you that the Ministry will continue to be very present on the scene to ensure the immediate implementation of the conditions of the order. I will not tolerate this being a parade for the sole purpose of saving time, but if Reliance duly complies, the speed of completion of the decontamination will be the same as if the Ministry had. took charge, at the expense of the company, ”specified Minister Blanchet.
In view of the response provided by Reliance, the Ministère du Développement durable, de l&#39;Environnement, de la Faune et des Parcs (MDDEFP) expects to receive a preliminary action plan that meets its requirements by September 3 at the latest. 2013. This plan must include measures to ensure the permanent and complete security of the site and to put in place safe and compliant storage techniques. These steps must be followed by a move for PCB treatment to a safe and listed site, a plan for the elimination of residual hazardous materials present on the site and a soil characterization and decontamination plan. However, as soon as a breach is noted, the Ministère will carry out the actions in lieu and at the expense of the company.
“Reliance must comply with all of the terms of the order. I expect concrete actions to be taken today, such as the provision of intrusion detection equipment. Fire detection and extinguishing systems must also be installed. Representatives of the MDDEFP will be on site to supervise all activity from now on, ”added Minister Blanchet. In addition, it ensures that the expertise of the Ministry will be used to ensure that the decontamination plan is effective and rigorous.
In addition, the investigation continues with a view to transmitting a file to the Director of Criminal and Penal Prosecutions, who may decide to initiate criminal proceedings. “I understand and share the concerns of citizens. But I can assure them that the Department is monitoring the situation very closely. The company remains under close surveillance to ensure a rapid resolution of the situation. Reliance&#39;s response is a demonstration that if they are carried by a firm will, the powers conferred by the Environment Quality Act help to effectively protect health, safety and the environment, ”concluded the Minister. Blanchet.
