Saguenay– Quebec Premier Pauline Marois, accompanied by Dubuc MP Jean-Marie Claveau, announced the granting of a loan guarantee of $ 406,000 to Métatube. The support granted will allow the company to ensure the transfer of the assets to a new buyer and will also help to maintain 90 jobs.
“I am proud that my government is financially supporting the next generation and thus helping to keep a flagship of the region in operation. It is essential for the future of Quebec to facilitate the transfer of major businesses, such as Métatube, and to preserve quality jobs. Métatube is a flourishing company and one of the largest suppliers of repair services in the industrial sector in Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, ”said the Premier.
Founded in 1993, Métatube is recognized for the design, manufacture, assembly and welding of metal products. It employs a specialized workforce and counts among its major clients Rio Tinto Alcan as well as several regional companies. Recipient of ISO 9001: 2008 certification, it works in various sectors of activity, from paper mills to aluminum smelters, including sawmills, institutions and municipalities.
“Since its creation, the Métatube company has been part of the economic development of the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region. With the support of the Government of Quebec, it will be able to continue its activities in the years to come. We are convinced that the company will remain a major player for the local economy and for the economic development of Quebec, ”added Jean-Marie Claveau.
“I am very happy to take the reins of a booming business thanks to the financial support of Investissement Québec and the efforts of all the other players who have contributed to the realization of this project. Métatube is in full development thanks to its great reputation among customers. Several projects and contracts are to come in the short and medium term. We are currently exploring several markets and customers, and our strategic thinking will allow us to achieve our ambitious objectives with the entire team in place, ”added the new president of Métatube, François Gagné.
