Quebec - On the eve of the conference of health ministers, the leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the Parti Québécois spokesperson for health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, demand the respect of Justin Trudeau&#39;s commitment to cancel the change, imposed by Stephen Harper, in the method of calculating federal health transfers. They call on Philippe Couillard and Gaétan Barrette to stand up and not accept any conditions regarding the financing of health care by Ottawa.
“Without consulting Quebec or the provinces, the federal government announced in 2011 that transfers would be cut as of 2017. This unilateral review will result in losses of approximately $ 9 billion over 10 years for Quebec. The Prime Minister of Canada is committed to reviewing this funding agreement, and he must now deliver the goods, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“However, his Minister of Health, for his part, is already trying to escape by saying that the lack of funding is not the main problem in health. The federal government does not have to dictate to Quebec how to manage the health budget. Rather, he must explain to us what he will do to stop the fall in the federal share of health care funding. I also note that it only took a few weeks for the Minister to contradict her leader about her commitments, ”added Mr. Péladeau.
&quot;Are the medical duo going to stand up against Ottawa?&quot; Otherwise, what will Minister Barrette cut to fill the $ 9 billion hole? The reduction in transfers must be corrected and their distribution revised to take into account the demographic weight of each province and the aging of the population. The Parti Québécois government had demanded that the share of federal funding for health be brought back above the 25% mark. Prime Minister Philippe Couillard must not accept less, ”declared Diane Lamarre.
In his 2012 Fiscal Sustainability Report, the Federal Parliamentary Budget Officer unequivocally illustrates that Quebec and the provinces will suffer a deterioration in their long-term financial situation, while that of the federal government will remain favorable, for the most part. thanks to the decrease in the growth of the Canada Health Transfer (CHT). Another report, tabled in August 2014 to the Council of the Federation, also shows a situation of fiscal imbalance in the medium term between the federal government and the provinces.
“The federal government must not impose any conditions on Quebec so that it can receive its fair share of the CHT. Will the Liberal government stand up or will it make Quebeckers pay? Who defends Quebec? », Concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois.
