Quebec - On his return from a mission in Haiti, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, said he was honored by the invitation of the Minister of Culture, Josette Darguste, to participate in the Rencontres québécoises en Haïti in the field literature, books and publishing, in order to support the large Quebec delegation present for the occasion.
About thirty writers and professionals from the Quebec book industry participate in these flagship meetings to facilitate the circulation of Quebec books in Haiti and promote networking between authors, booksellers and publishers from both nations.
“The many meetings that I have had in Haiti have been fruitful and bear hope for the future of our bilateral relations. They also allowed me to see that Quebec aroused real interest among Haitian publishers, creators and readers. The cultural ties that unite Quebec and Haiti have been nourished, over time, by various exchanges as well as by the realization of major cooperation projects between our two communities. The choice of Haiti as guest of honor at the next Montreal Book Fair and these meetings are fine examples, ”said Minister Kotto.
Among other things, the Minister participated in the Professionals&#39; Day which allowed Quebec and Haitian authors and publishers to share their experience and expertise. In addition, as part of this mission, he notably met the Minister of Culture of the Republic of Haiti, Josette Darguste, the Minister Delegate to the Prime Minister, in charge of human rights and the fight against extreme poverty, Rose Anne Auguste, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Worship, Pierre-Richard Casimir, and the head of the antenna of the International Organization of La Francophonie, Chantal Moreno.
The Rencontres québécoises en Haïti are fully consistent with the objectives of the Joint Declaration on cooperation in the fields of culture and communications. Signed by the governments of Quebec and Haiti on the sidelines of the Francophonie Summit in Quebec in 2008, this declaration aims to increase the opportunities for collaboration between the two nations.
“Haiti is a priority partner for Quebec. The mission of Minister Kotto, the first of a representative of the current government in this territory, reflects our desire to deepen our special relationship with Haiti in terms of culture, solidarity and the economy ”, added the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée.
Under the chairmanship of author Dany Laferrière, the Rencontres québécoises en Haïti were organized by Mémoire encrier and Québec Édition. They were launched on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the Mémoire Encrier publishing house, whose mandate is to promote authors and works from French-speaking and migrant spaces. It should also be remembered that Quebec Édition is a committee headed by the National Association of Book Editors (ANEL) of Quebec, dedicated to the international influence of Quebec French-language publishing.
The Québec Édition team comes away excited about the experience of the Rencontres québécoises in Haiti. “We said: finally! Finally, the Quebec people set out to meet this other great French-speaking people in America. Haitians welcomed us with warmth and kindness and, above all, with an inexhaustible curiosity for the work of our authors and our editors. The sales of Québec Édition, although they are remarkable, do not say everything about the experience we have had, which one word could well sum up: fraternity ”, declared the president of ANEL and of Québec Édition, Jean-François Bouchard.
Québec Édition brought over 2,000 works of literature from here to Port-au-Prince for the event, and half of these books found buyers. Its exhibition and sales kiosk installed at the cultural center of the Knowledge and Freedom Foundation (FOKAL) has attracted thousands of Haitian readers. The La Pléiade and Asterix bookstores in Port-au-Prince as well as the FOKAL library also stocked up on Quebec books. Then, of the unsold books, many will take the road to a local distributor, while others will be distributed in the regions to community libraries.
The realization of the project was made possible thanks to the support of numerous private and public partners, including the Ministry of Culture and Communications and the Ministry of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade.
