Quebec - In anticipation of the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise which will be held on November 21 and 22, in the presence of the Premier, Ms. Pauline Marois, the Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, and the Member for Roberval and parliamentary assistant for forestry issues, Mr. Denis Trottier, reveal the main points of the discussion and make the participant&#39;s notebook public.
“Carrying out together a national reflection on the wood industry as the engine of a new green economy and agreeing on a forestry action plan that will be spread over three years, this is the exercise to which we invite the partners of the wood industry. The Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise will be a unique opportunity to redefine this promising sector for Quebec and its regions, ”said Martine Ouellet.
The government wishes to open the discussion at the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise on three main themes: adapting our silviculture in order to optimize the potential of our forests, transform the industry and develop sectors with high potential and unite our forces to ensure the future of the wood industry.
“Over the past few weeks, I have met national players in the timber industry. The three discussion blocks that we are proposing reflect the concerns expressed during these exchanges as well as the content of the documents that we have received. In the light of these reflections, our government will propose possible solutions and the partners will be invited to express their views on them, ”explained Mr. Trottier.
The Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise will be broadcast live on the event&#39;s website. The general public will be able to follow the discussions between the participants and learn about the various government proposals.
To follow the Rendez-vous on social media and share your ideas, follow @ MRN_Québec and use the hashtag # RVForêt on Twitter.
For more information or to consult the participant&#39;s workbook, visit the website: www.rendezvousdelaforet.gouv.qc.ca
