Saint-Félicien– As part of the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise, the Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, accompanied by her parliamentary assistant for forestry issues, Mr. Denis Trottier, tabled a third government proposal to ensure the future of the timber industry.
“The future of the forest industry depends on our ability to work together to achieve common goals. The implementation of the new forest regime has profoundly changed our way of doing things. We need to take a look at the first year of the regime and take the steps that will allow us to improve. In this regard, the government is particularly keen to support the workforce, in particular to preserve working conditions and ensure the development of skills. In this sense, we will invest more than $ 50 million over three years for the mobilization and development of the workforce, ”said Martine Ouellet.
In the context of the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise, the government undertakes to publish the Sustainable Forest Management Strategy at the beginning of the next year. This strategy will be able to integrate the vision and the orientations resulting from the Rendez-vous, among others, in terms of wood production and intensification of forest management.
The work required to overhaul the Quebec forestry regime requires the contribution of all partners. This work will of course be carried out in consultation with workers, union partners, businesses, communities in our forest regions and aboriginal communities.
The government is committed to launching immediately, for former beneficiaries of forest supply contracts (CtAF) who demonstrate their interest, work leading to the conversion of their CtAF into local forest. The government also wishes to make progress with regard to the establishment of local forests, but by acting cautiously and in an enlightened manner. This is why it will issue a call for projects in January 2014 for the creation of pilot projects of limited size.
The government wants to promote good working conditions within companies in the forestry sector. To do this, it intends to demand the commitment of employers to maintain similar working conditions in contracts obtained through a call for tenders to those set in the silvicultural treatment agreements. The government will also produce an assessment of the effects of the new forestry regime on the working conditions of the workforce, paying particular attention to the consequences engendered by the marketing of timber.
In the context of the modernization and development of new products and new sectors, it is essential to continue support efforts in terms of workforce skills development and human resource management in the forestry sector. This is why Emploi-Québec is committing an amount of $ 45 million over three years to support future workers, the workforce and businesses. The government really wants to ensure a solid foundation on which businesses can develop, prosper and create stimulating and profitable jobs in all regions.
With the tabling of the Wood Charter in April 2013, the government demonstrated its willingness to deploy truly effective means to promote the use of a transformed Quebec resource. In addition to creating jobs and wealth, greater use of wood in construction in Quebec contributes substantially to the reduction of greenhouse gases.
In addition, the government today confirmed funding of $ 3.9 million over three years to regional forestry associations which have the mandate to educate and inform the public and which largely contribute to the development of the pride of Quebecers. and Quebeckers with regard to the forest.
“The solutions proposed show our desire to continue the work begun, but it is only by joining forces with those of all our partners that we will succeed in such a task. This is an opportunity to show everyone that the forest, the products we make from it and our local businesses are part of our future and a great source of pride, ”said Mr. Trottier.
Remember that the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise is broadcast live on the event&#39;s website. The general public will be able to follow the discussions between the participants and learn about the various government proposals.
To follow the Rendez-vous and share your ideas on Twitter: @ MRN_Québec– the hashtag is # RVForêt.
For more information, visit the Internetwww.rendezvousdelaforet.gouv.qc.ca site.
