Quebec - The Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, and the MP for Roberval and parliamentary assistant for the forestry component, Mr. Denis Trottier, call on all forestry stakeholders to come together for the forest and to think about the actions that can be taken. be put in place for this new stage which is beginning. Silviculture and the development of Quebec&#39;s forests, optimal use of the resource, through ecosystem management and sustainable land use planning, the future of the forest sector and job creation will be at the heart of the discussions. The preparatory information document, outlining the situation of the industry in Quebec, was made public today.
“The forest must be an asset in all regions so that it allows us to create structuring jobs and that it once again becomes a source of pride. We are counting on the contribution of all forestry stakeholders who care about the forest, its industry and its workers to reflect on this new phase which is beginning for this sector of the future. With this important meeting, we are confident that new initiatives will emerge, all with a view to stimulating the competitiveness of the forestry sector, encouraging innovation and the development of new value-added products and reducing our gas production. greenhouse effect, ”said Martine Ouellet.
“In my region, foresters are proud of their profession, proud of their know-how, proud of their resource. This feeling, which I also share, must be reflected in the entire timber industry and be shared by all those who show an interest in the forest as well as in the products of the forest territory. We also want to take advantage of the unique event that is the Rendez-vous de la forêt québécoise to revive the feeling of belonging that Quebecers have towards this noble, ecological and renewable resource with inexhaustible potential, ”added Mr. Trottier.
The Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, announced as part of the unveiling of Quebec&#39;s economic policy - “Priority employment”, that $ 100 million over three years will be set aside to promote the development of the forestry sector.
This investment will support the initiatives of the action plan that will be adopted at the Rendez-vous de la forêt québécoise. Diversification of the forest sector is an important component of the development of the regions of Quebec, which must be done in harmony with the communities and with respect for the environment.
Initially, this meeting will guide the discussions on forestry. As stated in the preparatory information document, Quebec has every advantage in adapting silviculture in order to maximize the value of forest areas by producing more wood from quality species, while respecting the environment. . Optimizing forestry practices and interventions, maximizing wood recovery, offering the largest possible volume for processing, recruiting and training a skilled workforce in all regions of Quebec and the need to be able to count on a solid network of entrepreneurs will therefore be discussed during the first block of the event.
Secondly, a reflection on the wood industry as the engine of a new green economy will be carried out. To count on supply at competitive cost, the forest industry has every advantage, as mentioned in the preparatory information document, in diversifying its practices and stepping up its research and development efforts. Speakers will therefore be invited to reflect on the new approach that the forest industry must take to ensure the competitiveness of its traditional products and to stand out with the development of new ecological products and materials. The role of educational institutions and businesses, with a view to preparing the workforce for highly skilled jobs, as well as the concrete actions that must be taken to face the challenge of workforce renewal will also be discussed.
The Rendez-vous de la forêt québécoise will bring together the main stakeholders in the wood industry on November 21 and 22 in Saint-Félicien. For more information and to consult the preparatory information document, visit the event&#39;s website at the following address: www.rendezvousdelaforet.gouv.qc.ca.
