Montreal - On the occasion of the 2012 Rendez-vous - Montreal, Cultural Metropolis, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, announced the four main axes on which the government will take concrete action to support the cultural and artistic sphere of the metropolis. More than $ 100 million will be invested to better serve the public library network, promote public art in outdoor spaces, create more production and work spaces for artists and stimulate private funding for cultural initiatives. carriers.
“In the 21st century, the development of the Quebec nation, the vitality of the French language, our economic and political future depend in large part on our culture. The holding of this Rendez-vous 2012 allows us to realize that it is very much through creativity that Quebecers have managed to surpass themselves. It is through its various poles of excellence that the metropolis has been able to prosper. There is another pole of excellence which contributes to the success of all industries: that of the arts and culture. Our cultural life is what we must focus on to stand out, ”said the Prime Minister.
The renewal of the three-year cultural development agreement between the government and the City of Montreal will bring the culture and heritage of Montrealers closer together. This is an investment of nearly $ 98 million over three years, including $ 30.3 million for the construction, expansion or renovation of libraries. An additional $ 9 million, from the collection development assistance program, will allow them to keep up to date with new technologies and thus better meet the expectations of young people and citizens of various origins. “Libraries are a fantastic gateway to the world of literature, the arts and culture. It is a door wide open to families and to new Quebecers, ”said Pauline Marois.
The Prime Minister also announced an initial contribution of $ 2 million, by the end of 2014, to integrate art into urban planning and furniture. She would like to see an increase in the place of public art in outdoor spaces, as is the case, for example, at Place Jean-Paul-Riopelle.
In order to follow up on the report of the Task Force on Artists&#39; Studios, the government will provide an amount of $ 5.65 million to improve the availability of places dedicated to creation. This amount is part of a total envelope of $ 18 million to which various partners are contributing.
Finally, the government will look at adjusting the tax mechanisms that encourage individuals and businesses to participate in philanthropy. A working group will be set up to encourage cultural philanthropy in Quebec.
Pauline Marois also took advantage of the 2012 Rendez-vous to reiterate the government&#39;s commitment to participate in the celebrations of Montreal&#39;s 375th anniversary in 2017. To do this, she promises to focus on showcasing the history of Montreal. Quebec by focusing on three projects: the Aboriginal cultural site in Montreal, the Pointe-à-Callière museum expansion project and the Cité Mémoire project.
“The recognition of the essential role of culture can be found in the budget tabled by the Minister of Finance and the Economy last week. Unlike many ministries, culture will see its budget increase by 2.1%, bringing total government spending for the cultural sector to 1%. Our government is making considerable efforts to democratize cultural practice, interest a large public, develop demand and thus ensure that our cultural life is a culture for all, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
