Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, and her parliamentary assistant for forestry issues, Denis Trottier, approach with optimism the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise which will begin tomorrow from 8:30 am At the end of this meeting, the government wishes to identify a common vision concerning the future of the timber industry and define a forestry action plan for the next three years.
&quot;We will initiate, with all forestry stakeholders, a reflection that will lead to new initiatives aimed at the development of the forest, the use of a renewable and ecological resource, the transformation of the industry and the development of products of the future. Forests have always helped to build our national identity. They must continue to be a source of pride for Quebeckers, ”said the Premier.
&quot;It is by working in concert with people who care about the forest industry and the issues associated with it that we will define concrete means of stimulating the competitiveness of the sector and making Quebec a leader in the industry. green economy, while reducing greenhouse gases, ”added Martine Ouellet.
This meeting will be an opportunity for the government to discuss with forestry stakeholders on the subjects of silviculture, the development of the Quebec forest, the optimal use of the resource? through ecosystem-based management and sustainable land use planning ?, the future of the forestry sector and job creation.
“In addition to being a noble, ecological and renewable resource, the forest is vital to the regional economy. I am proud to take part in this unique event which will allow me to interact with experts and enthusiasts of the forest industry. Together, there is no doubt that we will be able to establish an innovative action plan for this sector of the future, ”said Mr. Trottier.
The Premier of Quebec announced, as part of the unveiling of the Priority Jobs economic policy, that $ 100 million over three years is set aside to promote the development of the forest sector.
This investment will support the elements of the action plan that will be adopted at the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise. Diversifying the forest sector is an important part of the development of the regions of Quebec. However, it must be done in harmony with the communities and with respect for the environment.
Remember that, as indicated in the preparatory information document made public on October 17, the meeting will be an opportunity to discuss three main themes:
Speakers will therefore be invited to reflect on the development of the forest and the new approach that the forest industry must take to ensure the competitiveness of its traditional products and the development of new ecological products and materials.
The Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise will bring together the main stakeholders in the timber industry on November 21 and 22 in Saint-Félicien. For more information or to consult the preparatory information document, visit the event&#39;s website at the following address: www.rendezvousdelaforet.gouv.qc.ca.
