Quebec - The Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, today announced an envelope of $ 147 million granted to forestry companies for the performance of non-commercial work (pre-commercial thinning and clearing work, reforestation, site preparation , planning and monitoring, maintenance of paths, transport of plants and brush clearing), a first in Quebec.
“Today, by confirming the investments to carry out silvicultural work for 2014-2015 as of January, we are enabling thousands of silvicultural workers from all regions of Quebec to have greater stability. Thanks to this budget predictability, we also allow silvicultural entrepreneurs to have better planning of their activities and their workforce. More than 3,000 jobs will be maintained thanks to these investments. With a Parti Québécois government, entrepreneurs and forestry workers have a major ally in developing their industry, and all of Quebec wins! », Declared Martine Ouellet.
Over the next few weeks, each silvicultural company will be met to present its annual budget and the planning of the work it will have to carry out. Rexforêt will be able to sign the majority of annual contracts with companies at the beginning of the spring. It should also be noted that, for this year, the proportion of public tenders has been maintained at 10%. Rexforêt intends to specify the quantity of work that will be called for tenders for each region at the beginning of the spring. Site visits with bidders may begin as soon as weather conditions allow. This improvement in operational planning will allow companies to have better control of their activities and to forecast their workforce needs accordingly.
As soon as it came to power, forestry was one of the first concerns of the Government of Quebec. In fact, forestry was at the heart of discussions at the Rendez-vous national de la forêt. As a result of the latter, a major work site was set up. The Chantier sur la production de bois, chaired by Mr. Robert Beauregard, has the mandate to develop a wood production strategy in public and private forests in order to find the best silvicultural options and increase the value of our forests. .
Today&#39;s announcement is a big step for forestry. Forestry is also the job creation program in public and private forests and support for the development of private forests and commercial work which will be presented later.
“Today, we are providing Quebec with a structured and planned approach to wood production that is adapted to the new reality of the forest land. This approach will facilitate the transition of the forestry sector, while protecting our forest heritage and participating in the economic development of the regions of Quebec, ”added Denis Trottier.
Remember that the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise brought together, on November 21 and 22, 2013, more than 250 participants from the wood industry in Saint-Félicien. These are investments of $ 675 million over three years that have been announced by the government for the forestry sector, responding to the demands of the various partners.
For more information, visit the Rendez-vous de la forêt website.
