Saint-Félicien– As part of the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, and her parliamentary assistant for forestry issues , Denis Trottier, reiterated his government&#39;s desire to support the transformation of the forest industry and the development of sectors with high potential.
“Today, in concrete terms, the government recognizes the future potential of the timber industry and shows that it is determined to support it with conviction. The modernization of the forest industry by carrying out structuring investment projects will enable it to ensure its sustainability as well as to maintain and create the jobs of the future. It is also by supporting innovation and the development of new products that we will be able to increase the competitiveness of the industry. This is what we are proposing and what we are supporting through a concerted government effort of over $ 320 million, ”said the Premier.
“The Quebec timber industry must take advantage of new emerging markets linked to the green economy. The government is committed to supporting our industry in order to ensure the sustainability of this sector and allow it to play a leading role in the markets of tomorrow. In this regard, it is necessary to promote optimal use of the fiber and to facilitate decision-making regarding the allocation of timber when volumes become available. Our proposals bear witness to the importance we attach to modernizing the industry and creating high-quality jobs in the regions, ”added Martine Ouellet.
The government is responding to the industry&#39;s request to set up a high-level government-industry strategic forum aimed at determining the issues and defining the priorities for action to ensure the sustainability and development of the industry. Measures are available for structuring investment projects aimed at modernizing the industry, with an envelope of $ 320 million over three years.
In addition, the Ministère des Transports undertakes to conduct a pilot project to increase winter loads during the winter of 2014-2015, with the aim of reducing fiber costs. Finally, it is proposed to set up a forest-wood value creation network in order to maximize the value of products, reduce fiber costs and increase the effectiveness of actions and the efficiency of actors.
The government is proposing to invest nearly $ 32 million in five projects that will promote the development of the green chemistry sector. Accordingly, respective amounts of $ 3.1 million and $ 1.75 million will be allocated to the Quebec Industrial Research Center and to FPInnovations, two major research organizations in the forest sector. In addition, the government is supporting three other projects in partnership with businesses to the tune of $ 27 million.
The creation of the new Residual Forest Biomass Program, associated with funds of $ 50 million for the 2013-2020 period, and the continuation of the Program for the purchase of electricity from cogeneration plants based on Hydro&#39;s residual forest biomass. -Québec are two concrete measures that testify to the government&#39;s real desire to support the development of this sector.
The government has also implemented two new energy efficiency programs designed for businesses, namely EcoPerformance and Technoclimat, whose forest component is valued at $ 52 million. The efficient use and conversion to energies from renewable sources allow companies to make significant energy savings and reduce their operating costs, while contributing significantly to the reduction of greenhouse gases.
The government wants to encourage the strengthening of an industry based on knowledge, innovation and new technologies. $ 6 million will be invested over a three-year period to stimulate the emergence of innovative research projects. Calls for projects will be supported by the Quebec Research Fund.
“We have much to be proud of for Quebec&#39;s forests and the wood resource, but also and above all for the people who work for companies in the forestry sector. I have no doubt that together, we will be able to seize the opportunities open to us and which will allow us to reposition the sector for the future, ”concluded Denis Trottier.
Remember that the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise is broadcast live on the event&#39;s website. The general public will be able to follow the discussions between the participants and learn about the various government proposals.
To follow the Rendez-vous and share your ideas on Twitter: @ MRN_Québec– the hashtag is # RVForêt.
For more information, visit the Internetwww.rendezvousdelaforet.gouv.qc.ca site.
