Baie-Comeau– Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Premier of Quebec on September 4, 2012. Her government&#39;s first year in office is marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Government of Quebec once again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain their pride. The priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help to those in need, and the pride of living together. The Parti Québécois government will therefore take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger.
In addition, several new government measures will encourage the development of the regions of Quebec. Many of them will have a positive impact for the North Shore, whether we think of the Timber Charter, the new mining regime, the Northern Development Secretariat, the improvement of silvicultural work, the establishment of &#39;&#39; a food sovereignty policy, the creation of 28,000 new reduced-contribution places to the network of childcare services in Quebec, autonomy insurance for home support for the elderly and $ 357 million in investment in road works for the next two years. “Our government has done more in a year for the regions than the Liberals in 9 years. They lacked leadership in several issues, particularly that of natural resources, when they failed to modify the mining regime by selling our resources at a discount, ”noted Marjolain Dufour.
The government has also provided financial support for great regional initiatives, in particular OPCO Technologie, a company specializing in research and development in the forestry and bioenergy sectors, and Nova-Pro Développement, a company specializing in research and development in energy. clean. Two major projects have also seen the light of day thanks to funding from the Government of Quebec, the Villa Ragueneau and the CPE La Giroflée in Forestville. In addition, the region was granted the creation of the first marine protected area under the responsibility of Quebec in the St. Lawrence Estuary. “I am proud of what we have achieved so far. My priority this fall will be to continue the actions undertaken and work with determination to promote the economic development of our region, ”concluded the deputy.
