Saint-Félicien– The Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, the President of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard and the Parliamentary Assistant for Forestry Affairs, Mr. Denis Trottier, concluded the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécois by announcing setting up three major projects and submitting the financial framework of $ 675 million over three years.
“The Rendez-vous is a historic event for Quebec. This is the very first government gathering during which all stakeholders in the forestry sector come together in order to find solutions. The concrete measures put forward total investments of $ 675 million over three years for the forestry sector and meet the demands of the various partners. The dialogues engaged throughout the Rendez-vous clearly show that everyone is committed to the revitalization and modernization of the forest industry. Together, we have agreed on the priorities for action for the coming years, whether in the area of forestry, the transformation of the industry as well as the side of the mobilization and development of the workforce. &#39;work,&#39; said Martine Ouellet.
“The Rendez-vous marks a promising turn for the future of the industry. Quebec&#39;s forests have evolved and the measures we are proposing are consistent with its new reality. Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, the first forest region, will be at the heart of this new dynamism, ”added Stéphane Bédard, President of the Conseil du trésor.
Minister Martine Ouellet clarified the mandates of three major projects that will result from the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise:
In addition, it also announced the creation of a steering committee which will ensure the follow-up and the implementation of these three projects. This committee will be chaired by the Minister and the three site presidents will sit on it along with the parliamentary assistant for forestry issues, Mr. Denis Trottier.
In addition to the investments announced, a government-industry strategic forum, co-chaired by the Minister of Natural Resources and a business executive, will be set up to define action priorities to ensure the sustainability and development of the industry. .
Minister Martine Ouellet also reiterated the government&#39;s desire to promote a fair balance between the conservation of biodiversity and the development of the forest. Thus, measures aimed at intensifying forestry will be subject to a structured approach responding to the particularities of forest areas.
Forty stakeholders from all walks of life, whether in the silvicultural development community, workers, union partners, businesses, communities in our forest regions, aboriginal communities, environmental groups and partners in research, has shown a real desire to find solutions. As a result of these discussions, orientations were agreed, from which an action plan will emerge over a period of three years.
The government will adopt measures to preserve the working conditions of Quebec forestry workers. Emploi-Québec will commit a sum of $ 45 million over three years to support future workers, the workforce and businesses.
“It is with great pride that my region received all the stakeholders in the forestry sector during the Rendez-vous which enabled a national reflection on the wood industry. I am all the more proud of the positive spinoffs for all regions of Quebec. I am happy with the gains made to improve and enhance the work of our Quebec foresters. We share a common vision and we will work with the same goals. I sincerely believe that the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise was a success and that it will help ensure the future of the wood industry, ”said Mr. Trottier.
For more information, visit the website: www.rendezvousdelaforet.gouv.qc.ca.
Remember that the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise is broadcast live on the event&#39;s website. The general public will be able to follow the discussions between the participants and learn about the various government proposals.
To follow the Rendez-vous and share your ideas on Twitter: @ MRN_Québec– the hashtag is # RVForêt.
For more information, visit the Internetwww.rendezvousdelaforet.gouv.qc.ca site.
Consult the press releases issued during the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise
Also visit the Parti Québécois blog to read the Premier&#39;s post &quot;A big step towards the future for Quebec&#39;s forests.&quot; &quot;
