Saint-Félicien– On the occasion of the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, and her parliamentary assistant for files forests, Denis Trottier, tabled a second government proposal that aims to give maximum value to Quebec&#39;s forests.
“Like me, our partners want concrete approaches in order to act quickly and strategically. They want predictable budgets for their businesses and their workers. By adopting forest management that is based on the highest criteria of sustainable development and by presenting a three-year budgetary framework for silvicultural work, this is what we are offering them, ”said Pauline Marois.
“Quebec&#39;s forest land has evolved and we must adapt to this new reality. This is why we are implementing measures aimed at facilitating the transition of the forestry sector. The time has come to give Quebec a structured approach to wood production. The objective of this approach is to protect our forest heritage while guaranteeing a long-term allowable cut, ”added Martine Ouellet.
The Premier is pleased to confirm the announcement of an additional budget of $ 67 million over three years for forestry. The government is also proposing a three-year silvicultural budget framework with a breakdown according to the silvicultural treatment family, in addition to a budget reserved for private forests. Overall, an amount of $ 250 million per year in silvicultural work, both for public and private forests, will be provided until 2017. This new budgetary framework takes into account the silvicultural shift undertaken and will allow better planning of activities. With these measures, it will be possible to announce the silvicultural work budgets several months in advance, which will allow better planning of the work and the workforce.
The government is proposing to facilitate access to financing for the acquisition or modernization of equipment, by making forestry contractors eligible for the Essor program. This program will offer loan guarantees of up to $ 120 million to promote the renewal or acquisition of equipment adapted to needs as well as the establishment of an adequate succession.
The Premier also announces that an improvement will be made to the Regulation respecting the reimbursement of property taxes, measures which will come into force on January 1, 2014. More than 130,000 private producers will thus benefit from nearly $ 10 million more over three years. The government will also carry out an annual indexation of the program parameters. Finally, in order to stimulate the development of private forests and their contribution to the timber industry, an additional annual budget of $ 5 million in silvicultural work was announced by the Prime Minister.
The government is keen to direct investments towards the best silvicultural options and thus increase the value of Quebec&#39;s forests. To do this, he will set up a site on the production of wood. It will continue work on the hardwood site and will engage in a process of intensifying forest management, within a framework of responsible forest management and integrated resource management, while maintaining regional roots.
In order to protect silvicultural investments, to compensate for the reductions in available area following the creation of protected areas and to promote the right balance between the conservation of biodiversity and the development of the forest, the expansion of the network protected areas will be accompanied by measures aimed at increasing forest yields, in particular by intensifying forestry in areas where profitability justifies it.
“We must, gradually and with partners, adapt silviculture and target our investments so as to maximize the value of forest areas. The potential of Quebec&#39;s forests is immense. It is essential to support forestry entrepreneurs and to put in place an improved strategy that aims to increase our logging possibilities, in order to reconcile our supplies and our development needs for our protected areas ”, affirmed Denis Trottier.
Remember that the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise is broadcast live on the event&#39;s website. The general public will be able to follow the discussions between the participants and learn about the various government proposals.
To follow the Rendez-vous and share your ideas on Twitter: @ MRN_Québec– the hashtag is # RVForêt.
For more information, visit the Internetwww.rendezvousdelaforet.gouv.qc.ca site.
Consult the press releases issued during the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise
Also visit the Parti Québécois blog to read the Premier&#39;s post &quot;A big step towards the future for Quebec&#39;s forests.&quot; &quot;
