Terrebonne – The Destination 2030 regional tour stopped in the Lanaudière region today. On this occasion, the Parliamentary Assistant to the Premier (youth section) and Member of Parliament for Laval-des-Rapides, Mr. Léo Bureau-Blouin, the Deputy Government Whip and Member of Parliament for Saint-Jean, Mr. Dave Turcotte, and the deputy leader and deputy for Terrebonne, Mr. Mathieu Traversy, met nearly 150 young people and youth workers.
The day began in Joliette with a meeting between members of the Forum jeunesse Lanaudière and elected officials. They then discussed demographic issues in the north of the region with partners and youth workers, then met with students from the Cégep régional de Lanaudière in Joliette. MM. Bureau-Blouin, Turcotte and Traversy then took part in a dinner on the theme of citizen participation, during which they were able to hear the point of view of committed young people. In the afternoon, the deputies had the opportunity to discuss demographic issues south of Lanaudière, then they spoke with students from Cégep de L&#39;Assomption. The day ended with a citizens&#39; assembly open to the general public, held at the Cégep régional de Lanaudière in Terrebonne.
&quot;I am very happy to have participated in the consultation day in this region of mine,&quot; said Mr. Traversy. “Like the other regions of Quebec that we visited, Lanaudière has a set of realities that are specific to it, but which differ greatly whether one is in the north or in the south of the region. I am thinking, among other things, of immigration, public transit, the feeling of belonging and access to services which vary greatly between the two poles and which influence the lives of young Lanaudans, ”added Mr. Traversy.
“This visit to the Lanaudière region allowed us to take the pulse of young people from here. Among other things, we had the chance to interact with young people involved in their community, students and youth workers who wanted to take part in the discussion that our government initiated with the Destination 2030 tour, ”added Mr. Turcotte. . Organized by the Secrétariat à la jeunesse, in collaboration with the Forum jeunesse Lanaudière and the Table de concertation des forums jeunesse régional, the objective of this day was to gather the point of view of young people in the region in order to develop the next Québec policy on the youth.
The young people and stakeholders we met were also invited to contribute to the interactive site www.destination2030.gouv.qc.ca, and to promote it. In addition to providing useful information, this website allows all citizens to participate in the discussion and directly influence government thinking on youth matters. &quot;We want to create a real community of citizens engaged in the process of building a real public policy,&quot; explained Mr. Bureau-Blouin. The multiplication of points of view and their comparison with one another enrich the debate and nourish our reflection. &quot;
A regional statistical portrait on the state of youth in the Lanaudière region was also made public by the Youth Secretariat and is available at the following address: http: //bit.ly/1d4bvfh.
The objective of the regional tour is to consult young people, interveners and youth partners from all regions in order to identify the problems, issues and actions that must be included in the new Québec Youth Policy. The meetings will also make it possible to make young citizens aware of the challenges that await Quebec by 2030 and the importance of preparing the next generation of Quebecers to face demographic changes.
The Youth Secretariat&#39;s mandate is to advise the government on youth matters and to assist the Premier in exercising her responsibilities in this regard. It coordinates and monitors government action in this area.
