Quebec - The MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and official opposition spokesperson for housing, Carole Poirier, joins her voice to those of the Association des groups de ressources techniques du Québec, the Chantier de l&#39;énergie social, the Confédération québécoise des coopératives d&#39;habitation, the Conseil québécois de la cooperation et de la mutualité, the Quebec Network of Housing Non-profit Organizations, the Front for Popular Action in Urban Reorganization, the Regroupement des offices d&#39;habitation du Quebec, the Réseau Solidarité Itinérance du Québec, the Federation of Intermunicipal Housing Cooperatives of Metropolitan Montreal, the Quebec Federation of Municipalities and the Montreal Metropolitan Community to ask the Minister of Municipal Affairs and Land Occupancy to guarantee the renewal and adequate funding of the AccèsLogis Québec program in the next budget.
“For several weeks and again this morning, with one voice, several players in the field have asked Minister Pierre Moreau to renew funding for the AccèsLogis Québec program. I add my voice to theirs. We have said many times that cuts to housing programs are damaging. This is very worrying for the future of social housing, in the regions and throughout Quebec. The Liberals cut RénoVillage, the emergency renovation program, the Rénovation Québec program and significantly reduced the home adaptation program for people with disabilities. Now, they could attack AccèsLogis Québec. The community and the regions are worried, with good reason, ”said Carole Poirier.
“The construction of social and community housing enables the economic development of all regions of Quebec. It creates jobs, promotes social diversity and allows urban revitalization, ”added the deputy.
In addition, Carole Poirier points out that according to a study by the firm AECOM, published in 2013, “[for] every dollar paid by the SHQ as a subsidy, $ 2.3 has been injected into the Quebec economy. In terms of added value, that is to say the creation of wealth, the impact is estimated at 1.027 billion dollars ”.
“Social and community housing, in addition to being an example of a social program with proven economic profitability, makes it possible to meet a significant demand for housing among seniors, single people, families and people with special needs or who are homeless. I hope that Minister Moreau will hear this call and that he will defend the partners in the housing industry with the Minister of Finance as part of the pre-budget consultations, ”concluded Carole Poirier.
