Québec– The member for Joliette and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in higher education, Véronique Hivon, and the member for Gaspé and spokesperson for municipal affairs and regional development, Gaétan Lelièvre, urge the government of Quebec to establish an interregional mobility program for college students. This measure, proposed by the Fédération d&#39;études collégiale du Québec (FECQ) and supported by the Fédération des cégeps, would allow students from urban centers who so wish to continue part of their academic journey in the regions.
“The network of CEGEPs in Quebec is currently marked by an imbalance in its student clientele, a distortion that can be observed mainly between establishments in large centers and those located in the regions. While some CEGEPs are overflowing and are forced to reject many registrations, others are struggling to maintain the traffic necessary for their survival. According to preliminary data, for the fall of 2015, the college population fell, in particular in Abitibi-Témiscamingue, Gaspésie and Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean, a trend which, according to forecasts, will increase in the coming years. in the so-called &quot;remote&quot; regions of Quebec. However, we absolutely must promote and enhance the deployment of college students throughout Quebec, ”stated Véronique Hivon.
A study published last March also shows that in the regions, college establishments are at the heart of the vitality and dynamism of communities. “CEGEPs, in the scope of their action, go beyond the strictly institutional framework. They are places of knowledge, cultural centers and living environments, not only for students, but also for the communities in which they are located. Thus, college establishments help retain young people and attract graduates, for the benefit of regions experiencing demographic decline. CEGEPs are also catalysts for development in the community, in particular thanks to the involvement of teachers who, beyond their pedagogical responsibility, play a key role in their community, ”added Gaétan Lelièvre.
“The Quebec government must put in place concrete measures to promote interregional student mobility. The FECQ&#39;s proposal is visionary and deserves serious attention. It will contribute both to the sustainability of the college network, to the socio-economic development of the regions served and to the personal and social development of students. The government cannot be indifferent to such a recommendation, which, moreover, comes from the students themselves, ”concluded the deputies.
