Quebec - The member for Rimouski and official opposition spokesperson for the fight against poverty, solidarity and the social economy, Harold LeBel, deplores the fact that the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, François Blais , refused to follow up on the petition filed on September 16 asking for the creation of a disability pension for people truly unfit for employment.
“This week, the Liberals sitting on the Committee on the Economy and Labor refused to hear from people with disabilities, on the pretext that Minister Blais would soon meet them, as he had said. The day after this refusal by the Commission, the same minister is rejecting the requests of people with disabilities. However, he had undertaken, in front of the bearers of the petition, to undertake a &quot;discussion&quot; to better understand their situation. It is really sad. It&#39;s a lack of respect that I dare not comment on, ”said Harold LeBel.
Minister Blais based his decision on a lack of support from the Office for Handicapped Persons of Quebec (OPHQ) and the Confederation of Organizations of Handicapped Persons of Quebec (COPHAN). However, the OPHQ had understood the message of the petitioners; according to him, “the petition highlights a known problem but which must be carefully analyzed in terms of costs and the definition of eligibility criteria (…). [The] Office suggests that a reflexion process be carried out from which various avenues of solution could emerge ”. For its part, COPHAN declared that “for people with employment constraints, it is time for the Quebec state to act. In consultation with us, the government must resolve this problem and show its determination as of today by starting by making the social solidarity program more flexible ”.
“I tell the Collective for a disability pension not to give up. I will analyze the parliamentary means I can use to relaunch this file. The people who have brought to light life realities as difficult as those which have been emotionally shown to us deserve to be listened to. Those who signed the petition are entitled to hope for something other than this disappointing response from Minister Blais. This must set up a real &quot;think tank&quot;, as requested by the OPHQ &quot;, concluded Harold LeBel.
