Québec, April 11, 2020 - Joël Arseneau, MP for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and Parti Québécois spokesperson for health, as well as MP for Joliette and spokesperson for family and education , Véronique Hivon, are concerned about the questions left in suspense and the appearance of contradiction brought about by the scenario of reopening schools before May 4, as the government mentioned yesterday; they ask him for details.
IN SHORT
A month ago, when one of the government&#39;s first actions was to close schools and daycare services, the authorities clearly explained that young people are an important potential transmission vector. “To immunize them quickly, without too many consequences for them, that would be ideal. However, if the government reopens schools too quickly, is there not a risk for teachers and their families and, by extension, for the entire population, including caregivers, the most vulnerable and the elderly? ? We want to hear from the government on this. We want it to clearly indicate what its experts recommend, ”said Joël Arseneau, who also points out that during the stages of containment, schools were closed 10 days before companies, while we would now proceed with logic reverse.
In addition, the question relating to compliance with the famous 2-meter rule, which the government calls on us all to respect for months on end, clearly arises for daycare and school environments, especially since we are talking here of children. &quot;If creative scenarios for the planning of time and space are on the table, it would be important to communicate them because, with the current lack of space in several school environments, the challenges appear significant&quot;, for his part said argue the member for Joliette.
Véronique Hivon believes that the government must quickly dispel the impression of contradiction raised by this question. “I heard the Prime Minister talk about the reopening of schools, when he had just indicated that he wanted to requisition some of their staff to go and help health workers. In addition, the government has just announced the suspension of cultural events and the majority of sporting events until August 31. All of this raises questions. My colleagues and I have received many messages from perplexed and worried citizens; you have to explain and reassure, ”she added.
To allay the fears of parents, health and education workers as well as the general population, the Parti Québécois is asking the government to clearly and quickly state its intentions.
