Gatineau– The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, is pleased to announce today investments of nearly $ 4 million to enhance pediatric and nursing services. ophthalmology in the Outaouais, thus promoting the repatriation of patients from the region who currently receive such services in Ontario.
“In these two fields of expertise, as in other medical specialties, a significant proportion of specialized care intended for the population of the Outaouais is provided by establishments in Ontario, mainly hospitals in the Ottawa region. . Our government is determined, in conjunction with the Agence de la santé et des services sociaux and institutions in the region, to increase the supply of specialized care in the Outaouais, thus reducing the use of resources located outside the territory ”, he added. declared Minister Hébert.
A sum of $ 1,379,000 is allocated for construction work on the neonatology unit of the Gatineau Hospital. The capacity of the unit, which was announced last month to be increased from 10 to 12 beds, will thus be able to increase to 14 beds.
In addition, the Pediatric Diabetes Clinic will be able to acquire specialized equipment, allowing it to accommodate dozens of children currently receiving care in Ottawa. This clinic is attached to the Outaouais Center for Outpatient In-Hospital and Neonatal Pediatrics (COPAIN).
For ophthalmology, investments will amount to $ 2,566,000, covering both construction work and the purchase of specialized medical devices. This financial support from the Government of Quebec will significantly increase the number of interventions for cataract and retinal surgeries, as well as the number of injections for the treatment of macular degeneration associated with &#39;age.
“Other measures are being developed or implemented, always with a view to ensuring the self-sufficiency of the Outaouais region in terms of medical care, particularly in obstetrics. For subspecialized care, we wish to improve the situation in the medium term, on the understanding that certain cutting-edge services will continue to be provided by establishments outside the region, like what is experienced elsewhere in Quebec ” , concluded Dr. Hébert.
