Quebec - In reaction to the announcement of the postponement of the Mine Arnaud project in Sept-Îles by Investissement Québec, following the decision of its private partner to no longer inject funds, the Member of Parliament for Duplessis and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of northern development, Lorraine Richard, urges the Liberal government to be transparent in the matter. Because for the moment, the North Shore people have the impression, with good reason, of having been duped.
In fact, in addition to the inability of the Liberal government to find investors, we recently learned that Investissement Québec&#39;s sole financial partner in the Mine Arnaud project, Yara International, which was to purchase all of the production of the future mine, would eventually buy less than 50%.
“Last week, I questioned the government about the consequences of Yara International&#39;s decision to limit its future participation in the project. Unfortunately, the Minister of the Economy, Jacques Daoust, refused to provide a clear answer to the concerns of an entire population, just like his colleague from the Environment, David Heurtel, who has refused for months to meet with citizens to discuss the issue. This folder. And, yesterday, we learned that the project is postponed! This government&#39;s silence and inaction have gone on long enough. With Investissement Québec&#39;s 62% stake in the project and more than $ 30 million in public money already swallowed up, the time has come for accountability, ”declared the Member for Duplessis.
Investissement Québec had justified the economic profitability of the project by invoking the purchase of the entire production by Yara International. “Now, nothing holds and serious questions emerge. Can the government table a business plan demonstrating the profitability of the project? Can it make public the agreement signed between Investissement Québec and its financial partner? As the postponement of the project has now been confirmed, the government must give the people of Sept-Îles and Quebec the right idea about how it handled the file, ”said Lorraine Richard.
“If the government really wants to help the North Shore, it must stop the premature announcements that sow false hope in a region already hard hit by the slowdown in mining activities and the many job losses. It is completely irresponsible to announce projects in such a hasty fashion, without full funding being assured and without any guarantee that an operator will be able to start activities. The workers of the North Shore do not need the false promises of the Liberal government, ”concluded the spokesperson.
