Quebec, November 20, 2019 - After having read the most recent report of the Auditor General (VG), the members of the Parti Québécois Sylvain Gaudreault (Jonquière), Véronique Hivon (Joliette), Harold LeBel (Rimouski) and Sylvain Roy (Bonaventure) ) urge the government to look carefully at the priorities identified therein.
IN SHORT
The Auditor General calls on the government to do more:
· To improve the delays associated with the services offered by youth protection;
· To ensure better management of the high-speed Internet site;
· To better regulate the use of antibiotics in agriculture;
· To ensure greater transparency, in particular to the Ministère du Conseil exécutif and the Secretariat of the Conseil du trésor.
Youth protection
The VG report clearly mentions that children in difficulty do not have access to services quickly enough. “When a situation compromises their security or development, children need to be able to count on immediate services. However, the average time between the report and the start of the application of the corrective measures varies between 158 and 226 days. This is unacceptable! The DPJ is sorely lacking in resources; in Estrie, for example, it receives 7 times more requests than it is able to manage. In light of what she mentions in her report, it appears absolutely necessary for the VG to be heard as quickly as possible by the Laurent commission, ”claimed Véronique Hivon, family spokesperson.
High speed internet
The deployment of high-speed Internet in the regions is a project representing colossal sums, and everything indicates that these are poorly managed by the Ministry of Economy and Innovation (MEI). “There is no big picture, no long-term planning. We choose the projects a bit at random. Four were set aside, while they had a higher rating than others; another was selected, even without having undergone a quality benchmarking. This file, however capital, begins to look like a fiasco; the government needs to put it in order. What is more, he must see that all the regions are connected by 2022, as he had committed to it, ”for his part pleaded Harold LeBel, spokesperson for regional development.
Antibiotics and farm animals
The VG report also mentions that the Ministry of Agriculture (MAPAQ) has not specified the means it intends to take to ensure the judicious use of antibiotics in animals intended for food, and that it does not have, in any case, the information necessary to fulfill this mandate. “The government is slow to propose regulations, when there is an urgent need to prohibit or restrict certain uses. Quebecers have the right to know what exactly is on their plate! In addition, MAPAQ is failing in many of its duties: it does little to monitor compliance with regulatory requirements, does not exercise effective control over those who prepare premixes and medicines intended for animals, and it lacks rigor in monitoring. products intended for human consumption - in other words, we learn that we may be ingesting food containing too many antibiotic residues. In short, it is a damning portrait that the VG draws up. What is the government proposing to ensure the traceability and tracking of our food? “, For his part asked the spokesperson for agriculture and food, Sylvain Roy.
Green Fund - progress
With regard to the Green Fund, there has been some improvement. “Last May, the Auditor General said that she was unable to do a complete evaluation of the Green Fund. In June, the Parti Québécois therefore had an order adopted by the Assembly to complete this exercise. Today, we ask that this motion be respected, despite the presentation of Bill 44. In addition, the VG will assess the financial assistance from the Green Fund, will monitor the announced restructuring and the implementation. governance and management mechanisms, and will conduct a performance audit. This is good news, but we will remain vigilant as to what happens next, ”assured Sylvain Gaudreault, environmental spokesperson.
Transparency
Finally, the Auditor General denounces the government&#39;s lack of cooperation in transmitting certain documents that her team needs to do its job well. “It is disturbing to learn that the Minister&#39;s Executive Council, as well as the Treasury Board Secretariat have blocked access to these documents. The VG has a fundamental role to play in giving us a clear picture of government action. This blockage must end immediately, ”concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
