Quebec - Following the publication today of the new report of the Permanent Program Review Commission, chaired by Lucienne Robillard, the member for Sanguinet and Parti Québécois spokesperson for the Treasury Board, Alain Therrien, once again denounced the torpor in which the Liberal government is bogged down; it seems in fact incapable of making any decision whatsoever in connection with the recommendations formulated by a committee that it itself created.
“The government has had the Robillard report in its hands since June. Today, the President of the Conseil du trésor, Martin Coiteux, tells us that the only decision that has been taken so far concerns the creation of new structures and ministerial committees. I think the government didn&#39;t have to pay millions of dollars to get there. Either the government does not want to announce that it is rejecting most of Ms. Robillard&#39;s recommendations for the second time, or the Liberal caucus is hiding certain dissent, ”said the member for Sanguinet.
Surprisingly, the report made public this morning proposes to put the management of Quebec business taxes in Ottawa&#39;s hands. “It is correct to say that since the Liberal government transformed the Department of Revenue into an agency, administration costs have been steadily increasing. But the solution must in no case pass through a transfer of responsibility; rather, we must work to bring performance back to Revenu Québec. The control of our fiscal policy is a very important economic lever that there was never any question of giving up. If Philippe Couillard goes ahead with this proposal, let him be warned that he is making it a major electoral issue for 2018 from the outset, ”added Alain Therrien.
The Robillard commission also recommends liberalizing trade in wine and spirits. “THE SAQ must improve its performance, give Quebecers more. To achieve this, the solution certainly does not involve an increase in taxes, ”continued the spokesperson.
&quot;The government may say that it will analyze meticulously and seriously the avenues put forward by Lucienne Robillard, we already know that it is preparing, once again, to table a report. Why, exactly, did you spend all this money? It seems increasingly clear that the Robillard commission is in fact the first unnecessary expense that can be eliminated, ”concluded Alain Therrien.
