Quebec - The Minister of Transport and Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, has taken due note of the recommendations of the Auditor General of Quebec concerning the Train de l&#39;Est project.
“The Auditor General makes a harsh report on the management of the project under the former Liberal government. A poorly evaluated, poorly planned project that resulted in an explosion in costs. In 2006, the project was valued at $ 300 million. Today, it has more than doubled to almost 700 million. The previous government failed in its responsibilities. It is a very severe criticism of the work of the liberal transport ministers Boulet, Hamad and Moreau, ”thunders Minister Gaudreault.
“The Liberal government has done nothing in nine years and has taken no action on repeated requests from the Agence métropolitaine de transport (AMT) to change the composition of its board of directors, nor for the latter to comply. to the Act respecting the management of public companies, ”laments Mr. Gaudreault.
While the Auditor General has certain reservations about controlling and controlling costs for the Train de l&#39;Est project, the Minister wishes to reassure him. “This project is closely monitored. The budget is now capped, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
“On November 12, we presented an action plan to strengthen contract management. The objective is clear: to pay the fair cost for road and public transport investments. The control mechanisms are based on best management practices and it is out of the question to let the budgets of major projects go as the previous government did. These actions resulted in savings of around $ 240 million in 2013, ”said Minister Gaudreault.
We should also note the establishment of a general directorate responsible for strategic projects, whose mandate is in particular to ensure the rigorous application of the Framework Policy on the Governance of Major Public Infrastructure Projects for major public transit projects in AMT. “These actions show that the government closely monitors all projects. The slippages of the liberal era are behind us, ”concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
