Quebec - The MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and Parti Québécois spokesperson for housing, Carole Poirier, and the MNA for Rosemont, spokesperson for public health and social services and lieutenant for the metropolis, Jean -François Lisée, deplore the government&#39;s reaction following the publication of the devastating report by the Director of Public Health (DSP) of Montreal on the sanitary conditions of the city&#39;s real estate stock. They are asking that reinvestment in renovation and social housing be made this fall.
“The DSP report is disturbing. Cockroaches, bedbugs, rodents, water infiltration ... Problems of unhealthiness in Montreal affect 38% of rental apartments. We asked the minister responsible, Pierre Moreau, about the report: he claims that it is the federal fault, that investing in social housing is not the solution, and that even if he built 3,000 social housing units besides, it wouldn&#39;t help anyone. This is absurd! In addition, the minister had the nerve to assert that he did not have time to meet with housing stakeholders, because there are only 24 hours in a day. When it comes to housing, Quebeckers simply do not have a minister, ”said Carole Poirier.
Remember that in 2014, the Parti Québécois government brought together a large group of experts to produce a report on the issue; this one was unanimously applauded. The application of a few very simple recommendations - improve the ClimatSol program for soil protection and the rehabilitation of contaminated land, create a land bank, encourage developers to develop housing projects that meet the needs of families, curb property speculation by undivided ownership, facilitating collective ownership of buildings and adapting Quebec regulations to the reality of Montreal, for example - would have made it possible to significantly improve the situation. Unfortunately, since the Liberals came to power, there has been no follow-up.
“More than a third of housing in Montreal shows signs of unsanitary conditions. The situation is so alarming that it is now a public health issue; we are seeing an increase in the number of cases of asthma, allergies, anxiety leading to social isolation, and so on. The DSP was clear; he recommends reinvesting in renovation programs and social and community housing, ”recalled Jean-François Lisée.
During this time, the Liberal government reduced the amounts allocated to the AccèsLogis program by 50% and put an end to the Rénovation Québec program, while the Parti Québécois government had done rigorous work to find solutions. “The Couillard government must respond to the recommendations of the report and commit to providing Montrealers with a minimum of 1,250 social and community housing units at the cost of construction in 2012, as well as to implement a renovation program at shared costs between the Government of Quebec, the City of Montreal and the owners, starting this fall, ”concluded Carole Poirier.
