Québec, March 7, 2018 - The official opposition spokesperson for health, access to care and home support, Diane Lamarre, is appalled by the devastating findings of the study published today in About the remuneration of physicians. It asks the National Assembly to convene its authors, so that parliamentarians can study the recommendations.
IN SHORT
&quot;What the study of the team led by Damien Contandriopoulos reveals is the results of 15 years of liberal rule: during this period, the remuneration of doctors has more than doubled, while access to care has increased. is degraded. However, neither the medical federations nor the Liberal government seem to have a problem with the fact that doctors see fewer patients while the amounts of money they are granted are increasing disproportionately, one accord after another. It is really time for that to stop, ”denounced the member for Taillon.
“The findings of the study are devastating. Some patients are considered &quot;unprofitable&quot; by some fee-for-service physicians; isn&#39;t that absurd? It is a drift that we must stop immediately, and at all costs! », Continued the spokesperson. In addition, she repeats it, it is absolutely necessary to review the method of remuneration of doctors. And, until then, revise fee-for-service, in addition to suspending and rethinking the agreements that were signed in secret.
&quot;This is exactly what the Parti Québécois will do if it is elected on October 1: very quickly put the patient back at the heart of our health system, freeze doctors&#39; salaries and review the agreements with medical federations so that they benefit. to patients rather than to the physicians themselves. We will also reinstate the body that commissioned this alarming study, the Health and Welfare Commissioner. Because a wise and responsible Minister of Health should not be afraid of the consequences of his decisions on the health system, ”continued the spokesperson.
Finally, Diane Lamarre recalls that in order to be able to discuss all the conclusions and recommendations of the study, she submitted a request for the National Assembly&#39;s Committee on Health and Social Services to be mandated for this purpose. “I hope the Liberal government will not block this request,” she concluded.
