Quebec - The member for Sanguinet and official opposition spokesperson for the Conseil du trésor, Alain Therrien, judges that the announcements of the President of the Conseil du trésor concerning the decline in the workforce of the public service are only continuity political maneuvers and the government&#39;s communications plan to make people forget liberal austerity.
“He cut the resources dedicated to the economic development of the regions, then he imposed new tax increases on middle-class families. Now there is the Robillard commission, which tabled a report that cost taxpayers $ 3.8 million to make the government look good. Martin Coiteux is also trying to look good by doing a major communications exercise to try to convince us that the government will do its part as well. He announces a major reorganization of the State and comes to us with a cut of 1150 civil servant positions. It is bullshit. The main victims of liberal-Caquist austerity are families and regions, ”said Alain Therrien.
&quot;If the President of the Conseil du trésor wants to set an example, let him start by canceling the Robillard commission, which costs taxpayers more than $ 1,000 per day just for the salary of its president, and that he go and get the bonus of $ 215,000 from Minister Bolduc. It should also tackle the impacts of waste and loss of expertise in the public service, as well as the main source of pressure on the expenditure column, namely the health network, in particular the agreement on the remuneration of physicians; signed by Prime Minister Couillard, it costs us 2.5 billion per year, ”the spokesperson recalled.
The MP is also asking Minister Coiteux to say what the impacts of the new cuts announced today will be. “Even the Employers Council agrees that we need an efficient public service. For example, the deadlines for the approval of economic projects are interminable, especially in the field of natural resources. If we cut even more civil servant positions, these projects will be all the more slowed down. We ignore the lack of expertise. We are cutting everywhere, without taking into account the needs of businesses and citizens, ”concluded Alain Therrien.
