Quebec - Following the tabling of the Auditor General&#39;s report on incidental costs, Diane Lamarre, Member of Parliament for Taillon and official opposition spokesperson for health and access to care, reiterates the strong opposition of the Parti Québécois to any invoicing of this type for services already provided.
“In her report released today, the Auditor General confirms that neither the ministry nor the RAMQ have in hand an analysis or an evaluation on the real amount that is billed to patients. Is it $ 50 million? More? Less? How can the minister negotiate with medical federations when he has no idea of the real amount at stake? In the end, will it be the patients who will have to pay more to have access to health care and services that they already pay with their taxes? », Asked Diane Lamarre.
It was the Parti Québécois that fought the fight against incidental costs and prevented the minister from imposing systematic billings for medical care. However, the minister still has room for maneuver, that of surreptitiously including these amounts of money in his next negotiations. It could indeed make all taxpayers pay indirectly, by increasing the remuneration of doctors.
“In the case of incidental costs, the Minister of Health has changed his mind several times. Last year, he wanted to legalize them and even grant doctors the right to add 10 to 15% to the cost price for services already insured. He then insisted on allowing doctors to bill their office and equipment costs, according to a list he would draw up by regulation. Finally, Gaétan Barrette announced that he would not publish a regulation, but he refuses to guarantee that the incidental costs will be taken from the current remuneration envelope for doctors, without addition, which the Parti Québécois has been demanding for months ” , denounced Diane Lamarre.
“Patients don&#39;t have to pay the ancillary costs. Neither indirectly, through their taxes, nor directly, when they receive care in a private clinic, as is currently the case. Doctors have ample means to pay the bill, without increasing their remuneration: between 2003 and 2015, the envelope allocated to them - and which is funded by Quebec taxpayers - increased by 134%, from $ 2.9 billion to $ 6.8 billion. Basically, the incidental costs would only represent 1% of that amount. It would be desirable for physicians to recognize that they must assume these costs since they have already received a lot, ”concluded the spokesperson.
