Quebec - Diane Lamarre, the member for Taillon and official opposition spokesperson for health and access to care, once again denounces the control of information exercised by the Ministry of Health and Social services on the upcoming cuts to the health network.
“In response to our access to information requests, we receive the numbers in a trickle manner. We asked for the cuts plans for each of the CISSSs, CIUSSSs and non-merged establishments. However, we only received one page of information that did not even answer the bulk of this request. The population and elected officials have the right to know the impact, on the ground, of the cuts made by the Ministry of Health. The department&#39;s one-page table recognizes that there are cuts of at least $ 450 million, ”said Diane Lamarre.
Let us recall that the Member for Taillon recently reported on the control of information exercised at the Department of Health and Social Services, since the adoption of Bill 10 under the gag order. The response to access to information requests to find out the extent of the cuts, as well as the optimization measures requested from institutions, has been centralized at the Ministry, never before! This clearly goes against the transparency promised by the Liberal government.
“The opacity is always present. The minister is imposing unprecedented cuts on our health care system. The new leaders of the CISSS and CIUSSS must make heartbreaking choices to achieve the cuts that are required of them. Our request for access to information is completely legitimate. It aims to understand the nature of these choices and the concrete services that new establishments will have to sacrifice. Reduced number of surgeries? Patient care and services canceled? Number of closed beds? Abolition of positions for attendants, nurses or other professionals? When we cut $ 450 million from the health network&#39;s budget, it is essential to obtain the details and, above all, to know the consequences on care and access to care for patients. If the minister is so proud of his reform, if he is convinced that his constraints will not affect the quality and quantity of care, he should share the result of the measures he imposes, ”she concluded.
