Quebec - Almost two years after coming to power, the Liberal Party&#39;s laissez-faire attitude to research and innovation can no longer last. The Parti Québécois spokesperson for education and research, Alexandre Cloutier, as well as for innovation, André Villeneuve, urge the government to implement the National Research and Innovation Policy ( PNRI) adopted by the Parti Québécois government in 2013, given that it was unable to develop a new plan that could have compared to it.
“The Parti Québécois had launched an ambitious strategy hailed as much by academia, science and economics. For no good reason, the Liberal Party chose to abandon it and, almost two years later, still has no plan to replace it. This laissez-faire harms our researchers, our universities, our businesses and, inevitably, our economy, ”denounced MM. Cloutier and Villeneuve.
The members of the Parti Québécois thus echo the words of the president of the Association francophone pour le savoir (Acfas), Frédéric Bouchard, who strongly denounced the abandonment of the PNRI by the Liberal Party on Monday.
“More and more voices are speaking out against this government&#39;s glaring lack of vision in terms of economic development. The societies which will be the most prosperous in the coming decades will be those which have been able to diversify their economy and invest massively in education, innovation and research. The Liberal Party does not seem to have understood it yet, ”also lamented Alexandre Cloutier.
Remember that in 2003, Quebec invested the equivalent of 2.7% of its GDP in research and development. After nine years of liberal rule, in 2012, this share fell to 2.3%. With an envelope of $ 3.7 billion over five years, the PNRI of the Parti Québécois aimed to reverse the trend and reach the threshold of 3% of Quebec&#39;s GDP.
“While our economy is slowing down, the lack of policies to stimulate innovation in Quebec has become intolerable. The PNRI relied on Quebec&#39;s strengths and responded to the needs of our researchers and our businesses, especially SMEs. It is time for the government to take action and implement it, ”says André Villeneuve.
