Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, welcomes the partnership between the CHU Sainte-Justine and Génome Québec for the creation of a platform for Clinical genomics at CHU Sainte-Justine.
“This partnership between Sainte-Justine and Génome Québec for the deployment of a Clinical Genomics platform, announced today, is an important step. Indeed, with this technology still emerging ten years ago, we are now developing tools to improve care. This improvement in the quality of life of citizens is in line with the objectives of the National Research and Innovation Policy, launched last week. This platform will be one of the first in the world. Unique in Canada, it will position Quebec in personalized medicine for children, ”declared the Premier.
Although some DNA analyzes for medical purposes are performed in hospital laboratories in Quebec, genomics, which allows high-throughput DNA analysis, is not yet well established in the clinical setting. This technology is essential for providing personalized healthcare to patients. It makes it possible to fully analyze a patient&#39;s DNA in order to identify the deficient gene (s) causing rare and severe diseases, especially in children. Genomics is one of the pillars of the personalized healthcare approach, one of the seven priority strategic areas identified in the National Research and Innovation Policy.
The CHU Sainte-Justine has decided to join forces with Génome Québec in order to set up this clinical genomics service platform, which must meet the needs of hospitals in Quebec, but which will also be open to the international level. This new platform is expected to be operational in 2014. Clinical use can then develop according to changing needs. Génome Québec will use its scientific expertise to collect and analyze genomic data as well as its experience as a genomics service manager, while the CHU Sainte-Justine will provide space, equipment and a critical mass of medical geneticists. who will develop the strategy for the clinical interpretation of these results.
“I am happy to see such a platform created in Quebec, which once again demonstrates that our health network, our institutions and our researchers are of international caliber. We hope that the research resulting from this agreement will lead to concrete results, for the benefit of patients and their families, ”Réjean Hébert, Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, declared.
To consult the National Research and Innovation Policy, visit www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca/pnri.
