Montreal - In reaction to the announcement of the new composition of the Council of Ministers of the Liberal government, the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the House leader of the official opposition, Bernard Drainville, note that today&#39;s reshuffle hui is absolutely nothing reassuring for the economy of Quebec, school success, families and the development of the regions.
“In today&#39;s announcement, there is not the economic turnaround we expected. The efforts were dispersed in the hands of several people. We are reaching mid-term, and there is still no vision or real strategy to revive the economy. However, it is Quebeckers who are paying the heavy price for the Liberals&#39; broken promises and incompetence. Very soon, families will have to pay the increased fees for child care services. The 250,000 jobs promised are officially missing. There are even 10,000 more unemployed people in Quebec since the arrival of the Prime Minister. And where is the concern for the regions? Obviously, the Prime Minister is not interested in the economy. When you want a coherent strategy, you have to have a business plan, designate the strong person, facilitate decision-making, ”insisted Pierre Karl Péladeau.
Three ministers in less than two years
“In education, we lost two years. We are at a third minister, and the Liberal government is still not talking about children or academic success, it is talking about structures. The government of austerity cuts, to the detriment of the children of Quebec. Yet education must be our top priority. Will the government stop weakening our public education system? “, Also questioned the leader of the Parti Québécois.
To avoid admitting failure
“This reshuffle is above all an admission of failure by the Prime Minister and a clear demonstration of the lack of depth of the Liberal team. The Prime Minister keeps ministers who have proven absolutely nothing: David Heurtel, François Blais and Francine Charbonneau. These people have disappointed families in Quebec and yet they remain. For example, as Minister of the Family, Francine Charbonneau undertook the demolition of childcare centers and, today, Philippe Couillard appoints a former ADQ, who never believed in childcare centers, to finish the job. Moreover, with Martin Coiteux, it is austerity that is entering the municipal world. I also have a thought for certain Liberal deputies who have been waiting, for a long time for many, to accede to the Council of Ministers and who see deputies from the CAQ being appointed there. The government&#39;s pseudo-renewal comes from its school club, ”added Bernard Drainville.
“We will continue to be an official opposition connected to the concerns of Quebecers, while discontent and dissatisfaction mount with this government. Quebeckers can count on us. Our society has great challenges to meet, we must get down to it, whether in the economy, education or health. The members of the Parti Québécois will continue to be on the ground to meet with citizens and echo their demands to the National Assembly. This is what our team accomplishes every day, and we will continue our work, ”concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau.
