Quebec - The MP for Vachon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of transport, maritime strategy and transport electrification, Martine Ouellet, welcomes the new Minister of Transport, Laurent Lessard, while stressing that he will have to act quickly in certain cases that are dragging on.
Taxi industry
&quot;First, with regard to UberX, a foreign multinational, which makes illegal taxis, which does not pay its taxes and which hides in tax havens, we expect Laurent Lessard to respect the word of its two predecessors, Jacques Daoust and Robert Poëti, and that he does not create two classes of drivers. UberX should be subject to the same rules as the rest of the taxi industry. Laurent Lessard must not use pilot projects to create unfair competition and, through the back door, legalize what is illegal today. Let us remember that the provisions of Bill 100 on the taxi industry, which are due to come into force on September 8, will give the minister additional handles to counter illegal taxis. The minister and the Liberal Party will no longer have a pretext to tolerate illegality. They will have to enforce the law, ”insisted Martine Ouellet.
MTQ scandal
The MP is also of the opinion that it is essential that Laurent Lessard remember the crisis that the Ministry of Transport (MTQ) went through last spring. “The Minister must continue the work started by Annie Trudel to restore public confidence in the MTQ. He must also reinstate Louise Boily in her former role as MTQ&#39;s director of audits, and ensure that the professionals in compliance with the processes, the PCP, no longer come under the territorial departments of the MTQ, where they have a conflict of interest, but rather from senior management in the department. Laurent Lessard must also undertake to put an end to the practice of awarding contracts to former employees of the ministry, ”she claimed.
Oil transportation
“Then, the terrible accident that occurred a few days ago on Highway 40 painfully reminded us of the risks that transporting oil represents for the safety of citizens. We demand that the Minister impose more transparency when it comes to the routes and frequency of transporting hazardous materials, and that he make public all information on the nature of the products transported and the risks associated with them. whether the transport is by truck, train or boat, ”added Martine Ouellet.
Traffic harmful to the Montreal region
“Finally, traffic in Montreal and throughout the metropolitan area is made completely untenable. At any time of the day or night, it is possible to get stuck in bumper to bumper. Very clearly, there is poor planning of the work and, with the return to school, the situation will only get worse. It is a blow to the economic development of the entire metropolitan region. Mr. Lessard must go further than the mitigation measures announced recently. It must put in place even more important measures for public transport, including, for example, several new departures for suburban trains and subways. The new minister must also provide the necessary resources to accelerate the completion of the work. It is not up to citizens to endure the consequences of a decade of liberal negligence in the maintenance of our road infrastructure, ”concluded the Member for Vachon.
