Montreal - The Parti Québécois spokesperson for social services, Jean-François Lisée, presented to the media people responsible for intermediate resources (RI) and family-type resources (RTF) for the disabled who announced the closure of their establishments, following the liberal cuts that took effect today.
These officials, parents, representatives of organizations supporting the disabled have denounced the extent of the cuts, which can reach 50% of IR revenues, forcing the relocation of users whose health depends on the stability of their environment. .
“The closure of RI-RTF will concretely result in the placement of the people who were accommodated there, some for 10, 15, even 20 years. Why does this government want a return to institutionalization, when these people benefit, in our RI-RTFs, from a living environment that is much more suited to their needs, in addition to costing much less to the State that a placement in CHSLD? This Liberal decision is simply incomprehensible, ”denounced the deputy.
As of today, 500 resources are undergoing the selective austerity of this government and are seeing their funding cut. “In addition to these cuts, there is a wave of declassification of the people accommodated in them who, overnight, see their condition dramatically improve, if we are to believe the assessments made by the authorities of the Ministry of Health. Even today, we have additional examples that illustrate this wave with the sole objective of reducing the amounts allocated. It is scandalous to note that these cuts are made for a purely accounting and budgetary objective, without taking into account the real needs of the people lodged, ”added Jean-François Lisée.
Faced with the silence of the Liberal ministers on this issue, the member reiterated the two demands of the Parti Québécois so that the government:
immediately reverse the funding cuts and fully maintain the support measure;
Jean-François Lisée also appealed to executives and health professionals who reluctantly execute these cuts to come forward.
