Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Jean-François Lisée, and the Mayor of Montreal, Denis Coderre, announced an investment of $ 246 million, in the heart of the metropolis, for the construction of a building on the southern part of the Voyageur block. This building will be completed in 2019 and will accommodate 2,500 Revenu Québec employees.
“This investment represents a strong gesture for the development of Montreal. The real estate project, which will bring together Revenu Québec staff currently located at several addresses on the island of Montreal in the city center, will complete the restructuring of the Îlot Voyageur project and boost the economy of the surrounding neighborhoods. attracting many workers, ”said the Prime Minister.
Located in a strategic district of the metropolis, this project will ultimately generate savings of around $ 40 million, in particular by allowing the Société québécoise des infrastructures to maintain the pricing of government spaces at a competitive rate.
“By reviving the Îlot Voyageur, which was once seen as a problem, and by attracting a critical mass of workers to this place, we are contributing to the rebirth of this neighborhood located in the heart of cultural and creative Montreal. This is an investment in favor of the community which confirms our government&#39;s firm desire to propose solutions and participate in the revitalization of the metropolis ”, for his part indicated Minister Lisée.
With a leasable area of 58,000 square meters, the building will take shape at the corner of rue Berri and boulevard De Maisonneuve. In addition to office space, it will include warehousing and commercial spaces. During the construction period, more than 200 workers will be at work.
Let us recall that last July, the government of Quebec announced the sale of the northern part of the Voyageur block as well as the transfer of the management company of the Gare d&#39;autocars de Montréal to the Agence métropolitaine de transport. This transaction represented a gain on disposal of assets of approximately $ 22 million.
