Trois-Rivières - On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions , Yves-François Blanchet, announces the allocation of financial assistance of $ 636,476 for a restoration project of a heritage building of a religious nature in the Mauricie region. Thanks to this grant, the Ursuline Monastery will be able to proceed with the restoration of the foundations as well as the drainage of the crawl space.
“The Mauricie is a region very rich in cultural heritage and in particular in heritage of a religious nature. I am always proud and grateful to see the work carried out by citizens who, attached to their culture and their history, make considerable efforts to protect and promote their cultural heritage, ”says Yves-François Blanchet.
A $ 20 million agreement to protect, transmit and showcase Québec&#39;s religious cultural heritage The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announced on February 14 the conclusion of a new agreement with the Conseil du religious heritage of Quebec. This agreement, which aims to protect, transmit and showcase cultural heritage of a religious nature, is for a period of two years and is accompanied by a total budget of $ 20 million.
“The preservation and enhancement of our cultural heritage, including religious heritage, is of paramount importance to the Government of Quebec. The partnership with the Quebec Religious Heritage Council, which has lasted for nearly twenty years, is a good illustration of this commitment. I am convinced that this new agreement is more in line with the reality and needs of Quebec today in terms of heritage protection, ”said Maka Kotto.
Since 1995, the Ministry of Culture and Communications has paid the Quebec Religious Heritage Council more than $ 270 million as part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. The Council&#39;s main mandate is to support the community and assume the management of these sums in order to support and promote the conservation and enhancement of the religious heritage of Quebec.
New tools for disseminating cultural heritage are added to the Directory of Cultural Heritage of Quebec (RPCQ), making it possible to discover all its richness and diversity, by making it accessible to all. In fact, part of the RPCQ&#39;s content can now be found on the Government of Quebec&#39;s open data portal, at www.data.gouv.qc.ca, as well as on the social network Pinterest, in the form of virtual exhibitions, atwww. pinterest.com/rpcq.
Online training is also available at www.formation-patrimoine.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. Composed of video capsules and learning activities, it presents the basic concepts of the Cultural Heritage Act and explains the roles and responsibilities of each to promote the knowledge, protection, enhancement and transmission of Cultural Heritage.
The Department&#39;s contribution comes from the Capital Assistance program and is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 2 billion for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year.
