Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, announced the sale of the northern part of the Îlot Voyageur as well as the transfer of the management company of the Gare d&#39;autocars de Montreal to the Agence métropolitaine de transport ( AMT). For this important announcement, the Premier was accompanied by the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Jean-François Lisée, the Mayor of Montreal, Laurent Blanchard, and the Member of Parliament for Sainte -Marie – Saint-Jacques, Daniel Breton.
From left to right: Daniel Breton, Member of Parliament for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Jean-François Lisée, Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Pauline Marois, Premier of Quebec, Laurent Blanchard, Mayor of Montreal. // (c) Parti Québécois
The assets, acquired by the Société immobilière du Québec (SIQ) in 2010 following the abandonment of the project in 2007, were put up for public sale in the summer of 2012. At the end of a rigorous process led by the SIQ , the company Aquilini Investment Group acquires the unfinished structures, the 600-space parking lot, the premises of the coach station as well as the surface rights for new constructions. The amount of the transaction is $ 45.5 million, which represents, for the SIQ, a gain on the disposal of assets of some $ 22 million.
The operating activities of the Gare d&#39;autocars de Montréal will be transferred to the AMT. This transfer makes it possible to better distribute the public transport offer on the metropolitan territory while grouping the resulting activities within a single organization. The transfer is made at the accounting cost of the assets, so that the SIQ does not realize any gain and does not record any loss on the transaction.
The transactions announced today close an important chapter surrounding the Îlot Voyageur project. For the southern part, different scenarios are being studied to complete the restructuring of the project.
From left to right: Luc Meunier, President and CEO of the Société immobilière du Québec, Laurent Blanchard, Mayor of Montreal, Daniel Breton, Member of Parliament for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Pauline Marois, Premier of Quebec, Jean -François Lisée, Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Jocelyn Lafond, Vice-President of Operations of Aquilini Investment Group, Nicolas Girard, President and CEO of the Agence métropolitaine of transport. // (c) Parti Québécois
The government of Quebec has also announced that it will support the Unity of Work for the Implementation of Student Housing (UTILE) initiative so that a community student residence pilot project is set up in the Quartier Latin sector. “With this significant gesture, the Quebec government is joining forces with social economy players to find lasting solutions to the lack of affordable housing, which is directly in line with the orientations of the bill on social economy currently under study in the National Assembly, ”said Ms. Marois.
Pauline Marois with a member of the Unity of Work initiative for the implementation of student housing (UTILE). // (c) Parti Québécois
This initiative comes from a non-profit organization entirely made up of students and young professionals from the sectors of town planning, administration and finance. They are committed to the development of a new model of student housing inspired by the cooperative. “Last January, a group of very dynamic young people presented to me, with the support of the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec, an innovative project. I am proud to confirm that this pilot project will come to fruition by the beginning of the fall in order to allow the construction of a first community student residence in the Quartier Latin sector, ”said the member for Sainte-Marie– Saint Jacques, Daniel Breton.
“Today&#39;s announcements put an end to the uncertainty that has been hanging over this project for several years. As Minister responsible for the Montreal region, I am very happy to present this project which, in addition to benefiting Montrealers and all Quebecers, will give new life to a central structure in the metropolitan landscape ”, has for its share declared Minister Jean-François Lisée.
“This announcement, which puts an end to so many conjectures and offers a new future to Îlot Voyageur, is excellent news. L&#39;îlot Voyageur is once again becoming what it should always have been: a structuring project for the sector in which it is located and a dynamic element for the development of the Latin Quarter and the Ville-Marie borough, in the heart of Montreal ” , said Laurent Blanchard, mayor of Montreal and mayor of Ville-Marie.
&quot;The sale of the assets of the northern part, the transfer of transport activities to the AMT and the collaboration with UTILE show the firm will of our government to do everything possible to bring this unfinished site located in a neighborhood to life. strategy of the metropolis, ”concluded the Premier.
