Quebec - On the occasion of the resumption of the detailed study of Bill 28, An Act to establish the new Code of Civil Procedure, the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, made a point of remind us today that access to justice is a priority for the Government of Quebec.
“The Government of Quebec has chosen to resolutely tackle the issues related to access to justice, in particular with Bill 28. This bill will modernize the procedure before our courts so that Quebec civil justice goes from the 20th to the 21st century. We want a justice system that is much more accessible, faster, less cumbersome, less costly and which calls on new dispute resolution methods such as mediation and conciliation, ”declared Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud. .
It should be remembered that Bill 28 includes the following measures in particular:
Since January 1, 2014, the historic increase in the eligibility thresholds has also enabled 200,000 more Quebeckers to be eligible for free legal aid. This first phase of the reform of legal aid makes it eligible for free legal aid for elderly people living alone and mainly benefiting from the guaranteed income supplement. Ultimately, more than 500,000 additional people, including those working full time at minimum wage, will have access to free legal aid.
In addition, in order to speed up the judicial process, 39 new judges have been appointed to the Court of Quebec since October 2012, and this, recalled the Minister, &quot;at the end of a rigorous and completely apolitical process&quot;. More judges will be added over the next year, including six before the end of this month.
The Minister also recalled the recent creation of the Access Justice Fund, a special fund that notably supports the actions of organizations aimed at improving citizens&#39; knowledge and understanding of the law and of the justice system in Quebec.
Moreover, a call for projects has just been held for the creation of two new local justice centers financed by the Access Justice Fund. These centers will offer free legal information and guidance services to the population. They will be added to those already operating in Montreal, Quebec City and Rimouski, a first step towards their deployment throughout Quebec.
Since December 2012, parents in a situation of separation can also obtain free information sessions in 42 courthouses. These enable them to be well informed of the effects of the rupture and of the resources made available to them. The Minister recalled the popularity of the family mediation program in Quebec, where parents receive free mediation sessions, the fees of which are covered by the State.
Since last October, separated parents, whether or not they are financially eligible for legal aid, can also obtain, at a lower cost, the review of a judgment in family matters, following an agreement obtained from by mutual agreement or at the end of family mediation, in the offices of the legal aid network.
In 2014, this service offering will be enhanced to allow for the administrative adjustment of child support payments, thus facilitating this process without the costs and delays associated with an appeal to the court.
&quot;For almost 16 months, our actions have demonstrated the commitment of the Government of Quebec to administer justice with integrity, fairness and humanity, for a more accessible and united justice system,&quot; concluded the Minister of Justice.
