Thetford Mines - During a meeting with elected municipal officials from the MRC des Appalaches, the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, presented three new priorities for the Table of interministerial work set up in December 2012 by his government. These priorities, which stem from the work carried out to date by the Table, are: the implementation of a joint support approach focusing on the specificities of the environment, the creation of two tactical groups and the study of a project. center of excellence on post-mining asbestos.
Recalling the objectives of the Table to support the economic growth and diversification of the MRC des Appalaches and to respond to the specific problems linked to the end of mining operations, the Minister drew up a positive assessment of the achievements made to date. In addition, the Minister reiterated her government&#39;s desire to no longer finance the exploitation of chrysotile asbestos and instead to promote a green and sustainable economy.
&quot;Our government has been, and remains, attentive to the stakeholders and the population of the MRC des Appalaches,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “And we are present and active in order to respond to their requests. The issues linked to the end of mining operations have implications of which we recognize the importance and they require, for this very reason, a rigorous coordination of the actions carried out by the various departments and bodies concerned in order to meet the needs of the community. Our assessment, like the priorities we are presenting today and which stem from the work carried out to date, meet this requirement. &quot;
&quot;We are pleased to note that the work of the Interministerial Working Table has enabled the government to recognize the extent of the problems linked to the end of mining operations on our territory&quot;, declared the mayor of Thetford Mines, Luc. Berthold on behalf of the mayors Kaven Mathieu of East Broughton, André Rodrigue of Disraéli, Gilles Gosselin of Saint-Joseph-de-Coleraine and Ghislain Hamel, prefect of the MRC. “We expect that the working groups that are now in motion will quickly arrive at original and local solutions to the specific problems of our MRC, after more than 100 years of asbestos mining. We also believe that the creation of a national post-exploitation center of expertise is necessary to improve knowledge on all facets of the asbestos file in Quebec. &quot;
At the request of the mayor of Thetford Mines, Luc Berthold, the Interministerial Working Table will support the municipality in its development and land use planning efforts, while taking into account the issues related to the presence of mining dumps. The aim is to find effective, original and lasting solutions together.
In this regard, resources will be released from the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, the Ministry of Natural Resources, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy and the Ministry of Finance and Economy.
A first tactical group has been set up, whose mandate is to draw up a portrait of the various mining sites in the MRC des Appalaches; it is made up of representatives of the ministries present at the working table. This group will take stock of the status of each of the mining sites and present the region with sustainable and concerted solutions.
In addition, in response to the desire of the representatives of the MRC des Appalaches to recycle the mining residues present in the territory, a second tactical group was created by the Interministerial Working Table.
Representatives of the tactical group are currently in discussions with the Center de technologie minérale et de plasturgie (CTMP), which acts as a collegial center for technology transfer. In this perspective, the government is studying the project presented by the CTMP aimed at creating a national center of expertise on post-mining asbestos.
The consultation and collaboration between the ministries gathered within the Table made it possible to obtain, within a short time, the authorizations necessary to begin repair work on Route 112, which was considered a priority. Construction has started and the goal is for the new route 112 to be operational by 2015.
With regard to the reclassification of former workers from the Lab Chrysotile company, Emploi-Québec set up a second reclassification committee which made it possible to reach 320 people.
In terms of economic revitalization, funding for the MRC des Appalaches was increased by $ 120,000 to allow the Société de développement économique de la région de Thetford (CLD) to accelerate the implementation of projects likely to boost the economy of the MRC. Among these, let us note the elaboration of a development plan on green chemistry, a sector of the future for the region.
&quot;The members of the Interministerial Working Table collaborate actively in order to give the socioeconomic actors of the MRC des Appalaches, visibly committed to the success of their region, the means to revitalize their economy and revitalize their living environment,&quot; added the Minister. Minister Zakaïb. “We are working closely with regional elected officials and socio-economic stakeholders in order to initiate a sustainable economic shift and create winning business opportunities,” concluded the Minister.
The Interministerial Working Table of the MRC des Appalaches brings together stakeholders from the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of territory, the Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity (Emploi-Québec), the Ministry of Natural Resources, the Ministry of Labor (CSST), the Ministry of Health and Social Services (Public Health sector) and the Ministry Finance and Economy, whose role is to coordinate the work of the Table.
The members of the Table are responsible for drawing up a portrait of the situation and documenting the issues related to the end of mining operations in the MRC des Appalaches. They thus work to identify and promote solutions to the social and economic consequences resulting from the cessation of the exploitation and marketing of chrysotile asbestos in the region.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
