Longueuil - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports and Minister responsible for the Montérégie region, Ms. Marie Malavoy, the Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation and Member of Parliament for Marie-Victorin, Mr. Bernard Drainville, the Mayor of Longueuil and President of the Réseau de transport de Longueuil (RTL), Ms. Caroline St-Hilaire and the President -Director General of the Agence métropolitaine de transport (AMT), Mr. Nicolas Girard, today announced the filing of the memorandum of understanding and the launch of the final preliminary design study with a view to revitalizing the sector from Place Charles-Le Moyne in Longueuil.
This agreement concerns phases 1 and 2 of the Charles-Le Moyne sector revitalization project, which aims to improve traffic by separating local and through traffic, and improve access to the metro from Route 132 and the surrounding streets. , minimize bus travel times and make the area more user-friendly for pedestrians and cyclists.
“This agreement and the study that will begin shortly are an important step in the realization of this major project. Ultimately, this project will make it possible to optimize the only interrive link where there is a significant reserve of capacity, namely the Longueuil-Université de Sherbrooke metro station. By revitalizing the sector, we will make it possible to offer users a quality public transport service, ”said Minister Gaudreault.
The study will make it possible to specify two important phases of the work, namely:
“With my colleagues from Montérégie, we have made transportation a regional priority. The conclusion of this agreement is in addition to the major investments announced over the past two weeks in terms of transportation for our region. As Minister responsible for the Montérégie region, I am therefore very happy to note that the file for the redevelopment of Place Charles-Le Moyne, located in the heart of the South Shore, is progressing and that the planned interventions will have positive spinoffs for all citizens of the South Shore, ”added Ms. Malavoy.
“Increasing the offer and accessibility to public transit for the people of the South Shore and Longueuil is a commitment we made to the Parti Québécois. Today&#39;s announcement is the first step towards realizing our commitment. As the member for Marie-Victorin, I am particularly proud that we are continuing to develop this project here in our riding, ”added Mr. Drainville.
“This study aims to identify the costs and deadlines for a project that will facilitate access to Place Charles-Le Moyne, the metro and rue Saint-Charles, making this area more user-friendly for pedestrians and cyclists. and smoother for vehicles. This project is also important, because it will have a direct impact on the quality of the public transport offer for users across the South Shore, ”said Ms. St-Hilaire.
“By improving the efficiency and reliability of public transit services in the area, this project will undoubtedly lead to an increase in ridership. I can only be delighted with the government&#39;s decision to continue the study, ”said Mr. Girard.
The project is subject to the Framework Policy on the Governance of Major Public Infrastructure Projects. The preparation of the initial business case, under the responsibility of the Ministère des Transports, will begin this spring and should continue until fall 2014.
The definitive preliminary study under the responsibility of the City of Longueuil, as well as the development of the initial business case, represent an investment of $ 2.4 million. This amount will be funded in partnership by the Ministère des Transports, Ville de Longueuil, the Agence métropolitaine de transport and the Réseau de transport de Longueuil.
&quot;Here is a concrete project that goes in the direction of sustainable mobility, a priority for our government&quot; concluded the Minister of Transport.
