Quebec - The Minister responsible for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier and the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor, Mrs. Agnès Maltais ask the federal government to give all the details on the impact that the employment insurance reform will have on Quebec.
For several months, communities in the various regions of Quebec whose economy is based on seasonal activities have expressed their concern about the cuts implemented in the employment insurance program.
Adding its voice to those of thousands of workers, businesses and families in the Magog, Magog region, Saint-Siméon and the rest of Quebec who have expressed their opposition to the reform of the employment insurance by the federal government, Minister Alexandre Cloutier denounces the lack of transparency of the Harper government and believes that the latter should put its card on the table. “The population of the regions of Quebec has been asking for details on the impacts of the implementation of this reform for months, and the Harper government has shown only very partial transparency. The federal government has a duty to present its impact studies to us and explain the real consequences of this unilateral reform for Quebecers, ”claims Minister Cloutier.
The changes to the employment insurance plan, which have been in effect since January 6, 2013, affect tens of thousands of workers. They will affect the development of the regions of Quebec, the occupation of Quebec&#39;s territory, as well as the economic emancipation capacity of our regions, particularly in the resource regions of Quebec and those that live from a seasonal economy.
After presenting this reform as part of a &quot;Mammoth&quot; project, after having gagged the opposition and after having ignored the repeated and unanimous demands of Quebec, the Harper government must change its way of doing things, believes the Quebec Minister Delegate. to sovereignist governance. “It is time for the Conservative government to work open-book with Quebeckers. The attitude of the federal government, which gave information in a trickle on the cuts it was planning to implement, had the effect of making everyone feel insecure. This reform risks having serious consequences for Quebec and the Conservatives are absent to answer questions from workers and communities, ”said Minister Cloutier.
“While Quebec has never been consulted by the federal government, this reform will have negative impacts for Quebec: destabilization of the labor market, upward pressure on the services offered by Emploi-Quebec, increase in requests for help of last resort, etc. By acting in this way, the federal government is ignoring the realities of the Quebec labor market. We cannot remain indifferent to the concerns and grievances of Quebeckers, ”said Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais.
While 40% of frequent claimants in Canada are in Quebec, the repercussions will be significant, particularly on frequent users of employment insurance in the regions.
The employment insurance reform announced in the “Mammoth” Bill C-38 was denounced by all parliamentarians of the National Assembly of Quebec in motions adopted unanimously on June 8, 2012 and on June 8, 2012. November 13th. Here is the wording of the motion adopted on November 13:
&quot;That the National Assembly formally speak out against the changes made by the Government of Canada to the Employment Insurance Act which will have a negative effect on Quebec businesses and workers, particularly those in the seasonal economies of Quebec regions,&quot; or fisheries, forestry, tourism and agriculture; that the National Assembly demand that the Government of Canada renounce these changes. &quot;
Consult the press releases issued by the Parti Québécois government concerning the reform of employment insurance
