Quebec - Accompanied by Mr. Dany Lacasse, Vice-President of the FSSS-CSN, and by Mr. Jean Gagnon, representative of the prehospital sector of the FSSS-CSN, Diane Lamarre, Member of Parliament for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters health and accessibility to care, called on the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, about the reform of pre-hospital emergency services.
“A month ago, the Minister announced in a press release that the MSSS was withdrawing from negotiations related to the workforce of ambulance companies. Since then, there has been radio silence. We question the minister&#39;s intentions and once again demand that he present his plan in full transparency, out of respect for patients and employees of the ambulance sector. It is deplorable to note that another part of our health care system is completely plunged into vagueness and uncertainty because of a reform by the minister. This reform is necessary; the problem is that the process takes place in complete secrecy, ”said Diane Lamarre.
&quot;The Minister must certainly remedy the serious shortcomings that were highlighted in the Ouellet report, particularly with regard to the lack of a culture of performance and accountability, despite the hundreds of millions of public money that are invested to provide pre-hospital emergency services. However, employees in this sector should not be held hostage by the standoff between the MSSS and the ambulance companies. The paramedics asked to meet with the minister as soon as the announcement of his withdrawal from negotiations was announced and, despite their attempts, they received no response from him. Under the circumstances, the least thing for the minister would be to follow up on their request and clearly explain his plan to them, ”added the MP.
Let us recall that the Ouellet report, commissioned by the Parti Québécois and submitted to the Minister of Health in June 2014, was entitled Prehospital services: Urgence to act. “The Minister waited several months before appointing a committee to implement the recommendations, in February 2015. Then, during the study of the appropriations, last April, we learned that this implementation committee had not been not met since June 3, 2015. Despite everything, on April 21, 2016, the Minister announced an overhaul of the service contract in the ambulance sector. What was the committee used for? Was it just a tool of the minister, a facade to save time? Has he at least been able to benefit from his work, if there has been any work? », Concluded Diane Lamarre.
