Quebec - At the end of the special consultations on Bill 10, the Member for Taillon and official opposition spokesperson for health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, asks the Minister of Health and Services , Gaétan Barrette, to redo his work, because his reform will paralyze the health network and in no way improve access to care. She believes that the abolition of the agencies is only a false pretext to disrupt all aspects of our public health and social services system.
All against the Barrette reform
&quot;Those who treat or support users, those who protect and defend patients, specialists in governance and youth protection, the community environment ... all these people and all these groups refuse to adhere to this reform and are worried. of the consequences it will have. The Minister must obtain the support of the health sector and mobilize the personnel, rather than imposing on them a reform in which they do not believe, ”declared Diane Lamarre.
“We have before us a minister who wishes to control the health network alone, ignoring all the comments and opinions of those who, day to day, support the system at arm&#39;s length. By centralizing the governance of the network, the Liberal government will not improve access to care and harm the regions of Quebec, ”added the MP.
It should be remembered that throughout the special consultations, the CAQ found itself stuck in maintaining its support for the government, having given it even before reading the bill. For its part, Québec solidaire did not even attend half of the special consultations on Bill 10.
“The Minister must face the facts: everyone, except him, understands the extent of the consequences that his bill will have on care and services. Not only does he not listen to anyone, but, in addition, he does not hear and persists in centralizing and politicizing the network, against all odds. However, Quebeckers say it clearly: the real priority is access to health care. Rather than getting bogged down in structural reform, Gaétan Barrette should focus on concrete actions that would really and quickly improve access to care and services, for example investing in home care and prevention, strengthen the first line, tackle overdiagnosis and computerize the network, ”concluded Diane Lamarre.
