Quebec City, February 5, 2021 - Several groups and experts in the field of accompaniment, support and defense of the rights of vulnerable people were virtually this morning alongside the member for LaFontaine and spokesperson for the Liberal Party of Quebec in matters of justice, Marc Tanguay, the member for Sherbrooke and spokesperson for Québec solidaire in matters of the condition of women, Christine Labrie, as well as the member for Joliette and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of justice, Véronique Hivon; together, they stand together and ask the Minister of Justice, Simon Jolin-Barrette, to put Bill 84, An Act to help victims of criminal offenses and promote their recovery, back on his drawing board. .
During a press briefing, everyone had the same message: while this long-awaited reform brought real hope for the advancement of support for victims in all its forms, major concerns arose. during the public consultations, held two weeks ago. In particular, many stakeholders fear that in its current form, the reform, which is supposed to include more victims, will end up leaving several behind. However, instead of taking a break and indicating his desire to thoroughly review his bill, the minister seems to want to rush it through.
Today, what groups, experts and elected officials are asking Minister Jolin-Barrette to do is not to begin detailed study of the bill before having significantly reworked the articles that pose a problem. in close collaboration with the players in the field. The objective is to make it a good reform of the compensation scheme for victims of criminal acts (IVAC), stuck to real needs.
*****
What they said:
“The Association québécoise Plaidoyer-Victimes considers that Bill 84 requires major changes. This is the case, for example, of articles concerning assistance to victims and the exercise of their rights and remedies. This bill in no way takes into account the many recommendations made expressly on these issues in the report of the Committee of Experts on Support for Victims of Sexual Assault and Domestic Violence. Very complex, the law requires more time and more consultation. &quot;
Arlène Gaudreault, President, Association québécoise Plaidoyer-Victimes
&quot;The Regroupement des maisons pour femmes victims of conjugal violence fears that the new financial aid structure will be detrimental to victims who are not in the labor market, as is the case with a certain number of women victims of domestic violence. violence. A thorough assessment of these provisions is necessary before moving forward. &quot;
Louise Riendeau, co-responsible for political files, Regroupement des maisons pour femmes victims of conjugal violence
“Victims of sexual exploitation have waited a long time to have their experiences recognized. For CLES, this bill is essential; it must, however, make it possible to improve the lot of the women with whom we work. &quot;
Diane Matte, co-founder, Concertation des combats contre les exploitation sexual (CLES)
“The Regroupement Québécois des Centers d&#39;Aide et de Lutte contre les Assault à A Sexual (RQCALACS) is deeply concerned about the impact that Bill 84 could have on victims if it were to be adopted without having done subject to a thorough review. Because a large proportion of IVAC beneficiaries are victims of sexual assault (43% in 2019), we believe that it is essential that our voice be heard and recognized. In a context of constant work overload and exacerbated by the pandemic situation, does the Minister of Justice intend to take our expertise into consideration by giving us the means and the time to do our work of analysis and consultation with our partners? &quot;
Stéphanie Tremblay, liaison officer, RQCALACS
“The Federation of women&#39;s shelters considers that Bill 84 has several gray areas concerning the recognition of the needs of victims of domestic violence and their relatives. This bill must, among other things, take into account the recommendations of the Committee of Experts on Support for Victims of Sexual Assault and Domestic Violence, whose report was made public last December, at the same time as the announces consultations on Bill 84. We are therefore asking the government for additional time to analyze the bill in depth and make recommendations better suited to the needs of victims and their relatives. &quot;
Manon Monastesse, Executive Director, Federation of Women&#39;s Shelters
“The victims will live with this reform for decades. Rush tastes bad. The setbacks are more important than the advances in this bill, especially when it comes to financial benefits for unemployable victims. This issue is at the heart of their lives and it cannot be resolved to their detriment. &quot;
Me Marc Bellemare, lawyer specializing in compensation plans
“I ask the Minister of Justice to review his bill in order to better meet the needs of victims of crime. The official opposition obviously agrees to reform the IVAC; however, no casualties should be left behind. It is clear that Bill 84 creates injustices and excludes victims. As an elected official, I am committed to doing my work as a legislator in an exemplary manner and that means improving the bills that are presented. In it, it is clear that everything was done too quickly and, moreover, a large part of the groups who came to testify in parliamentary committee stressed to us the lack of time they had to prepare and analyze the bill. The Minister must ensure that he is attentive to the requests and proposals of the groups. &quot;
Marc Tanguay, Member of Parliament for LaFontaine and spokesperson for the Liberal Party of Quebec in matters of justice
“Many interveners have argued that this bill represents a step backwards for victims. There is no point in taking a step forward to cover more victims if, at the same time, we take two steps back with what the compensation program offers. What is most worrying is that the minister has so far shown no openness to correct the major problems of his bill, such as the income allowance which has been sharply reduced, or the lack of retroactivity. It must revise its reform if it wants to be supported. &quot;
Christine Labrie, Member of Parliament for Sherbrooke and spokesperson for Québec solidaire on the status of women
“It is one thing to propose a reform of IVAC, but it is still necessary to propose the RIGHT reform of IVAC! The concerns are very numerous and the minister cannot sweep them under the carpet. He must return to his work table and propose a reform that meets the needs of the victims. &quot;
Véronique Hivon, Member of Parliament for Joliette and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of justice
Several other organizations expressed their support for the concerted approach, including the Province of Quebec&#39;s Assistance and Information Group on Sexual Harassment at Work. (GAIHST), the Common Front of Social Assistance Persons of Quebec (FCPASQ), the Center for Sexual Assault Victims of Montreal (CVASM) and the Association of Families of Assassinated or Missing Persons (AFPAD).
– 30 –
SOURCES :
Laura Chouinard-Thuly
Press Officer
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois
514 880-9594
Laura.Chouinard-Thuly@assnat.qc.ca
Alexandra Regis
Director of Communications
Office of the Leader of the Official Opposition
418 571-6749
Alexandra.Regis@assnat.qc.ca
Melanie Guillemette
Press Officer
Quebec Solidaire Caucus
819 668-2734
Melanie.Guillemette@assnat.qc.ca
Manon Monastesse
Executive Director
Federation of Women&#39;s Shelters
514 242-6354
monastesse@fede.qc.ca
Arlene Gaudreault
President
Quebec Association Plaidoyer-Victimes
514 922-9037
arlene.gaudreault@umontreal.ca
Louise Riendeau
Co-responsible for political issues
Regrouping of homes for women victims of domestic violence
514 220-1057
lriendeau@maisons-femmes.qc.ca
Diane Matte, co-founder
Concerted action against sexual exploitation
514 376-9241
diane.matte@lacles.org
