Quebec - During the emergency debate held today in the National Assembly on the reception in Quebec of Syrian refugees, the leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the spokesperson for the Party Quebecer on immigration and cultural communities, Maka Kotto, put several questions to the Liberal government, but without obtaining satisfactory answers.
“I expressed yesterday that transparency must prevail and that we must rise above partisanship in order to provide clear answers to the legitimate questions posed by the population. I would add that the municipalities and community organizations are also waiting for concrete answers, and this, quickly. Quebec has always been recognized as a land of welcome. Quebecers form an open, inclusive and generous nation, especially when it comes to helping vulnerable populations. We must ensure that this reputation is honored, ”declared the Leader of the Official Opposition.
“Quebecers want to help people fleeing war, but they need the government to answer certain basic questions. The refugees have already gone through enough hardships; they deserve a decent welcome. Safety cannot be compromised, however. However, at the present time, Minister Weil is unable to tell us how many they will be, when they will arrive, or according to what deadline. We still do not know what the federal government&#39;s contribution will be, and we do not yet know where all these people will be staying. We formulated all these questions during the emergency debate, unfortunately in vain, ”added Maka Kotto.
“We ask the government to ensure that there is no compromise not only on security, but also on the resources and humanitarian services to be put in place for the reception of Syrian refugees to be successful. This success is due to several factors, including medical care, housing, school integration and learning French. In short, we are asking the Liberal government to show the leadership that Quebeckers expect from it. He must support Quebeckers so that they can adequately welcome our new compatriots, ”concluded the leader of the official opposition.
