Quebec - The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, today announced the coming into force, on November 7, of a permit system for owners or guardians of 15 cats or dogs or more and for any operator of an animal collection site.
“This new regulation, long requested by stakeholders in the field, will allow us to know and inspect a greater number of places of care and to ensure better control of non-compliant farms. We are thus taking a significant step towards improving the well-being of companion animals in Quebec, ”declared Minister François Gendron, in the presence of the members of the Working Group on the Welfare of Companion Animals and Leisure Chaired by Member of Iberville, Mrs. Marie Bouillé.
The licensing regime is established under the Cats and Dogs Safety and Welfare Regulations, which fall under the Animal Health Protection Act. The regulations will be published in the Official Gazette on October 23, 2013. Thus, anyone with 15 cats or dogs or more and any operator of an animal collection site, whether it is a pound, a refuge or even a SPA- SPCA, will need to be licensed.
“The coming into force of this new regulation is excellent news and shows that our government is giving the issue of pet safety and well-being the attention it deserves. We spare no effort to ensure that our animals are treated with respect and to ensure that they benefit from the best possible conditions, whether on farms, in shelters, or even in their adopted families ”, underlined the minister.
In addition, Minister Gendron very recently received the recommendations of the Working Group concerning the supervision of euthanasia methods in cats and dogs and to counter their overpopulation in Quebec. He announced his intention to regulate to prohibit the euthanasia of these animals by means of carbon monoxide and to limit the maximum number of dogs or cats that can be kept in a breeding place. “It is high time a government took animal welfare seriously. With the ban on what are called &quot;gas chambers&quot; and adding a limitation on the maximum number of dogs and cats that can be kept in a breeding place, I am hopeful that we will better protect the animals at home. Quebec ”, assured Minister Gendron.
Also, an awareness campaign aimed at empowering the population with regard to the adoption of a pet will be launched in early November.
Remember that more than 250 inspectors, employed by the Ministry and thirteen SPA-SPCAs, are at work in Quebec to ensure compliance with the legislation.
For more information on government actions in the area of animal welfare, visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food at www.mapaq.gouv.qc. it.
