Montreal, December 1, 2019 - Véronique Hivon, MP for Joliette and Parti Québécois family spokesperson, calls on the government to respect its commitment and to put an end to the discrimination, in connection with parental leave, suffered by adopted children and their parents.
IN SHORT
The CAQ pledged in black and white during the election campaign to resolve this injustice. Bill 51 presented by Minister Jean Boulet maintains discrimination between adopting families and biological families. The government also creates new discrimination between children adopted internationally and those adopted in Quebec. The Parti Québécois calls for an end to the current injustice, without creating another.
“The CAQ made a black and white commitment, during the last election campaign, to reduce the duration of parental leave for adoptive parents from 37 to 55 weeks, so that this leave is equivalent to that available to biological parents. A year later, the Caquista government breaks its promise by introducing a bill that maintains a 13-week difference to the detriment of parents of adopted children. However, all children, whether adopted or biological, should have the right to the same consistency, to the same length of time their parents are with them. This should all the more go without saying that adopted children generally arrive in their families with a baggage of particular challenges concerning attachment, health, sense of security ... all this because of the circumstances of their first months or years. of life, often marked by numerous traumas, ”explained Véronique Hivon.
The Parti Québécois family spokesperson also judges that Minister Boulet also wants to create from scratch additional discrimination between children adopted internationally and those adopted in Quebec. “The 5 weeks of parental leave that he wishes to add are in fact intended only for parents who are staying abroad to adopt. It is an injustice for parents who adopt in Quebec through the process conducted under the aegis of the youth protection directorates. These families, however, have no fewer challenges to meet! She added.
“To add insult to injury, it would cost at most between $ 4 million and $ 5 million per year to correct this injustice, while the QPIP&#39;s budget is close to $ 2 billion annually. There are fewer than 400 adoptions per year in Quebec, out of a total of approximately 83,000 births. The CAQ government therefore has no valid argument to reject this legitimate request from the adoptive parents, especially since the CAQ made a resolution in this regard in November 2017, in addition to an electoral commitment in September 2018. The message adoptive parents is clear: Bill 51 must be amended so that the number of weeks that parents can spend at home with their children while being compensated is the same for everyone, and so that this can be ended. system that creates two categories of children, ”concluded the member for Joliette.
