Quebec - Diane Lamarre, the member for Taillon and official opposition critic for health and access to care, deplores the fact that once again, the Liberal government is imposing a rate hike that exceeds inflation to Quebec families, since it has chosen to pocket the savings generated by a drop in the cost of the drug insurance plan.
Each year, on July 1, the amount of the premium for the Public Prescription Drug Insurance Plan is set based on the cost for the previous year and the estimated increase expected for the coming year. However, we learned yesterday that as of tomorrow, the annual premium for the plan will drop from $ 611 to $ 640. Some 3.5 million people insured by the public plan, or about 40% of Quebecers, will therefore have to deal with this increase of 4.75%, which turns out to be well above inflation.
“The Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, never ceases to boast that his management style generates significant savings. But who exactly benefits from it? Certainly not Quebeckers, who have to face yet another price hike, ”said Diane Lamarre.
&quot;How is it that the savings generated in particular by the establishment of a maximum price payable for PPIs and the abolition of the 15-year rule - two decisions of the Parti Québécois - by the new rules concerning the use of the mention not to substitute and the increase in the use of generic drugs does not translate into a lower price for the insured, as it should be? How is it that despite the drop in the cost of the drug insurance plan, the amount of the premium will increase by 4.75%? There should be a direct effect for Quebeckers, but the government has obviously chosen not to allow them to benefit from these savings, ”continued the spokesperson.
The member also mentioned, to further illustrate her remarks, that of the $ 130 million that the government fetched from pharmacists&#39; pockets, not a penny will return to taxpayers. Everything goes to the government, as provided for in section 202 of Bill 28, adopted under gag order on April 20.
Worse still, this new rate increase, which Quebecers will have to pay when filing their income tax return, is combined with an increase in all fees payable at pharmacies, namely the monthly deductible, coinsurance and the maximum monthly contribution. “The Liberals are increasing the rate hikes for Quebec families; decidedly, keeping their promises seems to be the least of their concerns, ”concluded Diane Lamarre.
