Chicoutimi - The Member for Chicoutimi and Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, had the pleasure of welcoming his colleague and Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, during his visit to the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean. It was at her invitation that the Minister traveled to meet two important players in the region, the University of Quebec at Chicoutimi (UQAC) and the Regional Conference of Elected Officials of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, in order to listen to their concerns regarding the challenges posed by the forest environment.
“It is important to listen to the community&#39;s concerns about the many challenges and opportunities our forests present, and that they be shared with the government. It is together that we will be able to find possible solutions to maximize the forest lands that we have chosen to develop while respecting the environment and creating wealth for Quebec and all its regions, ”said Martine Ouellet.
“The forestry sector is one of Quebec&#39;s main economic engines. It is all the more so for a resource region like ours. We wish to seize the current opportunities of the wood industry in the region and associate them with the sustainable exploitation of our forests, in the interest of all Quebecers ”, declared Stéphane Bédard.
Martine Ouellet and Stéphane Bédard spoke with Mr. Daniel Lord, Director of the Department of Basic Sciences and of the Consortium for Research on the Commercial Boreal Forest at UQAC. He presented them with an integrated concept of research on the boreal forest that applies to both the boreal ecosystem and sustainable development. On the other hand, Mr. Claude Villeneuve, director of the Chair in eco-consulting, told them about the importance of increased use of wood in construction in Quebec in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. . Finally, the two elected officials also met Mr. André Paradis, president of the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Conference of Elected Officials, in the company of the Director General, Mr. Marc Dubé, and Ms. Ursula Larouche, Development Advisor. They were presented with a presentation on the specific agreement on the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean forest research fund.
On November 21 and 22, the Government of Quebec will hold the first Rendez-vous de la forêt québécoise in Saint-Félicien. This meeting will make it possible to reflect on the timber industry as the engine of a new green economy and to agree on a forestry action plan which will be spread over three years. Silviculture and the development of Quebec&#39;s forests, optimal use of the resource, the future and job creation will be at the heart of the discussions. For more information, visit the following site: http: //rendezvousdelaforet.gouv.qc.ca.
