Rouyn-Noranda– Réjean Hébert, Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, and Minister responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, François Gendron, announce additional budgets of $ 720,800 to improve home care and services for seniors in the region.
“Improving services for seniors with loss of autonomy is one of our government&#39;s top priorities, as our approach to autonomy insurance also confirms. Immediate improvement in home support will make it possible to serve more seniors, to help even more judiciously those who already receive services in addition to better supporting families, ”said Minister Hébert.
$ 436,300 for the intensification of home services provided by social economy establishments and enterprises.
$ 61,800 for the consolidation of the institutions&#39; integrated service networks for the elderly, which promote the integration, coordination and continuity of services for the elderly. The addition of workers and case managers for personalized follow-up is an essential element in improving services for the elderly.
$ 76,200 for the support granted to community organizations working with seniors and their families.
$ 146,500 to develop palliative home care in order to increase accessibility and intensify the necessary interventions offered to people at the end of their life by the interdisciplinary professional teams of the CSSS.
&quot;This investment is a big step towards improving palliative care in Abitibi-Témiscamingue and reflects our sincere desire to act in a spirit of solidarity and humanity by making palliative care as accessible as possible for Quebecers,&quot; said Véronique Hivon, Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, responsible for community organizations.
“Seniors want to stay at home as long as possible, even when a certain loss of autonomy sets in. The budgetary development that we are confirming today is tangible testimony to our desire to support them in achieving this objective, ”commented the Minister responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, François Gendron.
