Quebec - In reaction to the demonstration held Thursday in front of his constituency offices, the MP for Johnson, Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, Yves-François Blanchet, explains that the draft regulation on water withdrawal and protection will be further explained. An information period will follow the normal process at the end of the ongoing consultation with a view to its implementation scheduled for this summer. “Most of the points raised by activists show that we need to better explain the rules and the context. There is not a single criticism of the opponents that is justified. We&#39;ve beefed up everything that exists in terms of protection, and brought forward what is clearly the toughest rule in America. We will explain it to them, ”he said.
Consequently, Minister Blanchet is prepared to meet very soon with representatives of citizens concerned about the shale gas issue in the St. Lawrence Valley. The process leading to a moratorium and an environmental assessment in the shale gas file is also continuing its course and is only slowed down by the refusal of both the Coalition Avenir Québec and the Liberal Party of Quebec to support the government. law Project. As for the points appearing on the document submitted by the representatives of the group of opponents to the political attachés of MP Blanchet, the government is now providing them with some clarifications.
Urgency: Urgency was invoked for the adoption of the regulation as part of an accelerated process in order to subject, precisely, possible drilling projects, anywhere in Quebec, to the provisions of the regulation, and this, starting this summer. In fact, citizens can still express themselves now, and our desire being to strengthen the regulation by making a law, the entire consultation process in parliamentary committee that necessarily accompanies this exercise will be implemented. This is enhanced protection, and faster. The accelerated approach was therefore favored precisely because citizens and municipalities are asking for rapid intervention.
Municipal or Quebec jurisdiction: This by-law will take precedence over municipal by-law. Among other things, it has the advantage of being much more comprehensive than municipal regulations to ensure the protection of drinking water supply sources, it will be implemented by the greater means of the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment. , Wildlife and Parks and it will apply uniformly to all of Quebec.
Minimum horizontal distance: A uniform horizontal distance would be insufficient to ensure adequate protection of the water supply sources. The draft regulation imposes the most severe measures in North America, first and foremost the imposition of a specific hydrogeological study for each of the drilling projects, without any limit as to what the separating distance then imposed could be. . The minimum standard of 300 meters, however, is already the most severe in America. Finally, the regulation will not replace the other regulations and directives implemented by the government of Quebec, but will be in addition to the standards already in force, including those of the Environment Quality Act.
“Quebec has 3% of the planet&#39;s renewable freshwater resources. The draft regulation on water withdrawal and protection protects drinking and groundwater sources through strong and innovative measures. My regulation does not replace the environmental assessment, the BAPE and the moratorium on shale gas requested and applied for the St. Lawrence Valley. It complements, strengthens and adds to them. If we tell anything to my citizens and my mayors, I will meet with them personally so that everything is understood, ”warned Minister Blanchet.
For information concerning this draft regulation: www.protegeonsleau.gouv.qc.ca.
Also see the post &quot;Draft regulation on hydraulic fracturing: taking stock&quot;, signed by the National Office, on the Parti Québécois blog.
