Quebec - The MNA for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, as well as the MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesperson for the status of women, Carole Poirier, deplored that Prime Minister Philippe Couillard refused to withdraw quotas on abortions in the draft regulation of its Minister of Health.
“No decline in women&#39;s rights is tolerable. Dozens of women and men working in the health network are worried about the limits that could be imposed on access to abortion because of the quotas and the regulations proposed by the Minister of Health. What Gaétan Barrette suggests is serious: it attacks the right of women to dispose of their bodies, a right that has been won through a long struggle. The Prime Minister must take his responsibilities and remove any quota for abortions in the draft regulation. Philippe Couillard must review the work of the Minister of Health to ensure that women&#39;s rights will not be attacked, ”said Stéphane Bédard.
The Leader of the Official Opposition also denounced the Liberals&#39; rejection of the motion tabled by the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, which reads as follows:
“That the National Assembly reiterate the right of every woman to have access to her body and to free and accessible abortion services.
That it demand from the government the withdrawal of any measure related to Bill 20, An Act to enact the Act to promote access to family medicine and specialized medicine services and to amend various legislative provisions relating to assisted procreation, limiting in any way whatsoever these rights. &quot;
What will the new liberal attack on women be like?
Carole Poirier also deplored that the Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Stéphanie Vallée, has given priority to liberal austerity and not to the defense of women&#39;s rights.
&quot;The attacks against women are numerous and incessant: postponement of the development of places in childcare centers and increase in prices, underfunding of community groups that come to the aid of women, cuts in programs promoting equality and in measures aimed at to fight against sexual exploitation, ban on the use of assisted procreation for women aged 42 and over ... The list goes on. Minister Stéphanie Vallée, instead of endorsing these attacks made in the name of liberal-Caquist austerity, should defend the rights of women in all forums and refuse to make concessions on the gains that we have won hard &quot;, declared Carole Poirier.
