Quebec, September 23, 2016 –While we learn that there will be new job losses at Rio Tinto&#39;s head office in Montreal, the member for Jonquière and leader of the official opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, the member for Sanguinet and Parti Québécois spokesperson for the economy, Alain Therrien, as well as the deputy for Rousseau, parliamentary leader and spokesperson for finance and revenue, Nicolas Marceau, ask that the National Assembly examine compliance with the continuity agreement signed in 2006 with Alcan, to which the multinational Rio Tinto is bound.
“Jobs and continued investment in Rio Tinto&#39;s activities are very important to our workers here in Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean, just as it is essential to preserve jobs at the head office. However, despite the promises and commitments, the number of jobs has fallen by 30% since 2006, from 860 to 600. We are therefore asking for a parliamentary committee to be held to examine compliance with the agreement reached. in 2006. Parliamentarians must know what is going on, ”Sylvain Gaudreault said.
“Is the company respecting the 2006 continuity agreement, yes or no? If not, will the government resort to the sanctions provided for? The agreement does indeed involve heavy penalties, except that they are never applied. For example, article 18 states that if Rio Tinto proceeds to modify its commitments related to the head office without obtaining the agreement of the government, the latter will have the right to cancel or revoke all or any part of the rights. granted to the company, without compensation or indemnity. The provisions are very clear. Now we have to know if they are being respected, ”added Alain Therrien.
“We are seeing it: the Liberal government, despite its commitments, does not care about maintaining our head offices. He sold the Rona shares held by Investissement Québec with a simple &quot;ok&quot;, by email. Within this government, there is no one accountable or responsible, especially not the Prime Minister, who continues to refuse to answer our questions on this subject, ”concluded Nicolas Marceau.
