Quebec– The MP for Pointe-aux-Trembles and official opposition spokesperson for elementary and secondary education, Nicole Léger, asks the Minister of Education, Higher Education and Research, François Blais, to backtrack by canceling the increase in the tariffs for daycare services in schools.
“The budgetary rules decreed by the Liberal government confirm this: we have cut directly in the subsidies dedicated to daycare services in schools. Minister François Blais is therefore responsible for this unacceptable rate hike, which is hitting Quebec&#39;s middle-class families hard. It&#39;s a big blow for them, today and a few days before the start of the school year. This time, the minister is out of the question by putting the blame on the schools! ”Said Nicole Léger.
“We now realize that the Minister of Education made fun of Quebeckers when he said in the spring that the increase in childcare services would be minor and that it would not affect all schools. It was porridge for cats! The Minister of Education must backtrack and respect the promise of his Prime Minister who said last December that he would limit rate hikes to inflation. Moreover, the government may well say that it will grant a tax credit to families, it will certainly not cover the entire increase because, otherwise, why would it have imposed one? Families will still have to pay money during the school year, until they file their tax return. And what will the government do for less fortunate families who do not pay taxes? Asked the member of the Parti Québécois.
Quebecers: the turkeys of the liberal farce
&quot;We are increasing the number of children per class, we are cutting services for those who have learning difficulties, we are reducing resources for young people with disabilities and, today, we are learning that the bill for childcare services in schools will double. After that, one wonders why cynicism towards politics is gaining ground. This Liberal government laughs at Quebeckers! », Concluded Nicole Léger.
