Quebec - The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of agriculture and food, André Villeneuve, once again denounces the attitude of the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Pierre Paradis, who refuses to listen to agricultural producers who will suffer a drastic increase in property taxes, following the changes made by the government to the agricultural property tax credit program. &quot;By doing this, the minister is putting thousands of producers in an untenable financial situation, and he is washing his hands of it,&quot; he said at the outset.
At a press briefing at the National Assembly, André Villeneuve, alongside agricultural producers from several regions of Quebec, called on the Minister to intervene. He was also accompanied by the vice-president of the Union des producteurs agricoles (UPA), Pierre Lemieux, the president of the UPA-Montérégie, Christian St-Jacques, the vice-president of the UPA-Montérégie, Jérémie Letellier, and a representative of the Quebec Federation of Municipalities, Guy St-Pierre.
André Villeneuve also questioned Minister Paradis on this subject during the question period in the National Assembly; the latter was insensitive to the situation experienced by the producers. “For months, Pierre Paradis hid the truth from farmers. When we finally saw the ministry&#39;s data, we discovered that 83% of farmers would suffer a tax hike. How can Pierre Paradis dismiss out of hand the concerns of those who will have to pay the hike? The minister was completely indifferent to the situation of Jérémie Letellier, producer in Napierville, who will have to pay $ 3,800 more because of the changes announced, such as that of Yvon Boucher, producer of Saint-Césaire, who will pay $ 4,000. more in taxes ”, he illustrated.
&quot;The Liberal government must postpone the implementation of the changes until it finds a way to prevent farmers from being penalized by a bill of thousands of additional dollars, directly from their pockets,&quot; the spokesperson concluded.
