Quebec - Parti Québécois agriculture and food spokesperson André Villeneuve asks the Liberal government to seize the tools at its disposal to cushion the steep rise in food prices and relieve Quebec families.
“The increase in the price of Quebecers&#39; grocery baskets, especially for fresh fruits and vegetables, is considerable. Some products, such as celery or broccoli, have seen their price double in a year. The situation affects many poor families. Childcare centers, already grappling with major cuts, and hospitals must make difficult choices. As for food banks, they are also feeling the effects, donations are becoming rarer, ”illustrated André Villeneuve.
The spokesperson recalls that the Parti Québécois government launched the Food Sovereignty Policy, tabled since by the Liberals. This policy had been applauded on all sides, however, since it restructured the entire agricultural sector in Quebec. “The Parti Québécois understood that everyone would benefit if Quebeckers consumed more local products. We had taken an important first step, moreover, by reducing electricity prices for greenhouse producers by 40%. Other means are also possible to help our producers, and therefore consumers: cogeneration from wood chips and the conversion of residual waste into biogas, among others. A host of solutions exist. Like the Parti Québécois before it, the Liberal government must act to help both our farmers and Quebec consumers, ”he continued.
According to André Villeneuve, the government is on the wrong track when it hypothesizes that farmers and processors are not listening to their markets. “All that the Minister of Agriculture, Pierre Paradis, is proposing is a discussion! What the industry really needs is concrete measures and a real strategy to develop agrifood; for the past 5 years, greenhouse production in Quebec has decreased by 3.7%, while it has increased by 27.3% in Ontario, ”he argued.
“Obviously, the weakness of the Canadian dollar and the weather in California are factors that partly explain the increase in the price of the grocery basket of families in Quebec, but it should be noted that the state has levers of action to correct the situation. He has to use them. The liberal laissez-faire has lasted long enough, ”concluded the member for Berthier.
