Sherbrooke– Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Saint-François, Réjean Hébert protests against the improvised and irresponsible proposals of the leader of the Coalition Avenir Québec, François Legault. The latter recently committed to changing the rules surrounding prescriptions.
“Unlike family physicians and other health professionals, pharmacists are accessible every day, everywhere in Quebec. However, the Coalition Avenir Québec&#39;s proposal to cut $ 250 million in pharmacies, by ensuring that drugs are now prescribed for three months, could jeopardize patient safety, access to drugs and financial health. pharmacies, ”Réjean Hébert denounced.
The candidate in Saint-François notes in passing that it is absurd to cut the income of pharmacist owners when the government has just granted them new responsibilities in terms of prescription and renewal of drugs.
According to the Ordre des pharmaciens du Québec, it is impossible to prescribe certain medications for a period of three months; antipsychotics, antidepressants, narcotics and controlled drugs that can be life threatening if regular monitoring is not done.
“If the drugs are prescribed for short periods, it is so that the doctor can follow up with the patient in order to see the evolution of his state of health. These observations allow healthcare professionals to see if drugs are working and to adjust treatment if necessary. We cannot afford to wait three months to regulate a prescription: it is definitely not in the interest of Quebecers, ”added the candidate in Saint-François.
Currently, the maximum amount payable each month at the pharmacy is $ 82.66. However, by prescribing the drug for three months, the amount increases to $ 247.
“For many people, paying that amount to get their medication, even for three months, is way too high. There is therefore a risk of having people who will not be able to obtain all of their medications. Obviously, the CAQ does not think of middle class workers, especially those who have no group insurance, ”continued Réjean Hébert.
The Coalition Avenir Québec claims to be able to save $ 250 million by changing the rules for prescribing drugs. Remember that on average a drug is prescribed for a period of 18 days. “The CAQ does not seem to know that more than 60% of prescriptions for drugs are prescribed for 29 days or less. The possibility of saving $ 250 million by prescribing the drugs for three months becomes in practice impossible. This proposal smacks of improvisation, ”explained Réjean Hébert.
The Coalition Avenir Québec seems to completely ignore the Quebec pharmaceutical system. Here is what Normand Cadieux, executive vice-president and general manager of the Association québécoise des pharmaciens owners, underlined in an open letter to the newspaper Le Soleil on August 24: “the fees paid to the pharmacist are proportional to the number of days of treatment. that he delivers for his patient. If the pharmacist provides a three-month supply, he receives three times the monthly fee. &quot;If the CAQ had gone through the agreement between pharmacists and the government of Quebec that came into being in 2007, it would not wander as it does now,&quot; said the candidate in Saint-François.
The proposal to cut $ 250 million in pharmacies represents an average amount of more than $ 135,000 per pharmacy. “A reduction of this magnitude will necessarily result in job losses in laboratories and even reductions in opening hours, thus reducing the possibility of consulting the most accessible health professional: the pharmacist. It is an irresponsible proposition, ”concluded Réjean Hébert.
