Quebec - “The announcement made in September by the Minister of Finance, Raymond Bachand, to the effect that the royalty regime had enabled the State to collect $ 300 million in royalties concealed an important fact: the profits of the companies mining companies jumped 319% in 2010. Thus, the increase in profits was eight times greater than the increase in royalties. The complacent regime that Minister Bachand prides himself on is squandering our natural resources ”.
This is what the member for Rousseau and official opposition critic for finance and economic development, Nicolas Marceau, said after examining documents from the Ministry of Finance that have been requested for several weeks.
The Parti Québécois criticizes the Liberal government for suggesting that the current royalty regime was more demanding today than before, thanks to the changes made. “The simple reality is that in 2008 the share of the wealth created by mining recovered by the government was 24%. In 2010, after the changes, this share is still 24%. Nothing has changed. The mining companies therefore pay the same share of their profits to the government, whereas these profits have increased tenfold over the past five years, ”said Nicolas Marceau.
In the National Assembly, Minister Bachand admitted that the slight increase in royalties is not directly attributable to the royalty regime, but more to the fact that the profits of mining companies have exploded. “This is a lucid admission and in this sense, Minister Bachand must admit that Quebecers do not benefit sufficiently from the current regime. He must draw conclusions and modify the regime, ”continued the member for Rousseau.
For her part, the MP for Vachon and official opposition spokesperson for mines and shale gas, Martine Ouellet, also indicated that in 2010, 10 out of 19 mining companies paid no royalties. She also called on Minister Serge Simard to explain to Quebecers why his government refused to allow nickel and iron to be processed in Quebec.
“Processing helps create four times more jobs than extraction. Minister Simard must tell us why he rejected an amendment to Bill 14 to promote further transformation? Why is the minister giving up on creating more jobs in Quebec? », Concluded Martine Ouellet.
