Saguenay - For several months, the Parti Québécois has indicated that it is essential that a debate be held on mining royalties. Now the ADQ is announcing that it wants the same thing and, the more the days go by, the more the Liberal government is isolated on the issue.
“The Prime Minister, currently in Asia, has received the message; the Parti Québécois intends to have serious discussions concerning mining royalties this fall, otherwise, it will be absolutely out of the question for us to support Bill 14, ”reiterated the MP for Vachon and official opposition spokesperson on the matter. of mines, Martine Ouellet.
“We have been saying this for months, there is nothing new in this, we are very keen that Quebeckers benefit from the economic spinoffs generated by our natural resources. We can no longer hear the Prime Minister say that all is well in the best of all possible worlds when we are selling our wealth at a discount, ”continued Martine Ouellet.
Remember that last May, the Prime Minister said he was ready to debate this issue in the fall. “Minister Simard&#39;s attitude must change. We want real openness on the part of the Minister so that a constructive and positive debate on royalties can be held. Minister Simard&#39;s closed attitude is hurting Quebec&#39;s finances; billions of dollars are being lost. There is still time for the Prime Minister to tell Serge Simard that he must sit down to the table and negotiate, ”continued the Member for Vachon.
“How can the Prime Minister even think of depriving Quebecers of the spinoffs of Quebec&#39;s wealth? In doing so, he positions himself as a worthy successor to Duplessis. He who proclaims himself a Great Builder, does he not realize that he is in the process of becoming the Great Squanderer? Added the Parti Québécois mining spokesperson.
During Liberal rule, the price of gold rose from $ 300 per ounce to $ 1,800 per ounce. The Parti Québécois proposes to seek the maximum of mining royalties by setting up a mandatory royalty on gross revenues, without tax deduction, while establishing an equitable sharing of the surplus profit. In addition, the Parti Québécois is proposing strategic acquisitions of stakes in mining companies.
Under the current regime, the 12% royalty rate often applies to an amount of $ 0. Even if the Liberals raise the rate to 16%, it will still be $ 0! As we are currently at the drawing board to update the Mining Act, this is the perfect opportunity. In addition, a consensus is being established between the various political parties and several stakeholders in civil society on what we have been proposing for weeks. It is out of the question to leave a dilapidated and dusty regime in place, ”concluded Martine Ouellet.
