Quebec– The MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and official opposition spokesperson for international relations, Carole Poirier, as well as the MNA for Sanguinet and spokesperson for the Conseil du trésor, Alain Therrien, deplore the fact that the visit in France by the Prime Minister and six of his ministers has produced no tangible economic results for Quebeckers, whether in terms of job creation or the announcement of foreign investments.
“During the previous economic mission to Davos, which did not yield any results either, the government said it was not a fair of announcements. This time, in France, he said it was not an economic mission. What other bogus excuse will the Liberals come up with next time? In truth, these are improvised missions, which have not benefited from any preparation for the economic sector, ”said Carole Poirier.
“In addition, one can think that if the Prime Minister insisted that as many of his ministers accompany him, it was to prevent slippages and unfortunate statements. However, this will have been without effect; he had to rebuff Marc Tanguay for his trivialization of violence against women and Jacques Daoust apologized for his comments about entrepreneurs in the region. Add to this the resignation of the Director General of the CHUM, who denounced the political interference of Minister Gaétan Barrette. In short, even with so many ministers in Europe, the government&#39;s blunders continue, ”she added.
The member also deplores that the Prime Minister has tarnished the image of Quebec and offended the French by justifying the royal size of the delegation by the fact that France was paying for part of the mission, an important diplomatic misstep, according to her.
“In the end, a court of six ministers will have brought nothing to Quebecers economically, except a sumptuary expense. This is indeed the only concrete result for the population: the costs of the mission. In this period of austerity, the Prime Minister should have led by example and limited the size of his delegation, especially when we see that this does absolutely nothing more, ”concluded Alain Therrien.
