Quebec - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce the renewal of the Local Road Infrastructure Intervention Plan (PIIRL) and, in front of the lively its success last year, its increase to $ 5 million for the 2013-2014 fiscal year so that a greater number of regional county municipalities (RCMs) can benefit from it. The Ministère des Transports plans to assume up to 100% of the costs of carrying out the response plans, up to the amounts provided for this purpose.
The proposed approach provides for the determination by the community of a proportion of approximately 25% of local roads essential to socioeconomic development and to the vitality of the territory. The state of these roads, the type of interventions required and the available budgets will subsequently condition the content of the intervention plan. PIIRL is an effective planning tool that allows municipalities to prioritize infrastructure work on their priority road network. “Given the extent of the local road network, it is essential to optimize the investments devoted to it. Through this program, we recognize the importance of providing the RCMs and their constituent municipalities with planning tools to promote mobility and travel safety throughout Quebec, ”said Mr. Gaudreault.
Remember that this program is aimed at 84 rural and semi-rural RCMs in Quebec with local level 1 and 2 roads on their territory, as well as 4 towns and cities exercising certain RCM powers, as well as the municipality outside MRC de la Baie-James and all its component localities (including the city of Chibougamau).
In addition, the MRCs will also be able to submit requests for financial assistance under the Municipal Road Safety Intervention Plan (PISRMM) in order to identify work that contributes to improving road safety.
MRCs wishing to register for these programs can obtain all the documentation at www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca, in the Partners section, under the Municipalities, Assistance Programs, Municipal Road Network tabs.
