Quebec - Diane Lamarre, the member for Taillon and official opposition spokesperson for health and access to care, denounces the control of information at the Ministry of Health and Social Services (MSSS) since l adoption of Bill 10 under gag order, last February.
&quot;We have made access to information requests to obtain details and measure the extent of the cuts of nearly $ 600 million and the optimization measures imposed in health and social services in establishments in the various regions of the Quebec. We find that the old agencies, now called &quot;CISSS&quot; and &quot;CIUSSS&quot;, no longer respond to access to information requests themselves. It seems that a directive has been given by the MSSS requiring establishments to redirect requests to it. This is a fine example of the centralization of powers and the control of information that we have denounced throughout the study of Bill 10. It is deplorable! ”Said Diane Lamarre.
Section 48 of the Access to Information Act, invoked in order not to respond to requests, suggests that institutions do not have the jurisdiction to do so, when the opposite is true.
“Never in the past has this article been invoked in order not to respond to requests regarding budgets and measures to optimize establishments. Why muzzle institutions? Previously, it was always the agencies and institutions themselves that responded to access to information requests. Why this decline in terms of transparency and, above all, in terms of institutional autonomy? “Asked the spokesperson.
“It is unacceptable that the MSSS exercises such control over information. The minister praises his reform, but prohibits new establishments from transmitting the information they hold. When you&#39;re proud of the results, you should have nothing to hide. The Minister must put an end immediately to these obscure practices which deprive institutions of their autonomy and, above all, which deprive citizens of the access to information to which they are entitled, ”concluded Diane Lamarre.
