Quebec - Following the meeting of provincial and territorial ministers of the Forum of Labor Market Ministers, which took place today in Toronto, the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, like her provincial and territorial counterparts, reaffirmed the need for a renewal in the current form of the Canada-Quebec Agreement on the labor market when it arrives at deadline in 2014 in order to maintain the effectiveness and efficiency of Québec measures.
Unilaterally presented by the federal government in its last budget, the Canada Job Grant (CES) constitutes an unacceptable encroachment into Quebec&#39;s fields of jurisdiction, it duplicates the measures put in place by Quebec and it modifies without consultation on the objectives of the current Labor Market Agreement.
“The Canada Job Grant program proposed by the federal government is counterproductive and a significant setback. In addition to depriving Quebec of annual funding of $ 70 million, the subsidy would exclude many SMEs and people remote from the labor market, which is unacceptable. This initiative reveals a deep ignorance of the dynamics of Quebec with regard to the labor market. Quebec has put in place effective mechanisms that meet the needs of the job market and that have reduced unemployment, ”said Minister Agnès Maltais.
The Minister specifies that the evaluations carried out show that the programs put in place by the provinces are effective. For example, in Quebec, the interventions carried out with recipients of last-resort financial assistance increase their chances of finding a job by 50%. In addition, 85% of companies that have used Emploi-Québec programs say that training their staff has significantly increased their productivity and motivation at work.
“In Quebec, there is unanimity among the members of the National Assembly and the stakeholders concerned. Today, the Canadian provinces and territories reiterated their opposition to the federal attempt to slash years of work in order to bring our most marginalized citizens back to the job market, ”added the Minister.
Already, many players have positioned themselves in favor of the actions of the Government of Quebec. On May 15, 2013, the Labor Market Partners Commission (CPMT) adopted a unanimous resolution supporting the Quebec government in its request to the federal government to renew the 2008-2014 Labor Market Agreement under current terms. . Each regional council of labor market partners has also adopted such a resolution throughout Quebec. In addition, there are two unanimous motions from the National Assembly, adopted on March 28 and June 12, 2013.
“The federal government will have no choice but to allow the withdrawal of the Canada Job Grant with full compensation. With this Grant, the federal government is improvising in an area in which it has no expertise. Worse yet, it duplicates what we do effectively and efficiently. Quebec, like every province and territory, has developed its own know-how in terms of workforce training. At the end of this meeting, I expressed to the provinces and territories that there is a solid consensus in Quebec against this federal measure, ”concluded the Minister.
It should be noted that the SCE not only requires an equivalent financial contribution from the Quebec government, but that it relegates it to the rank of administrator of a program whose parameters have been decreed by the federal government. However, the latter recognized the responsibility of Quebec to determine the priorities of the labor market on its territory in the agreements on the labor market, just as he affirmed in 2010, before the International Labor Conference that the provinces and territories are best placed to design and administer training programs that meet the needs of their respective populations and local employers.
Remember that the Quebec government has already indicated that it does not intend to participate in the Canada Job Grant. He asks that the federal measure not apply on his territory and wants to obtain a withdrawal with full compensation.
In order to have all the necessary tools and flexibility, and also in order to avoid duplication, Quebec is calling for the full renewal of the 2008-2014 Canada-Quebec Labor Market Agreement, according to the terms and conditions. current. It is also seeking the conclusion of a comprehensive labor market agreement that would include a single transfer of federal funds from the Consolidated Revenue Fund and intended for employment integration measures for groups under-represented in the labor market (including young people, people with disabilities and older workers).
