Quebec - Following his participation in the Meeting of Provincial and Territorial Ministers Responsible for Local Governments, in Whitehorse, Yukon, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault , draws up a positive assessment, but deplores the absence of the federal government.
“An invitation was extended to the federal Minister of Transport, Infrastructure and Communities, Mr. Denis Lebel, to come and explain to us, in detail, his government&#39;s intentions in terms of funding municipal infrastructure. We had a lot to discuss with him, but he refused the invitation as well as any communication with the ministers meeting in the Yukon and did not deign to send any representative whatsoever to the meeting, ”lamented Minister Gaudreault.
The Minister nonetheless drew a positive assessment of the meeting during which he shared his vision on the financing of municipal infrastructures with the ministers responsible for local administrations. He first expressed his opposition to unilateral federal interventions. In addition, the Minister reiterated that he demands, from Ottawa, a block transfer of federal funds intended for municipalities, without conditions or rules unilaterally imposed by the federal government, stressing that Quebec is the only one able to determine investment priorities in municipal infrastructure in its territory.
The Minister recalled that he would like to see a substantial increase in funding from the federal government, both for the renewal of municipal infrastructure and to meet the new obligations that the latter imposes on municipalities, in particular the new standards in terms of municipal wastewater treatment.
The Minister also informed his counterparts of the creation of a group of experts responsible for listing federal interventions and duplication in municipal affairs. “Quebec, like the other provinces, is the prime contractor in several fields of government activity. However, we see that the federal government is less and less hesitant to intervene in municipal and local affairs. It is in this context that a group of experts was formed to study the federal government&#39;s interventions in this area in Quebec. Obviously, we can think that the duplication is similar at the Canadian level and that is why I have undertaken to share, with my Canadian counterparts, the findings of the report that I am expecting next January, ”declared the Minister.
“I would like to thank the Deputy Premier and Minister of Community Services of the Yukon, Ms. Elaine Taylor, for her great hospitality and for organizing this important meeting,” the Minister concluded.
