Québec, September 16, 2016 - Alexandre Cloutier, the member for Lac-Saint-Jean and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of education, research and school perseverance, deplores the fact that the government took two and a half years to give priority to the educational success of all students, after making major cuts to the education network.
&quot;After three changes of minister, after two and a half years of twirling, drastically cutting student services, the government is finally responding to our requests and announces that it now wishes to focus on student success,&quot; said declared Alexandre Cloutier.
Remember that the Parti Québécois government announced in 2013 the development of a policy on school perseverance and another on adult and continuing education. “Three years later, the liberal legacy in education is a disaster. It boils down to an attempt to mix up structures, to cuts in the network which have greatly affected direct services to students, and to two bitter failures, namely the Liberals&#39; attempt to reform school governance and that of concentrating power in the minister&#39;s hands, ”added the member for Lac Saint Jean.
Major reinvestment
“The fine words of the Minister and the Prime Minister as well as these days of consultation will have to be accompanied by a major reinvestment in education, otherwise the announcement this morning will have been nothing but wishful thinking. Because we realize, when we analyze the figures of the last update of the Ministry of Finance, that during the first quarter of 2016, the government spent $ 10 million less on education than on the same. period last year. We want to give the runner a chance, but since the arrival of the last minister, Sébastien Proulx, the figures from the Ministry of Finance show that no reinvestment has been made. However, days of consultation will not be enough to guarantee the success of our students. The government must stop playing with the numbers and instead ensure that the sums are there, ”concluded Alexandre Cloutier.
