Québec - The member for Jonquière and official opposition spokesperson for sustainable development and the environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, indicated that the Parti Québécois will propose several additions to the process to modernize the Quality Act. environment (LQE), in particular that of including a section on the primacy of Quebec in environmental matters.
“As I suggested in Bill 390 that I tabled, Quebec must affirm that it is the only one able to decide what is happening in its territory in terms of the environment. Today, Quebec must have all the legislative tools necessary to control its environmental and energy future. It is essential for our social, economic and environmental development, just as it is essential to have a Minister of the Environment capable of enforcing the EQA, ”declared Sylvain Gaudreault.
“Quebec must have the right to say no to projects that are harmful to its environment. It is not for the federal government or the National Energy Board, for example, to decide; it&#39;s up to Quebecers. We invite Minister Heurtel to hear this recommendation and the others that we will formulate in the coming weeks, and to take it into account in the upcoming review of the Environment Quality Act, ”continued the deputy.
Minister Heurtel must make a real reform and the Parti Québécois will ensure that it proposes ambitious measures to this end.
Sylvain Gaudreault also indicates that the Parti Québécois will insist that the EQA integrates all the principles of the Sustainable Development Act (like other government laws for consistency), and that it has a transversal scope on all ministries. . There is also a need for reform of the mechanisms of the law on access to information.
&quot;We will ensure that Quebec finally makes the shift towards sustainable development and that it has an environmental quality law that meets expectations in terms of public participation upstream of policies. and programs from the Government of Quebec or from companies presenting major projects, ”added the Member for Jonquière.
The opposition astonished by the intentions of Bill 32
The Minister of the Environment also presented Bill 32, which postpones the adoption of the permanent legislative framework for the protection of wetlands and bodies of water for three years. However, his colleague, Minister of Natural Resources and former Minister of the Environment, Pierre Arcand, in May 2012 adopted Bill 71, which set April 24, 2015 as the date for the adoption of this new legislative framework. “Why did the Liberal government change its mind between Bill 71 and Bill 32? There is no need to adopt a new environmental quality law to act now on the protection of wetlands and bodies of water, ”concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
