Montreal - Faced with the decline of French in Quebec, particularly on the Island of Montreal, the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, is committed to adopting four major measures to repair the damage caused by the Liberal government&#39;s laissez-faire and by certain judgments of the Supreme Court. “We must take the means to ensure that we have the necessary tools to protect French as a common language in Quebec. French is the foundation of our identity, it is it which defines us, which sets us apart, ”explained Pauline Marois.
In the first hundred days, a Parti Québécois government will introduce a new law 101 and make it a fundamental text, guaranteeing our cultural identity. We will extend the application of this new Charter of the French language to businesses with 11 to 49 employees in order to strengthen the place of French in the labor market. We will apply the same provisions of the Charter of the French language, currently applied to elementary and secondary schools, CEGEPs, vocational schools as well as adult education. We will abolish the Bridge Schools Act passed by the Liberals following the heinous Supreme Court ruling.
“These measures will finally be able to guarantee Quebeckers that they will be able to live in French in Quebec. Without a significant linguistic shift, the situation will only get worse. Since 2003, the Liberals have watched the train go by. A government of the Parti Québécois will get on the train and take the necessary measures to protect and promote our language, assured Pauline Marois, denouncing the laxity and the flattering of the government of Jean Charest. Data from the Office québécois de la langue française, published in September 2011, confirmed the decline of French in Quebec. The weight of the majority of French mother tongue in Quebec has slipped below 80%. On the Island of Montreal, this rate fell from 52.1% in 2001 to 48.8% in 2006. It is high time to act. &quot;
“By adopting a new Charter of the French language, we will be able to remedy the damage caused by certain judgments of the Supreme Court of Canada and restore consistency to the Charter. In addition, we will seize the opportunity to extend it to new areas, ”explained Pauline Marois.
The Charter of the French language will be extended to companies with 11 to 49 employees. This measure will allow a greater number of Quebecers to work in French. Recently, several situations of anglicization at work have been made public. For example, senior unilingual Anglophone business leaders impose English in their workplace because of their lack of knowledge of our language. “More than 54,000 companies with 11 to 49 employees are not subject to the same requirements as the largest companies, which means that a significant number of workers do not have any protection allowing them to require to work in French in Quebec. This measure will therefore allow a significant advance in the French language in workplaces, particularly in Montreal, ”guaranteed Pauline Marois.
The Charter of the French language will also be gradually extended to CEGEPs, vocational training schools and adult education. The normal language of instruction in Quebec is French. This measure is important because it will strengthen the place of French in the labor market. Indeed, the correlation between the language of college instruction and entry into the job market is obvious. A person who will study in English will have a strong tendency to work in English afterwards.
A government of the Parti Québécois will abolish the bridge schools. “With the bridge schools, the Liberal government has created two categories of citizens: those who can afford the right to go to English schools and those who are not. Instead of putting an end to the bridging schools, Law 115, adopted under gag order by the National Assembly, has instead reinforced them by totally subjective and arbitrary criteria. The government has de facto established a real selection by money, ”she added.
“All these measures are absolutely necessary if we want to finally initiate the shift that is necessary to protect our language. We have the determination, the conviction and the experience, we have the team. The same cannot be said of Jean Charest and François Legault. The Liberal government has given up on defending the rights of the francophone majority because it has not had the courage to enforce Bill 101 over the past nine years. There is nothing more to expect from this government in this area. It has been demonstrated that French is not a priority for the Liberals or for the Caquists, ”concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois.
