Montreal - “The culture of a people is all the manifestations of its identity and its differences. It is also the language through which we express our vision of the world. We must give it additional resources to flourish, ”said Parti Québécois leader Pauline Marois, who is proposing six new measures to promote Quebec culture.
To prepare the next generation in the creation and dissemination of culture, a Parti Québécois government will take important steps to stimulate the artistic fiber of our young people and increase demand for cultural products from Quebec.
The first commitment to this end consists in setting up a new artist residency program in elementary and secondary schools so that our artists exhibit and present their works to students. Thirty million dollars will be invested in this measure. Elementary and secondary schools will also be supported in this process with a sum of $ 15 million aimed at increasing student attendance at cultural activities.
A Parti Québécois government will invest in promoting culture and supporting artists. The budget of the Conseil des arts et des lettres du Québec (CALQ) will be increased by $ 13 million to reach $ 100 million per year. This increase will be used, among other things, to support the CALQ in the implementation of a digital strategy, the major challenge facing the cultural industry today.
The budget of the Cultural Business Development Corporation (SODEC) will be increased by $ 8 million to bring it to $ 70 million on a recurring basis. “As with the CALQ, this additional amount will help SODEC develop Quebec&#39;s digital strategy and allow the creation of a Quebec film integrator. At the moment, the programming of Quebec movie theaters is being decided in the United States. With our own integrator, it will be up to us to choose the best way to distribute our films in our theaters ”, specified Pauline Marois.
Quebec artists who work internationally will not be left out. The Parti Québécois plan provides for supporting their international tours with a new envelope of $ 5 million per year to offset the federal cuts that the government of Stephen Harper has unilaterally imposed on the Quebec cultural sector. “The international influence of our artists is an exceptional calling card for Quebec. No question of abandoning our creators who were victims of the Harper government! », Launched the leader of the Parti Québécois.
Pauline Marois is also committed to providing Télé-Québec with the means to make it truly national television. A Parti Québécois government will release an additional $ 10 million to set up a regional and national information mission to ensure the diversity of information throughout Quebec. Local information is increasingly difficult to access in Quebec and this trend must be reversed.
The Parti Québécois wants to strengthen the teaching of our national history. The number of Quebec history lessons at the elementary and secondary levels is clearly insufficient. A Parti Québécois government will reduce the total number of hours of history teaching in secondary school from 350 to 500. This is a measure that will cost $ 7 million. “We must increase the pride and sense of belonging of young Quebecers of all origins. This is an important investment for the future of Quebec, ”said the leader of the Parti Québécois.
“Teaching our history and defending our culture are fundamental values for the Parti Québécois. The measures we are proposing are clear. They are encrypted. Let us never forget that for a society, culture is not an expense, it is a profitable investment both economically and socially. In the Parti Québécois, we choose to be proud of our language, our culture, our history and we choose to affirm it, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
