Trois-Rivières– The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, is committed to adopting a Quebec charter of secularism in order to have clear rules for living well together. “Since 2006, reasonable accommodation for religious reasons has often taken center stage in the media and has been the subject of heated and sometimes even heated debates within the population of Quebec. The Liberal government did nothing. It has not adopted any clear rule to respond to requests for religious accommodation within the government as well as in the education and health networks. We will remedy it, ”she assured.
A PQ government will develop a Quebec charter on secularism in public services. This charter will stipulate that Quebec is a secular state, neutral in relation to the beliefs or non-beliefs of each other in matters of religion. Freedom of religion may not be invoked to infringe the right to equality between women and men or the proper functioning of public and parastatal institutions. Civil servants and parastatals must refrain from wearing, in the exercise of their official functions, any conspicuous religious symbol. The charter of secularism will finally allow the courts to be able to interpret the law according to a reference text and not according to a case-law established on a case-by-case basis.
“Quebecers want clear rules. For example, a person cannot refuse to be served by a person of the opposite sex in public services. We must protect our values out of respect for our history and out of respect for those who have chosen Quebec as a land of freedom where religion does not intervene in public affairs, explained Pauline Marois. We want Quebecers of all origins to meet, to get to know each other and to live together. We want a &quot;tightly mixed&quot; society! &quot;.
“Affirming secularism does not mean above all that the state will ban religions. We respect all beliefs. Moreover, secularism protects the freedom to believe just as much as that not to believe. A secular state must be based on strict respect for freedom of conscience, which also implies not believing, ”added the leader of the Parti Québécois.
“This debate does not only concern people who come from elsewhere and who have decided to live with us, which we are particularly happy about. This social debate concerns us all. We don&#39;t have to apologize for being who we are. There is no question of touching certain traditions that are part of our heritage, such as that of the Christmas tree. We are one of the most tolerant and open peoples on the planet, but we want our values, such as equality between women and men, to be fully respected by all, ”she said.
“Quebecers are open and proud to welcome people from all over the world. However, we want to keep our identity, our language, our institutions and our values. Unfortunately, on this issue, as in many others, the Liberal government dragged its feet. He did not do the job Quebeckers expected of their Prime Minister, ”she lamented, recalling that the Bouchard-Taylor commission, which was supposed to provide solutions to these problems, gave absolutely nothing. . The report has been tableted.
“Quebec values are not negotiable. We don&#39;t have to apologize for being who we are. Arbitrating reasonable accommodation should not be the job of public servants. It is up to the Government of Quebec to set clear guidelines and we will do so, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
