Quebec, February 17, 2017 - This morning during an interpellation, Sylvain Gaudreault, Member of Parliament for Jonquière and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois responsible for the Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean region, and Mireille Jean, Member of Parliament for Chicoutimi, proposed solutions to the government that would allow the region to find new impetus.
“In terms of employment and industrial investments, for example, we are asking the government to take the hand that we have extended to it to draw up the results of the ten years of the continuity agreement with Rio Tinto, and this, with other partners, such as chambers of commerce and the company itself. At the very least, the government must initiate a dialogue and study the situation! At present, he has given up his role of leader by making himself more the spokesperson of Rio Tinto than that of the citizens; it&#39;s worrying, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
The members also criticized the Liberals for having taken purely administrative decisions, disconnected from the field, which had serious consequences in Saguenay – Lac Saint-Jean. For example, the transfer of esophageal surgeries to Quebec City will cause sick people long hours of travel. In terms of distance to travel, the merger of the regional offices of certain ministries with those of the North Shore is another aberration. The abandonment of the Tshiueten project, the only aboriginal school off reserve in Quebec, also illustrates the government&#39;s lack of knowledge and sensitivity towards regional realities.
Ms. Jean and Mr. Gaudreault also regret that the government has failed to recognize the importance of the issues affecting farmers in the region, such as the disappearance of slaughterhouses, the difficulties encountered by succession when transferring a business. from one generation to the next, or the expected designation of Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean as an agroboreal and northern region.
At the end of the exercise, the deputies could only deplore the lack of interest and leadership of the government, which failed to answer the many questions, however serious and crucial, affecting the region. “The Prime Minister did not consider it important to come and answer our questions, to reassure the people of his own region. So it&#39;s a big disappointment; we note that the concerns of the population leave Philippe Couillard indifferent. He is not listening to the people of Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean. He does not play his role, purely and simply, ”concluded Mireille Jean.
