Montreal - The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, announced today, in the presence of the Minister for the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, that additional financial assistance of $ 3.85 million was granted to the Chic-Chocs School Board to ensure the realization of its vocational training center project in Sainte-Anne-des-Monts.
“This announcement is in line with the government&#39;s desire to improve the match between the training offer and the workforce needs in Quebec. We are very proud to grant this financial assistance and thus to contribute to the social and economic development of the region, while meeting the needs for qualified workers recognized in these training sectors, ”declared Minister Malavoy.
This amount is in addition to the $ 1.8 million already allocated in April 2011, bringing the assistance from the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport to $ 5.65 million. These investments are intended to allow the Chic-Chocs School Board to acquire the building and equipment necessary for the simultaneous implementation of the Plumbing and Heating (5333) and Electrical Line Assembly (5185) study programs.
The vocational training center should be able to accommodate approximately 80 new students per year to meet the needs of the labor market. For the Electrical Line Installation study program, this service point will be added to the service offered by the Commission scolaire des Navigateurs.
“By allowing the establishment of this new service point, the government is making the judicious choice to diversify the offer and distribute it better across the territory. This center will attract young people from across Quebec as well as new businesses to Sainte-Anne-des-Monts. Young people in the region will also be able to stay there and have access to attractive training programs with good job prospects, ”Minister Lelièvre said.
In addition to the Ministry of Education, Leisure and Sport, we should mention that other partners are contributing to this project, namely the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy ($ 450,000), the MRC Haute -Gaspésie ($ 200,000), the Regional Conference of Elected Officials of Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine ($ 100,000) as well as the City of Sainte-Anne-des-Monts ($ 300,000).
