Quebec - The MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and Parti Québécois spokesperson for international relations, Carole Poirier, and the MNA for Verchères and spokesperson for Quebec-Canada relations, Stéphane Bergeron, deplored the decision of &#39;Ottawa to give the green light to the sale of armored vehicles to Saudi Arabia and recalled the barbaric treatment inflicted by this country on blogger Raif Badawi. This morning in the House, Ms. Poirier also tabled a motion to this effect, immediately rejected by Philippe Couillard&#39;s Liberals.
“Stéphane Dion&#39;s decision, made public today, to sell light armored vehicles to Saudi Arabia is a real insult to all those who fight in this country for freedom, in particular freedom of expression, and who suffer imprisonment, torture, and sometimes even death in perfectly inhuman conditions, ”declared the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve.
Recall that in February 2015, the National Assembly unanimously adopted a motion asking the governments of Quebec and Canada to do everything in their power so that Raif Badawi can finally join his spouse and children in Quebec. “Since his election, the Prime Minister of Canada seems much less interested in the release of Raif Badawi, while, for him and his family, the urgency is no less great, quite the contrary. A few days ago, Justin Trudeau even said that we should not go too fast on this file. Too fast, when he&#39;s been languishing in prison for four years? The priority of the new Canadian liberal government is obviously not to upset the Saudi authorities - and to have the time to deliver the tanks to the kingdom -, rather than to respect its commitments and to defend the most elementary human rights ”, has for his part added Stéphane Bergeron.
“By refusing this morning to give its consent to the motion, the Liberal government is once again showing inconsistency and improvisation. After having granted a Quebec selection certificate to Mr. Badawi and having undertaken to plead his case with Ottawa, Philippe Couillard once again prefers to bow down in front of the Canadian big brother. It is inconsistent and irresponsible. This government is simply not up to the courage shown by Raif Badawi and his family, ”concluded Carole Poirier.
