Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet today unveiled the results of the first auction of greenhouse gas emission units. greenhouse of the Quebec carbon market.
“This is a first auction for Quebec. The operation went very well and no technical problem was noted, neither on the side of the Ministry nor on the side of the bidders. The auction generated revenues of over $ 29 million, which is in line with our expectations. The market works, and it works well, ”said Minister Blanchet.
Of the 2.97 million units of 2013 greenhouse gas emissions put up for sale, 1.0 million units were sold. In addition, 1.7 million emission units in 2016 found takers. All of these units sold at $ 10.75 / tonne, at par with the floor price set by the government.
The cap-and-trade system is an economic tool that offers flexibility to companies in meeting their obligations, in particular with regard to their strategy for purchasing emission units. The first compliance period will end on December 31, 2014, and companies will still have the opportunity to participate in four more auctions.
Only one auction was held in Quebec in 2013. As of 2014, the government of Quebec will hold four auctions per year. The number of units that will be put up for sale in subsequent auctions will therefore be four times less than it was for this one. It was therefore foreseeable at this time that the government would not dispose of all the available emission units.
“We are very satisfied with the results of this first auction and confident that the remaining units will be sold in the next auctions. In addition, the government of Quebec will link its carbon market to that of California on January 1, 2014, which will certainly stimulate transactions on the market and offer new business opportunities for Quebec and Californian companies ”, he added. indicated the minister.
It should be noted that the carbon market is the centerpiece of Quebec&#39;s strategy to fight climate change and should generate revenues of more than $ 3 billion by 2020. These revenues will be entirely devoted to measures to reduce emissions. greenhouse gases and better prepare Quebec society to adapt to the impacts of climate change.
The results of the December 3 auction are available on the website of the Ministère du Développement durable, de l&#39;Environnement, de la Faune et des Parcs, at: www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca/changements /carbon.
Please note that the next sale will take place on Tuesday March 4, 2014. The notice will be published on the website on Friday January 3, 2014. The registration period will begin on the same day.
