Quebec - The member for Sanguinet and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of the economy, Alain Therrien, as well as the member for Taschereau and spokesperson in matters of ethics and integrity, Agnès Maltais, deplore the fact that the parliamentary committee on the sale of Rona, held yesterday, once again confirmed the Prime Minister&#39;s total lack of sense of state, accountability and ministerial responsibility, as well as his disinterest in the Quebec economy. In addition, they insisted that the former minister Jacques Daoust and the chief of staff of the Prime Minister, Jean-Louis Dufresne, appear in their turn in parliamentary committee.
“Yesterday, we had proof that Jacques Daoust lied. He even changed his side of the story in the media this morning. Not only was he informed of the sale, but he also washed his hands of it! However, there is an even more serious problem, and it concerns the Prime Minister. What did Philippe Couillard know? When did he learn the sale? What did he ask for information? Why did several days pass before Minister Dominique Anglade finally found out what had happened to Rona&#39;s actions, when several people knew the answer? “Asked Alain Therrien.
“Worse still: we now know that on June 3, the Prime Minister&#39;s Office was informed about the sale of shares by Jacques Daoust&#39;s chief of staff, Pierre Ouellet. However, for weeks and months, the Prime Minister repeated in every forum that he had no reason not to believe his minister. Why did Philippe Couillard&#39;s entourage let him say anything to parliamentarians and the public? Regardless of the answer to this question, however, all the possibilities are worrying as regards the management of the Quebec state and its economy, ”added the spokesperson.
Jacques Daoust and Jean-Louis Dufresne must testify In the eyes of the member for Taschereau, so that all light is finally shed on this affair, it is essential that the members of the Liberal Party of Quebec agree to summon Jacques Daoust and Jean-Louis Dufresne in committee. “Does respect for institutions still mean anything to the members of the Liberal Party? Does a parliamentarian have the right to lie in the House, to lie to the public, and, after having resigned, simply say: I am changing my version of the facts? Faced with such a situation, such a denial of responsibility, how can we fail to understand the cynicism of the population? We need to know the whole story; Jacques Daoust and Jean-Louis Dufresne must be heard in parliamentary committee, ”concluded Agnès Maltais.
