Quebec– The leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of economy, energy and natural resources, Alain Therrien, as well as the spokesperson in matters of finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, ask Philippe Couillard to explain to Quebecers why Investissement Québec, under his government, liquidated the block of shares it owned and which had allowed the Quebec government to block the first attempt to acquire Rona by Lowe&#39;s, in 2012.
“While the government had a large block of shares allowing it to intervene to protect Rona, we learned this morning that the Liberals sold these shares, sending the message to the Caisse de dépôt that it could do the same. The Prime Minister must explain why his government has let down Rona&#39;s employees and suppliers, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
The leader of the official opposition believes that the Liberal government must be transparent and indicate why, when, to whom and at what price the Rona shares were sold. &quot;If, today, the government finds itself confined to the role of spectator, it is because it preferred to make a short-term gain to improve the financial results of Investissement Québec rather than to favor the economic development of Quebec,&quot; as well as jobs and businesses related to Rona, ”he added.
Job promises
“Every time a Quebec flagship has been purchased, Quebeckers have been promised that the head office and the jobs will stay here. However, we realize that after 5, 6 or 7 years, these promises no longer keep. Quebec cannot afford to lose Rona&#39;s head office, with the financial department, the legal department and all the specialized jobs that this represents, ”continued Nicolas Marceau.
“In 2013, Philippe Couillard agreed with the sale of Rona to foreign interests. This clearly shows that he does not know anything about the economy and that he does not understand the importance of head offices for Quebec. The Parti Québécois government tabled a report produced by respected independent business experts, including Claude Séguin and Monique Jérôme-Forget, on the protection of head offices. This report was tabled by the Liberals. Philippe Couillard must, however, implement the recommendations made by the working group, without delay, ”insisted Mr. Marceau.
Dominique Anglade fails his first test
Alain Therrien believes that the new Minister of the Economy has failed miserably in his first test. “Ms. Anglade is delighted with the transaction. The spokesperson for Lowe&#39;s couldn&#39;t say better, he thundered. There will be impacts for Rona&#39;s 15,000 employees in Quebec and the company&#39;s hundreds of suppliers. Currently, half of Rona&#39;s purchases are made in Quebec, while Lowe&#39;s suppliers are American. In Quebec, Rona, it is an economic impact of 2 billion dollars per year. How does the government plan to defend our suppliers when decisions are made in North Carolina? », Concluded the member for Sanguinet.
