Jonquière - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, accompanied by the Minister of Transport, Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announced the payment of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 49,085 to the Société de la Vallée de l&#39;aluminium for the organization of its 5th Salon La Vallée de l&#39;aluminium en affaires, an event that contributes to strengthen a key niche of excellence in the region, namely aluminum processing.
The 2014 Aluminum Valley in Business Show will take place on May 6, 7 and 8, 2014 at the University Complex of the University of Quebec in Chicoutimi, on the theme Allies through gray matter. This event will bring together all stakeholders in the aluminum industry, including companies from the Aluminum Valley®, international companies, contractors, sector experts, socioeconomic partners as well as students.
&quot;The transformation of aluminum is one of our ACCORD niches of excellence, which aim to pool the expertise and dynamism of our regional companies in order to ensure Quebec&#39;s influence throughout the world,&quot; declared Élaine Zakaïb. “The 2013-2017 Québec Industrial Policy relies on these niches of excellence to give new impetus to the manufacturing sector in all regions of Québec. It is therefore with enthusiasm that our government supports this show, which vigorously contributes to the growth of this niche so important for the region. &quot;
Minister Sylvain Gaudreault, for his part, expressed his pride in supporting such a structuring project for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region “This unifying event will allow our regional companies in the aluminum processing sector to multiply opportunities business and expand their network. We are proud to contribute to the holding of this show, which consolidates our region&#39;s position as a world leader in a dynamic and diverse aluminum industry. &quot;
Founded in 2001, the Société de la Vallée de l&#39;aluminium aims to recognize the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region as one of the main poles of the aluminum industry in Quebec and around the world. . Its presence promotes the success of SMEs already present in the region and facilitates the creation of new businesses. The organization also manages the Aluminum Transformation niche of excellence in the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region.
“The financial support of the Government of Quebec is very important for the growth of our companies active in the transformation of aluminum in Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean,” said the president of the Société de la Vallée de l&#39;aluminium, Mr. Arthur Gobeil. “The 2014 Aluminum Valley in Business Show is an unmissable event for companies in our region and also a privileged opportunity for them to create fruitful partnerships and increase their positioning in international markets. &quot;
