Paris-Le Bourget– On the sidelines of the 50th Paris-Le Bourget International Aeronautics and Space Exhibition, which takes place from June 17 to 23, 2013, the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec , Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, today made four important announcements concerning the Quebec aerospace sector: the establishment in Quebec of the French company ATEM, the merger of the company AV&amp;R Vision &amp; Robotique with the Quebec engineering firm IMAC Automation, the signing of a collaboration agreement between the École nationale d&#39;aérotechnique du Collège Édouard-Montpetit and the company Aerolia, as well as the completion of a Sinters America project valued at $ 352,000 for which the company received support from the Government of Quebec and financial support of $ 140,800. Minister Zakaïb took the opportunity to highlight Quebec&#39;s strengths in aerospace and to underline the dynamism of Quebec businesses and organizations operating in this sector.
“Today&#39;s announcements make me very proud of our aerospace sector,” said Minister Delegate Élaine Zakaïb. In terms of expertise and know-how, Quebec has undeniable assets. Our workforce is competent, our vast research network is efficient and well-structured and our companies present a diversified and complementary offer. &quot;
ATEM is a design and manufacture of coaxial cables and RF (radio frequency) assembly for the aerospace industry. Last March, the French company created the ATEM Canada subsidiary. The establishment of this subsidiary in Quebec will make available expertise that does not yet exist here and will allow the creation of around ten jobs.
AV&amp;R Vision &amp; Robotique, for its part, specializes in the creation of automated systems for visual inspection and finishing of gas turbine parts for the aeronautics and energy sectors. The company will merge with the Quebec engineering firm IMAC Automatisation to form the AV&amp;R Group. This merger will allow it to double its workforce and increase its presence on a global scale.
As for the collaboration agreement announced between the National School of Aerotechnics (ENA) of the Édouard-Montpetit College and the French company Aerolia, recently established in Montreal, it provides, among other things, that Aerolia will offer internships and hire college and ENA students. This long-term collaboration is part of the company&#39;s desire to expand in Quebec and to rely on its Quebec partners.
Finally, Sinters America, which specializes in particular in the design and manufacture of maintenance systems and tools for aircraft servicing, has developed electronic boards for pressure sensors that will be used by the French company Thales Avionique. By providing technical and financial support to Sinters America, the Government of Quebec has helped the company establish itself with this world leader in the industry.
“For Quebec&#39;s strengths to translate into commercial success, we need concrete projects that will take our industry even further and that will make us shine more on the international scene,” added Minister Zakaïb. These three initiatives will undoubtedly contribute to the growth and vitality of the Quebec aerospace sector. &quot;
Recall that Minister Élaine Zakaïb and Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, are at the head of a Quebec delegation made up of some fifty industrialists from the Quebec aerospace sector who are participating this week at the International Exhibition. of aeronautics and the Paris-Le Bourget space.
For the occasion, they are accompanied by representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, the Ministry of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and of Technology, Investissement Québec, Montréal International and Aéro Montréal.
