Paris, France– On the occasion of the 50th &lt;| sup&gt; Paris-Le Bourget International Aeronautics and Space Show, which runs until June 23, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, participated today in the announcement of major private investments that will contribute to the growth of the Quebec aerospace sector.
On the sidelines of these announcements, Minister Marceau reaffirmed that aerospace is a dynamic sector of the Quebec economy which employs approximately 42,500 people in Quebec in 215 companies. In 2012, aerospace sales reached $ 12 billion, representing 55% of all sales in Canada in this sector.
“Quebec, and more specifically the Montreal region, is an important player on the global aerospace scene. We can count on the presence of several large companies, including Bombardier Aerospace, Bell Helicopter Textron Canada, Pratt &amp; Whitney Canada and CAE. In addition, Montreal is host to several international organizations related to aviation, ”said Nicolas Marceau.
Specializing in major study and co-development projects and in simulation and virtual reality solutions, particularly for large aeronautical companies, the French company Sogeclair has announced the opening of its Canadian subsidiary in the Montreal region. It plans to hire around 50 people over the next three years, mostly in the engineering sector.
The French company AHE, a parts distributor for major manufacturers in the aerospace industry, will open a division in the Montreal region which will serve as a business base for the North American territory. This new player in the Quebec aerospace sector is expected to hire around 20 people over the next three years.
Aéro Montréal, Quebec&#39;s aerospace cluster, has announced the launch of the call for applications for the third cohort of its MACH initiative. The goal of this initiative is to improve the performance of aerospace SMEs in order to increase the competitiveness of Quebec&#39;s aerospace supply chain.
Aerospace Cluster in Rhône-Alpes, a grouping of companies, research laboratories and training centers from France, has signed a framework collaboration agreement with Aéro Montréal. The two organizations will establish relationships in order to promote joint projects.
Designer and manufacturer of large-dimension carbon parts and molds with very high levels of complexity serving, among others, in the aerospace sector, Loiretech will establish itself in Quebec through the creation of a joint venture, Loiretech Canada, with the Quebec SME Composites VCI of Saint-Lin-Laurentides.
Loiretech Canada wishes to produce and market all of its products in North America from its facilities which will be located in Mirabel. About twenty operators will be employed there by 2016.
“I am happy with the completion of these promising projects for the development of the Quebec aerospace sector. These partnerships, which are taking shape today, will enable us to strengthen our position as a world leader. Quebec offers a qualified workforce and a competitive business environment. We also have a specialized education network that effectively contributes to the training of workers in the sector. Finally, our aerospace R&amp;D system is very important: 70% of all R&amp;D activities in Canada are carried out in Quebec, and several specialized organizations, such as the Consortium for research and innovation in aerospace of Quebec and the Technology Center in aerospace industry, are established there. All these elements make Quebec a partner of choice for businesses in the sector who want to establish themselves here, ”Nicolas Marceau concluded.
