Quebec - As the special consultations in connection with Bill 27 on educational childcare services begin, the member for Terrebonne and official opposition spokesperson for families, Mathieu Traversy, once again asked the minister to back down on the sanctions imposed on parents, which she refuses to do.
“This morning, I was in front of the Minister of Families to demand that she back down on the financial penalty she wants to impose on parents. I ask him to listen to families and the child care community, who are very concerned about the actions of the Liberal government. Why maintain this vagueness on sanctions and on the new ways of doing things in his ministry? Bill 27 is improvised and does not tackle the real problems, which are the scarcity of spaces and the lack of flexibility in the offer of childcare services. In addition, the funding of daycare services must be able to benefit from more flexibility in order to allow the development of part-time or non-standard places, ”said Mathieu Traversy.
“Like the speakers we heard this morning, we believe that the Minister of Families must set up the working committees necessary to deepen the recommendations of the Chantier report on the quality and sustainability of childcare services and on the optimization of childcare services. their financing, carried out by Maurice Boisvert. The report was not an end in itself; it was a starting point. Such a complex problem requires flexible and thoughtful solutions, ”added the MP.
Mathieu Traversy also deplored the absence of Québec solidaire in the parliamentary committee; obviously, the party did not see fit to come and hear the participants and defend the fact that parents should not be punished.
Nominees in subsidized private daycare centers
“Minister Francine Charbonneau candidly admitted this morning that a subsidized private daycare was probably an interesting market for people who want to make money. A case of a nominee having been brought to light by Radio-Canada, what does it intend to do to ensure that the rules are respected and that the well-being of children is the top priority? », Concluded the member of the Parti Québécois.
