Quebec, February 15, 2021 - Aware that the biggest challenge for the authorities in the coming weeks will be to maintain the public&#39;s support for health measures, the Parti Québécois believes that the government has three duties: to return to a color code based on clear and precise indicators, make public the opinions of regional public health directorates, and, more importantly, give them more influence over decisions that affect them. For his health critic, the deputy for Îles-de-la-Madeleine, Joël Arseneau, it is a question of logic, consistency and transparency.
IN SHORT
The epidemiological situation differs greatly from one region to another; however, the government insists on dividing Quebec in two, in a completely arbitrary fashion. “We have, on one side, the red areas then, on the other, the orange areas. Nothing else, while nuances would certainly be indicated - otherwise, why is Quebec suggesting that it will concentrate its vaccination efforts in Montreal? In addition, the public health criteria associated with the different areas are not known. A return to a real regional alert system - following the example of Ontario&#39;s - based on scientific data is necessary. Thus, the measures imposed will better reflect the epidemiological reality of each region. Of course, it will have to be explained adequately to Quebecers, ”claimed Joël Arseneau.
In the same vein, the Parti Québécois is convinced that the best thing to do, from a health point of view, would be to decentralize the approach. “The regional directors of public health are those who know best the social and epidemiological reality of their territory. It is therefore essential that they be given a voice in the chapter on the sanitary rules corresponding to their specific situation, that is to say that they can express themselves on the most opportune, judicious and useful measures to put in place, and this, in each of the regions, ”added the member for Îles-de-la-Madeleine.
Finally, always with the aim of maintaining the support and collaboration of the public, more transparency is required. “We are asking for the opinions and recommendations of the regional public health directorates to be tabled. It&#39;s a question of consistency. When we ask people to comply with restrictive measures, they must have all the power, ”concluded Joël Arseneau.
– 30 –
SOURCE :
Laura Chouinard-Thuly
Press Officer
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois
514 880-9594
Laura.Chouinard-Thuly@assnat.qc.ca
