Quebec, April 27, 2020 - The deputy for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and Parti Québécois health spokesperson, Joël Arseneau, calls for the creation of support teams in mental health. These resources, free of charge, would be aimed at the entire population: families who are going through a difficult period - due in particular to job loss, illness or the death of a loved one -, workers in health, confronted daily with traumatic experiences, as well as all those who experience psychological distress as a result of the current crisis.
IN SHORT
“In recent weeks, our world has changed. Thousands of Quebecers have lost their jobs. We are confined to the house. Everywhere, we live with uncertainty, instability, isolation. Visits to CHSLDs are no longer possible, social distancing requires. The disturbing testimonies multiply; seniors are afraid and their loved ones are worried. Many are going through a bereavement that they did not expect on their own. And healthcare workers have been thrown into the heart of the storm; every day they see the inconceivable. There is no doubt that in this context, the level of stress and anxiety increases in many people. To avoid a crisis after the crisis, we must act now, take the lead, reach out to people, ”said Joël Arseneau.
This is why the Parti Québécois is asking the government to set up psychological support teams and to make their services accessible to all. “Made up of mental health professionals, these teams would listen to women, men, seniors, young people or workers who need to express their moods because they are faced with a disconcerting situation and deprived of their usual circle of support. They would offer support in the grieving process, advice to better manage uncertainty and anxiety, possible solutions for people who are victims of abuse, or simply a listening ear to relieve the pain. The services would obviously be free, and adapted to the particular needs of each one ”, explained the deputy.
To do this, Joël Arseneau proposes to first take advantage of the platform currently used by doctors to offer online consultations. Eventually, services by telephone or in person may also be set up. “It is undeniable: for all kinds of reasons, the crisis is causing psychological distress in many people. At the start of the pandemic, mental health professionals insisted on the need to help the population psychologically. And the Minister of Health herself declared a few weeks ago that all Quebecers would have access to such support, if necessary. It is time to take action and deploy the available resources, ”he insisted.
