Roxton Falls– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Member of Parliament for Johnson, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announced, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Bank of economic development of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation, through Investissement Quebec, of a loan of $ 350,000 and a guarantee on a line of credit to the company Roski Composites of Roxton Falls, specializing in the manufacture of watercraft hulls and bodies.
&quot;Continuation of activities was a priority for us,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “When the management team of the Roxton Falls plant expressed its intention to acquire the assets of the former owner, Investissement Québec immediately embarked on a relaunch project with the shareholders, which enabled around a hundred employees are back on the road to work, ”said Ms. Zakaïb.
Following the announcement of an anticipated decline in the order book, members of the company&#39;s management have in fact decided to ensure its sustainability by purchasing it. Convinced of being able to continue activities with existing customers and of being able to find new outlets, they set up a financial package with their partners, thus allowing the relaunch of the company.
&quot;The Roxton Falls sector has all the advantages of a center with industrial potential outside the large centers,&quot; explained Yves-François Blanchet. “This vocation must be supported and jobs must be preserved. In a context of difficult international competition, the Camoplast plant in Roxton Falls almost remained there. It took the courage of solid entrepreneurs and the desire of the Government of Quebec to support them, for around a hundred jobs to be revived. I am sure that they are only the first and that with this new partnership between government and entrepreneurship Roxton Falls will emerge grown. And well more than 100 workers will find their account there. &quot;
&quot;Thanks to our partners, including Investissement Québec, our local employment center, the Business Development Bank of Canada, the community development agency and Desjardins, we were able to make a new start,&quot; said Mr. Yves Carbonneau, President and CEO of Roski Composites. “Our experience and our in-depth knowledge in the field of composites make us a benchmark. We are well positioned to seek new agreements and develop new market segments over the next few years. &quot;
The factory acquired by Roski Composites was founded in Roxton Falls in 1963 and was then devoted to the manufacture of snowmobile hoods. Today, it produces large parts in composite materials, mainly watercraft hulls and bodies.
