Quebec - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, today launched the 26th safety campaign at Saint-Michel de Sillery school. by school transport. This awareness campaign will take place from February 3 to 14 on the theme “Have you seen me? &quot;.
Once again this year, the Ministère des Transports, the Société de l&#39;assurance automobile du Québec and the Commission des transports du Québec are joining the Association du transport ecolier du Québec (ATEQ) in emphasizing the importance of adopting safe behavior. around and in school vehicles.
At the launch of the campaign, Minister Sylvain Gaudreault praised ATEQ&#39;s commitment to safety: “This initiative, for which ATEQ is the prime contractor and for which it has surrounded itself with partners from public and private sectors, appears all the more appropriate as each year sees the arrival of a new cohort of schoolchildren who must be taught safety rules.
“Likewise, it is just as essential to remind all school clients on a regular basis of the importance of remaining vigilant and respecting the instructions surrounding school transportation. Moreover, road users, even the most experienced, also periodically need a salutary reminder in this matter, ”the Minister recalled.
In 2012, the road record related to school transport improved compared to 2011, going from 365 to 301 victims of an accident related to school transport. Of these, 277 people were slightly injured and 19 were seriously injured. Five people died, but none were between the ages of 5 and 17. “We cannot say it enough: one victim, young or adult, is one too many victims. In order for the school bus to remain one of the safest modes of transportation, extra care must be taken near school buses as well as when approaching and within school zones, ”said Nathalie Jacques. , Director of Road Safety Development for the Société de l&#39;assurance automobile du Québec.
It is with enthusiasm that the Commission des transports du Québec is once again participating in the ATEQ&#39;s annual school transport safety campaign.
The President of the Commission, Mr. Daniel Bureau, takes this opportunity to stress that school transport safety concerns us all. All users of the road network must obviously obey traffic rules and exercise extra caution when approaching a school bus. However, transporters have a key role to play, because they must put in place effective means to ensure the safety of their vehicles and their drivers, who are, day after day, at the heart of school transport.
This campaign is an opportunity to remind people that the Commission can, if necessary, intervene with owners, operators or drivers of heavy vehicles in order to get them to change behavior that would be at risk for road safety.
