Quebec - At the end of the second forum on the hypersexualization of young people, the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister responsible of the Status of Women and Member of Parliament for Sainte-Rose, Suzanne Proulx, noted that the discussions were fruitful and that interesting avenues of solutions to counter this phenomenon were presented.
“The government is very sensitive to the issue of gender stereotypes that undermine the achievement of equality between women and men. He is concerned about the hypersexualization of young girls which is unfortunately present in our society. Ultimately, what we want as a government is for young Quebec women to be better equipped to resist the pressure imposed on them by certain reductive female models, ”declared Ms. Maltais.
The day was devoted to the study and description of the problem through presentations given by university researchers and lecturers. Nearly 120 participants took part in the Québec forum on hypersexualization, including various national and regional organizations concerned by the issue.
“It is important to find, in addition to the actions already carried out, other sustainable and innovative solutions; we must think outside the box to counter hypersexualization. In this regard, it is imperative to collectively question ourselves so that our young girls grow up in an environment that resembles us as a society, ”said Ms. Proulx.
Remember that in addition to the forum held today in Quebec City, the Minister&#39;s parliamentary assistant held a first forum in Laval on January 30. The member for Sainte-Rose will be leading other forums this spring in Quebec. These days aim to enrich the actions already undertaken and to inspire new ones to act in the face of hypersexualization. They are in line with the orientations of the Government Action Plan for Equality between Women and Men 2011-2015 and the Government Policy for Equality between Women and Men.
