Québec, May 27, 2020 - Sylvain Roy, the deputy for Bonaventure and Parti Québécois forestry spokesperson, joins his voice to those of the many organizations and companies in the forestry sector who are busy these days in organize the silvicultural work for the coming summer season. “On the one hand, we want to know if the budgets of $ 225 million announced will be maintained and used exclusively for silvicultural work; on the other hand, we demand that the issue of work planning, which comes up every year, be settled once and for all, ”he said.
IN SHORT
Sylvain Roy agrees: the forest is not on the list of hot topics this spring. Nevertheless, we must ensure the viability of the activities of this essential sector for the economy of several regions and thousands of families in Quebec. “In Gaspésie, Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean and the Côte-Nord, among others, the economy is based on the forestry sector. To abandon it would be catastrophic, especially given all the upheavals that the tourism industry, the fishing industry and the entire agri-food sector will experience this summer, due to the pandemic. If, in addition, the forest did not have a precise plan, a decent budget, the worst would certainly be to be expected for these regions. I therefore ask the Minister of Forests, Pierre Dufour, to confirm the budgets already announced for this year, which total $ 225 million, ”he demanded.
In addition, the deputy underlines that during a press briefing held in Dolbeau-Mistassini, the actors of the forest reminded Prime Minister Legault that he had made a commitment, before and during the electoral campaign of 2018, to give them three years of predictability. “Since then, nothing. Less than nothing, even, given that the Ministry of Wildlife, Forests and Parks canceled scheduled work and delayed the start of the season, all while carefully avoiding talking about money. In this context, how do you want us to organize ourselves on the ground? Asked the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois.
He adds that for several years, the Parti Québécois has been calling for concrete actions for the forest and its workers. “In 2013, we organized, in Saint-Félicien, the first national meeting of the Quebec forest, with Ms. Marois. At the end of this summit, the conclusions were clear: in order to be able to better plan its activities, the forestry world should benefit from more predictability and enjoy better consultation with the ministry. The Liberal government, unfortunately, did not follow up on these recommendations, and we note that the CAQ government is also tempted to take the path that must be avoided at all costs, that of negligence. However, we must act immediately; more than 60,000 jobs are at stake! Insisted the member for Bonaventure, who refuses to allow forest workers to bear the brunt of any budgetary recovery measures resulting from the pandemic.
