Quebec - The federal Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food, Mr. Gerry Ritz, and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, are pleased to announce a $ 19 million investment to support initiatives from the Quebec agrifood sector aimed at developing markets and improving business performance and competitiveness. This financial support, spread over a period of five years, is part of the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies 2 (PSSSD 2), which is implemented under the Canada-Quebec agreement. 2.
&quot;The Government of Canada is proud to support the Quebec agri-food sector by making strategic investments that stimulate innovation and economic growth. Growing the Future 2 offers versatile and innovative programs that provide Quebec farmers and processors with the tools they need. need to remain competitive and enter new markets, ”said Minister Ritz.
The purpose of this program is to encourage industry leaders to work together and act in synergy to design and carry out partnership projects and initiatives that will benefit the entire agrifood industry. The sector here refers to all the production, processing and distribution companies that are mobilized to market agrifood products with the same basic elements or distinctive characteristics.
“One of the axes of the Food Sovereignty Policy is the enhancement of the economic potential of the biofood sector. In this perspective, we must support the development of the various sectors. The objectives pursued by means of this program are the improvement of the competitiveness of companies and the development of markets and these are precisely the priorities of the Policy. We could not aim more fairly with the PSSSD 2 ”, declared François Gendron.
The PSSSD 2 has four components which relate respectively to sector development, sectoral strategic plans, value chains and sector consultation. This last component is new compared to the previous version of the program. It should allow sector consultation organizations to hire development agents who will act as project managers to facilitate the design and implementation of sector development projects.
It should be remembered that the governments of Canada and Quebec, by concluding the bilateral agreement Growing the Future 2, associated with it funding of $ 293 million spread over a period of 5 years, from 2013 to 2018. This important agreement aims to support strategic initiatives in terms of innovation, competitiveness and market development, both for the benefit of the agricultural sector and for the benefit of the food processing sector.
For more information on the pan-Canadian Growing Forward 2 initiatives, those interested can visit Internetwww.agr.gc.ca/cultivonslavenir.ca. To find out more about the shared-cost programs of Growing the Future 2 that are being implemented in Quebec, they can consult www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/cultivonslavenir.
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can regularly consult the blog www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or visit the sectionwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSAd of the Ministère&#39;s website. It is also possible to follow the latter on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
