The vice-leader of the Parti Québécois, Véronique Hivon, as well as the candidates Carole Poirier (Hochelaga-Maisonneuve) and Jean-Martin Aussant (Pointe-aux-Trembles), presented the Parti Québécois plan to get rid of dilapidated schools. “Our vision is ambitious, yet serious and achievable: zero mold, zero leaky roof, zero fungus. Healthy schools, up-to-date services. This is what our children deserve, ”declared Véronique Hivon straight away.
IN SHORT
“It&#39;s no secret that the Liberals&#39; negligence in the management of our public infrastructure has had consequences for our little ones. Never in the history of Quebec have our schools been in such poor condition. We in the Parti Québécois say: enough is enough! Our children have the right to schools without mold, without a leaky roof, without fungus. Healthy schools are the basis for making people want to learn! », Continued the vice ‑ chef.
Helping dilapidated schools “During the study of the most recent Quebec Infrastructure Plan, we noted that the maintenance deficit of our schools has exploded. Half of them are in a condition deemed &quot;bad&quot; or &quot;very bad&quot;. Sadly, this illustrates perfectly to what extent liberal austerity has been harmful, ”for her part lamented Carole Poirier.
&quot;The Parti Québécois will reverse the trend,&quot; assured Jean-Martin Aussant. To achieve this, we will add $ 2.3 billion to the QIP, just for the renovation and construction of schools. School boards will have more autonomy to plan and accelerate maintenance or renovation projects. If, as a society, we consider it a priority to ensure the success of every child, we must provide them with healthy schools, that is the minimum! But that&#39;s not all: we also want new projects to be more attractive, more beautiful, lively and inviting, ”he explained.
Ensure a minimum threshold of professional services to students. Forever.
&quot;The austerity of the previous government also reduced services for students in difficulty, even though these children are not less numerous!&quot; We are therefore committed to establishing a guaranteed threshold for professional services to students, which will be determined according to needs, by school board, and therefore equitable for all, in each region. In addition, thanks to our shield law, these services will never be able to pay the price for future governments again. The number of remedial teachers, psychologists and speech therapists will become incompressible. Children will benefit from this, and teachers will finally be properly supported in their tasks, ”said Carole Poirier.
Tackling the precariousness of teachers
“In some school boards, the precariousness rate of teachers is very high. Almost 40% of teachers in Quebec have precarious employment status. The situation is even worse in vocational training and adult education; sometimes teachers retire without ever having obtained a post! We want to tackle the precariousness of teachers, to attract more young people into the profession. We will offer them a stable job, so that they can concentrate on one thing: teaching, ”concluded Véronique Hivon.
