Quebec City - The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to have taken part today in the National Assembly in the 15th edition of the &#39;School of dairy selection of Caseus, the competition of fine cheeses from Quebec. As honorary president of the business, he emphasized the excellence of Quebec cheesemakers.
“It is important for me to pay tribute to the know-how of our cheese producers. Your commitment, your energy and the passion that drives you certainly contribute to the influence of Quebec cheeses, while meeting the needs of consumers and satisfying cheese lovers, ”declared the Minister.
This year, the Golden Caseus was presented to the Presbytery Cheese Factory in St. Elizabeth of Warwick for its Le Bleu d&#39;Élizabeth cheese, which was also honored in several other categories. Since Elizabeth&#39;s Blue wins gold for the second time, the Presbytery Cheese Factory is also awarded the Caseus Emeritus. As for the Silver Caseus, it was awarded to Le Mont-Jacob cheese from Blackburn Cheese Factory, which is based in Jonquière. Unusually, the winner of the Bronze Caseus is the result of the collaboration of two companies, Fromagerie Nouvelle-France, based in Racine, and Fromagerie du Presbytère, for their Pionnier cheese. Finally, Caseus longaevi was awarded to La Station de Compton Cheese Factory for Alfred Le Fermier 24 months; this new prize from the Caseus Selection competition highlights an old cheese to which the cheesemaker has taken special care for a long time.
On the occasion of the ceremony which brought together more than 200 partners and professionals from the cheese industry, Mr. François Gendron presented a total of 24 distinctions highlighting the great cheeses of the year among the 165 products entered in the competition. by more than 40 cheese factories.
“I am proud to support the Sélection Caseus outfit. This is an important competition which shines the spotlight on local talent and which, at the same time, informs consumers about cheeses made in Quebec. In addition, by contributing to the development of the cheese and food processing sectors in Quebec, this activity fits well with the spirit of the Food Sovereignty Policy, ”concluded the Minister.
The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food is the mastermind of this competition. The Institute of Agri-Food Technology, Saint-Hyacinthe campus, thanks to its expertise, also participates in the activity by organizing the cheese trial. Specifically, the Institute looks at blind sensory assessment by a jury of 21 recognized specialists.
For more information on the Sélection Caseus contest or to find out which cheeses are finalists and winners, visit the Internetwww.selectioncaseus.ca site.
In addition, for more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, we invite you to regularly consult the blog (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or the website (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA ) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
