Quebec - Member of Iberville and official opposition spokesperson for families, Marie Bouillé, asks Minister of Families, Yolande James, to distance herself from the remarks made by the Liberal Member of Parliament. Mille-Îles and parliamentary assistant to Minister James, Francine Charbonneau, yesterday in parliamentary committee. The latter suggested that everything should be done to ensure that illegal daycares could continue their commercial activities.
“An illegal daycare, by definition, does not meet the quality standards of the Ministry of the Family. How can the parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Families say that these daycares must be able to continue their operations? That does not make any sense! The safety of our children is at stake. Minister James must quickly distance herself and indicate that her parliamentary assistant has erred, ”declared Marie Bouillé.
For the Parti Québécois, pleading for the maintenance of illegal daycare centers is to say that the Ministry of the Family is not doing its job properly. “Rather than seeing the number of illegal daycare centers increase, the government should put its energy into developing reduced-contribution spaces. That would solve a lot of the current problem. Parents are crying out for help because they are desperate to get a place for their child, ”said Marie Bouillé.
The member for Iberville stresses that quality projects awaiting authorization exist. “With the failed call for tenders in 2008 when we saw the Liberal Party of Quebec use daycare centers for political funding, dozens of projects that received a good evaluation from the ministry were rejected by the minister at the time. , Michelle Courchesne. Let Minister James take this list and sign it. Thus, tomorrow morning we could create 3,500 places, ”she points out.
Unlike the Liberal Party, which takes advantage of reduced-contribution places for political funding, a Parti Québécois government intends to ensure that every child in Quebec has a place in child care. “It has been proven that in addition to being financially profitable, investing in childcare services helps improve the success of our children in their learning at school. For the Parti Québécois, it is an investment for our young people and for success; for the Liberal Party, it is political funding for the Liberal Party of Quebec; for the CAQ, we don&#39;t know, ”concluded Marie Bouillé.
