Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, tabled their third proposal at the Summit on Higher Education. In addition to specifying the government&#39;s approach for the reinvestment of nearly $ 1.8 billion by 2018-2019, this proposal notably provides for improvements to the current funding formula, in light of the concerns expressed by the participants in preparatory meetings for the Summit.
“Quebec universities need stable and long-term resources. The proposal we are tabling has been drawn up against the backdrop of the stability and sustainability of university funding and demonstrates our commitment to the future development of our universities, ”said Prime Minister Pauline Marois.
The government proposes to increase the recurring annual funding of universities by $ 800 million between 2012-2013 and 2018-2019. This increase in funding makes it possible to compensate universities for the shortfall resulting from the cancellation of the tuition fee hike and responds to their funding needs.
The government is also proposing to review the funding policy following the concerns expressed by the participants in the thematic meetings. Indeed, the financing policy will be the subject of a vast work site. Some of the issues that will need to be addressed include:
In addition, the government also wants, through the new funding formula, to specifically support first-generation students and those from disadvantaged backgrounds. This issue will therefore be one of the priorities of this project.
A first report from this working group should be submitted to Minister Pierre Duchesne in December 2013.
Finally, of the total amount of nearly $ 1.8 billion, the government proposes to reinvest $ 1.4 billion in universities as follows:
In addition to these objectives, there is an improvement in the offer of services in the regions and collaboration between establishments.
“The government&#39;s commitment to supporting higher education is undeniable. However, this commitment must correspond to the priorities of Quebeckers. And that is why we have linked the reinvestment to the achievement of national targets. In this sense, we all have a role to play in promoting higher education to all of society. Higher education is for all of us, ”added Minister Pierre Duchesne.
