Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, tabled a second government proposal on the occasion of the Summit on higher education. This proposal includes measures to be put in place, both at CEGEPs and universities, to strengthen research, increase collaboration between higher education institutions and their communities, and better support students.
“This proposal aims not only to strengthen collaboration between higher education establishments, but also collaboration between establishments and their communities. Colleges and universities are important engines for the vitality of communities and for the development of all of Quebec. We suggest that our partners make a joint commitment to strengthen this collaboration and provide services adapted to the reality of communities and students, ”said Premier Pauline Marois.
The government is proposing to invest $ 15 million, starting in 2014-2015, to support university-college projects. The government is also proposing to set up a work-site on the offer of college education in Quebec, in particular to allow greater consultation between CEGEPs and their communities. This site will, through its work, help ensure:
Finally, work will be put forward at the initiative of the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology on the adaptation of technical study programs and the financing of continuing education. regional realities and the needs of the labor market.
The government is proposing four priority avenues for improving student support:
Additional sums of $ 8.3 million will be allocated for the first two objectives in the college and university networks. The government will also invest $ 3M over two years to set up centers of expertise for the recognition of prior learning and skills (CERAC) in the college network. He is announcing today which are the four CEGEPs that will be recognized as CERAC, namely:
Minister Pierre Duchesne reiterated his intentions to hold, from April 2013, the National Research and Innovation Conference which will be part of the process of developing the future national research and innovation policy which will launch later this spring. This policy will give rise to significant reinvestments in the field of research, whether oriented, applied, free or fundamental. Moreover, research will benefit from a reinvestment of $ 26.5 million from 2013-2014 and 25% of the envelope of more than $ 1.7 billion that the government will invest in higher education by 2018. -2019.
The government will also support the implementation of a pilot project aimed at developing a platform for the recognition of prior learning and skills within the University of Quebec, to which other universities that so wish can join.
“No one can deny the importance of our higher education institutions for the development of Quebec. Our discussions have repeatedly shown that higher education institutions make a remarkable contribution to the full development of Quebec society. The proposal tabled by our government shows that these issues are a priority for us, ”added Minister Duchesne.
