P ercé - Accompanied by the Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Gaspé, Gaétan Lelièvre, the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, announces that she will create a government action group for the Gaspé if her team is elected on September 4 . “The regions of Quebec need a new lease of life to regain their momentum towards prosperity. The years of liberal rule slowed down the development of the Gaspé and that of all the regions. It is high time to empower a team that believes in the regions of Quebec and that has already demonstrated its willingness to act. &quot;
&quot;I am also committed to chairing this government action group for the Gaspé as of September 5,&quot; said Pauline Marois, recalling the success of the PQ government&#39;s initiatives for the Gaspé in the early 2000s.
“With the Banque de développement économique du Québec, announced on August 3, entrepreneurs in the Gaspé will not have to run to Quebec or Montreal to obtain financing since it will have its branches in all regions. The Gaspé will therefore also have a one-stop shop for regional entrepreneurs. Many observers are already welcoming this initiative. We must go even further and we are committed to doing so, ”assured Pauline Marois, specifying that specific development strategies must be implemented to better serve the people of the Gaspé.
“There are realities specific to the Gaspé, as in other regions of Quebec. We must respond to them with concrete and adapted solutions, solutions that come from here to solve the problems here. By chairing the action group, I will ensure that Gaspé solutions are selected and implemented, in particular by creating a regional fund to promote the diversification of local economies. And when the model is fine-tuned in the Gaspé, we will export it elsewhere in Quebec, ”said the leader of the Parti Québécois.
“Access to high speed Internet should be a priority in all regions because it allows you to be connected to the world no matter where you are. The Gaspé is no exception. Unfortunately, there are still too many places where this service is not accessible. I therefore make the commitment that at the end of the first term of a Parti Québécois government, all, I mean all, the regions of Quebec will have access to high speed Internet, ”assured Pauline Marois.
“It is time to give new impetus to government action in the Gaspé. This is what a Parti Québécois government will do, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
