Lévis - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, pledges to adopt a policy of food sovereignty if the Parti Québécois is brought to power on September 4. “The agri-food industry is an essential economic sector in Quebec. This industry is part of our identity and it is intimately linked to the way we occupy our territory and develop each of our regions. The Liberal government has been content to consult for several years without taking any action. The Parti Québécois has an ambitious agricultural program. For us, the time has passed for consultation. You have to go into action mode. We want to acquire our food sovereignty, ”assured Pauline Marois.
The main objective of the Parti Québécois&#39; food sovereignty policy will be to reduce the proportion of Quebec food that we consume from 33% to 50%. The advantages of such a policy are numerous. It allows the creation of several jobs, significant private investments in all regions and heightens our pride in consuming products from home.
We are going to modernize the Act respecting the protection of agricultural land and agricultural activities. This law is one of the achievements of which the Parti Québécois is most proud. However, we are faced with new realities and actions must be taken in response to them. We will change existing laws to prohibit the purchase of land by hedge funds. The Parti Québécois is also committed to refocusing La Financière agricole. It will resume supporting the agricultural industry and its producers.
“If each Quebec consumer bought $ 30 more food from our region each year, a billion dollars would be invested in our economy over the next five years. The proportion of food consumed from Quebec has fallen by 45 percentage points since the mid-1980s. This trend must be reversed as quickly as possible, ”she declared following her meeting with members of the Union of agricultural producers.
“This type of meeting is an opportunity to fully understand the concerns of farmers and their representatives. This morning&#39;s meeting allows me to assert without any embarrassment in front of you that the Parti Québécois is not only the party of the regions but the party of farmers! The discussions we had confirmed the orientations taken by the Parti Québécois. In recent years, we have been able to stand up for farmers. We did it because we believe in the agricultural potential of Quebec, ”assured Pauline Marois, presenting her team of candidates from the agricultural world: André Simard, Clément Pouliot, André Beaudoin, Marie Bouillé, Daniel Goyer and François-Gycelain Rocque.
“Making the choice of food sovereignty as proposed by the Parti Québécois is to encourage agriculture with a human face. It is also making the choice to offer a good quality of life to the people who live off their land and their production. The agri-food industry is an essential economic sector and our actions will demonstrate it, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
