Montreal - A government of the Parti Québécois will put Quebec on the road to energy independence. “This is a visionary project for a society that will chart the course of the future for Quebec&#39;s prosperity. If we want to get rich, we must reduce our consumption of oil. Every year, we pay over $ 13 billion to buy oil from foreign countries. This is all the money that should stay in Quebec to stimulate our economy. We can enrich ourselves, let&#39;s take the means to achieve it, ”said the leader of the Parti Québécois.
The Parti Québécois is committed to adopting a new energy strategy from the start of its mandate. “It is time to review our sources of energy supply and our energy development plan. Quebec is teeming with ideas on this issue. We are going to consult widely and develop a policy that will lead Quebec to prosperity. It&#39;s a magnificent collective project in which I invite Quebeckers to get involved, ”said Pauline Marois.
Quebec ranks second in the world for electricity consumption per capita. We can certainly reduce our consumption and use the excess energy for other purposes, for example in transport. The development of an industry linked to the electrification of transport is already one of the sectors of the future identified as priorities by a Parti Québécois government. We must go further.
“Quebec holds an enviable position on the international scene. With its strong hydroelectric, wind, solar, geothermal and petroleum potential, Quebec has several energy sources that can free us from imported oil which is costing us too much. By consuming energy from here, we will be able to keep billions of dollars at home and therefore enrich ourselves, ”she added, specifying that we must aim for self-sufficiency as soon as possible.
“The price of oil is getting higher and the forecast is going up. Any motorist will notice this when it comes time to refuel. If at least that money stayed with us, it would be less dramatic. Currently, it is $ 35 million per day paid to oil-producing countries that we could use to create jobs in Quebec, ”she explained.
“By intelligently using our various energy sources, we will help provide a better environment for Quebecers of today and tomorrow. It is a magnificent social project that combines sustainable development and collective enrichment. This is the vision that the Parti Québécois has for the future of Quebec. We want to reduce our energy consumption and our dependence on oil. It is the best way to become masters at home, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
