Saguenay– The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, undertakes to refocus the mission of the Caisse de dépôt et placement so that it once again becomes a major development instrument capable of supporting the Quebec economy. To do this, a strategic investment fund of 10 billion dollars will be set up. Its mission will be to protect our businesses against takeovers by foreign companies and to stimulate the emergence and growth of key sectors in Quebec.
“Astral, La Senza, Alcan, Domtar, Bauer, Van Houtte, Abitibi-Consolidated, Sico, the list of head offices leaving Quebec has continued to grow for nine years. Today, Rona&#39;s head office and property are in jeopardy. We must act with force. By re-establishing the Caisse&#39;s economic development mission in Quebec, we will be able to regain control of our development and remain masters at home, ”said Pauline Marois, specifying that such a fund will make it possible to increase revenues by nearly 25%. Caisse investments in Quebec.
Created in 1965 by Jean Lesage, the Caisse de dépôt et placement is the tool that has been used by all governments to support economic development. Jean Charest unfortunately broke with this tradition in 2004 when the Liberal government changed the mission of the Caisse de dépôt in order to subordinate Quebec&#39;s economic development mission to that of absolute return. The lure of profit led the Caisse to the consequences that we know, that is to say billions of dollars lost in commercial paper and even greater losses during the 2008 crisis. The orientation given to the Caisse by Jean Charest also had the effect of accelerating the exodus of head offices in Quebec.
“The Parti Québécois government was visionary in targeting the multimedia, aeronautics and biotechnology sectors. Today we are world leaders in all of these areas. We must take up this leadership and look to the future to develop new niches of excellence. This is what we will do ”, she assured, explaining that she wishes to give back to the Caisse its dual mission of performance and economic development to protect our best companies against attempts by companies to take control. and avoid the relocation of our head offices.
The leader of the Parti Québécois is also committed to strengthening the power of the boards of directors of Quebec companies and to changing the Business Corporations Act. The responsibility of the directors towards all the actors involved in the company, such as the workers and the suppliers, will be reviewed in order to get out of the management paradigm aiming only in the short-term interest of the shareholders. In the United States, when a board of directors rejects an offer to purchase, the law protects the company from all hostile offers. This avenue will be carefully analyzed.
“Under a Parti Québécois government, the directors of a company who will have to decide on a takeover offer must, in addition to taking into account the appreciation of the value of the share, take into consideration the general interest of the company. The interests of workers must be taken into account as well as that of the community. Too many businesses have closed their doors in recent years, leaving hundreds of workers on the streets and devitalized communities. It must stop, ”exclaimed Pauline Marois.
“The Caisse was created to support the economic development of Quebec. It is high time that Quebeckers took back control of their economy. It is now up to us to choose between enriching ourselves collectively or enriching only a few individuals, ”she concluded.
