Grandes-Piles - &quot;The forestry crisis has shaken Quebec since 2005. The forestry regions and forestry workers need an emergency plan for forestry and that is what we are committed to delivering&quot;, declared the chief from the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, surrounded by candidates from Mauricie.
“The forest industry is a vital issue for several regions of Quebec. Unfortunately, since the beginning of the crisis affecting this industry, the Liberals have never shown the leadership necessary to support the forestry world. They stood idly by witnessing the closure of more than 300 factories and the loss of more than 60,000 forestry-related jobs, ”she lamented, explaining the measures to revive the industry. that the Parti Québécois intends to put forward to breathe new life into forest regions.
A Parti Québécois government will develop a timber charter to promote the use of this resource in buildings constructed in Quebec. Targets of 5% in private non-residential construction and 30% in public construction will be set. “We must initiate a major shift in construction in order to better support the first transformation. To use wood more, we must set targets to be achieved in construction, especially since no one today disputes the reliability of this resource in the construction of buildings, ”she said.
In order to support silvicultural contractors and forestry workers, a Parti Québécois government is committed to launching a vast silvicultural work site to double the value of the production of this resource. To this end, an additional $ 35 million per year will be invested in silvicultural work over the next four years.
“It is essential to devote additional sums to silviculture. The forest is a renewable resource that we must protect to ensure its sustainability. We are going to make up for the investment gap that has widened since 2005 and allow thousands of silvicultural workers to work year round. With a Parti Québécois government, entrepreneurs and forestry workers will have a major ally in developing their industry, ”added Pauline Marois.
The Parti Québécois will also set up pilot projects for local forests. This project will allow the RCMs to derive an income from the logging of territories placed under their responsibility. This involves verifying the viability of the concept and analyzing the impacts on forest producers.
“Finally, to promote innovation and the development of new markets, I personally intend to get involved in bringing together entrepreneurs, workers, specialists and academics, as well as government authorities. It is together that we will be able to establish the main orientations for developing high added value products and projecting our industry into the 21st century, ”added the leader of the Parti Québécois.
“To revive forestry in Quebec, we still have to believe in it! Over the past seven years, the Liberal government has shown that it does not believe in it. He refused to act. As for François Legault&#39;s CAQ, none of the 94 commitments contained in his electoral platform concerns the forestry industry. Like the Liberals, the Caquists do not believe in the Quebec forest industry. A Parti Québécois government will support the forest and its workers. It is a noble, ecological and renewable resource, which is a great source of pride for all of Quebec, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
