Saint-Jérôme - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, pledges to restore order to transport in the greater Montreal area. “Transportation in the greater Montreal area is a real nightmare for many people, who often have a hard time getting to work on time. Parents have difficulty picking up their children on time when they leave daycare or school. The transportation of goods and people is so deficient that the productivity of our economy suffers. We are committed to rectifying the situation! “, Launched Pauline Marois.
“Transportation is a priority for the future of the entire Montreal metropolitan region. We are going to put the transport in order. Our game plan is clear, ”assured Pauline Marois, deploring the fact that road congestion in the Montreal region costs $ 1.5 billion per year. Our integrated approach is a triple winner. We want to decongest the transport network, promote our economic development and improve our environment. &quot;
The Parti Québécois is committed to establishing an order of priority for road works. Urgent work or work that calls into question the safety of users will be given priority. The other works will be spread over time. “We must restore order to the road works. It is not true that everything has to be done at the same time. The fluidity of traffic must be taken into account in the planning of road works, ”added the leader of the Parti Québécois.
Investments in public transport will be a priority. We are committed to completing the train de l&#39;Est between Montreal and Mascouche before the end of 2014. We will add, by 2020, 300 kilometers of reserved lanes for public transit. We also want to relaunch the development of the Montreal metro. We are targeting the extension of the blue line to Anjou by 2020. Above all, we intend to ensure that the new Champlain Bridge project makes an important place for public transit.
A Parti Québécois government is committed to electrifying transportation. “Electric cars, trains, subways and buses: we are able to manufacture these vehicles and we have the electricity to run them. It&#39;s up to us to make the right choices. Right now, with our oil consumption, we are creating jobs overseas. By investing in public transport and electrification, we will create jobs at home. This is what having an economic vision for the future is all about. It is also the best way to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, ”explained Pauline Marois, adding that it is through innovation that we will surpass our competitors.
“This is a vision to enrich ourselves collectively and sustainably. With the creation of a $ 10 billion fund to invest in Quebec and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, which will target strategic sectors, the Parti Québécois will make the electrification of transportation one of the sectors of point. We contributed to the development of multimedia, aeronautics and biotechnologies when we were in power, we are now going to make the electrification of transport the next sector of the future for the development of the Quebec economy ”, concluded Pauline Marois.
