Saint-Siméon– The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, considers that the patience of Quebec workers has lasted long enough and that it is time to repatriate employment insurance. In this regard, she praised the work of the mayor of Saint-Siméon, Sylvain Tremblay, who has convinced dozens of municipalities in recent months of the need to repatriate the employment insurance plan. To date, more than 70 municipalities have adopted a resolution to this effect.
“We must first of all remember that the employment insurance program is not funded by the federal government but by workers and employers. The only involvement of the federal government in recent years has been to take money from contributors and divert it to other programs or pay the federal deficit. Meanwhile, any change in the law to make the unemployment insurance program more accessible to the unemployed has been rejected by the Liberal and Conservative governments. We have nothing more to expect from Ottawa. For our unemployed, we need a Quebec employment insurance plan, ”said Pauline Marois.
At the start of Confederation, unemployment insurance was under provincial jurisdiction, but in the 1930s, during the economic crisis, the wealthier federal government agreed with the provinces to take over this program. Since the 1980s, the federal government no longer contributes to the employment insurance fund, but benefits from its surpluses, which it uses for other purposes.
“When we know that less than 50% of the unemployed have access to the plan and that the Conservatives refuse to help them, we have a moral obligation to take matters in hand. Not repatriating employment insurance would be a case of non-assistance to a person in danger, ”said Pauline Marois.
A Parti Québécois government will begin negotiations with the federal government as quickly as possible to repatriate this plan, which it will subsequently improve, taking into account the needs of the unemployed and the reality of our regions, particularly with regard to the seasonal work, and will ensure that the employment insurance fund is used only for employment insurance. Either we all move forward together by helping each other, or we allow the theft of the cash register and inaction in the face of people&#39;s difficulties to continue. It&#39;s up to us to choose, ”concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois.
