Montreal - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, pledges that all children in Quebec have access to a place in child care at $ 7. “I want to finish the work that I started in 1997 by creating the early childhood centers. With a Parti Québécois government, there will be a place in daycare for each child. From the end of the first term, it will be a child, a place, ”announced Pauline Marois, specifying that as long as the network is not completed, childcare costs will be maintained at $ 7 per day per child. &quot;
“When we created this program in 1997, we wanted to empower women who wanted to be more present in the labor market. We also wanted children, regardless of their parents&#39; income, to have access to educational childcare. Since then, we have disguised the ideal of the Parti Québécois. A Parti Québécois government will come back to basics: one child, one place! She exclaimed.
“As we speak, the development of the network should be practically finished, but the Liberal government has chosen to slow down over the past nine years. The Liberals have made child care centers into an industry. Child care spaces were used to fill the Liberal Party coffers. Jean Charest let down many families in Quebec. There is no excuse for such a failure, ”lamented the leader of the Parti Québécois.
Quebec is currently experiencing a notable increase in the number of births, from 76,000 in 2005 to 88,000 in 2009. “Parents in Quebec need more places for their children in child care. There are parents who wait up to two years before having a place for their child. We need to complete the development of spaces at $ 7 so that every child can have access to child care, ”she added.
Between 1997 and 2003, the Parti Québécois government developed an average of more than 14,000 places annually in subsidized childcare. The Liberal Party government has only developed an average of 6,000 per year since 2003. Worse yet, it has been unable to create the number of spaces it announced. In 2008, the Liberal government promised 18,000 new subsidized spaces for 2012. It only delivered 16,168. There is therefore a shortage of 1,832 spaces.
As for François Legault, he is not even able to quantify the number of new places necessary to meet the needs of parents. Families are not a priority for the CAQ.
The leader of the Parti Québécois recalled that the subsidized daycare program was an excellent program coupled with a wise investment in economic terms. “Building and developing a network of child care services that meets the needs of families is not an expense, it is an investment. Each dollar invested in these services brings in $ 1.04 to the government of Quebec, ”added Pauline Marois, referring to a study by the Research Chair in Taxation and Public Finance at the University of Sherbrooke.
“When we talk about education and dropping out, let&#39;s not forget that early childhood is a decisive moment. For young families, to facilitate the presence of mothers in the labor market and especially for our children, I undertake to finish the work that I have started. Within four years at most, each child will have their place, ”concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois.
