Quebec - &quot;A Parti Québécois government will abolish the health tax and give back to Quebec families the $ 400 that Jean Charest&#39;s Liberals took from them, which overtaxed the middle class over the past nine years.&quot; This is the commitment made today by the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, who insisted that this measure will be done at zero cost.
“Helping each other is at the heart of what the Parti Québécois is proposing. Everyone must do their part. It is completely unacceptable that those with an annual income of $ 30,000 pay the same amount as those who earn $ 250,000. We want to give oxygen to families who have been overtaxed since 2003. Jean Charest&#39;s Liberal health tax is a regressive tax that penalizes the middle class and favors the wealthiest, ”explained Pauline Marois.
The abolition of the health tax will be done at zero cost. This $ 1 billion measure will be funded by the creation of two new tax brackets for taxpayers with annual taxable income of over $ 130,000 and over $ 250,000. In addition, the tax deductions applicable to dividend gains and certain capital gains will be reduced by 50%.
“We want to abolish this unfair tax. We will do it responsibly, without widening the deficit and without passing the bill on to middle-class families. The wealthiest taxpayers must do their fair share. Our solution is realistic. Unlike the CAQ, the Parti Québécois proposal will be self-financing from the first year, ”she added.
Pauline Marois wished to underline the inconsistency of François Legault in this file. Last February, CAQ members voted against a motion to abolish the health tax, tabled by the Parti Québécois in the National Assembly. A few days ago, François Legault made the opposite commitment. “How can people trust someone who changes their mind so often? “, Asked the leader of the Parti Québécois, mentioning that for the Liberals of Jean Charest, who introduced the health tax in 2010, it is out of the question to abolish it.
“The Parti Québécois is proposing concrete and realistic measures. We refuse to launch into the overbidding of costly promises. We make commitments that we will respect, unlike François Legault, who is unable to quantify his promises and tell us where he will take the money and where he will cut to get there. At the Parti Québécois, we are serious and responsible. We will respect the commitments we make, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
