Montreal - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, pledges to invest an additional $ 35 million per year over five years in the AccèsLogis Québec program to provide better housing conditions to Quebec families. The budget for this program will be increased to nearly $ 210 million per year. “We are going to put in place a real multi-year plan to build new community housing units. We are committed to building 15,000 more homes, or 3,000 per year over five years, to house families as well as vulnerable and homeless people. These units will have to meet ambitious energy standards, ”declared Pauline Marois, making public the Parti Québécois&#39; commitments in terms of social housing.
Many cities are struggling with a severe shortage of private rental housing. In some of them, the vacancy rate is particularly worrying and many Quebecers find it difficult to find housing. Thus, in Abitibi-Témiscamingue, this rate is 0.1% in Amos, 0.3% in Rouyn-Noranda and 0.2% in Val d&#39;Or. On the North Shore, we are talking about a rate of 0.3% in Sept-Îles and 2% in Baie-Comeau. The vacancy rate is also low in Gaspé (1.7%), Quebec City (0.7%) and Saguenay (0.7%). The breakeven threshold is set at 3%.
“With such vacancy rates, we see that it is necessary to act to help many households find housing. While the Caquists are proposing absolutely nothing on this subject, the Liberals, for their part, have allowed the situation to worsen. The Parti Québécois has decided to act and we will therefore invest $ 25 million, or $ 5 million per year over five years, for the construction of additional affordable housing by improving the Affordable Housing Quebec program - private component, ”added Pauline Marois.
&quot;In total, therefore, we will invest $ 200 million over five years in community and affordable housing,&quot; added Pauline Marois. A Parti Québécois government will act to help the most disadvantaged and the vulnerable and homeless. It is by helping each other that we are stronger. This is the choice that a Parti Québécois government is offering Quebecers, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
