Montreal - In the area of justice, the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, is committed to putting in place concrete measures to help people in need. “We must bring the citizen back to the heart of our justice system. While the government of Stephen Harper and the CAQ advocate American-style, coercive and vengeful justice, the Quebec model focuses on prevention, rehabilitation and assistance to victims. This is a proven model. This is why the Parti Québécois is proposing instead to provide more support to victims of crime and their families, ”she said.
“We are therefore committed to reviewing the assistance and compensation plans for victims of crime in order to better support victims and their families. To do this, we will expand the list of criminal acts covered, we will give victims more time to file a claim and we will simplify the procedures, ”added Pauline Marois, recalling that the Lemieux report, commissioned by the Liberal government in 2006 , foresaw many recommendations that were never implemented.
Following Isabelle Gaston&#39;s petition, sponsored by the Parti Québécois candidate in Saint-Jérôme, Gilles Robert, the government announced the increase in the amounts given to the parents of a child who died as a result of a crime. violent, without expanding the list of crimes covered. A PQ government will extend the program to more crimes, so as to compensate more victims, and the time to file a claim will be reduced from one year to three years. These measures will cost $ 5 million per year.
Still with the aim of helping people in need, a Parti Québécois government is committed to broadening eligibility for free legal aid, in particular so that people working full time at minimum wage are henceforth eligible. “This is a commitment that is unanimous within the legal community and community groups working for access to justice. We will invest $ 16 million per year to expand this program to some 450,000 additional people and we will continue to support these community groups, ”she explained.
“The Liberals have a dismal legal aid record. They have completely abandoned the working poor. As for the CAQ, François Legault is not proposing anything concrete to improve access to justice. At the Parti Québécois, we want justice accessible to all and more humane justice. This is the choice we make, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
