The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the candidates Sylvain Roy (Bonaventure), Pascal Bérubé (Matane ‑ Matapédia), Harold LeBel (Rimouski) and Méganne Perry ‑ Mélançon (Gaspé), presented their solutions to facilitate and encourage the practice of hunting and fishing, and develop the wildlife sector. After unveiling his plan to make regional transport more efficient and accessible, as well as his proposals to give regions real freedom, Jean-François Lisée announced that a Parti Québécois government will step up measures in favor of hunters and fishermen. , so that families can take more advantage of the great outdoors, campsites, nature and its benefits.
IN SHORT
To promote and encourage the practice of hunting and fishing, a Parti Québécois government undertakes to:
“There are 1,000,000 hunters and fishermen in Quebec. But, over the past four years, the Liberal Party has made hunting and fishing less and less accessible, so that the number of people practicing these hobbies has fallen by 100,000. At this rate, hunters and fishermen will soon be an endangered species, ”worried Jean-François Lisée.
For his part, Sylvain Roy insists: more than ever, the Parti Québécois is the party of hunters and fishermen. “The government has dramatically increased the price of hunting and fishing licenses, such as resort leases on public land, and has fired dozens of wildlife officers. These are frontal attacks against the regions. The measures we are presenting today respond to calls that we have been hearing on the ground for months and aim to encourage the next generation, ”he said.
&quot;We will reduce the price of the fishing license by 20% for all adults, and that of the big game hunting license by 50% for those who initiate the next generation. We will offer free licenses to fishermen under the age of 18 and to people who are new to hunting. Our goal is to democratize these leisure activities, to give Quebecers back the means and the desire to practice them, ”continued Pascal Bérubé.
&quot;Forests and lakes belong to all Quebecers, not just to a privileged group close to the Liberal government,&quot; added Harold LeBel. Hunting and fishing should no longer be the prerogative of outfitter owners. This is why we will gradually increase the number of resort leases drawn at random each year, to the point of doubling it, and we will re-establish the round table to determine the price of these leases. &quot;
&quot;To better exploit and develop the immense potential of the Quebec wildlife sector, the Parti Québécois is also committed to creating a collegial wildlife economy transfer center, and to rehiring the 85 wildlife officers fired by the Liberals,&quot; in addition to filling the 40 new positions announced recently, ”added Méganne Perry ‑ Mélançon.
“Hunting and fishing is our culture, our heritage, our DNA. We want more people, and more young people, to discover or rediscover these hobbies that have forged our identity. We want Quebeckers to appropriate their territories, to be proud of it. That&#39;s our plan, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
