After presenting, yesterday, the Parti Québécois plan to make regional transport more efficient and more accessible, the leader, Jean-François Lisée, accompanied by the candidate in Duplessis, Lorraine Richard, unveiled the most ambitious proposal ever put forward to give regions real freedom of decision and action.
IN SHORT
“Today we are announcing a real revolution in respect of the decision-making capacity of the regions. Under our government, the time when Quebec multiplied the conditions, criteria and vetoes in the use of regional funds will be over. First, we affirm that it is up to the regions to choose their consultation model. Then, we affirm that it is up to them to determine the best way to use the funds due to them for regional development, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
The Parti Québécois plan is based on one main observation: centralization must be put to an end. “It is time for the Quebec government to stop constantly imposing its views on the regions. As soon as it comes to power, a Parti Québécois government will put a stop to any form of centralization of the public apparatus. We will correct the liberal cuts and increase the predictability of the envelopes. We will bring the State closer to citizens, we will provide more services in the regions. We will also create a parliamentary commission that will crisscross Quebec, to bring Quebecers closer to state decisions, ”he continued.
Lorraine Richard added that the Parti Québécois will also increase the predictability of budget envelopes, so that regional development is not at the mercy of annual accounting deadlines and application processing times. The gain in efficiency and freedom of action for the regions will be considerable. “We are also innovating by announcing that the regional investment plans of the major ministries - Transport, Education, Health, etc. - will be submitted to regional consultation bodies for consultation before final decisions are taken, ”she said.
Jean-François Lisée recalled that the Parti Québécois has always been and remains the party of regions. “The governments of the Parti Québécois have done a lot to recognize and support the regions. I wish to be the Prime Minister who will complete this effort, by &quot;cutting the cord&quot; and finally giving the regions real freedom &quot;, he insisted.
“I am happy to announce, today, that on October 1, Liberal guardianship, paternalism and condescension will be over! Lorraine Richard concluded.
For our explanatory sheet, click here.
