Quebec - In the wake of the recent tabling of the report of the working group on pre-hospital emergency services in the Outaouais, the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today announced the appointment an attendant at the Outaouais Health and Social Services Agency (ASSSO) as well as an observer on the board of directors of the Outaouais Health Communication Center. Dr Donald Aubin and Dr Anne Gervais have as their main objective the follow-up of all the recommendations made and the improvement of services.
“Although the particular organizational model based on the coexistence of the Outaouais Health Communication Center and the Outaouais Paramedics Cooperative is maintained, the report mentions certain corrective measures to be made. Although excellent bonds of trust exist between the various partners and all work in collaboration, the support of an observer on the board of directors of the Center de communication santé and of a support person with the Agency will facilitate the transition and implementation of the changes that must take place in order to improve the governance of the Outaouais Health Communication Center, financial management and methods of allocating ambulance resources, ”declared Minister Hébert.
Doctor Donald Aubin, regional director of university medical affairs of the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean health and social services agency, will be the guide for the Outaouais agency. During his six-month mandate, he will, among other things, ensure that the action plan drawn up by ASSSO is consistent with the recommendations of the working group report. Dr Aubin should also see to the implementation of targeted corrections with regard to governance, financial management and non-interference in the principles of allocation of ambulance resources. He must also provide the General Directorate of Health and University Medicine Services of the Ministry with a monthly monitoring of the progress of the work and submit no later than September 30, 2013 a report outlining the work carried out for the second visit of the work group.
Dr Anne Gervais, currently Director of Professional Services and Medical Affairs at the Gatineau Health and Social Services Center, will assume the position of observer on the Board of Directors of the Center de communication santé. His mandate will end on March 31, 2014. The role of the observer is to report to the accompanying person on the following:
Among the other solutions adopted following the report&#39;s recommendations, note the allocation of a replacement ambulance vehicle to the Outaouais Paramedics Cooperative, which will cover shift changes and ensure maximum service in any time on the territory. Minister Hébert also announced last April that the 168 hours per week of additional ambulance service granted to the region last December would be maintained for the next six months, while the working group could carry out a second evaluation to confirm the real need for additional hours of service in the region in the context of the initiatives aimed at optimizing current pre-hospital services.
Remember that the mandate of the working group was to analyze the overall situation of pre-hospital emergency services in the territory and to formulate recommendations in order to adequately meet the needs of the population of the Outaouais.
