Quebec– The member for Lac-Saint-Jean and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of education, research and school perseverance, Alexandre Cloutier, asks the Minister of Education to hear the cry of the heart launched by thousands of families and the Quebec Association of Speech-Language Pathologists and Audiologists (AQOA), Friday, at the National Assembly, and end the cuts in services to students in difficulty.
The founder of the More services for our different children group, Geneviève Lapointe, spokesperson for the Coalition of parents of children with special needs, Brigitte Dubé, and the outgoing president of the AQOA, Marie-Claude Rousseau, came to testify about the impact of the cuts on children in difficulty, Friday, at the National Assembly.
“Students with disabilities, social maladjustments or learning difficulties represent one in five children in Quebec. They are the first victims of austerity. Testimonies from breathless, exhausted parents poured in by the hundreds. Today, speaking on behalf of thousands of families, two brave mothers came to ask the government to back down. The Minister of Education cannot remain indifferent, ”said Alexandre Cloutier.
According to a consultation carried out with members of the AQOA from September 19 to 21, 2015, nearly 40% of speech-language pathologists in schools indicate that this year, cuts to speech-language pathology services are affecting their school board. “The government is cutting back on services that were already too scarce. In doing so, it directly compromises the success of students struggling with language disorders, ”lamented the member for Lac-Saint-Jean.
Interpellation
The Parti Québécois also questioned the Minister of Education for two hours at the Salon Bleu on Friday about the Liberal government&#39;s draconian cuts in student services. “Parents, teachers, education professionals, support staff, even school administrators are calling for a change of course from the government. The Minister must come out of denial and hear the concerns of the community, ”concluded Alexandre Cloutier.
