Québec, June 30, 2020 - Sylvain Roy, MP for Bonaventure and Parti Québécois spokesperson for higher education, asks the new Minister of Higher Education, Danielle McCann, to quickly give guarantees to the community college and university student regarding the fall semester, which will arrive quickly but which, for the moment, raises concerns and raises many questions.
IN SHORT
In the eyes of the member for Bonaventure, improvisation and indecision have gone on long enough. “Although it has promised support, the CAQ government is slow to announce what it intends to do for higher education in Quebec. Thousands of college and university students are therefore in a precarious financial situation, and in the dark about the next school year. Even according to a survey commissioned by the Canadian Association of University Teachers (CAUT) and the Canadian Federation of Students (CFS), 30% of students are thinking about the possibility of canceling their session, or even canceling their session. drop out of post-secondary education; we absolutely cannot let that happen! ”, He declared, recalling that academic dynamism, graduation rate, as well as economic growth and prosperity are closely related concepts.
Sylvain Roy is therefore asking the government to specify the conditions for re-entry into CEGEPs and universities, and to ensure fairness for all students in Quebec. “We need consistency. At present, for example, the Cégep de Jonquière intends to offer a majority of its face-to-face courses, while that of Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu relies more on distance education. Minister McCann must put an end to this variable geometry system. In Quebec, we must offer each student an equal chance to succeed, regardless of the institution he attends or the region he chooses, ”he insists. The MP also stresses that face-to-face courses are to be preferred, as they can help reduce dropping out. “The reason is simple: Distance courses still have many shortcomings and limitations. &quot;
Finally, the Parti Québécois is of the opinion that significant investments must be quickly made in financial aid for studies and resources in terms of psychological and academic support. &quot;We want students living in special situations to receive assistance tailored to their needs,&quot; explained Mr. Roy.
In short, the new Minister of Higher Education is facing her first test, and she must act now. “The fall start will come quickly and until then there is a lot to do. Danielle McCann doesn&#39;t have time to wait; the journey of several thousand students is at stake, ”concluded the Member for Bonaventure.
