Shawinigan - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, accompanied by the Member of Parliament for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, announced the allocation of a grant of $ 1.2 million dollars to the Shawinigan Entrepreneurship Center (CES) to set up a digital station whose mission will be to provide an environment conducive to innovation and the creation of mobile and social games. Rêve Alchimique is at the origin and will be a valuable partner of this promising project valued at 4.8 million dollars.
Financial support comes from the Center-du-Québec et de la Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund, with a budget of $ 200 million intended to promote diversification by attracting private investment and promoting the emergence of businesses. efficient and innovative.
&quot;Our government has got it right by giving the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions the means to diversify their economy, as the CES is showing us today with its investment project,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “This project in a field of the future, as well as the others to come thanks to the fund, are the fruit of exemplary mobilization of the business community and of successful concerted action. Our government&#39;s actions, whether in terms of regional funds or the Priorité emploi economic policy, are based on a vision for the future that tends towards long-term development for all regions of Quebec. &quot;
The CES aims to encourage business creation by focusing on three components: training, incubation and the rental of spaces suitable for business start-ups. It will support the start-up, growth and establishment of businesses at the Digital Station. The company Rêve Alchimique de Shawinigan, a world leader in the management of online social games, will put its expertise to work within the framework of this project, which was also presented to several renowned Japanese companies during a economic mission carried out in Japan in February 2013.
&quot;The CES actively participates in the development of entrepreneurship in Shawinigan by helping entrepreneurs build their future,&quot; said Luc Trudel. “Now, the Digital Station project will lead the region to invest in a new niche, that of the design of mobile and social games. We intend to make the city of Shawinigan the third pole of video games in Quebec, along with Montreal and Quebec. It is an avant-garde area that promises very interesting benefits for the Mauricie. It is with great pride that we support the CES in carrying out this initiative. &quot;
&quot;The Digital Station will offer cutting-edge training, incubation spaces, specialized services as well as an environment conducive to networking, creativity, research and development and innovation,&quot; said Mr. Luc Arvisais, CES president. “In addition, the Digital Station training center will be supported by Collège Shawinigan and the Commission scolaire de l&#39;Énergie and will offer cutting-edge content focused on the specific needs of the mobile and social games industry. This station will truly be a hotspot for digital creation in Shawinigan. Several exchanges have also taken place between Quebec and Japanese stakeholders since the economic mission to Japan, which demonstrates the power of attraction of such a project in Quebec and the valuable contribution of a strategic enterprise such as Rêve Alchimique. &quot;
For more information on the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie.
