Montreal - Eight months after having obtained the holding of a mandate of initiative on the security of supply in petroleum products, the MP for Pointe-aux-Trembles, Nicole Léger, deplores the attitude of the Liberal MPs. The latter, after having given their agreement in principle on the content of the report to be tabled in the National Assembly, went back on their word a few days later.
In recent months, members of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries, Energy and Natural Resources (CAPERN) have heard from several speakers, including the management of the three Quebec refineries. “Our discussions enabled us to reach a compromise on the findings and recommendations to be transmitted to the government and everything was done in a consensual manner,” explained Nicole Léger.
The member for Rousseau, Nicolas Marceau, who also participated in the work of the mandate of initiative, wonders about the involvement of the Minister of Natural Resources, Nathalie Normandeau, in this turnaround. “If the Liberal deputies who are members of CAPERN went back on their word six days after giving their agreement, is it because Minister Nathalie Normandeau interfered in the process to impose the liberal vision? If this is the case, it is unacceptable since the minister does not have to interfere in the work of the deputies, ”added Nicolas Marceau.
For his part, the deputy for Jonquière and member of CAPERN, Sylvain Gaudreault, specifies that several working sessions allowed members to do conscientious work and to debate the issue of the security of petroleum product supplies. the announcement of the closure of the Shell refinery in Montreal East. “We compared our visions, we discussed the substance of things and came to observations and recommendations acceptable to all. Where did the pressure come from that made the Liberals come up with a whole new version of the report? Sylvain Gaudreault asked.
Now that it is impossible for the commission&#39;s report to be tabled in the National Assembly before the fall, the Member for Pointe-aux-Trembles demands that Minister Normandeau respect her commitment not to issue a dismantling permit for the Shell refinery in East Montreal before the commission&#39;s report was tabled. “During the question period on June 9, Nathalie Normandeau repeated this commitment. Will it keep its word or will it take refuge behind the discord it has itself sown to justify the issuance of the dismantling permit? “, Asked the member.
