Québec, March 23, 2018 - Reacting to the federal announcement concerning the reduction of shrimp quotas in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, the official opposition critic for fisheries, André Villeneuve, as well as the spokesperson for word for the Gaspésie – Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Sylvain Roy, ask the Quebec Minister of Fisheries, Laurent Lessard, to immediately put himself into “crisis management” mode to support Quebec fishermen and factory workers transformation.
IN SHORT
Federal Minister Dominic LeBlanc endorsed the drastic drop in shrimp quotas in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, recommended by the advisory committee. The fishermen will therefore be entitled to only 17,337 tonnes of shrimp, whereas they brought in 22,431 tonnes last year. “This dramatic reduction will have a major impact on the fishing industry in eastern Quebec. Minister Lessard must immediately switch to &quot;crisis management&quot; mode. Actions must be taken quickly to mitigate the consequences of this decision on fishermen and workers in processing plants in Quebec, ”declared André Villeneuve.
Sylvain Roy also underlines that the Minister of Finance, Carlos Leitão, is currently in the process of making the latest changes to his budget. “Laurent Lessard must ensure that the budget tabled next Tuesday will include measures to mitigate the impacts of the reduction in quotas. The Minister has no choice but to intervene with his colleague so that our fishermen find their account in the 2018-2019 budget, ”he insisted.
Remember that two weeks ago, Minister LeBlanc announced a $ 400 million fund to support the Atlantic fishing industry. “Quebec is excluded from it, even if its industry is grappling with the same difficulties. Dominic LeBlanc has shown clear favoritism towards his region, and Laurent Lessard must make him understand that Quebec is entitled to its fair share. An emergency meeting is necessary. If Mr. Lessard wants me to accompany him to Ottawa to show a united front before the federal government, I am ready to do so, ”concluded the member for Berthier.
