Quebec, August 17, 2016 –Diane Lamarre, Member of Parliament for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, notes with disappointment that Minister Barrette&#39;s choices still do not yield the results promised. &quot;While the minister glorifies himself with his graphs and tables, patients are still waiting to see access to care improve,&quot; she said.
“It should first be noted that the minister&#39;s requirements for specialist physicians are much more modest than those he has for family physicians. For specialists, the targets for response times to emergency consultation requests only concern the time slots between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m., and only from Monday to Friday. So, for all those who are in the emergency room in the evenings or on weekends, the figures, ratios, targets and percentages - with which the minister is trying to put us to sleep - in no way improves access to care. What that means is that in Quebec, you cannot be sick between Friday at 4 pm and Monday at 8 am, ”said Diane Lamarre.
“As for the proportion of emergency room consultation requests made within a 4-hour period, we note that it has increased by barely 1% in 6 months, from 59.9% to 61%. It will therefore take a 14% increase in less than 18 months to reach the target, set at 75%. It seems completely unrealistic to us. And that&#39;s not to mention that according to the agreement reached by the minister, this requirement, like all the others, only applies from Monday to Friday, between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. The Minister therefore has a very limited vision of real access to urgent care, yet so necessary. Better not to fall down a ladder on the weekend! Once again, patients are far from seeing access to care improve under the Liberal government, despite all the minister&#39;s promises, ”continued the spokesperson.
Minister Barrette has also confirmed that 5,000 patients have still been awaiting surgery for more than a year. However, nothing in the agreement he concluded with the FMSQ provides that this figure should reach zero. “You have to know how to read between the lines of numbers presented by the Minister. Waiting more than a year for surgery is unacceptable, and it is above all inconsistent with the targets of his ministry. In short, despite the agreements reached and the huge salary increases granted to physicians by Gaétan Barrette, concrete results for patients are still pending. As of today, the Minister must commit to ensuring that no patient waits more than a year for surgery, ”concluded Diane Lamarre.
