Quebec - The member for Jonquière and official opposition spokesperson for energy, Sylvain Gaudreault, totally rejects the convoluted explanations provided by Hydro-Quebec concerning the significant cost overruns observed for IT contracts. He also deplores the attitude of the Minister responsible for the Crown corporation, Nathalie Normandeau, who today preferred to play the spokesperson for Hydro-Québec rather than worry about the $ 400 million in overruns. of costs out of a total expenditure of $ 1 billion.
“The defense of the senior management of Hydro-Québec is indecent! After having come close to contempt of Parliament, now its leaders are suggesting that parliamentarians are not doing their job properly and that stories are being made up. It is shameful. It is time for the Auditor General to have access to the books of the Crown corporation and examine the procedures, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
The member for Jonquière cannot get over the press release issued today by the crown corporation, which wants to pass off cost overruns of $ 400 million as trivial. “We want an efficient and well-managed crown corporation, not a crown corporation that suggests that $ 400 million in cost overruns is normal. When the final disbursement exceeds the initial value of the contract by 40%, there is a problem, he insisted. Moreover, it is disturbing to note that the majority of contracts awarded were without competitive bidding. Once again, for Thierry Vandal, this is normal, ”added Mr. Gaudreault.
The Parti Québécois therefore challenges Minister Nathalie Normandeau and the Board of Directors of Hydro-Québec to authorize the Auditor General to investigate. “For months the Liberal government and the leaders of the crown corporation have refused to open the books. If it is so normal, as they claim today, they will therefore have no fear in saying yes to this completely legitimate request, ”concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
Let us recall that the Parti Québécois tabled a bill a few months ago to give the Auditor General of Quebec access to the books of the Crown corporation, but the Liberal government is firmly opposed to it, as is the council of administration of Hydro-Québec.
