Laval– Taking advantage of the launch of the Strategic Planning for the Laval region, the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, the Mayor of Laval and President of the Regional Conference of Elected Officers (CRÉ) of Laval, Mr. Alexandre Duplessis, the President and CEO of Laval Technopole, Mr. Pierre Desroches and President and CEO of Tourisme Laval, Ms. Andrée Courteau, signed the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement aimed at promoting the development of the tourism offer . By 2015, an amount of $ 1,300,000 will be invested to achieve this objective.
This Agreement aims to concentrate investments in the tourism industry according to regional priorities and to strengthen the role of partners in this process. The partners, namely Tourisme Québec, the Secrétariat à la région métropolitaine, Tourisme Laval, the CRÉ de Laval, the City of Laval and Laval Technopole, sit on the Management Committee of this Agreement. Under the terms of the Agreement, Tourisme Québec and Tourisme Laval will each devote a sum of $ 500,000 to it until 2015, while the CRÉ de Laval has committed to contribute $ 150,000. The City of Laval and Laval Technopole will each devote an amount of $ 75,000 to it.
“The renewal of this Agreement is perfectly in line with the 2013-2018 major orientations of the Laval region&#39;s strategic planning. By focusing on innovation and the development of new tourist experiences, I am convinced that Laval will continue to progress on the tourist scene. I would like to congratulate all the regional partners who have contributed to the development of this planning which will guide your actions over the next five years, ”declared Minister Bérubé.
“Improving Laval&#39;s tourist offer will generate direct and indirect spinoffs that will benefit the entire metropolitan region, which will enhance its cultural and economic vitality. I am convinced that the projects selected will make Quebec proud, ”said Jean-François Lisée, Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region.
It should be noted that the first agreement (2008-2012) has contributed, to date, to the realization of eight tourism projects thanks to funding of $ 880,000 for total investments of nearly $ 35 million spread over the entire territory of Laval.
“In terms of tourism, many challenges await us. And the City of Laval will always support the initiatives of Tourisme Laval, which contribute to the economic development of Laval and in so doing, to our collective well-being, ”said the mayor of Laval and president of the CRÉ de Laval, Mr. Alexandre. Duplessis.
&quot;We are pleased with the signing of this Agreement and the new sources of funding recently announced by Minister Bérubé, and hope that promising projects can take advantage of these new measures to further materialize the offer of innovative tourist attractions and services. . Laval Technopole is working to identify and facilitate the realization of new possibilities! Laval Technopole, because of its mandate as an economic development corporation, has also identified the recreational tourism sector as one of the six privileged development poles for the Laval region ”, mentioned the President and CEO of Laval Technopole, Mr. Pierre Desroches.
“Over the next five years, we, the players in the tourism industry in the Laval region, will continue to collaborate and innovate in order to achieve our common goals. It is by synchronizing our efforts and our investments that we will stimulate growth and renew our offer. In this way, we will be able to achieve our vision for 2018, namely that Laval will be recognized as a successful tourist destination and appreciated for the quality and diversity of its offer, ”continued Tourisme Laval President Michel Galland.
The call for projects is underway and interested tourism stakeholders are invited to consult the promoter&#39;s guide and submit an application by filling out the appropriate form at www.tourismelaval.com/EPRT.
