Gatineau - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the Minister of Public Security and Minister responsible for the Outaouais region, Stéphane Bergeron, announce the signing of two agreements for the Outaouais region. This is a cultural heritage development agreement with the City of Gatineau and a specific regional agreement with the Regional Conference of Elected Officials of the Outaouais (CRÉO). The financial participation of the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications (MCC) in these agreements amounts to $ 930,000.
“By adopting a heritage policy, the City of Gatineau recognizes heritage as a fundamental element of its identity and its history. The preservation of heritage contributes, on the one hand, to the feeling of belonging of citizens towards their environment, and on the other hand, to the economic, social and cultural development of the municipality ”, declared Maka Kotto.
In 2010-2011, the City of Gatineau held public consultations which enabled the population and cultural organizations to express themselves on issues relating to heritage and to propose means of action corresponding to the needs of the Gatineau community. In December 2012, the City of Gatineau adopted a heritage policy.
To help the City carry out the action plan adopted in connection with its heritage policy, the MCC is investing $ 770,000 over three years, under the Assistance to Partnership Initiatives program. This sum includes the MCC&#39;s participation in a program to restore private heritage buildings, financial support for small cultural heritage infrastructures and a financial contribution aimed at supporting activities to enhance Gatineau&#39;s heritage.
The specific agreement announced today between the MCC and the CRÉO is the result of regional consultation initiated as part of a cultural diagnosis of the Outaouais, published in October 2013. Depending on the issues determined in As part of this exercise, the agreement is broken down into four components: strengthening links between the cultural and educational sectors, consolidating cultural organizations, enhancing the cultural heritage of the Outaouais and and finally, cultural mediation and the development of cultural entrepreneurship.
The CRÉO is a privileged partner of the MCC in its actions in terms of cultural development in the Outaouais. The MCC is a co-signatory of other agreements with this body, namely a regional tourism agreement, a cultural leisure agreement for young people and a school perseverance agreement. These partnership agreements have a structuring effect for the development of the cultural sector by promoting the pooling of resources and ideas.
For this new three-year specific regional agreement, the MCC is contributing $ 160,000 under the Assistance to Partnership Initiatives program. Thirteen other regional partners and stakeholders join the CRÉO in order to promote the development of culture in their territory.
“The presence on the territory of numerous cultural organizations contributes to making the Outaouais region a dynamic and attractive environment. I am delighted with the signing of this agreement, because it demonstrates the willingness of local partners to unite in order to promote the cultural development of our region, ”concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
