Quebec - The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the Parti Québécois spokesperson for international relations, Stéphane Bergeron, hail the signing of the Canada-Europe free trade agreement as &quot;a step forward. in the right direction for Quebec companies ”, but called on Prime Ministers Trudeau and Couillard to immediately indicate how the big losers of the agreement, the producers of the dairy and cheese industry in Quebec, will be compensated. They are also calling for a parliamentary commission to be held on the agreement before it is ratified by Quebec.
The leader of the official opposition recalled that the federal government had sacrificed the dairy and cheese industry by significantly expanding the import quotas for industrial cheese. This unfair concession was intended to promote, in return, sales of western beef in Europe.
&quot;This bargaining was all the more odious because without Quebec&#39;s initiative, the agreement would simply not exist,&quot; said Lisée. Then Minister of Foreign Trade, the latter - together with his colleague responsible for trade policy, Nicolas Marceau - demanded that Ottawa define precisely the sums, mechanisms and the compensation schedule promised to Quebec producers before the government of Quebec. Quebec does not ratify the agreement. Mr. Lisée therefore urges the Liberal government to reiterate this request, otherwise Quebec producers will be at the mercy of the moods of Canadian politicians.
Messrs Lisée and Bergeron nonetheless salute the potential gains that Quebec exporters will be able to achieve through the implementation of the agreement. “Our companies, everywhere in Quebec, will benefit from a definite comparative advantage in a market of 750 million consumers, explained Stéphane Bergeron, because import tariffs, varying from 6 to 16%, will be abolished on a large number. of our products, from maple syrup to snowmobiles. Mr. Lisée also points out that the postponement of negotiations for a similar agreement with the United States guarantees Quebec exporters a comparative advantage in Europe for a very long period of time.
“Despite very favorable conditions for our exports, the Couillard government admits that its management of the economy is so bad that the growth rate of our exports this year will only be 0.2%,” notes Stéphane Bergeron. . A government that knows all about it will be able to take advantage of the economic situation and the agreement with Europe to create much more economic activity in Quebec. &quot;
The leader of the official opposition also reiterated the request, formulated in recent days to the National Assembly but rejected by the Liberals, for a parliamentary committee so that citizens and parliamentarians can take cognizance of all the elements of agreement and judge its impact.
“Quebeckers, like the Walloons and many other European and Canadian citizens, have legitimate questions and fears to express about several aspects of the agreement. The worst thing to do would be to want to adopt this agreement in the secrecy of the deliberations of the Council of Ministers, affirmed Mr. Lisée. I do not understand why Premier Couillard is refusing our request for a parliamentary committee to be held on the subject. What is he afraid of? », He concluded.
