Lavaltrie - On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the Minister responsible for the Lanaudière region and Member of Parliament for Joliette, Véronique Hivon, the MNA for Berthier, André Villeneuve, announces the signing of three agreements for the Lanaudière region. This is a specific regional agreement with the CRÉ de Lanaudière, a cultural development agreement with the MRC de D&#39;Autray and another with the City of Lavaltrie. The financial participation of the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications in these agreements, which amounts to $ 310,620, is granted under the Assistance to Partnership Initiatives program.
“Many cultural organizations make the Lanaudière region a dynamic and attractive environment. I am delighted with the signing of these agreements, because it demonstrates the willingness of local partners to unite in order to promote the cultural development of citizens. The sums invested will improve the quality of life and strengthen the community&#39;s sense of identity, ”said Maka Kotto.
&quot;The renewal of the specific cultural development agreement for the Lanaudière region is the result of exemplary collaboration between partners who give the importance they deserve to culture, artistic creation and youth, for the benefit of of the community, ”said Véronique Hivon.
“For my part, I fully subscribe to the orientations of the cultural development agreements concluded with the City of Lavaltrie and the MRC de D&#39;Autray. There is no doubt that a living culture guarantees prosperity and well-being for the entire population, ”declared André Villeneuve.
This agreement is the fourth that the Ministry of Culture and Communications has signed with the CRÉ de Lanaudière. The three-year renewal will be a continuation of the previous agreements, but also in the change, by a new way of determining the actions that will be taken. In fact, the partners of the agreement, following a consultation with the community, determined that both living heritage and cultural tourism, the world of cinema and amateur cultural practice should be given priority as axes of development. In the region.
Through this agreement, the CRÉ de Lanaudière and its partners wish to promote the development of culture in their territory. The Department is injecting $ 180,620 over three years, the CRÉ $ 245,310, the Forum jeunesse Lanaudière $ 70,620 and Loisir et Sport Lanaudière $ 45,000.
The MRC de D&#39;Autray plays a leading role in the cultural development of its territory. After acquiring a cultural agent thanks to its membership in the Cities and Towns of Art and Heritage (VVAP) program in 2009, the MRC concluded a first cultural development agreement in 2011 following the adoption cultural policy. The tangible benefits of this first agreement, both in terms of accessibility to culture and in terms of mobilizing community stakeholders, motivated the negotiation of this agreement.
By renewing this agreement, the Department is injecting $ 90,000 over three years. The MRC invests the same amount.
This cultural development agreement is the third that the Department has signed with the City of Lavaltrie. The latter acquired a VVAP resource in 2007, and the adoption of its cultural policy dates back to May 2010. Since 1991, the city has experienced an increase of more than 50% of its population, largely made up of young families. which had the effect of forcing an adjustment of its vision of cultural development.
The City of Lavaltrie plays a major role in the cultural development of its territory. The new cultural development agreement will bring together the various milieus, both cultural, community and municipal, by enhancing the cultural offer. The leverage effect will have an impact on neighboring territories, in particular through the enhancement of historical links with the sister city on the south shore, Contrecœur.
The renewal of this agreement will generate an investment of $ 90,000 over two years. The government and the City of Lavaltrie each provide a grant of $ 40,000. A third partner, the Caisse Desjardins de D&#39;Autray, is contributing $ 10,000.
