Boischatel - The Premier of Quebec and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix-Côte-de-Beaupré, Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announced the signing of a first partnership and development agreement cultural facilities, for the territories of Île d&#39;Orléans and Côte-de-Beaupré. This agreement represents an investment of $ 195,000, spread over three years.
“This agreement reflects the importance and value that the Government of Quebec attaches to the maintenance of cultural infrastructures in our territories. These cultural facilities remain formidable crossroads for discovering the traces of our past, the architectural know-how of our ancestors over the centuries or even our magnificent landscape heritage ”, declared Pauline Marois.
The partnership agreement is based on two objectives, namely to strengthen and develop the positioning of the cultural and museum offer on Île d&#39;Orléans and Côte-de-Beaupré, as well as to structure and equip the cultural organizations of these territories in their organizational development.
“In Quebec, we have these timeless places that we must protect. I salute the willingness of all the partners to support the cultural organizations of Île d&#39;Orléans and Côte-de-Beaupré, which highlight the unique character of this magnificent part of the country. With this agreement, we are all helping to make Quebeckers better known about their heritage and their history. I hope to see this type of announcement repeated in all regions of Quebec, ”said Maka Kotto.
Concretely, the agreement will make it possible to lay the foundations for partnership and consultation between institutions in the cultural sector and to encourage the sharing of professional expertise. It also aims to increase support for promotional strategy projects.
The event took place in the presence of Yves Germain, president of the regional conference of elected officials of the Capitale-Nationale, and Alain Winter, president of the Local Development Center of Île-d&#39;Orléans.
“The agreement fits perfectly into the spirit of the five-year development plan for the Capitale-Nationale region 2012-2017, one of the orientations of which is to assert culture as a development pole. By promoting the sustainability of the organizations and cultural facilities of the two RCMs involved, it will allow them to continue to promote culture here, in Quebec and abroad, thus contributing to the development of the tourism industry and to the vitality of the entire region, ”said the president of the regional conference of elected officials of the Capitale-Nationale, Yves Germain.
“The RCMs of La Côte-de-Beaupré and Île-d&#39;Orléans are recognized, along with Quebec City, as the cradle of French America, due to the establishment of many stem families along their respective coasts. This historical peculiarity is highlighted by many of the cultural facilities covered by the agreement. By supporting this equipment, it is a part of the history of all of Quebec that will continue to be protected and enhanced, ”concluded the president of the Center local de développement de l&#39;Île-d&#39;Orléans, Alain Winter. .
This project is the result of the mobilization of five partners, all of whom participate financially. The financial contribution from the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications is $ 30,000 over three years and comes from the Assistance to Partnership Initiatives program. The rest of the budget is divided as follows, again over a three-year period: $ 60,000 comes from the Regional Conference of Elected Officials of the Capitale-Nationale, $ 45,000 from the Secrétariat à la Capitale-Nationale, and $ 30,000 $, from each of the local development centers of Côte-de-Beaupré and Île-d&#39;Orléans.
