Montreal– Jean-François Lisée, Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, in collaboration with Minister of Health and Social Services, Réjean Hébert, and Minister of Culture et des Communications, Maka Kotto, announces the creation of a group of experts who will decide on the future of the surplus buildings of the CHUM and the MUHC. This announcement follows on from the work carried out by the interministerial committee set up last June to identify scenarios for the reuse of these buildings.
The expert group, made up of Marie Lessard, Claude Corbo and Cameron Charlebois, is mandated to make recommendations to the interministerial committee on the most relevant reuse scenarios for the future of these buildings. To do this, the group will have to ensure in particular to consult the parties interested in this file and to consider various possibilities.
“I am very happy that these three credible people have agreed to be part of this panel of experts. I trust their vision, their expertise and their global knowledge of the issues, which will enable them to make a judicious analysis and wise recommendations. Given the potential and inestimable value of these strategic places located in the heart of the metropolis, the decisions that we must take are crucial and are part of the dynamic of revitalization of the metropolis supported by our government, ”said Minister Lisée.
The upcoming move of activities from current hospitals to the new CHUM and CSUM hospitals requires making informed decisions about the future and the disposal process of the following buildings: Hôtel-Dieu, part of the Hospital Notre-Dame, the Royal Victoria Hospital, the Montreal Chest Institute and the Montreal Children&#39;s Hospital. The various issues involved require taking into consideration the financial, urban and heritage, social and community contexts as well as the particularities of each of the buildings strongly established in the Montreal urban landscape. Several of them have a remarkable historical and heritage value which will require the greatest discernment in the search for their new vocation.
The group of experts who will support the Interministerial Committee will, in the light of the work already carried out and following its consultations, submit a first opinion on December 15, followed by a report in March 2014.
It is Marie Lessard, professor at the Institut d&#39;urbanisme of the University of Montreal and emeritus member of the Ordre des urbanistes du Québec, who acts as president of the group of experts. She has given advice on development projects affecting territories or heritage buildings. Doctor of philosophy, author of several books on education and president of the Table de concertation du Mont-Royal, Claude Corbo was professor and then rector of UQÀM for several years. He has to his credit many achievements which have given rise to expert reports, in particular on behalf of the government. An experienced architect and manager, Cameron Charlebois has extensive experience, particularly in the fields of urban development and architecture, as well as in research and university teaching.
