Quebec– The MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and official opposition spokesperson for international relations, Carole Poirier, and the MNA for Sanguinet and spokesperson for the Conseil du trésor, Alain Therrien, question the fact that six ministers will accompany the Prime Minister on his next mission to France, as part of the 18th Alternate Meeting of Quebec and French Premiers, while the government is cutting everywhere and austerity is hitting Quebec families. Today in the House, elected officials debated the motion on this subject tabled yesterday by Carole Poirier.
“In the midst of a period of austerity and cuts in all government services, particularly in Quebec&#39;s delegations abroad, the Prime Minister and six ministers will go on mission to France. What will they all do in Paris and Bordeaux for a week? What will be the concrete results of this mission? What is the program of this visit to France which would justify the presence of six ministers? », Asked Carole Poirier.
Remember that generally, only one or two ministers accompany the Prime Minister during this type of mission. The participation of six ministers represents a delegation of about 20 or 25 people, not counting the preliminary visits to the mission. We can therefore assume that the costs of this mission will probably be several hundred thousand dollars.
“The government cuts are numerous and they attack local development, regions and families head-on. We only have to think, for example, of the cuts in homework help, Secondary in spectacle, Chapeau, les filles !, the CLDs, the CRÉs… The government has even played with the safety of citizens by restricting travel by officials to keep costs down. The upcoming mission, with six ministers and the Prime Minister, will cost taxpayers dearly. But what benefits will they derive from it? Philippe Couillard must lead by example and limit the number of ministers who will accompany him, ”declared Alain Therrien.
The motion reads as follows:
“That the National Assembly take note that the Liberal government is asking Quebec families to tighten their belts and government employees to limit travel costs, especially internationally;
That the National Assembly demand that the Prime Minister lead by example and that the ministerial delegation scheduled for France next week be limited to the Prime Minister accompanied by two ministers, and not to the Prime Minister accompanied by six ministers. &quot;
“The France-Quebec relationship is direct and privileged, and we care deeply about it. However, by sending six ministers, the government is trying to make up for its absence during the tribute paid to the victims of Charlie Hebdo and for the 300% increase in tuition fees for French students, in particular. It is an awkward spectacle which will be expensive, especially since if one relies on the poor results of the Prime Minister&#39;s economic mission to Davos, it is permissible to doubt its results, ”concluded Carole Poirier.
