The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean ‑ François Lisée, as well as the candidates Catherine Fournier (Marie-Victorin), Dave Turcotte (Saint-Jean) and Jean-Martin Aussant (Pointe-aux-Trembles), propose to Quebecers the “Great Simplification »Relations between the state and citizens: no more faxes, duplication and paperwork!
IN SHORT
“During their tours of Quebec, our Priorité PME and Solidarité en action teams, among others, have noticed that doing business with the State is complicated. The testimonies of entrepreneurs, seniors and citizens in general largely supported this. Rigid standards, multiplication of forms, undue delays… It is time to do better, and we are committed to simplifying the processes that govern relations between the State and Quebecers ”, declared Jean-François Lisée.
“In health, for example: why, in 2018, should we still communicate with our doctor by fax, when new technologies are so easy to use, so effective and so fast? Prescriptions, appointments, etc. : we will go to email, even texting. We will finally arrive in the 21st century. No more undue delays in obtaining a permit or certificate of authorization. Public bodies will no longer be able to wait until the last minute to report that a document is missing and reset the counter to zero; they must immediately notify the applicant, and still respect the regulatory deadline of 90 days ”, illustrated Dave Turcotte.
“We will also apply the once is enough rule. In other words, it will henceforth be the responsibility of the State to seek out the information that a citizen or an SME has already provided. We will also ensure that when a child changes CPE or a patient changes family doctor, for example, the files are transferred automatically, ”added Catherine Fournier.
The Parti Québécois government also intends to set up “simplification squads”, mixed teams made up of people from the sector concerned and specialists from the government apparatus. “These squads will move on the ground, and will adopt the point of view of the citizens in order to facilitate, to lighten their relations with the State. If it is about agriculture, they will have to think like a farmer. If it is a question of children with disabilities, they will have to put themselves in their parents&#39; shoes. In addition, people will be able to address their recommendations directly to them. The Ombudsperson will also be called upon, if she wishes, by echoing the complaints she receives to the squads, ”explained Jean-Martin Aussant.
“From now on, it is the State, and no longer the citizen, who will have to find a solution when a problem arises. Let entrepreneurs work, let parents take care of their children, let caregivers provide care. And, then, we will proceed with the ultimate simplification, one that will eliminate all duplication with Ottawa: the independence of Quebec, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
