Quebec - The member for Rimouski and official opposition spokesperson for the fight against poverty, solidarity and social economy, Harold LeBel, denounced the attitude of the Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Sam Hamad, who seems unable to give clear and sensible guidelines for the application of the social solidarity program, preferring to manage on a case-by-case basis.
“Every day, practically, brings us a new story which commands a reaction from the Minister. Yesterday morning, we learned that a deaf man suffering from cerebral palsy was targeted by social assistance, which asked him to repay sums received from his relatives wishing to support him. Sam Hamad had to intervene personally. A few days ago, we denounced the case of a young adult with Down&#39;s syndrome, beneficiary of social solidarity, who could not leave the country for more than seven consecutive days, due to a new regulation; once again, the minister had to correct the situation. Either Sam Hamad has lost control of his welfare program or he wants to deal with each case individually to look like the good guy, ”said Harold LeBel.
If he intends to continue to operate in this counterproductive way, the minister will have something to do: from July 1, 431 providers will have to sell everything they own, including their property, to comply with the new standards. of the ministry. “It doesn&#39;t make sense to ask someone to sell their house to qualify for welfare. Where will these people stay after the fact? Will they have to sell at a loss, a possibility that the Ombudsperson has already raised? Considering, moreover, that they will have to dispose of all the money from the sale of their house before re-applying for social assistance, is the minister aware that this measure will only further impoverish them? And what about people who will soon be eligible to receive benefits from the Régie des rentes, or family caregivers? For now, we have no answers to these fundamental questions, ”continued the spokesperson.
Harold LeBel therefore asks Minister Sam Hamad to make adjustments to his social solidarity program, in order to clarify the procedure to be followed, not only for the beneficiaries, but also for his ministry, which is called upon to apply its directives. “We have to end it on a case-by-case basis and, above all, give people who need it adequate support that will really help them improve their lot,” he concluded.
