Quebec - Since the tabling of Bill 70, An Act to allow a better match between training and employment and to promote integration into employment, it is the most total confusion in the explanations that attempts to provide the government. The Parti Québécois spokesperson for employment, social economy, the fight against poverty, solidarity, vocational training, adult education, literacy and youth, Dave Turcotte, strongly denounced this situation.
“The Minister of Social Solidarity, Sam Hamad, first recognized that people may have to move to take up a job, otherwise their social assistance benefits will be cut. Then, the Prime Minister, questioned on the same question the following day, claimed the opposite. What is it, exactly? Asked Dave Turcotte.
As the old saying goes, the devil is in the details. However, by refusing to specify the terms of application of its reform, the government is preventing parliamentarians from examining the details of Bill 70. “We do not know, for example, how many hours per week will be required. for a job to be recognized as &quot;suitable&quot;. We also do not know if penalties will be imposed on a person whose spouse refuses a job. We have to wait for the draft regulation. For a government which promised the most total transparency, it is rather embarrassing ”, lamented the spokesperson.
“The question is, however, simple: if the government gives itself the right to decide what a &#39;suitable&#39; job is for a person, a distance criterion necessarily applies. Does a job become &quot;suitable&quot; from 50, 100, 200 kilometers? People have the right to know, but the minister refuses to clarify his thoughts, ”continued the member for Saint? Jean.
One thing is certain, to adopt this important reform, the government will not be able to count on the support of the Parti Québécois if it persists in hiding the details. “To vote in an informed way, parliamentarians must have all the information, and this is not currently the case. I ask the Minister, in the name of transparency, to commit to tabling the draft regulation before the detailed study of Bill 70 in parliamentary committee, ”concluded Dave Turcotte.
