Quebec - The MNA for Taillon and official opposition spokesperson for higher education, Marie Malavoy, as well as the MNA for Richelieu and spokesperson for the Conseil du trésor, public service and government services, Sylvain Simard, were delighted to have had a legislative provision adopted in favor of free software.
This morning, during the detailed study of Bill 133 concerning the government&#39;s computer resources, the member for Taillon returned to the charge on the issue of free software, a formal commitment of the Parti Québécois for months.
&quot;Written into law, this legislative provision will ensure that decision-makers within the state apparatus will now have to take the necessary measures to ensure that free software is considered when the time comes to modernize the IT systems of ministries and organizations. It was about time, ”said Marie Malavoy, who is also delighted that the government must now ensure the sustainability of its digital heritage.
The Parti Québécois wishes to congratulate all the speakers who militate in favor of the use of free software by the public administration. “Even if the fight for a greater use of free software is not over, the measures adopted represent a step forward. We must rejoice and persist for the rest of things, ”said Sylvain Simard.
The Parti Québécois adopted, at its last congress, a proposal which stipulates that a sovereignist government: &quot;Open computer calls for tenders for free software and, upon its arrival, will set up an advisory group, free of particular interests, to guide him on the turn to take. This simple measure could save the government tens of millions, in addition to providing more flexibility. The watchword: &quot;modernity&quot;.
“The adoption of these amendments to Bill 133 is a step in the right direction for Quebec to keep pace with several countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) which have adopted in recent years policies and measures to promote and promote this free software within their administrations ”, concluded Marie Malavoy.
