Québec, May 22, 2020 - The member for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and Parti Québécois spokesperson for health, Joël Arseneau, the member for Rimouski and spokesperson for social services and for seniors, Harold LeBel, as well as the MP for Bonaventure and labor critic, Sylvain Roy, positively welcome the government&#39;s new position in favor of home care. However, they stress that for this to work, workers in the sector, especially those in the private sector, must be given increased recognition.
IN SHORT
The Parti Québécois has been calling for years for an emphasis on home care, a more humane and less expensive way of taking care of people. However, last Wednesday in a virtual commission, the Minister responsible for Seniors, Marguerite Blais, declared that she supported the idea. Joël Arseneau is delighted. “The turn is more than desirable. The vast majority of the elderly, with a loss of autonomy or with disabilities want to stay at home. We must therefore provide them with services. But we still need to recognize workers in the sector at their fair value, including those in the private sector, ”he insisted.
This is indeed essential, since 80% of home services are provided by attendants from the private sector. “Right now, in the public, the hourly rate is between $ 21 and $ 25. But private attendants earn around $ 14.15 an hour. It is urgent that the government adopt a decree allowing this salary to be increased, ”continued Harold LeBel, reiterating the remarks he addressed on April 24 to the Minister of Labor, Jean Boulet, in a virtual commission.
Moreover, on April 28, the same request was made to the Minister by the Quebec Union of Service Employees (SQEES) and the Cooperation Network of Social Economy Enterprises for Home Help (EÉSAD). Since then, despite the urgency, these groups, many others and, above all, the attendants have been waiting.
“According to the latest discussions, negotiations in the public sector will certainly allow the salaries of employees to be increased by 12%. In comparison, we only offer temporary premiums of 8% to those in the private sector. So, we have a double problem: on the one hand, there is a lack of manpower, because the agents are tempted to go to work in a CHSLD, and, on the other hand, it will be more and more difficult. to recruit ”, for his part warned Sylvain Roy.
In short, if it really wants to support home care, the government must move and adopt as soon as possible a decree that will give the attendants to beneficiaries conditions that reflect the importance of their function, and all the consideration that their work deserves. .
