Quebec - The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of social services, youth protection, home care, public health and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesperson for the elderly, Harold LeBel, and the spokesperson for health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, considers the amounts announced for home care in Quebec insufficient.
“Last April, we denounced government improvisation and asked for a significant reinvestment. Today&#39;s announcement remains below expectations; these are the same 60 million already announced. This is a far cry from the Liberal promise of $ 150 million more a year for home care. Another commitment not kept by this government, which has unfortunately accustomed us to breaking promises. We would also like to know how the amounts were distributed by region, while the needs will remain glaring in several of them, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
&quot;At least, the Minister finally agrees with our arguments: home care should have been a priority for 2 years since it meets real needs while saving money and time spent at home. emergency. This is not only important for our seniors, but also for caregivers. There are major problems to resolve for home support for our seniors, such as lack of resources, delays and regional disparities. The amounts invested must correspond to the needs, ”added Harold LeBel.
Diane Lamarre reminds us that this breach of promise is in addition to other promises not kept by the Liberal government in the area of health. “Whether it is for the million Quebecers who still do not have a family doctor or the overflowing emergencies, Minister Barrette has spoken a lot, but has not kept his commitments. Liberal austerity has taken large sums from the network and the care offered to citizens has been affected, whatever the Liberal government says. When needs increase, budgets must be increased. However, the Minister was unable to grant home support the sums necessary to simply maintain the services offered. As a result, many people have seen their home support hours decrease over the past 2 years, as their needs have increased. To promise $ 150 million a year and to be delighted to offer $ 60 million two years later is to fool Quebecers, ”concluded Diane Lamarre.
