Quebec - “Accessibility to home care is deteriorating in Quebec because the Liberal government neglects the application of a government policy adopted in 2003. It is a cry of alarm from the Protectrice du citoyen after a vast investigation. When will the Liberal government realize that it is not doing enough? &quot;
This is what the MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and official opposition spokesperson for seniors, Carole Poirier, said after reading the investigation report released today.
The Member notes that the Ombudsperson considers that, if the Liberal government had applied the government policy unveiled by the previous government, our seniors would be better cared for, better treated, and with dignity. “In short, what we are learning today is that we are ten years behind. It&#39;s totally inconceivable, ”protested Carole Poirier.
The Parti Québécois is little surprised by the many shortcomings raised by the Ombudsperson, who denounces the increase in waiting times, the addition of exclusion criteria and the reduction in hours of service by imposing maximum hours.
“This is an extremely worrying situation, especially for people with severe disabilities who are directly concerned. For two disabled people in the same condition but living in two different regions, there is a huge disparity in the provision of services. It is incomprehensible, ”added, for his part, the member for Saint-Hyacinthe and spokesperson for the disabled, Émilien Pelletier.
The member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve considers the measure announced in the last budget to be totally inadequate for the Liberal government to take the turn in home care by increasing the tax credit for natural caregivers by $ 93 per year. “It&#39;s insignificant. How do you radically change the situation if we offer barely 25 cents more per day for a caregiver? Carole Poirier wonders.
“In the Parti Québécois, we believe it is urgent and necessary for Quebec to make a major shift by investing massively in home care. This is how we will be able to offer better care, with more dignity, ”concluded Carole Poirier.
