Quebec - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announces the financial contribution of $ 1 million for the holding of the International Summit of Cooperatives, this world-class event that will be held simultaneously at the Québec City Convention Center and the Lévis Convention Center, from October 8 to 11, 2012. No less than 156 internationally renowned speakers and 2,000 leaders and delegates from 90 countries are expected.
“Through its support for the International Summit of Cooperatives, the Government of Quebec recognizes the essential role of cooperatives in the Quebec economy. We are very happy to support this event, which will highlight the advantages of the cooperative model and its important contribution to the economic and social development of Quebec. The Summit will showcase our talent and our entrepreneurial spirit internationally, ”said Minister Zakaïb.
The International Summit of Cooperatives will be a place for networking that will change the cooperative and mutualist business model. The actors present will discuss the major global socio-economic issues and explore new development approaches.
Cooperatives are innovative and dynamic businesses that generate significant spinoffs in Quebec. They also represent a model of prosperity and entrepreneurial success. Indeed, the survival rate of cooperatives is almost double that of traditional businesses, ie 62% after five years. Some 3,300 cooperatives and 44 mutuals are active in Quebec, among others in the financial services and insurance sectors, the agri-food industry, food, housing and the forestry industry. According to the most recent statistics, these companies generate 92,000 jobs, nearly two-thirds of which are located in the regions.
“Quebec is a leader in cooperative development. Our cooperatives are bold, creative and successful; they represent an important economic force throughout the territory. The Government of Quebec is a long-standing partner of the cooperative movement. We share common concerns about economic and social development. In this regard, by setting up the Economic Development Bank, we are committed to doing more by supporting, among other things, the social economy, ”concluded Minister Élaine Zakaïb.
