Rio de Janeiro - “Quebec, once again, failed to impose itself in the negotiations of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in Rio 2012. It is indeed Canada who spoke on our behalf. . Nor has it managed to really stand out in the eyes of the international community, due to its very mixed record in terms of sustainable development and the fight against climate change. &quot;
This is what the member for L&#39;Assomption and official opposition critic for the environment, sustainable development and parks, Scott McKay, said after an active participation at the summit of the land in Rio this week.
The member noted that the Liberal regime&#39;s northern marketing plan has come under severe criticism from many stakeholders and international non-governmental organizations. The obvious lack of efforts to ensure the real participation of all Quebecers in the development of the North and more particularly of the native communities in place is a major source of criticism. Added to this is the absence of concrete and precise measures, based on scientific and international criteria, to ensure the protection of our protected areas.
“At the Parti Québécois, our approach to protecting ecosystems is based on science and on the in-depth knowledge of the territory of the people who live there and who live there. The lack of funding to support northern communities in the ecological planning of the territory demonstrates the lack of real interest and understanding of the real issues of the Liberal government of Jean Charest in terms of sustainable development, ”emphasized the Member for L &#39;Assumption.
“In Rio, Canada continues to shame us. Canadian participation has helped defeat critical initiatives, such as ending subsidies for oil companies and those that finance the transition to a green economy for developing countries, ”said Scott McKay. He also noted that “Canada deserved a Fossil Prize in Rio given its blocking attitude on all points likely to bring significant progress for the environment. The Canadian representation in Rio went above and beyond to defeat the negotiations. This policy goes against the interests and values of Quebecers, ”added the spokesperson.
The Parti Québécois criticizes Prime Minister Jean Charest for not having taken the initiative to claim participating state status for Quebec during its tête-à-tête with the executive secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, Christiana Figueres. &quot;A sovereign Quebec would be one of the nations actively fighting against climate change, but given the threat to our interests, it is urgent that Quebec&#39;s commitment to the Kyoto Protocol be recognized within the International community. Everything must therefore be done in order to have a special status recognized in the context of post-Kyoto discussions. Similar precedents exist, you just have to have courage and determination, ”said Scott McKay.
“This mission in Rio enabled me to increase my exchanges with, in particular, stakeholders committed to the sustainable development of La Francophonie and of several countries in the world. I was also able to observe, on the spot, a real disinterest on the part of Jean Charest in the negotiation process of the conference, he who left the field open to Ottawa. Because of the challenges and major issues in terms of sustainable development that Quebec and the entire international community must take up, this attitude is unacceptable and not worthy of a premier of Quebec, ”concluded Scott McKay.
