Quebec - The Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Quebec (CCIQ), which took part in the public consultations on the Banque de développement économique du Quebec (BDEQ) on Friday morning, revealed that 69% of its members were in favor of the creation of the Quebec Economic Development Bank. These results come from a survey carried out on behalf of the CCIQ.
It should be remembered that the Development Bank, which will bring together, under the authority of a single body, the initiatives hitherto shared between Investissement Québec and the regional network of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, will have the mission of returning resources more accessible and better coordinated government agencies, in order to support entrepreneurs more effectively and to promote development by and for the regions, in particular around niches of excellence.
&quot;I am very happy with this support and, at the same time, not very surprised,&quot; said the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, after leaving the consultation session. . “The tour I conducted last fall allowed me to clearly identify the needs and expectations of entrepreneurs in all regions. I am convinced that the Development Bank will meet these expectations and these needs, in particular because it will offer additional financing and offer a more dynamic approach that is better suited to various realities. &quot;
The Development Bank will in fact favor a new regionalized, proactive approach that considers the entrepreneur as a client.
&quot;I am pleased with the support given by business people in the Capitale-Nationale to the new approach proposed by my colleague,&quot; said the Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale region and the Chaudière-Appalaches region, Ms. Agnès Maltais. “Our region has a tradition of consultation that has served it well, and this tailor-made development proposal offered by the BDEQ will strengthen it and make the most of it. &quot;
The Development Bank will have an office in each of the regions of Quebec. These regional offices will work in close collaboration with the local development centers (CLDs), which will be both its local branches and its privileged entry points.
The advisers in the regional offices of the Development Bank will provide guidance and support to businesses in their dealings with government departments and agencies. They will also coordinate the joint interventions of the ministries and bodies in the case of major projects.
The Development Bank will act as a catalyst and sometimes a trigger for projects. For example, it will identify the weak or missing links in the value chain of each niche and ensure that companies that can fill this gap are found. It will provide them with personalized support and support. It will also support successful small businesses, those we call “gazelles”, in order to help them grow and become leader leaders, thus creating an essential pool of medium-sized businesses and preparing our flagships of tomorrow.
Entrepreneurs are at the heart of prosperity. They are the real creators of wealth and jobs. The Development Bank will support them more effectively, in particular by considering them as clients. Thus, it will be up to the programs to take into account the needs of entrepreneurs and not to the entrepreneurs to modify their projects so that they fit into existing programs.
The Development Bank is expected to be set up in all regions next fall.
For more information, see the web page of the Ministère des Finances et de l&#39;Économies on the Banque de développement économique du Québec.
