Montreal– Yves-François Blanchet, MP for Drummond and official opposition spokesperson for language, immigration and cultural communities, Nicole, MP for Pointe-aux-Trembles and spokesperson for the metropolis Léger, and the deputy for Gouin and spokesperson for transport, Nicolas Girard, reacted this afternoon to the recent publication of a CROP survey in the magazine L&#39;actualité. This study reveals that Anglophones in Montreal, in particular the youngest, have adopted a vision of Montreal that detracts from the concerns of the French-speaking majority in Quebec.
“Unfortunately, in the survey, for the Anglophone minority in Montreal, the anglicization of work is a phenomenon that Francophones have to get used to. In addition, the marginalization of French would be no more of a concern than its disappearance in the longer term, ”said Montreal MP Nicolas Girard.
The Parti Québécois attributes this situation to nearly ten years of complacency and ambiguous messages from the Liberal government of Jean Charest.
“Since the election of this government, nothing has been done to ensure the sustainability of French in Montreal. The message sent by the Liberals is that people can ignore and defy Bill 101 at will without any recourse against them or penalties imposed on them. At best, the government mainly raises awareness in French for francophones to tell them that it is protecting French. By its fault, the English-speaking community of Montreal is in the process of cutting the bridges which have nevertheless multiplied towards the French majority since 1977 ”, affirmed Yves-François Blanchet.
“Anyone who lives in Montreal realizes that two worlds exist there. One is Anglophone, with its institutions, its media, its social life, its education system, and the other is Francophone. Of course, the language at work and access to English schools through the bridge schools as well as the display language are in question. Over time, it makes a big difference. We would like these two worlds to come together more, that they share more, ”continued the MP for Pointe-aux-Trembles, Nicole Léger.
MP Blanchet explains that this tight coexistence is aggravated by a draw in immigration matters. “While immigrants in a French state should integrate in French, half choose English instead. It is therefore the proportion of Anglophones which is increasing and French which is declining. &quot;
According to Yves-François Blanchet, this catastrophic situation is however not irreversible. “The survey reveals with disturbing clarity that without bad faith, without embarrassment, Anglophones in Montreal, long settled in Quebec or from recent immigration, accept the idea that French is disappearing from their reality. They don&#39;t know anything about Bill 101, a law they barely know about. &quot;
“The Liberal Party is making many shameful compromises so as not to displease its English-speaking electoral base. The CHUM construction site, the largest construction site in the State, transacts in English. Bridge schools are once again &quot;tolerated&quot;. Executives of Crown corporations can now be unilingual Anglophones. Cities can defy and insult the Charter of the French language with impunity. Bill 101 can easily be flouted, in the very center of the constituency of the minister responsible for its application. There is no longer any will to take francization measures for immigrants. Federal institutions are more than ever hostile to Bill 101. This is absurd! », Said the member for Drummond.
The Parti Québécois says it is disturbed by the clarity of the results of the L&#39;actualité survey. “On the one hand, we believe that the phenomenon is not irreversible, that the relationship between the two communities is still healthy and cordial and that the bridges have not been cut. However, the time for choices has come. Quebecers must now take the future of their language into their own hands. &quot;
“Four more years of liberal rule and this time it will be too late. We may no longer be able to save French in Montreal and a little later in Quebec. It is no longer possible to deny it, ”said Nicolas Girard.
“At the Parti Québécois, we are going to rewrite Bill 101, restore its spirit, strengthen it and above all, apply it. Quebecers have never given up French. The Liberals, yes. We are going to correct the damage of ten years of government without vision, without courage and without heart, and we will restore our language to its full dignity. Better still, we are going to give it a country, ”concluded Yves-François Blanchet.
