Québec, July 11, 2014 - Following the publication of the latest statistics on employment, the member for Saint? Jean and official opposition critic for employment, vocational training, literacy and youth, Dave Turcotte, and the member for Saint? Jérôme and spokesperson for the economy, entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports, Pierre Karl Péladeau, call on the government to intervene energetically to curb the losses of important jobs that have arisen since the Liberals came to power.
“Since their arrival, the so-called liberal effect has meant the loss of 29,300 jobs, including 26,500 full-time. The government must act quickly. While these tens of thousands of workers are losing their jobs, the government&#39;s only action was to cut $ 17 million in employment assistance measures, ”said Dave Turcotte.
The member for Saint-Jean recalls the request made by the Parti Québécois this week to do everything possible to support the 600 workers at the Cascades factories in East Angus and Energizer in Montreal. The government has not even stated its desire to ensure that these workers can find jobs at the same level as the one they held.
A costly lack of vision for workers The member for Saint-Jérôme and official opposition critic for the economy, entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports, Pierre Karl Péladeau, deplores for his part that the Liberal Party government has no vision to support job creation in Quebec.
“The arrival of the Liberal government has had a negative effect on employment. What will Philippe Couillard do to reverse this trend? During the election campaign, the Liberals&#39; only measure in terms of employment was to increase the level of public investment by $ 15 billion. After abandoning this promise, nothing remains, no plan to support job creation, ”continued Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“No economic policy, no industrial development policy, this is what the Liberal government is offering Quebecers. While he had promised 250,000 jobs in five years, Philippe Couillard is abandoning economic development to the detriment of a policy of austerity and budget cuts, ”concluded the deputies.
