Quebec - The member for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, denounces the double standard, two measures which prevail in the file of the remuneration of physicians.
&quot;MM. Barrette, Bolduc and Couillard have always sold us the need for a salary catch-up for doctors in order to prevent their exile, but the observation is that the catch-up is over and that Quebec has even taken the lead, particularly for medical specialists. However, the cost of living and tuition fees are lower in Quebec. What will the government do to correct this aberration? », Asked Diane Lamarre.
Data from the Canadian Institute for Health Information confirms today that the catching-up is complete, even before the future spreads granted by Minister Barrette last spring came into effect. In addition, although he has cut nearly $ 800 million in the budget of hospitals since his arrival at the Ministry of Health, Gaétan Barrette has given just as much too much to his fellow doctors, according to the Auditor General (VG) .
“Now that the figures show that Quebec physicians have more than caught up with the average of the other provinces and Ontario, will Gaétan Barrette demand reimbursement of the 400 million that were paid to them in excess between 2010 and 2015? And, above all, will he give up offering them the additional increase of 148 million unveiled by the VG in his last report? Finally, the last straw that broke the camel&#39;s back is the 50 million incidental costs that Gaétan Barrette is preparing to take in patients&#39; pockets and which will prevent the most disadvantaged from having fair access to health care. . Will he step back and take these surcharges from patients out of the 7 billion envelope dedicated to doctors? And how to explain that, despite all this money, access to doctors is still not there, and that the minister is still asking to wait until January 2018? », Continued the member.
“While the government has chosen to cut 120 million for childcare centers, 6 million for social assistance for drug addicts in rehabilitation, more than 300 million for education - homework help, support for students in difficulty, etc. -, in short, that children, families and the most vulnerable suffer the selective austerity of the Liberal government, how can the latter justify continuing to increase doctors&#39; salaries? », Concluded the spokesperson.
