Montreal - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, today participates in the unveiling of the programming for the fourth edition of Planète Québec at the South by Southwest (SXSW) festival, which will take place in Austin, Texas, from 7 until March 16.
“The international influence of our creators is a priority for our government. The dynamism, the avant-garde spirit and the inventiveness of Quebec in culture and technology are recognized and sought after. This event serves as a springboard for our creators to show their know-how, make themselves known to producers and major event organizers and establish profitable contacts with their peers, ”said Maka Kotto.
By welcoming thousands of professionals from around sixty countries each year, SXSW is considered a major event for the development of markets in the fields of music, cinema and interactive media. The government of Quebec is organizing the Planète Québec showcase there in order to support and contribute to the development of the careers outside Quebec of groups of musicians, directors and entrepreneurs in interactive media.
“SXSW is a flagship event for new global trends in music, interactive media and film. In these sectors, Quebec is a pioneer. It is therefore with excitement that the Quebec representatives will come to Austin to present to industry leaders the extent of Quebec creativity and genius. We are proud to support our artists and entrepreneurs in Quebec in their efforts to conquer international markets and present Quebec expertise, ”said Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée. .
The interactive media component, coordinated by Export Québec, will take place at the Austin Convention Center from March 7 to 11. Three Quebec companies specializing in multimedia will be part of the booth to present their products and services. They will be accompanied by two government partners, Tourisme Québec and Investissement Québec, as well as the Bureau du cinéma et de la television du Québec.
Quebec will also share its know-how by offering conferences covering both the field of cinema and that of interactive media. It should also be noted that four Quebec projects are finalists for the interactive awards and that three Quebec companies are part of the SXSW Accelerator competition which annually rewards young entrepreneurs and the most promising companies in emerging sectors.
For the Music component, Quebec will not be left out in what is considered the most important gathering in the world. About twenty Quebec musical groups will perform on March 13 and 14, in a bar-shows in downtown Austin, Maggie Mae&#39;s. They will be presented by Envol and Macadam, M for Montreal, Pop Montreal or even Scène 1425. A networking activity will also be organized for music industry professionals from Quebec and elsewhere. The coordination of the Music component has been entrusted to the Cultural Business Development Corporation.
Finally, two short films and one feature film directed by Quebecers will be in the official competition in the Cinema section.
The website www.planetequebec.net provides all the information about the participants in this fourth edition. It is also possible to follow the Quebec delegation on Facebook and on Twitter (#qcsxsw).
The presence of Planète Québec in South by Southwest is the result of collaboration between the Ministry of Culture and Communications and the Ministry of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade. It should also be noted that the Conseil des arts et des lettres du Québec, the Société de développement des entreprises culturelle as well as the International Youth Offices of Quebec are contributing to the holding of this fourth showcase in which the Quebec Delegation in Atlanta works closely. The financial investment linked to the Quebec presence in Austin is approximately $ 190,000 and is divided between the above-mentioned partners, as well as Tourisme Quebec, partner of the 2014 edition.
Appendix List of Quebec participants from Planète Québec to SXSW 2014
Music
