Quebec - The member for Terrebonne and official opposition critic for family matters, Mathieu Traversy, strongly deplores the fact that the Liberal government and the CAQ have refused to take a more in-depth look at the mechanisms surrounding the resale of subsidized private daycare centers , and the speculation that often arises from it.
“Lately, the media have reported cases where entrepreneurs have resold, collecting huge profits, subsidized private daycare spaces received free of charge from the state. However, we will never allow speculation to be made on the backs of the children of Quebec. Despite all the work and efforts of the Parti Québécois, today we are facing a wall. The Liberal Party and the CAQ officially refused, in a working session last night, to continue the mandate of the commission and to hear the groups and partners in the community in order to find a solution to this problem, thus deliberately putting an end to this exercise launched at the instigation of the Parti Québécois, ”said Mathieu Traversy.
The member noted, however, that it is not so surprising that the government preferred the status quo since in the House, a few weeks ago, the Minister of Families, Francine Charbonneau, had played down the situation, which the spokesperson had found it particularly disturbing. &quot;Except for a recommendation made to the Ministry to keep a register of statistics concerning the transactions of subsidized private daycare centers, which it should have done a long time ago, no action will be initiated by the Liberal government,&quot; he lamented.
“The government must absolutely tighten the rules surrounding the resale of daycare permits, because the situation is repeating itself year after year and the risks of slippage are real. This problem, created from scratch by the government of Jean Charest, must be resolved. In fact, at the time of the liberal daycare scandal, Minister Yolande James assured us that the laws in force sufficiently supervised the resale of permits. Obviously, this is not the case and that needs to change quickly. It is unacceptable that people make huge profits and speculate on subsidized places that they have received free of charge from the State, ”concluded Mathieu Traversy.
