Here is the speech by Pauline Marois, Premier of Quebec, on the occasion of the opening of the Summit on Higher Education:
The pronounced version is authoritative
“I would first like to thank you for being here, for participating in this summit on the future of higher education in Quebec. I thank you on behalf of all Quebecers, because what we are going to discuss concerns all Quebecers.
“The first affected are of course the students and professors, researchers and managers of our establishments. There are also those who are still very young and who might want to access higher education in five or ten years; older people, who might want to go back to school and improve their skills; there are companies, which depend more and more on the quality of the training of their employees and on university research; all those who benefit from the presence of CEGEPs and universities in their community; and, finally, all those who finance education and research with their taxes.
“We therefore have a collective responsibility towards all Quebecers. This requirement transcends each of us, each of our interests. We all have an obligation to succeed, which will be measured by our ability to move forward.
“This is my first message: after the summit we will have to be able to move forward.
“Each of us has our own ideas on the path our higher education system should take. However, I believe that on the essentials, we agree. Our universities and colleges are one of our greatest collective assets, a precious asset that we must support.
“We all agree, too, that knowledge is the surest way to develop our society, our culture, our economy. Education is also the means par excellence of a person&#39;s development.
“What we must aim for, as a company, is excellence. The excellence of teaching, research, management of our establishments and, above all, the excellence of our young people, of all those who have the talent and the desire to pursue higher education.
“We want to build a knowledge society. This aspiration must not divide us, it must unite us. Quebec has just gone through a major social crisis during which we put a lot of emphasis on what divides us. Everyone can see that this has not advanced either Quebec society or higher education.
“This is my second message: to move forward, we need to focus on what unites us.
“Of course, that doesn&#39;t mean that disagreements aren&#39;t going to persist between us at the end of the summit. This exercise is not intended to fix everything in a few hours. We will continue to work together on Wednesday morning.
“The summit is an opportunity to re-establish dialogue, to rebuild bridges and re-establish links between us. It is also the moment to give ourselves common objectives and to find together the means to achieve them.
“I have already mentioned it and I would like to repeat it to you today: the government is firm on the principles, but flexible on the means.
“On the goals, I think we all agree. For example, that higher education is one of the essential engines for our development as a society: we all agree on that.
“We agree that university funding is a very profitable investment for the Quebec nation. So the government is ready to fund our universities in an adequate, sustainable and predictable way. This funding comes from the pockets of Quebecers and it is normal that they be assured that this investment will be maximized.
“On the student side, we have always said that we were guided by two objectives:
“By reversing the exaggerated increase in tuition fees, we have achieved part of our objectives. Quebec will remain the place in North America where higher education is the most accessible. Our young people will remain the least indebted students on the continent. We are determined to increase accessibility for students, especially first generation students. Universities, students and all of Quebec will benefit.
“Now the means can vary. We are very open about it.
“This is my third message: I ask you all to be open.
“The presence of all of us testifies to our commitment to young people, and also to our higher education establishments. We have a responsibility to move forward to build a Quebec of knowledge. It is time for everyone to do their part so that after the summit, we move on to another stage, we give ourselves a new impetus.
“Let us set common goals, ambitious goals. We will be able to reach them by maintaining a constant, permanent dialogue.
“What I want is for Quebec to relaunch itself in pursuit of excellence, creativity and the development of each of our young people. This is our responsibility.
“Moving forward, focusing on what unites us and being open.
“I wish us and I wish for all of Quebec that we have fruitful discussions.
“Thank you once again for being here.
Have a good summit! &quot;
