On February 5, 2014, Pauline Marois addressed hundreds of activists gathered at the Musée québécois de la culture populaire in Trois-Rivières on the occasion of the great militant rally as part of the exceptional tour of members of the government in Mauricie and the Center-du-Quebec. Here are his speaking notes.
Also: react on the Parti Québécois blog, to Pauline Marois &#39;post: “On the way to a rich, proud and united country” and watch Pauline Marois&#39; speech.
The speech made is authentic.
Thank you.
I am very happy to see you again, activists of the Parti Québécois.
Since our election in September 2012, we have had less time to see each other, but it must be said that in government, we have not been idle.
We are in the process of putting everything in place to give Quebec a boost. So that Quebec is more prosperous and Quebecers richer.
We are in the process of implementing a vigorous, voluntary economic policy which will enable us to reap the fruits of the global economic recovery. This policy will make it possible to create 115,000 new jobs within three years.
We use all the means of the State to support, stimulate and encourage job creation in all regions. Our objective is clear: we want Quebecers to be richer, individually and collectively.
I can tell you one thing: I am determined to make it happen. We are going to make Quebec a richer country!
…
Since taking office, we have supported private investment projects totaling $ 10 billion. That means creating or maintaining 29,000 jobs.
And, in fact, in all of our history, never have there been so many Quebecers at work. Never!
…
We have taken courageous gestures that have been overdue for a long time; for example, Quebec got out of nuclear and asbestos.
These were difficult decisions and we made a commitment to compensate by putting a lot of effort into bringing back jobs in Mauricie and Center-du-Québec.
We kept our word by multiplying the projects.
Tonight, I am proud to say it to the citizens of Mauricie: in terms of investments and job creation, we have delivered the goods!
…
We did this by regaining control of government spending for the first time in ten years.
On the income side, Quebec is in the same situation as most Western states, ie faced with very low inflation. The income is not there.
Despite this global context, François Legault persists in wanting to reach the zero deficit as of now.
Philippe Couillard hesitated. He first suggested postponing the achievement of balance for a few years. The next day, he changed his position, calling for a zero deficit.
If we listened to the leaders of the opposition, we would have to raise taxes or make very painful cuts of nearly $ 2 billion. Cuts mean less economic activity, fewer jobs and, ultimately, less revenue for the government.
We made a different choice. We chose to go all out with an ambitious and daring economic plan.
We had the choice between austerity and prosperity. Philippe Couillard and François Legault have chosen austerity. I chose prosperity!
…
Messrs. Legault and Couillard said they were ready to rush us into the election campaign by voting against the budget. If they do not back down, it will be up to the voters to decide.
I have complete confidence in Quebeckers.
…
It is not just about the charter that Philippe Couillard is loathing… There is a fundamental question on which we must be clear from now on.
I am talking about the political future of Quebec.
Philippe Couillard affirms that he wants to sign the Constitution by the anniversary of the Canadian Federation, in 2017. But he refuses to tell us under what conditions he is ready to do so. Is he ready to sign the Canadian Constitution unconditionally, unlike all his predecessors, even Jean Charest?
Robert Bourassa had demanded the minimum: the recognition that Quebec forms a distinct society. Canada refused to recognize us and Bourassa refused to sign.
Philippe Couillard said the other day that Quebec should not stand out in North America… He rejects the distinct society of Robert Bourassa. Does the current leader of the Liberal Party want to go below this minimum? Philippe Couillard must be clear on this.
He has a minimum duty of honesty towards Quebecers. Signing this constitution, which was imposed on us without even the Quebecers having been consulted, would be a serious decision, which would commit the future of our nation for a long time.
I therefore put the question to Philippe Couillard: before taking such an important step, does he commit to consulting Quebeckers by holding a referendum? I cannot imagine that he will launch an election campaign without telling us clearly what his intentions are.
The Liberals like to repeat that we are threatening to hold a referendum, as if above all we should not democratically consult citizens. I say that Philippe Couillard threatens not to consult Quebeckers. To act without asking the opinion of the population would be deeply undemocratic. It would be unacceptable!
The Liberal leader must stop dodging and get it right.
For our part, we are perfectly clear: we want Quebec to become a country!
…
We are also perfectly clear on our approach: sovereignty will only be achieved after consultation and approval of Quebeckers by means of a referendum.
Since our election in September 2012, everyone has been able to observe that the defense of our interests and our values has been constructive and anchored in reality.
Far from looking for a dispute with Ottawa, we wanted to advance our interests. The bickering - over workforce training, labor-sponsored funds, the securities commission, employment insurance - were sparked by Ottawa.
We have announced our commitment to eliminate duplication in health and municipal affairs in order to reduce bureaucracy, to the benefit not of the government, but of everyone. For the future, we will continue to prepare Quebec to become a country. We are going to do it responsibly, without upsetting Quebeckers, but with great determination.
The time will come when we will once again be called upon to choose our political future. Our responsibility is to strengthen ourselves, to prepare for this moment.
Then, we must take the time to reflect together, as a nation, on our political future. Throughout our history, Quebecers have been invited to this type of exercise periodically. There have been :
These reflections were all striking. This is normal for a people who have always had to struggle to survive, to develop, to last.
We have not taken the time to reflect together on the political future of the Quebec nation for almost 20 years. It is time for us to take stock and reflect on how far we have come and the road we must take.
Mr. Couillard would like to sign the Canadian Constitution and lock down the status of Quebec as a simple province. He would like to do so without consulting us, without regard for our history and without regard for the future.
For our part, we want Quebec to become a country. Each of these options must be considered. What status will allow us to preserve our language over a period of 10, 20 or 50 years? That of a Canadian province or that of a country?
For me, it&#39;s clear: the only way that ensures the future of French is that of a country, of a French-speaking country in America!
…
Will the status of a Canadian province allow us to promote our common values, to create a feeling of belonging, a real Quebec citizenship? It seems to me that this pleads in favor of a Quebec country.
Is it possible for a province to reduce bureaucratic overlaps, to reform the state to make it a more efficient, less expensive tool, closer to our needs? It seems to me that eliminating all the bureaucratic redundancies by giving us a country would allow us to have a more efficient, less expensive State that is closer to the people.
Does federal legislation match our interests and values? And, as a province, is it realistic to believe that Canada will be able to meet our national aspirations?
How can we believe it, knowing that within the federal Parliament, Quebec&#39;s weight is constantly diminishing?
For our economic development, is the status of a province of Canada preferable to that of a country that has
It seems to me that we are never so well served as by ourselves.
To enrich ourselves, to reach the end of our potential, we need all the strength and all the means of a real country!
…
In recent decades, the question has been asked a lot: what would a sovereign Quebec be? Opponents of sovereignty have placed great emphasis on the risks, grossly exaggerating them.
But what about the risks of remaining a Canadian province? How can we develop when another nation makes the decisions for us? Who guarantees us that by remaining a Canadian province, we will be able to continue to live in French, according to our values? What poses the greatest risk to our future, remaining a province or becoming a country?
It is time to start thinking carefully again, seriously debating the future of our nation. This is what we are going to do.
I am announcing this to you this evening: during the next term of office, we will start to think collectively again.
By resuming, in our own way, the approach chosen by René Lévesque, the entire population will be invited to speak.
In a future term, a Parti Québécois government will present a white paper on the future of Quebec!
…
We obviously cannot assume the direction Quebeckers will take. Nor when we are ready to make our choices. But we are going to propose a clear avenue.
And, unlike Philippe Couillard, I can guarantee Quebecers that the choice will rest in their hands: it is we who will decide our future and no one else!
…
When we have a majority, I will be asked if we are going to hold a referendum on sovereignty. My answer remains the same: there will be a referendum on sovereignty at the appropriate time.
I would like it to be as soon as possible, but we will not jostle Quebeckers.
We are going to prepare ourselves by acting constructively, in a positive way, by strengthening our society on all fronts.
But I am sure of one thing: Quebec will become a country. Our whole history leads us there!
…
For now, we must prepare for the next battle. The opposition threatens to rush us into elections at any time. We need to prepare in each of the ridings.
Here, in Mauricie, in Center-du-Québec and everywhere else. Quebeckers will have to decide between two very different ways of seeing our future.
There is Mr. Legault&#39;s negative attitude, according to which we never do anything good in Quebec. There is the hesitant, indecisive, lazy gait of M. Couillard. And there is the vision of my government, positive and determined. Very determined!
…
The opposition wants to impose austerity on us; we choose prosperity.
The opposition is betting on every man for himself; we choose solidarity.
For our nation, the opposition proposes that we erase ourselves. We choose to assume our values and our identity with pride!
…
You&#39;ve seen us go for a few months.
We are determined to make Quebec a rich country.
A proud country, united around our common values.
A united country, where we take care of our world.
A country where we speak French.
A Quebec country!
…
It&#39;s not going to happen on its own. This ambition, this will, this determination, we must share it with our family, our friends, our neighbors.
We are starting from afar and we have already come a long way. We must continue to move forward without failing.
I am determined. I am determined to continue on the road to the end.
It depends on you, it depends on us.
And it starts here, tonight, in the heart of Quebec!
Thank you.
Watch Pauline Marois&#39; speech!
