It is a huge honor for us parliamentarians and for all Quebecers to welcome you here to our National Assembly, one of the oldest parliamentary democracies in the world.
Your presence in Quebec, Mr. President, testifies to the direct, privileged and fraternal relationship that our two nations maintain.
The special ties that unite us to France can of course be explained by this magnificent and rich language that we share.
But this Franco-Quebecois proximity can also be understood by a historical trajectory that was common to us for a certain time, for more than two hundred years. We have been carrying one part of the other ever since.
We have been able to measure the strength of these very special ties and help maintain them with you over the past two years.
In this regard, allow me to thank you for the magnificent welcome you extended to the Premier of Quebec Pauline Marois during her visits to French soil in October 2012 as well as in December 2013.
Mr. President, you have reaffirmed France&#39;s traditional position with regard to Quebec. You are in favor of continuity, you said at the time.
We salute your sensitivity to Quebec, which is very real.
Our nations are growing and facing ever greater challenges. But we are well equipped.
In this regard, I cannot ignore the magnificent performance of France, which has been honored this year by receiving not one, but two Nobel Prizes.
First, the Nobel Prize for Literature, awarded to novelist Patrick Modiano. He is the 15th French author to receive this distinction.
Then, in another universe, it was Jean Tirole, professor at the Toulouse School of Economics, who was awarded the Nobel Prize in economics.
Since we are in the spotlight, I take this opportunity to recall the decision of the Académie française which, not yet a year ago, made Dany Laferrière the first Quebecer to join this prestigious institution.
Mr. President, we know you are the protector of the Academy; We are happy and proud that a Quebecker from Haiti, a “tightly mixed” Quebecer - to use an expression now consecrated here by the comedian Boucar Diouf, thus accedes to the status of Immortal.
Quebec and France know how to make an alliance, fight side by side and triumph. Our work has led to great achievements.
Let&#39;s talk here about the UNESCO Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions.
Next year we will be celebrating the 10th anniversary of this convention. We know that the battle for cultural exception is not over.
Since “losing languages is to undo human biodiversity”, our great poet Gilles Vigneault tells us, we must take up the digital challenge so that the richness that cultural plurality brings us is preserved. French only occupies 3% of space on the Web, but still remains one of the top ten languages used.
We must act together to promote the creation and distribution of French-speaking digital content.
Ways must be found to strengthen the Convention and ensure that trade agreements take it into account, such as the very recent Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union.
Together, in concert with the member states of La Francophonie, we can and must also lead the battle for the promotion of French in the world.
Following the adoption of the Integrated Policy for the Promotion of the French Language at the Kinshasa Summit, it is a shared responsibility that we have to promote the French language on the international scene. The language of Molière, Balzac, also that of Miron, Laferrière, and so many others, must be proudly heard in all international forums.
The power of French, on the world linguistic scale, recalls the interest of doing business in French and of actively contributing to the economic development of the world.
According to the excellent report given to you by Mr Jacques Attali on La Francophonie as an engine of sustainable growth, &quot;two countries sharing linguistic links tend to exchange around 65% more than if they did not have any&quot;. It is not insignificant.
The economic potential of La Francophonie is enormous and must be further exploited. However, according to demographic projections, the future of the Francophonie will emerge on the African continent.
It is in the south that the growth of French speakers will take place. It goes without saying that the French-speaking countries of the south can continue to occupy increasingly influential positions within the International Organization of La Francophonie.
Africa, which particularly needs our solidarity at the moment, is also the French-speaking economic space offering the greatest potential for prosperity.
Economically, France and Quebec are already exceptional partners.
The importance of foreign investment between our two territories bears witness to this. And, when they think of Canada, it is in Quebec that the vast majority of the head offices of French subsidiaries are located.
Last year, the trade of goods between Quebec and France amounted to 3.7 billion dollars, an increase of almost 4% compared to 2012. This makes France the third economic partner of Quebec.
We must therefore continue this momentum by creating conditions that are even more conducive to the fruition of these exchanges, to the mobility of capital, entrepreneurs and students.
The Canada-European free trade agreement must also be an opportunity for marked growth in our economic relations.
In Quebec, the place occupied by small and medium-sized enterprises is considerable.
Our industrial net is very diversified.
These SMEs provide 87% of the jobs to our economy and are now projecting themselves on the world stage with great success. It must continue. These entrepreneurs need to feel supported at certain crucial points in their development.
In France, moreover, you support these companies in various ways.
It is necessary to underline the model of your public investment bank, launched in January 2013 on your initiative, which has as mission, in particular, to support companies throughout their life cycle on the national and international market.
I therefore hope that the French success and this type of initiative, favoring the start-up, development and internationalization of companies, can continue and inspire us in the decisions that we will have to make here in Quebec.
On the paths of the future, there are also many young French and Quebec researchers who are eager to use their knowledge for the benefit of innovation and development.
It should be remembered that the particularity of the France-Quebec relationship has also been defined and woven for a long time in the laboratories of our respective universities.
It is France and Quebec that graduate the largest number of doctoral students in joint supervision in the world!
These doctoral students, always more mobile, supervised by masters from Quebec and France, are the links of this knowledge society that we always want stronger and more promising.
This cooperation must also support the spirit of innovation which will allow the emergence of young dynamic companies, creating jobs, and which will project our economies towards cutting-edge sectors, and respectful of our planet. Because it must be said, Mr. President: under your five-year term, environmental issues occupy a prominent place.
While you and I are more than in favor of the continual warming of France-Quebec relations, we do not look favorably on global warming.
At the end of next year, Paris will host the 21st United Nations Climate Change Conference. It is an important event for France, and for humanity; moreover, you have rightly spoken of a historical responsibility of France.
Your special envoy for the protection of the planet, Nicolas Hulot, moreover came to Canada and Quebec recently to open up avenues for discussion. We recognize him as the bearer of one of the most important issues of this century.
At the national and international levels, the necessary decisions must be taken to fight, by all possible means, against climate change.
Quebec disagreed with Canada which, unfortunately, was the first state to withdraw from the Kyoto Protocol in 2011.
The Quebec National Assembly voted unanimously to reaffirm its commitment to the efforts undertaken in Kyoto.
Quebecers are deeply attached to the protection of their environment.
You have surely noticed that our great river, the very one that Samuel de Champlain took in 1608, is a source of pride and wealth. This St. Lawrence River, which runs through time, our history and our territory, is our opening to the world. He reminds us every day of the importance of ensuring the protection of the planet.
We therefore wish for an inspiring Paris conference.
In this regard, we share the wish expressed by your government, namely that this conference should be one of “commitments and not speeches”.
The summary of the report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, published on Sunday, reminds us of the urgent need for immediate mobilization of all decision-makers, otherwise the impacts will be irreversible.
Mr. President, in this rapidly changing world, where the challenges are becoming more complex, where benchmarks change without warning, in a world that is constantly redefining itself, the sustainability of the direct and privileged relationship between France and Quebec is taking shape. all its value.
Mr. President, as we know, a friendship always needs to be nurtured. Nothing should ever be taken for granted on either side.
Although the past is often a guarantee of the future, it is important to take care of this special relationship.
Your presence here today is historic. It is in line with that of the great French leaders who, at the present time, have understood the future.
The challenges of the world demand that we be able to enrich this alliance that has known and will know for a long time to come, I am convinced, to cross an ocean ... and time.
Mr. President, I say it sincerely: long live this beautiful friendship!
