Quebec - Sylvain Pagé, the member for Labelle and official opposition spokesperson for healthy lifestyles, recreation and sports, reiterates his request to the Minister responsible for Recreation and Sports, François Blais, that tabled as soon as possible a national policy on sport, leisure and physical activity as well as a horizontal action plan within the government.
This spring, a report presented by the National Institute of Public Health confirmed that health costs related to overweight and obesity were estimated at $ 1.5 billion per year. Yesterday, Healthy Kids Canada published a worrying report on the physical activity level of young Quebecers. &quot;The findings drawn up by these reports and the data they contain should prompt the Minister to react and to consider the importance of tabling a policy on sport, leisure and physical activity, accompanied by an action plan ambitious interdepartmental mission, ”said Sylvain Pagé.
In addition, last week, some twenty Quebec organizations in the fields of health, recreation, physical activity and sport joined in, calling for more political actions to maximize opportunities for young people, to be active. The impact of physical activity is convincing, both for their health and for their academic performance. &quot;For the sake of our children and to promote the educational success of our young people, it is now time to put words into action,&quot; added the member for Labelle.
Since the coming to power of this government, two ministers have been responsible for Recreation and Sports and both have praised the quality of the work carried out by the Parti Québécois in preparation for the tabling of an ambitious policy for the healthy lifestyles of Quebecer. “The Minister must table as soon as possible a national sports, leisure and physical activity policy which will be far-reaching and which will dare to call on all the ministries of his government. It must also simultaneously propose an action plan that will make the Quebec nation one of the fittest in the world. In the Parti Québécois, it is our ambition for the well-being of our population, and this is the reason that pushes us to ask for an action plan ranging from the CPE to the CHSLD, ”concluded Sylvain Pagé.
