Québec, May 19, 2020 - As Québec prepared to begin a record year in terms of watering to combat the spruce budworm epidemic, the member for Bonaventure and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in Regarding forests, Sylvain Roy, denounces the government&#39;s decision to reduce the surface area treated with disgrace, and this, by giving arguments of variable geometry.
IN SHORT
In Sylvain Roy&#39;s eyes, the reasons that led to this decision are not clear. &quot;While all stakeholders in the forestry sector have been making efforts for weeks to put in place health protocols aimed at ensuring the safety of workers, in order to be able to successfully launch the 2020 season despite COVID-19, the Société de protection of forests against insects and diseases, SOPFIM justified last week a complete stop of the fight against the budworm by invoking, precisely, these questions of safety. Subsequently, the government revised its position and announced that finally, this year, 17% of the territory to be treated at the base would be treated, this time brandishing a scientific opinion stating that watering can be done only one year in of them. These explanations seem flawed to me, to say the least, ”said the MP.
He is rather of the opinion that the decision is justified more by an objective of rationalizing budgets. “In doing so, $ 50 million less will be invested this year in the protection of our forest heritage. This budget cut will therefore ultimately have serious consequences for the hundreds of towns and villages in Quebec that live off the forestry economy, given the constant growth of the insect, ”he analyzed.
In other words, after realizing that the security argument did not hold water, the government tried to justify its decision with a scientific study, not otherwise validated. But the ultimate goal is to cut back on the budworm. “I ask the government to reverse this decision. The regions of Gaspésie, Bas-Saint-Laurent, Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean and Côte-Nord cannot afford to let the epidemic destroy the forests which constitute the livelihood of thousands of families. ”Sylvain Roy concluded.
Note that from 2009 to 2019, the number of hectares of Quebec forest affected by the budworm jumped dramatically, from 321,146 to 9,608,488. If the current decision is maintained, only 111,500 hectares will be treated this year. or barely more than 1% of the territory in question.
