Saguenay? Lac-Saint-Jean - The Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance and Member of Parliament for Lac-Saint-Jean, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, and the Member for Roberval, Mr. Denis Trottier, informed, on behalf of the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, that Rio Tinto Alcan must submit its next Lake Saint-Jean shoreline stabilization program to the environmental impact assessment and review procedure.
The initial program was authorized by decree number 819-86 on June 11, 1986. It was then extended in 1995 and 2006. The objective at that time was to allow Rio Tinto Alcan to continue its program and to carry out maintenance work on the structures installed as initially planned.
However, this program will come to an end on December 31, 2016 and the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP) is of the opinion that a simple modification of the initial decree in order to extend it by again the duration is not possible.
In fact, the stabilization work on the shores of Lac Saint-Jean is subject to the environmental impact assessment and review procedure under paragraph 2 b of the Regulation respecting impact assessment and review. on the environment (chapter Q-2, r. 23), since they constitute digging and backfilling work over a length of more than 300 meters in Lake Saint-Jean.
“The Department asked Rio Tinto Alcan to submit its next Lake Saint-Jean shoreline stabilization program to the environmental impact assessment and review procedure. To do this, it must first file a project notice describing the nature of the work envisaged. Considering that the deadlines for the various stages of the procedure are 24 to 36 months, it is recommended that Rio Tinto Alcan file this project notice in winter 2014, to allow the government to make an informed decision on the next one. stabilization program before the end of the authorization currently in force which expires on December 31, 2016, ”said Minister Yves-François Blanchet.
“Lac Saint-Jean is a source of great regional and even national pride. Since 1986, the situation surrounding the management of the lake&#39;s water and the resulting erosion of the banks has changed considerably. By applying the environmental impact assessment and review procedure, the population will not only be able to be informed of Rio Tinto Alcan&#39;s intentions throughout the process, they will be able to participate and be heard in it ”, declared the Minister. Minister Alexandre Cloutier.
“This is good news for the people. The uses and problems of the shores of Lac Saint-Jean have changed over the past 30 years. It is therefore essential to review the file in depth. This review will be the opportunity to establish a new viable agreement for the population and the company in a perspective of sustainable development so that winning conditions from a social, economic and environmental point of view are established ”, declared the deputy. Denis Trottier.
Additional information on the environmental impact assessment and review procedure is available on the MDDEFP website at the following address: www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca.
