Montreal - The leader of the official opposition and MP for Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, notes the failure of the Liberal government of Jean Charest to defend the interests of Quebec in front of Ottawa. “Since he was re-elected in 2008, Jean Charest has placed Quebec in a weak position and has shown that he was unable to stand up to defend Quebec. Never has a premier of Quebec obtained so little from Ottawa. &quot;
On September 29, 2008, Jean Charest made 15 requests to the leaders of the federal parties within the framework of the electoral campaign. Today, it is clear that the result is catastrophic: 0 out of 15. Not only has Quebec not obtained anything, but things have deteriorated considerably.
“It&#39;s Ottawa 15, Quebec 0. The government of Stephen Harper is making decisions that go against the will of Quebec while the government of Jean Charest stands idly by. Ottawa has awarded contracts worth $ 33 billion for warships with no fallout for Quebec, $ 30 billion for fighter jets, subsidies to Newfoundland for hydroelectricity to compete with Quebec, it has reduced transfers in health and capped equalization. Worse, with Bill C-10 on crime, it is the Quebec government that will have to shoulder the bill of hundreds of millions of dollars, ”explained Pauline Marois, adding that Ontario had received 10 billion. of dollars for its automobile industry while Quebec received 170 million dollars for the forest.
“While Jean Charest is in Toronto today to talk about his northern marketing plan, he is being laughed at in Ottawa. The Harper government is completely ignoring Quebec. Our interests, our values and our identity are violated day after day. For Quebec, the federal government is clearly part of the problems rather than the solutions. There are very concrete and very negative consequences at the economic, financial, cultural, legal, environmental and linguistic levels, ”indicated the official opposition spokesperson for Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Bernard Drainville.
“If Jean Charest has made Quebec retreat since he came to power, François Legault is hardly better placed by giving up in advance to fight. The CAQ would put Quebec in an even more perilous position of weakness. Quebec must find a balance of power in front of Ottawa and only the Parti Québécois promises to fight for Quebec, ”summarized Pauline Marois, concluding that the greatest risk for Quebec is not sovereignty, it is is to stay in Canada.
