Sainte-Julie– The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the Minister of Public Security and Member of Parliament for Verchères, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, the Mayoress of Sainte- Julie and Prefect of the MRC de Marguerite-D&#39;Youville, Ms. Suzanne Roy, as well as the President and CEO of the Agence métropolitaine de transport, Mr. Nicolas Girard, today signed a memorandum of understanding. he agreement to develop a permanent incentive parking lot of approximately 1,100 spaces in Sainte-Julie.
Located inside the interchange of exit 102 of highway 20 west, the new park-and-ride parking lot in Sainte-Julie involves moving the entrance and exit ramps of the highway 20 west interchange, the extension of Boulevard Armand-Frappier as well as the extension of Rue Murano.
“The government&#39;s desire to move forward with these some 1,100 parking spaces demonstrates the importance attached to sustainable mobility. By developing these parking spaces, we are helping to improve the public transport offer, not only for the citizens of Sainte-Julie, but also for those of neighboring municipalities. This project, which is part of the Quebec Infrastructure Program, will be carried out in collaboration with the City of Sainte-Julie and the Agence métropolitaine de transport, as specified in the protocol that we have just signed, ”said Minister Gaudreault.
This incentive parking will allow public transit users to safely access the bus boarding platforms, without interfering with local traffic, since the terminus and the planned parking will be grouped together on the same site.
“I am delighted with this important announcement, since in the long term, this project will be beneficial for all the citizens of the region. This new development will increase the safety of users and residents of the area. This parking, in addition to improving the mobility of people, will therefore have a favorable impact on the quality of life of citizens, ”said Mr. Bergeron.
“I would like to thank everyone involved in this file. Initially, this park-and-ride parking project, which was planned to be implemented in stages, will finally see the light of day in order to meet all the needs of the population of Julien in terms of public transport, ”said the enthusiast. Mayor of Sainte-Julie, Suzanne Roy.
&quot;We are very happy to be able to collaborate with the various ministries as well as with the City of Sainte-Julie in the realization of this structuring project for this sector of the South Shore of Montreal&quot;, underlines Nicolas Girard, President and CEO of AMT. “The current temporary parking is currently at full capacity, proof that the demand exists and that people are ready to change their transportation habits. This new parking lot will significantly promote the use of public transport and offer an effective alternative to solo driving. &quot;
The memorandum of understanding, signed today, will make it possible to finalize real estate activities, prepare plans and specifications and proceed with requests for environmental authorizations. Depending on the evolution of the acquisition process, work could begin in 2014.
Note that last January, 110 additional parking spaces have already been made available. During the summer of 2013, there will be the addition of 120 temporary spaces, so a total of 230 spaces will be available, allowing a greater capacity for vehicles, while waiting for permanent parking to take shape.
“This permanent park-and-ride parking project places road users at the heart of the government&#39;s concerns. It is a concrete solution that aims to increase the use of public transit with a view to sustainable development, thus promoting a reduction in road congestion, ”concluded Minister Gaudreault.
