Joliette– The MNA for Joliette, Minister responsible for Social Services and Youth Protection and Minister responsible for the Lanaudière region, Ms. Véronique Hivon, announced today that the organization Défis-logis Lanaudière has received, from the from the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), confirmation that 12 housing units were reserved for it under the AccèsLogis Québec program. This is an important step in the realization of this adapted and safe community housing project for adults with an intellectual disability or with a pervasive developmental disorder. It is also a first in the Lanaudière region.
“I rejoice for the initiators of the project, parents and committed volunteers who have worked so hard over the past few years to make this dream come true. And above all, I am happy for these future tenants who will be able to flourish in an environment adapted to their needs. Finally, I am as delighted as the Member of Parliament for Joliette, seeing this project evolve positively for the well-being of our community, and as Minister for Social Services, having contributed to this progress thanks to the investment. of $ 10 million that I announced in the spring, including $ 1.8 million for Lanaudière, specifically to support people aged 21 and over with disabilities. An initial sum of $ 75,000 from this envelope is earmarked, starting this year, for the project. I wish the organization the best of success for the future and I look forward to this great achievement, ”declared Member of Parliament and Minister Véronique Hivon.
The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Sylvain Gaudreault, added his voice to that of his colleague to specify that &quot;the investments of the Government of Quebec for creating affordable housing is part of a vast plan based on social solidarity and which aims to ensure that every Quebecer has access to decent living conditions and can play an active role in society ”. He added that it was &quot;important to continue interventions in housing, since they represent an excellent way to fight poverty and promote greater equality between citizens&quot;.
Following this announcement, the organization is now invited to submit to the SHQ the documents necessary for the further analysis of its request for financial assistance.
Since the implementation of the SHQ&#39;s AccèsLogis Québec and Affordable Housing Québec programs, 1,079 community housing units have been built or are in the process of being built in the region, representing investments totaling nearly $ 107 million.
Remember that in its most recent budget, the Government of Quebec announced an envelope of $ 231 million for the construction of 3,000 housing units.
The SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Each year, thanks to its programs and its many partners, it helps more than 230,000 Quebec households. For more information on its programs and services, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca.
