Quebec - The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports and Minister responsible for the Montérégie region, Mrs. Marie Malavoy, today announced that the Coopérative de solidarité en habitation La Seigneurie de Boucherville received, from from the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), confirmation that 80 community housing units were reserved for it to carry out a project submitted under the AccèsLogis Québec program.
This announcement is an important step for this organization, which is now invited to submit to the SHQ the documents necessary for the further analysis of its request for financial assistance.
“As Minister responsible for the Montérégie region, I am delighted that a project as important as the one we are announcing today is in the process of being realized. For me, it is essential to provide affordable and quality housing to citizens who have to deal with low incomes. I am also putting on my hat as Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports to underline the importance of setting up healthy living environments that promote the development and fulfillment of young and old, ”declared the Minister. Minister Marie Malavoy.
The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Sylvain Gaudreault, added his voice to that of his colleague to specify that &quot;the investments of the Government of Quebec for creating affordable housing is part of a vast plan based on social solidarity and which aims to ensure that every Quebecer has access to decent living conditions and can play an active role in society ”. He added that it was &quot;important to continue interventions in housing, since they represent an excellent way to fight poverty and promote greater equality between citizens&quot;.
Since the implementation of the SHQ&#39;s AccèsLogis Québec and Affordable Housing Québec programs, 3,316 community housing units have been built or are in the process of being built in the Montérégie region, representing investments totaling more than $ 354 million. .
Remember that in its most recent budget, the Government of Quebec announced an envelope of $ 231 million for the construction of 3,000 housing units.
The SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Each year, thanks to its programs and its many partners, it helps more than 230,000 Quebec households. For more information on its programs and services, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca.
