Quebec - The Minister of Finance and the Economy and Member of Parliament for Rousseau, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, today announced that two organizations in the region have received, from the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), the confirmation that 49 community housing units were reserved for them to carry out projects submitted under the AccèsLogis Québec program. Of this number, 28 units are reserved for Les Résidences de l&#39;Achigan and 21 for Les Habitations Saint-Lin-Laurentides.
This announcement is an important step for these organizations, which are now invited to submit to the SHQ the documents necessary for the further analysis of their request for financial assistance.
&quot;I am delighted that these projects are on the right track, because I know that they will not only contribute to offering a better quality of life to many citizens of the riding of Rousseau, but that they will also have significant economic repercussions for our community. region. We have known for a long time that intervening to improve the housing conditions of the most vulnerable people is an investment, and not an expense, which our society cannot do without. Moreover, a recent study conducted on behalf of the SHQ clearly demonstrated that our housing investments help reduce poverty and the associated costs, ”said Minister Nicolas Marceau.
The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Sylvain Gaudreault, added his voice to that of his colleague to specify that &quot;the investments of the Government of Quebec for creating affordable housing is part of a vast plan based on social solidarity and which aims to ensure that every Quebecer has access to decent living conditions and can play an active role in society ”. He added that it was &quot;important to continue interventions in housing, since they represent an excellent way to fight poverty and promote greater equality between citizens&quot;.
Since the implementation of the SHQ&#39;s AccèsLogis Québec and Affordable Housing Québec programs, 1,079 community housing units have been built or are in the process of being built in the Lanaudière region, representing investments totaling nearly $ 107 million.
Remember that in its most recent budget, the Government of Quebec announced an envelope of $ 231 million for the construction of 3,000 housing units.
The SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Each year, thanks to its programs and its many partners, it helps more than 230,000 Quebec households. For more information on its programs and services, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca.
