Quebec - In reaction to the sale of the St-Hubert restaurant chain to Cara in Ontario, the leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the Parti Québécois spokesperson for the economy, Alain Therrien, and the one in finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, called on Prime Minister Philippe Couillard to clarify what he intends to do to change the message of economic indifference sent by his government. They believe that by not proposing any vigorous economic policy or any stimulus or recovery plan, the government of Philippe Couillard is contributing to the economic gloom in Quebec.
“It&#39;s a very sad day. In this liberal era, after seeing Rona and Cirque du Soleil leave, we are losing another flagship company in Quebec. Obviously, when they heard the Minister of the Economy and her leader say that the sale of Rona was beneficial for Quebec, foreign investors understood the message: they now know where to find a government that encourages the sale of its businesses. and intend to take advantage of it. Philippe Couillard must begin now to correct this perception, which is proving particularly harmful to our economy, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“The indifference with which the Prime Minister watches the dissolution of Quebec Inc., as well as his determination to do nothing to defend the head offices of Quebec, are unacceptable. It seems that with him, Quebec is for sale. Every day, Philippe Couillard proves us a little more that he knows nothing about economics. However, it has a duty to tell us how it will ensure, this time, the maintenance of the head office in Laval and how it will protect the network of Quebec subcontractors and suppliers. There are too many recent examples for the government not to make the necessary efforts to obtain real guarantees, ”continued the leader of the official opposition.
“Even today, in Rona&#39;s case, we will surely receive confirmation that the transaction has been concluded and that the guarantees promised are practically non-existent. The Minister of the Economy told us about guarantees or agreements that do not yield any results; this time around, it is essential that she go beyond words. What will his government do to ensure that activities continue here? », Added Alain Therrien.
Nicolas Marceau emphasizes for his part that times are hard for our economy and our businesses, especially in the restaurant industry. “For two years, families in Quebec have seen their tax burden increase considerably, and this is on top of the fact that their income has stagnated. Result? People no longer have the means to consume as before, and this reality has hit St-Hubert hard. This is the conclusion the company drew to explain its recent difficulties. &quot;
The member also recalls that the Parti Québécois government was ready to tackle the problem, and that it had the will to do so. “In collaboration with several influential members of the business community, we presented a policy for the protection and development of our head offices which was a consensus in the community. It is ready to be applied, but has been sleeping on the desk of the Minister of Finance for two years, ”he lamented.
