Montreal - In the company of Mr. Gilles Laporte, renowned historian, the Member of Parliament for Verchères and project manager for Operation 150th anniversary of the Canadian federation, Stéphane Bergeron, invited the people of Quebec to participate in &quot;The Other 150th », An operation to mark 150 years of the British North America Act by unveiling 150 facts and events that will undoubtedly shed a different light on this anniversary.
“At the dawn of the 150th anniversary of the Canadian federation, the Government of Canada will certainly want, with firecrackers and balloons, to convince Quebeckers that they are part of a great adventure, that of Canada. Many believed, in fact, that this adventure was worth living. Without wishing to play the spoilsport, I believe, however, that we should set the record straight and demonstrate to the people of Quebec, as well as to those who have a certain sensitivity towards Quebec, that the pact federation of 1867 did not live up to its promises, ”declared Stéphane Bergeron.
UQAM history professor Gilles Laporte has been involved in this operation from the start. “The federal government invites us to talk about history and we are counting on it! We will talk about history, of course, but in a more objective light, more revealing of the reality of Quebec within the Canadian federation, in order to shed a different light on the history of the Quebec nation, ”he said. declared.
Supported by a group of historians, the Operation 150th Anniversary of the Canadian Federation team is currently compiling 150 facts and events directly or indirectly affecting Quebec after 1867, and is inviting the population to take part in Operation. People wishing to participate will be able to do so more particularly by sending their suggestions, expressing their opinions and putting their talents to work through the platforms www.autre150e.ca and https://www.facebook.com/autre150e/.
The public will be able to:
This initiative follows on from the commitment made in this regard by the leader of the Parti Québécois during his leadership campaign. “We wish to involve Quebeckers in this vast educational operation by keeping open, throughout the year, the channels of communication with the population of Quebec. I would like to thank in advance those who, through their interactions with us, will make &quot;L&#39;Autre 150e&quot; a success and a golden opportunity to talk about the history of Canada and Quebec, &quot;said Jean. -François Lisée.
