Quebec - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announced today, as part of the presentation of the National Sustainable Mobility Strategy, that the government wishes to strengthen regional leadership and improve the supply of public transport in rural areas.
“Our strategy proposes to implement initiatives to decentralize public transport services in rural areas. In this regard, it will rely on the leadership of regional county municipalities and will promote a service offer developed in consultation between private carriers and municipal authorities, ”said Minister Gaudreault.
The government is announcing three series of initiatives concerning public transport in less urbanized regions as well as interurban public transport.
The government is renewing and improving assistance for public transit in rural areas. As part of the Government Assistance Program for the Improvement of Public Transit Services, the government is increasing its assistance for regional public transit to $ 9.5 million in 2014-2015 and to $ 40 million for the entire period 2015-2020. This program supports public transport organizations in their efforts to increase the service offer as well as the development of public transport in the regions.
In addition to the Government Assistance Program for the Improvement of Public Transit Services, the government is implementing other programs, certain aspects of which are intended for rural areas. This is the case of the Government Assistance Program for Paratransit for Handicapped Persons, with a budget of $ 96.5 million for 2014. It covers, in particular, part of the transportation costs incurred by municipal services. adapted transport and public transport companies for trips made by people with disabilities.
The National Sustainable Mobility Strategy proposes an approach consistent with all government policies and strategies, in particular the Quebec Economic Policy - Priority Employment and the Transportation Electrification Strategy, taking into account the specific realities of Quebec regions.
“The aging of the population and the rural exodus are concerns to which we owe it to ourselves to find solutions in order to ensure the vitality of our communities throughout the territory. With the measures we are proposing, we will improve the supply and services of public transport in all regions of Quebec, ”Minister Gaudreault concluded.
Report - National Sustainable Mobility Strategy (PDF) Leaflet - National Sustainable Mobility Strategy (PDF)
