Quebec - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, today confirmed, as part of the presentation of the National Sustainable Mobility Strategy, an increase in are allocated to public transport for the current year. The Minister also invited the municipalities of Quebec to a vast project on financing within the framework of the Quebec-Municipalities Agreement.
With this strategy, which aims to meet the sustainable mobility needs of all Quebecers and targets a 30% increase in the public transport service offer by 2020, the government is announcing several financial measures that place the user at the heart of initiatives.
By 2020, within the envelope of the Québec Infrastructure Plan dedicated to transport, the government will have transferred $ 930.8 million to the public transport PQI, increasing the latter from 21% to 27% of the transport PQI. These sums will be allocated to projects aimed at maintaining assets, a priority targeted by the strategy. This decision increases the amounts spent on public transit by $ 27.7 million in 2014-2015 and $ 930.8 million during the 2015-2020 period.
&quot;We are convinced that our government is making a responsible choice that corresponds to the concerns of the population regarding the safety and sustainability of existing infrastructures,&quot; said Minister Gaudreault.
In addition, the government is increasing operating support for 2014-2015, allocating $ 143 million. It is also spending $ 35 million to support active transportation. The National Sustainable Mobility Strategy also encourages the increase in carpooling and carsharing. These amounts are in addition to the $ 3.7 billion already planned. The value of government interventions dedicated to public transit is thus increased to more than $ 1.2 billion for 2014-2015.
The government is also inviting cities and municipalities to a major project on the financing of public transit outside the Quebec-Municipalities Agreement. The objective is to adopt a new public transport financing framework that can be applied from 2015.
“We are thus responding positively to a desire expressed by our municipal partners. This project will challenge our responsibility to all, as elected officials at the national and municipal levels. Together we will establish our financing strategies, ”added Mr. Gaudreault.
The strategy is accompanied in particular by these additional assistance programs:
The government assistance program for the improvement of public transport services aims to support public transport organizations in their efforts to increase the service offer as well as the development of public transport in the regions. It also includes financial support for travel management centers and the promotion of alternative modes of transport to the car.
The government assistance program for paratransit contributes to part of the transportation costs incurred by municipal paratransit services and public transit companies for trips made by people with disabilities.
The National Sustainable Mobility Strategy proposes an economically responsible approach, consistent with all government policies and strategies, in particular the Québec Economic Policy - Priority Employment and the Transportation Electrification Strategy. “This strategy respects a strict budgetary framework, while increasing investments in maintaining public transit assets for the next six years,” concluded the Minister of Transport.
Report - National Sustainable Mobility Strategy (PDF) Leaflet - National Sustainable Mobility Strategy (PDF)
