Chibougamau– The Minister responsible for the Nord-du-Québec region, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, on behalf of the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, accompanied by the Member of Parliament for Ungava, Mr. Luc Ferland, announced an investment of $ 750,000 for tourism development in the Eeyou Istchee / Baie-James region.
The financial assistance granted confirms, by 2017, the injection by Tourisme Québec of $ 600,000 over four years for the development of the tourist offer in the territory, as part of the Quebec Tourism Strategy north of the 49th district. parallel. To this amount is added financial assistance of $ 150,000 over three years, from the support program for the development of strategic sectors and niches of excellence (PADS) of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy. PADS supports the implementation of strategies for developing niches of excellence within the framework of the ACCORD approach (Concerted action for regional development cooperation).
The Québec Tourism Strategy north of the 49th parallel as well as that of the Northern Tourism niche of excellence rely on the great outdoors and respect for local cultures to develop tourism.
“The ACCORD approach is a priority for government action to develop the economy of the regions of Quebec and is based on the regrouping, mobilization and dynamism of business people and economic stakeholders in the regions. I am delighted that the Marois government is joining forces with those of partners in the Eeyou Istchee / Baie-James region in order to optimize the contribution of the tourism industry to their economy. The financial assistance will allow, among other things, the hiring of human resources who will ensure the development of the attractions of the North, which will consequently have repercussions on job creation, ”indicated Minister Cloutier.
“This investment project will strengthen the exceptional collaboration developed between tourist associations in the Eeyou Istchee / Baie-James region over the past few years. It will undoubtedly help position these regions as a world-class destination in indigenous and outdoor cultural tourism. The development of a sustainable tourism industry should have several positive effects, including community development, job creation for young people and the strengthening of culture, ”continued Ungava MP Luc Ferland.
“Tourisme Québec&#39;s financial contribution is particularly valuable at this stage in the development of tourism in Eeyou Istchee / Baie-James. Thus, Tourisme Québec supports the three regional partners which are Tourisme Eeyou Istchee, Association Crie de outfitter et de tourisme and Tourisme Baie-James by contributing financially to the hiring of specialized resources in the development of the offer. The consultation and development of tourism in this region are exemplary since they bring together three distinct regional organizations, from two different cultures and operating within a trilingual linguistic framework. Originally, this partnership was a real challenge that these partners brilliantly took up. Culture, nature and adventure are the fundamental elements of a tourism development jointly planned by the actors Eenouch (Cree) and Jamesiens ”, added the executive director of Tourism Eeyou Istchee and the Cree Association of Outfitters and tourism, Ms. Robin McGinley, and the general manager of Tourisme Baie-James, Mr. Jean Chartier.
Remember that the Québec Tourism Strategy north of the 49th parallel is one of the measures of the 2012-2020 Tourism Industry Development Plan. This aims to develop world-class tourism north of the 49th parallel and relates to the development of infrastructure, attractions and distinctive tourism products, training and human resource management, promotion and marketing. and the need to act in partnership.
