Quebec - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, today confirmed, as part of the presentation of the National Sustainable Mobility Strategy, an increase in are allocated to paratransit for the current year and those to come.
“This strategy places the user at the heart of our actions. Paratransit is essential to the quality of life and to the independence of many of our fellow citizens, who are often the most vulnerable. Here we are responding to the needs of people with disabilities and reduced mobility, ”said Mr. Gaudreault.
The government&#39;s objective is to offer people with reduced mobility, regardless of their limitations, more flexibility and autonomy in their journeys. To this end, it announces the renewal and recurring enhancement of $ 6.0 million of the specific government assistance program for paratransit.
The program aims to cover part of the transportation costs incurred by municipal paratransit services and public transit companies for trips made by people with disabilities. It will benefit from a budget of $ 96.5 million in 2013-2014 and $ 482.5 million for the period 2015-2020.
Thanks to the maintenance and improvement of the specific assistance program for paratransit, the government is able to undertake four major initiatives:
In line with several government policies, the National Sustainable Mobility Strategy puts forward a series of initiatives that promote universal accessibility to public transport services. These measures include the payment of subsidies to the transport organizing authorities, conditional on the accessibility of services and infrastructure as well as the standardization of practices facilitating access to public transport for people with reduced mobility throughout. public transport companies.
The government is also announcing the renewal and enhancement of the funding of the subsidy program for adapting taxis and interurban coaches to transporting people in wheelchairs. This funding was $ 2.0 million in 2013-14. From 2014-2015, it will be renewed and increased by $ 1.0 million for a total allocation of $ 3.0 million annually, or $ 15 million for the 2015-2020 period. This program aims to adapt taxis, buses and certain bus terminals to make them accessible to people using wheelchairs and also to grant a subsidy for the acquisition of taxis universally accessible from the design stage. Finally, the government will support pilot projects to test an accessible vehicle with a view to its use by taxi services.
“In an inclusive society, people with disabilities and those with reduced mobility must have access to the same public transport services as other citizens. By focusing on public transit, the National Sustainable Mobility Strategy implements measures that will facilitate travel for all users so that everyone can fully participate in social life, ”concluded Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
Report - National Sustainable Mobility Strategy (PDF) Leaflet - National Sustainable Mobility Strategy (PDF)
