Montreal– In addition to the investments of $ 150 million announced in the 2014-2015 budget for the Québec digital cultural strategy, an additional amount of $ 10,228,300 is being invested immediately. This amount will be devoted to a series of initiatives aimed at upgrading cultural facilities in all regions of Quebec. This is what Maka Kotto announced at the official launch of the Quebec digital cultural strategy today.
“These are very important first milestones in supporting cultural communities towards digital technology that will ensure that Quebec culture has a favorable and innovative position on national and international markets. Access to state-of-the-art facilities is necessary so that Quebec creators can exploit their full potential. This is an essential condition for our culture to complete its entry into the digital age, to use its full potential for creativity and to shine more intensely on the international scene ”, declared Maka Kotto.
This investment will be used to finance digital infrastructure in venues such as performance halls or performing arts production and presentation spaces, to which $ 5.3 million will be allocated. Assistance of $ 2.5 million will be paid to public libraries so that they can integrate digital books into their collections. Parallel cinemas in Quebec will receive $ 1 million to complete their transition to digital. Finally, an amount of $ 1.4 million will be used to implement a pilot project to network performing arts presenters and Aboriginal communities and to promote the influence of Aboriginal cultures, here and abroad, by creating a dynamic virtual space.
“This sum will help give the necessary impetus to digital development to catch up with the backlog in these sectors. It will maintain and enrich the attractiveness and interactivity of the venues in Quebec. It will allow the development of creative projects involving several regions, the influence of Aboriginal culture and better access to all the diversity of Quebec filmmaking and literature. The influence of Quebec&#39;s culture and expertise will be increased worldwide thanks to these structuring investments, ”concluded Maka Kotto.
