Québec - The MP for Vachon and official opposition critic for transport and maritime strategy, Martine Ouellet, raised several issues related to the government&#39;s maritime strategy, the highlights of which were unveiled by the media then confirmed by the Minister Delegate, Jean D&#39;Amour.
Logistics hub
The minister first confirmed, during question period this morning, that he would go ahead with a logistics hub in Vaudreuil-Soulanges. &quot;By subsidizing the establishment of a logistics hub in Vaudreuil? Soulanges, the minister will promote the arrival of a new direct competitor for the Port of Montreal: the port of New York.&quot; The minister is ignoring the warnings of CN, which affirmed that favoring Vaudreuil-Soulanges is to subsidize unfair competition for the Port of Montreal ”, declared the spokesperson. The government&#39;s choice is all the more surprising given that the Vaudreuil-Soulanges site requires dezoning of some of the best agricultural land in Quebec, and that it closes during the winter period. Martine Ouellet reiterates that the choice of the Contrecoeur site remains the best for the development of the Quebec economy.
Oil transportation on the St. Lawrence
Martine Ouellet also expressed concern about the Minister&#39;s comments, according to which the maritime strategy was aimed at increasing traffic; Let us understand, here, that more oil from the tar sands will circulate on Quebec&#39;s waterways. “Although the new center of expertise on preventing spills on the St. Lawrence is good news in itself, this measure must not become a roundabout way of promoting the social acceptability of oil transport on the Saint. -Laurent, ”she insisted.
Federal infrastructure
In addition, Jean D&#39;Amour confirmed that he had not concluded any agreement with Ottawa concerning ports under federal jurisdiction. “The minister wants to invest in ports that do not even belong to Quebec. These are federal infrastructures, neglected by Ottawa for several years. Without a real agreement with the federal government, the maritime strategy will remain incomplete and have no concrete effect on the Quebec economy, ”said MP for Vachon.
Finally, in terms of the protection of maritime areas, the strategy announces a decline; We had promised measures for 2015, but they are now planned for 2020. “All these arguments put together make the demonstration quite clear: the government&#39;s maritime strategy is neither complete nor coherent. It also spectacularly proves that the only way to endow Quebec with an effective maritime strategy for the Quebec economy would be to make Quebec a country. Quebecers could thus decide for themselves what passes through the river, ”concluded Martine Ouellet.
