Québec, June 29, 2017 - Official Opposition spokesperson for the status of women, Mireille Jean, welcomes the new Government strategy for equality between women and men towards 2021, unveiled today after a long wait . However, she considers that several measures are missing and denounces the fact that the financing is mainly planned for the final phase of the strategy.
IN SHORT
“Finally, a strategy! It was high time. We welcome the actions proposed by the government, but one important thing is missing in this strategy: its funding for the first years. Everything is planned according to the final phase, in 2021. Remember that the government has cut in major programs promoting equality between women and men. However, nothing in this strategy indicates to us that the government intends to reinvest in it. It is good to want to present a framework law, but, concretely and in the short term, will the Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Lise Thériault, restore the budgets of the programs that she has cut? Asked the MP.
Sexuality education
Mireille Jean, however, underlines the step taken by the government, which wishes &quot;to give a more formal place to sexuality education by implementing learning each year from preschool to the end of secondary&quot;. “In this way, the government is finally rallying to the consensus expressed by civil society groups and the Parti Québécois, according to which education is a priority in order to deconstruct myths and counter the violence suffered by women. However, in order to move from words to deeds, the Minister of Education must involve stakeholders in the development of the educational framework, through a broad consultation. It is also necessary to provide the necessary educational resources for each school board so that teachers receive compulsory training in equality and sexuality education. Finally, the Minister must ensure that sexologists supervise the development of knowledge and that the best tools and practices can be shared, ”she continued.
Gender parity in politics
The spokesperson also noted that the minister had promised, a year ago, the tabling of a bill on gender parity in politics. We are still waiting for it. “There is very little in this strategy to encourage women to participate in politics. What is the minister doing when municipal elections will soon be held? She has certainly already spoken of small amounts of money, but she is not proposing anything concrete. The Parti Québécois made 10 commitments at the Women&#39;s Summit on this subject, ”she insisted.
Accountability
Finally, let us recall that at the request of the Parti Québécois, Minister Thériault undertook, during the study of the budget appropriations, to study the possibility of making public, each year, the monitoring sheets with indicators for each measure. Strategy, in order to measure the effectiveness of actions and ensure corrective action, if necessary. “I expect the minister to keep her word. It must implement this accountability measure, not only for this strategy, but also for all those coordinated by the Secretariat for the Status of Women. I also believe that independent organizations should be involved in an annual evaluation of results, and that the reports should be made public, as well as the status reports, portraits, opinions and briefs produced by the Council on the Status of Women to improve policies promoting gender equality, ”concluded Mireille Jean.
