Quebec - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, today confirmed, within the framework of the presentation of the National Strategy for Sustainable Mobility, an unprecedented shift in order to achieve the necessary convergence between land use planning and transport.
“The government is taking a major step here by implementing integrated planning for land use and transportation. Thanks to this integration, the initiatives undertaken in the field of transport will benefit from a consistency and efficiency that will benefit all Quebecers. We are proposing a new way of occupying our territory, ”declared Minister Gaudreault.
Transport and land use planning are closely linked. In order to make this reality a reality, the government is announcing an amendment to the Land Use Planning and Development Act in order to implement integrated land use and transportation planning throughout Quebec. This approach represents a major innovation in planning and a significant gain in efficiency.
This modification will consist in making the integrated planning of land use and transport compulsory in the various documents drawn up by the RCMs as well as by the metropolitan communities. Such planning is currently optional in the RCMs and can be limited to only part of the territories of the metropolitan communities of Montreal and Quebec.
The effects of this new obligation will be reflected in the town planning plans and regulations drawn up by the local municipalities. The government wants to proceed quickly.
The implementation of integrated land use and transportation planning also includes the revision of government orientations in land use planning, which contain guidelines guiding land use planning and development in Quebec. The government will thus proceed as a priority to identify the orientations to be taken into account in the integrated planning of development and transport. The three objectives pursued are as follows:
“Too often in the past, land use planning and transport have been considered separately. In 100 years of history, the Ministry of Transport has never taken into account in such an integrated way the contemporary issues of land use planning. What we are proposing today is a strategy to face the challenges of the 21st century ”concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
Report - National Sustainable Mobility Strategy (PDF) Leaflet - National Sustainable Mobility Strategy (PDF)
