Sept-Îles – The MNA for Duplessis, Ms. Lorraine Richard, on behalf of the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, is proud to announce financial assistance to the Corporation de l&#39;île aux Perroquets for the continuation of the revitalization work from the lighthouse station.
The assistance of $ 230,000, granted by Tourisme Québec, comes from the Tourism Industry Development Program - Tourism Development Assistance North of the 49th Parallel. The financial support will be used in particular to improve the four-star accommodation site set up in the keeper&#39;s house. The project will allow the Corporation to equip itself with a boat in order to offer its customers commented transportation as well as local-flavored meal services. The organization is working tenaciously to modernize the site in order to showcase its heritage and natural riches. Moreover, in October 2013, the Corporation put an end to the first phase of revitalization work on the lighthouse station, which was coming back to life after 40 years of inactivity.
“I am extremely proud to announce substantial aid for this project, which will undoubtedly boost the tourism industry in Minganie. This support will help generate concrete regional economic benefits, in particular through the creation of direct jobs and the purchase of local products. Visitors will live an authentic and unique experience where the beauty of our territory and the products of our region will be in the spotlight, ”said MP Richard.
For his part, Minister Bérubé said that “the distinctive accommodation that will be offered at the Île aux Perroquets lighthouse station, namely high-end econuitées, will attract visitors in search of a change of scenery and wide open spaces. The implementation of this project will diversify the tourist offer and will promote the retention and extension of stays in the Duplessis region ”.
Remember that the Québec Tourism Strategy north of the 49th parallel is one of the measures of the 2012-2020 Tourism Industry Development Plan. This aims to develop world-class tourism north of the 49th parallel and relates to the development of infrastructure, attractions and distinctive tourism products, training and human resource management, promotion and marketing. and the need to act in partnership.
