Quebec - In light of the information released by several media about the Canadian Energy Strategy, the member for Marie-Victorin and official opposition critic for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, as well as the Member of Parliament for Verchères and spokesperson for Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, urge Prime Minister Philippe Couillard to announce today the withdrawal of Quebec from the Strategy.
“This strategy is too expensive to pay for just to satisfy Philippe Couillard&#39;s desire to please the rest of Canada. The Prime Minister must step back and announce Quebec&#39;s withdrawal from this pan-Canadian strategy. It reflects Canadian energy values, and these are the opposite of Quebec values. We have clearly developed an energetic identity of our own. We are among the world leaders in renewable energies, ”said Bernard Drainville.
“By adhering to the Canadian Energy Strategy in August 2014, Philippe Couillard not only accepted a major and unprecedented encroachment into Quebec&#39;s exclusive fields of jurisdiction, but we can now see that he has committed Quebec to a slippery slope potentially having the effect of facilitating and accelerating the development and export of fossil fuels. The Prime Minister gave support to the project to transport oil from the tar sands without any consultation with Quebeckers, ”added Stéphane Bergeron.
Quebecers must not pay for the priorities of others
The Canadian Energy Strategy, which will be unveiled in St. John&#39;s on Wednesday at the meeting of the premiers of the provinces and territories, will aim to accelerate the deployment of pipeline projects, according to the information published. In addition, it would only include few commitments in order to fight against global warming.
“The Liberal Party is bogging down Quebec by not defending its interests. If there is one area where Quebec must assert its difference and choose its own strategy, it is in energy. The Liberal government must admit its mistake and withdraw from this Canadian strategy which threatens to weaken our power to decide in the best interests of Quebec. Quebecers do not have to pay the cost of energy decisions made for the sole benefit of the rest of Canada, ”concluded the deputies.
