Sainte-Anne-de-Sorel– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, and the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec and Member of Parliament for Richelieu, Élaine Zakaïb, today announced financial support of $ 596,000 from the MDDEFP to Ducks Unlimited Canada (DUC) for the realization of a wildlife development project in Lavallière Bay. Phase I of this project aims in particular to develop the Saint-Louis marsh in order to preserve this preferred habitat for waterfowl and for several species of fish.
“Thanks to this partnership with Ducks Unlimited Canada, our government is making a concrete contribution to the protection and enhancement of wildlife habitats. We are very proud of it. Our intervention strategy for the future of Lake Saint-Pierre, which we made public on February 15, establishes three major priority orientations to ensure the survival of Lake Saint-Pierre. The project that we are announcing today is entirely in this line and will allow us to enhance the ecosystem of the lake and its economic potential, ”declared Minister Blanchet.
At the end of the development work, the Saint-Louis marsh will occupy an area of 117 hectares within Baie Lavallière. The project provides for the installation of a water level control structure, dikes and a pumping station in order to maintain an area of open water for the use of wildlife during the dry season of the period. summer. With the addition of contributions from various partners, the total investment for carrying out the work is estimated at $ 835,000.
“The restoration of Baie Lavallière is a major project that will contribute to the recovery of the yellow perch population and the nesting of waterfowl in Baie Lavalière, thus helping to strengthen the region&#39;s ecotourism vocation. The Saint-Louis marsh will indeed have a definite influence on the recognition of the wildlife and natural heritage of the MRC Pierre-De Saurel, which is one of the gateways to the Lac-Saint-Pierre biosphere reserve, recognized by UNESCO in 2000. The people of the region have every reason to be proud of this project, which is in line with our sustainable development orientations, just like the Technocentre in industrial ecology, Agenda 21 and the Ecocollectivity, ”said Minister Zakaïb.
