Quebec - Following repeated requests from the official opposition, the Minister for Rehabilitation, Youth Protection and Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, finally made public, this morning, the agreement in principle that &#39;she signed with the federal government on the fight against homelessness. However, as the member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée noted, the Minister has just confirmed , by the very fact, that it abdicated in front of Ottawa.
In fact, Lucie Charlebois let the federal government dictate to her the preferred method of combating homelessness, here in Quebec, because Ottawa obliges her to devote 65% of the sums to a single approach, that of on board &quot;. &quot;This is a historic setback and a sad day for the world of the fight against homelessness and for all the people who find themselves in a situation of precariousness or great vulnerability,&quot; said Jean-François Lisée.
“The federal approach addresses only one facet of the homelessness phenomenon. Of course, housing is an important aspect of the problem, but devoting the majority of project funding to a single type of housing denies Quebec&#39;s strengths in the fight against homelessness. This attitude of subservience shown today by the Liberal government towards Ottawa is completely unworthy, especially since the Quebec approach to fighting homelessness, using a variety of tools, has already made its mark. evidence, ”continued the deputy.
It should be noted that, according to the very statements of the groups that work on a daily basis in the field with people experiencing homelessness, “entire sections of the Quebec homeless intervention model are endangered by the Quebec government. &#39;these are preventive measures, front-line interventions, but also contributions to the development of social housing with community support ”.
“The Liberal government is placing organizations in a delicate situation because, because of this orientation, they will have to abandon promising projects that rely on a variety of approaches to help people at risk or in a situation of homelessness. The Réseau Solidarité Itinérance du Québec indicates that approximately 300 worker positions and the services provided to more than 50,000 people experiencing or at risk of homelessness are threatened. The minister must return to negotiate with the federal government, especially since two unanimous motions asking her to respect Quebec&#39;s orientations were passed in the National Assembly; she should take them seriously, unlike what the Conservative Minister Maxime Bernier is doing! », Concluded Jean-François Lisée.
