Quebec - The Parti Québécois denounces the improvisation (again!) Of the Minister of Natural Resources, Nathalie Normandeau, this time, concerning the lack of vigilance she showed during the last meeting of the ministers of Energy held in Alberta.
“Last week, Minister Normandeau was concerned about and fiercely opposed the federal government&#39;s attempts to establish a pan-Canadian energy strategy. In one week, she made a spectacular about-face and now endorses this idea. Not only is it accepting a major encroachment in the areas of exclusive jurisdiction of Quebec, but it is also supporting the Alberta tar sands as a source of sustainable energy! These are two fundamental reasons why Minister Normandeau must step back and announce today that Quebec will not participate in the pan-Canadian energy strategy, ”declared the MNA for Jonquière and official opposition spokesperson for energy. energy, Sylvain Gaudreault.
The member for Jonquière believes that Minister Normandeau and her government do not understand and do not realize the historic decline in Quebec that they are preparing to take. “The Liberal Party of Quebec is bogging down Quebec by not defending its interests. If there is one place where Quebec must assert its difference and choose its own strategy, it is in energy. This is the challenge of the 21st century, ”he added.
For her part, the member for Vachon and official opposition critic for the environment, sustainable development, parks and water, Martine Ouellet, refutes the wacky explanations provided by Minister Normandeau who tries in vain to drown Quebec&#39;s surprise support for the tar sands in an official press release issued following the meeting of energy ministers.
“Once again, when it comes to the environment, the Liberal government of Jean Charest speaks from both sides of the mouth. By not dissociating itself from the final communiqué, as Ontario did, the Charest government is leading Quebec to support the strategy of the Harper government, the main gravedigger of Kyoto, and in support for the tar sands and the western oil industry. It is a gesture fraught with consequences because in these matters, Quebeckers are at odds with Canadian values. Let us now hope that the Minister of the Environment of Quebec, Pierre Arcand, will dissociate himself from his colleague very quickly, ”concluded Martine Ouellet.
