Québec, October 27, 2016 - The Parti Québécois spokesperson for the status of women, Mireille Jean, presents the official opposition&#39;s expectations for the presentation, tomorrow, of the Government Strategy to Prevent and Counter Sexual Violence 2016-2021.
“Following the many events that have taken place in recent years, political actors cannot stand idly by; they must take concrete action to fight against the culture of rape, and provide adequate funding for the various measures that will be put forward, ”said Mireille Jean.
Too much time has passed since the consultations and traveling forums to take stock of the last action plan on sexual assault, held in 2015. It took three years for the government to finally release its 2016 strategy 2021 to prevent and counter sexual violence, which is essential to deal with these issues, both globally and specifically, and in each sector of activity.
Moving from speeches to concrete actions “In terms of denouncing and supervising victims, we see that the procedures are far too long, complex and stigmatizing. Victims often feel humiliated or judged. Immigrant and native women are particularly isolated, because of their language or their culture, and are limited in their access to services, ”explained the MP. Consequently, the Parti Québécois gives priority to the following actions:
the use of a multidisciplinary approach promoting the sharing of information between workers, researchers, police officers and doctors, in order to speed up the reporting procedures; the obligation for companies to have an equality plan and a uniform harassment policy; the establishment of francization courses for immigrant women and financial support for independent interpreters; the implementation of an awareness campaign to encourage witnesses, men and workers not to tolerate sexual assault and to report it; care for victims in hospitals, schools, businesses, etc.
Moreover, a significant proportion of Quebecers do not even understand what consent means. There is also an increasing trivialization of sexual relations among minors. The Parti Québécois is giving priority to setting up a general public awareness campaign to explain the concept of consent.
Then, in terms of information and prevention, the consultations revealed that 80% of the budgets for the prevention of sexual assault were cut. In general, the population lacks information on sexuality education. The Parti Québécois gives priority to the following actions:
the establishment of a discourse aimed specifically at men; the use of social media as a means of raising awareness; the promotion of therapies for aggressors in order to reduce recidivism; the setting up of a communication campaign with companies to promote prevention, like the campaigns to counter accidents at work; updating statistics so that decisions made are based on evidence.
“In terms of education, the pilot project for sexuality education courses was not submitted to local groups for consultations, although they were necessary. In schools, we can find a trivialization of violence and hypersexualization ”, continued the spokesperson. The Parti Québécois therefore gives priority to the following actions:
the establishment of a sexuality education course in all schools, from elementary school onwards, in order to explain egalitarian relationships and the concept of consent, to take into account the realities of people with disabilities, from the LGBT community or other communities, and those of immigrant women; work with university chairs in urban areas, rural areas and indigenous reserves, to work with these communities.
Finally, with regard to the LGBT community, it is necessary to adapt the prevention and fight against sexual violence to its realities. The Parti Québécois gives priority to the following actions:
adopting a cross-sectoral approach to understand the situations of double discrimination faced by LGBT people; training professionals from all sectors in these realities; the implementation of measures for transgender and transsexual people in detention centers.
