Quebec - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announced today, as part of the presentation of the National Sustainable Mobility Strategy, that the government will propose a review of governance in the agglomerations of Montreal and Quebec-Lévis in order to better integrate and coordinate the trips of public transit users.
“We are aware of the major challenges in the governance of public transport. During 2014, the various players in the transport sector in the metropolitan regions of Montreal and Quebec-Lévis will be invited to comment on a governance proposal that we will submit to them. Our objective is to achieve our goal together, with our partners, by working in the greatest possible consultation, ”declared Minister Gaudreault.
By implementing this strategy, the government intends to meet the sustainable mobility needs of all Quebecers. To achieve this, it relies on public transport, while encouraging other modes of transport that are alternatives to solo driving. It has set itself the target of a 30% increase in the public transport service offer by 2020. All of these challenges directly affect the urban environment.
To this end, the government is announcing in its strategy four important measures aimed at ensuring the sustainable mobility of people in urban areas:
The government will soon table a proposal to revise the governance of public transit in the agglomerations of Montreal and Quebec-Lévis. This proposal will deal with the harmonization of services, a tariff system integrating all tickets and a one-stop shop for information and ticketing. It will also include an amendment to the Act respecting the Agence métropolitaine de transport, and the revision of the roles, responsibilities and obligations of the various authorities responsible for planning and organizing services. The government wishes to submit this proposal to the partners this spring for consultation, before making it into a bill that we wish to table by the end of 2014.
Investments devoted to maintaining public transport assets are increased immediately. The increase represents $ 27.7 million in 2014-2015 and $ 930.8 million during the period 2015-2020. These amounts are in addition to the $ 3.7 billion already planned. In addition, the government is increasing operating support for 2014-2015 and is inviting the municipalities to work on funding under the Quebec-Municipalities Agreement. The objective of this project will be to propose a new public transport financing framework applicable from 2015. At the same time, the government is simplifying the rules to allow the organizations responsible for investments to use the available financing more quickly.
The government is taking a major step by implementing integrated planning for land use and transportation. Thanks to this integration, the initiatives undertaken in the field of transport will benefit from a consistency and efficiency that will benefit all Quebecers.
The National Sustainable Mobility Strategy proposes an economically responsible approach, consistent with all government policies and strategies, in particular the Québec Economic Policy - Priority Employment and the Transportation Electrification Strategy. “The implementation of the National Strategy for Sustainable Mobility requires the participation of all the partners involved in the transport of people. It is now up to everyone to appropriate it and be its ambassadors throughout the territory, ”concluded Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
Consult all the press releases issued during the presentation of the National Sustainable Mobility Strategy
Report - National Sustainable Mobility Strategy (PDF) Leaflet - National Sustainable Mobility Strategy (PDF)
