Québec, December 11, 2017 - The official opposition spokesperson for employment, social solidarity and the fight against poverty, Harold LeBel, reacted to the tabling of the Government Action Plan for Economic Inclusion and social participation 2017-2023. “The government&#39;s plan contains some positive elements, but also reveals a lot of missed opportunities. In addition, the measures will only come into force after the elections, whereas we have been waiting for this plan for 2 years! &quot;, He declared from the outset.
IN BRE
“The government&#39;s plan, which we have been waiting for 2 years, has some positive elements. We welcome, among other things, the significant increase in support for people with severe employment constraints, who are in dire need of it; but they will have to have lived 5 years of misery before being recognized. In addition, free childcare services for providers will improve access, and will undoubtedly be beneficial for school perseverance as well as for preparing children for their entry into school, in particular through educational activities ”, Harold LeBel pointed out.
In the eyes of the spokesperson, however, the announced plan also reveals many missed opportunities. “Support was expected to be taken out of the calculation; they will not be. As for people in a couple, they remain penalized. Then, raising the working income exemption per month to $ 200 to avoid a penalty is insufficient. Then, the coercive measures contained in the Objectif emploi program are maintained, although we have denounced them from the start. Finally, the plan seems modest to us for the reintegration companies into employment, which is particularly unfortunate, ”he continued.
“It is also regrettable that the entry into force of the measures announced is not expected for 3 or 4 years, when the needs are immediate. One thing is certain, Quebeckers can count on the official opposition; we will be particularly attentive and vigilant when studying the bill. In the context where the Law aimed at combating poverty and social exclusion is turning 15, we will demand genuine consultation, ”concluded Harold LeBel.
