Québec– The member for Joliette and official opposition critic for culture and communications, Véronique Hivon, and the member for Sanguinet and spokesperson for the Conseil du trésor, Alain Therrien, deplore the fact that the Liberal government has refused to support the motion tabled today in the National Assembly by the official opposition for the government to become a leader in the emergence and deployment of the “.quebec” suffix.
“The Liberal government is once again missing a good opportunity to assert the Quebec identity around the world. This shows a serious lack of vision and ambition for Quebec. Philippe Couillard sees Quebec as an average province among others, rather than as a nation that uses all the resources at its disposal to ensure its development and its influence, ”declared Véronique Hivon.
The motion rejected by the Liberals reads as follows:
“That the National Assembly underline the entry into digital territory, today, of the suffix&quot; .quebec &quot;, a top-level domain exclusive to Quebec;
That it recall the motion of June 11, 2008 presented by the former Member of Parliament for Outremont, Mr. Raymond Bachand, and adopted unanimously, which supported this project, in particular to promote the influence of Quebec and its identity as well. that the success of its enterprises;
That it ask the government to take a leadership role in the emergence and deployment of the &quot;.quebec&quot; suffix and to engage in an address migration process for its departments and agencies. &quot;
The member for Sanguinet emphasizes for his part that according to many experts questioned, the argument raised by the government, namely the cost of $ 12 million for the conversion of the Web addresses of the Quebec state, does not hold water. “No one agrees with this financial argument; the Liberal government could have made a gradual migration to the .quebec virtual space or, at the very least, started the movement by building on the considerable work that has already been done by several stakeholders in this file. The Minister of Culture and Communications, Hélène David, and the President of the Conseil du trésor, Martin Coiteux, must tell us why they refuse to engage in this process of migrating the addresses of the government and its organizations ”, concluded Alain Therrien.
