Quebec - Jean-François Lisée, the member for Rosemont and the Parti Québécois spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, and the member for Bourget, Maka Kotto, met with the press this morning to demand the restoration of resources for organizations fighting against homelessness. On this occasion, they were accompanied by Mr. Sébastien Pageon, Director General of the NAHA Center.
“Before the Conservative government in Ottawa, the Minister for Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, failed in the task by giving up defending the Quebec approach to the fight against homelessness. Result: over the past year, some thirty Montreal community organizations have seen their budgets cut. In Montreal, the NAHA Center, which welcomes vulnerable men experiencing homelessness, had to give up its only evening counselor. However, a few days ago, a man took his own life, and no one there was able to help him, ”lamented Jean-François Lisée.
&quot;Today we would like to express our sincere condolences to the relatives of this man, and to recall that prevention and support actions are crucial for the support of vulnerable people&quot;, continued the deputies.
“The federal government has just announced an additional $ 17 million over two years to fight homelessness. The Quebec minister must commit to providing the necessary resources to the NAHA Center now, to prevent another tragedy from occurring, ”asked the Member for Rosemont.
“We have repeatedly warned Minister Charlebois that a significant number of homelessness organizations will have their budgets cut and will be forced to cut back on their services. Positions of street workers were finally cut by the dozen, and many organizations had to scale back their services in order to survive. This time, we are faced with a case of suicide. One is one too many. We are here to sound the alarm bell: the Minister must act now to give back to organizations on the ground the means to do their work, ”added Maka Kotto.
“Among the failures of this Liberal government, we note, among other things, a glaring lack of leadership and standing before the federal government. Minister Charlebois must ensure that the sums are allocated now, so that the NAHA Center can rehire an evening worker and all the other organizations that have had to reduce their services can continue to intervene adequately with people in crisis. &#39;roaming&#39;, concluded Mr. Lisée.
