Quebec - The Minister for Native Affairs, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, visited the Attikamek community of Opitciwan yesterday. The objective of his visit was to explain the content of the Agreement concerning the management and development of natural resources and the territory, which had been initialed by all the negotiators on October 22, 2013.
Following the initialing of the Agreement, Ms. Larouche offered the Atikamekw Council of Opitciwan to visit their community to discuss the details of the Agreement and establish a dialogue aimed at better understanding each other&#39;s aspirations. Parties.
“I still hope that this historic agreement will materialize, which will lay the groundwork for a frank and transparent relationship between our nations. This bilateral agreement will make it possible to maximize the economic development of the three Attikamek communities, while integrating their vision into the management of the territory and the resources there, ”explained Minister Larouche.
Following the initialing of all the negotiators, the Agreement was ratified by the band councils of Manawan and Wemotaci. The leader of Opitciwan, Mr. Christian Awashish, had chosen to submit the question to a referendum, after which the Agreement was rejected by his community.
The Minister reassured the members of the Opitciwan community: “This agreement will in no way infringe your ancestral rights or your hunting and fishing rights. Its implementation will not prevent the continuation of your traditional activities on the territory ”, she assured.
Ms. Larouche also recalled the importance of signing this agreement with the three Attikamek communities, because it is, in fact, the first step towards the signing of a treaty that will allow the Attikamek nation to increase its autonomy over the territory.
It should be remembered that the establishment of a &quot;high-level political table&quot; is planned to ensure the respect and the smooth running of the Agreement, including measures of access to resources, such as the allocation of timber volumes and silvicultural works, the transfer of an outfitter, the concession of aggregate exploitation sites for the benefit of the Attikameks, as well as the payment to the Attikameks of a total amount of $ 35 million for the purposes of economic development, improvement of the living conditions of the Attikameks and job creation.
The Minister concluded the information session by inviting members of the community to continue their reflection and recalling that she remains open to possible solutions that would make it possible to materialize the advances offered by this agreement.
