Quebec - It was during a working meeting held this morning with the chief of the Assembly of First Nations of Quebec and Labrador (AFNQL), Ghislain Picard, and a dozen other great chiefs and native chiefs, that The Premier presented the results of the actions and recounted the latest progress made by her government in the area of Indigenous affairs since the Summit on Territories and Resources was held on December 3, 2012.
“Over the past six months, the Government of Quebec has focused its energy on advancing certain important issues for several Aboriginal nations. We have made major gains, both economically and socially, and we have breathed new life into our relationship with Aboriginal people. Although we still have a lot of work to do, I am happy with the results obtained so far, ”said Pauline Marois.
The Prime Minister first welcomed the adoption of the bill establishing the Regional Government of Eeyou Istchee Baie-James, a new body that sets up an innovative governance regime whose equal representation is ensured by Crees and Jamesians. . She also mentioned the allocation of a 150 MW block to the three Mi&#39;kmaq communities of Listuguj, Gesgapegiag and Gespeg, for a wind project that is expected to bring in more than $ 150 million over the next 20 years.
In addition, the handing over of land to the Mohawk reserve of Kahnawake and the final agreement concerning the territory with the Cree reserve of Mistissini were cited as considerable progress for these communities. Finally, Ms. Marois referred to the $ 7,298,468 from the Native Initiatives Fund (FIA and FIA II) which was paid to all Native nations to support social, economic and community projects.
During the meeting, Ms. Marois was accompanied by the Minister for Indigenous Affairs, Élizabeth Larouche, the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, the Minister for the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspé region? -Madeleine, Gaétan Lelièvre, as well as the deputy of Ungava and parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Nordic affairs section), Luc Ferland.
During the discussions, representatives of the Government of Quebec and members of the First Nations reiterated their common interest in maintaining a nation-to-nation relationship. This desire has already been demonstrated during meetings held between Aboriginal leaders and ministers concerned with specific issues, such as public safety or natural resources. The participants nevertheless agreed that there is still a long way to go with regard to the four issues targeted by the AFNQL at the December 3 Summit, namely royalties, co-management of the territory, its conservation, as well as consultation and accommodation.
From a social point of view, the Premier recalled the progress expected in connection with the implementation of a government action plan on domestic violence, in which a quarter of the measures are intended specifically for the indigenous population.
Minister Élizabeth Larouche, for her part, reiterated her commitment to establish an Aboriginal History Month, in order to underline the importance of the culture of the Aboriginal peoples of Quebec, a project to be perfected with the collaboration of the AFNQL.
“We are committed to ensuring that the aboriginal nations of Quebec are heard, consulted and considered. Their concerns in terms of royalties, co-management and conservation of the territory, consultation and accommodation have been the subject of discussions and negotiations since last fall. The Government of Quebec, the First Nations and the Inuit of Quebec can be delighted with the progress we have made together so far. Our collaboration must continue in the best interest of all, ”concluded the Minister for Native Affairs.
