Quebec - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, received with satisfaction the progress report of the worksite on the funding of universities tabled by the co-chairs, Ms. Hélène P. Tremblay and M. Pierre Roy.
“I thank the co-chairs for the excellent work accomplished so far. A first critical analysis of the current financing policy that should guide its review has now been completed. This report highlights important issues that will have to be considered in the final report on university funding policy, ”said Minister Duchesne.
This progress report follows on from a consultation conducted last summer with experts and partners in academia. Their numerous briefs provided input for the reflections of the co-chairs. This progress report will be the subject of a consultation in winter 2014, which will allow questions on university funding to be explored in greater depth and recommendations to be submitted to the Minister when the final report is tabled, expected in June 2014.
It should be remembered that the co-chairs of the university funding workcamp are mandated to propose a new funding policy better suited to the reality of universities and to those of students, in particular by proposing changes to the university funding formula. In addition, the co-presidents must propose a fair contribution from non-resident students of Quebec to the financing of the university system.
They must also address the issue of mandatory institutional fees (MIF), a request from Summit participants that was accepted by the Prime Minister and the Minister. They should also consider issues associated with implementing a revised funding policy.
The progress report and its accompanying document entitled “Main indicators and basic statistics on Québec universities” are available online at the following address: http: //www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca/sommet/ work-sites / university-funding-policy / documents-and-briefs /.
The Higher Education Summit was an opportunity for the government to announce the establishment of five work camps. Since then, three reports have already been tabled: one on financial assistance for studies, one on the National Council of Universities and one on the framework law for universities. The last two reports, which will come from the projects on university funding policy and on the college training offer, are expected in June 2014. For more information on the projects, visit www.mesrst.gouv. qc.ca/chantiers.
