Quebec - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, receives with interest the progress report of the worksite on the offer of college education in Quebec presented by the President , Mr. Guy Demers.
“This progress report is an excellent demonstration that the reflection on improving the college training offer is well underway. Several recommendations made are interesting and will deserve to be studied. Halfway through the work on this site, I am very confident about what will happen next and for the final report expected this summer. I would like to underline the excellent work carried out so far by the President, Mr. Guy Demers, ”declared Minister Duchesne.
This progress report follows a consultation carried out with representatives of educational establishments, associations and trade unions as well as civil society organizations. These partners took part in the meetings or sent documents likely to shed light on the discussions that have taken place since the start of the work in April 2013.
It should be remembered that the president of the workcamp&#39;s mandate is to formulate recommendations on the deployment of the college training offer, the definition of regional training niches and the optimization of the continuing education offer. The objectives are to promote access to college training throughout Quebec, the complementarity of the training offer in the regions and the viability of programs in the regions.
The progress report proposes courses of action on the level of student attendance in a context of declining forecasts, on the distribution of programs across the territory and between the public and private networks, as well as on the deployment of distance college education. It also deals with the transition from high school to college for students and their perseverance in college. The President was particularly interested in these matters because they appear to require short-term action.
For the second part of the mandate, the president will continue his reflection on the deployment of the training offer in both regular education and continuing education. Among other things, it will address issues relating to regional niches, the complementarity of the offer and its viability. Portraits describing the main characteristics of each region and its training offer were developed and then sent to colleges for comments. This consultation will end at the end of March 2014 and will lead to the drafting of the final report.
To find out more about the progress report and the recommendations made: www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca/le-sommet/les-chantiers-de-travail/loffre-de-formation-collegiale.
The Summit on Higher Education was an opportunity for the government to announce the establishment of five work camps. Site reports have already been submitted: a first on financial aid for studies, a second on the National Council of Universities and the most recent on a framework law for universities. The final report on the college training offer as well as the report on the university funding policy are expected in June 2014.
To find out more about the construction sites: www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca/chantiers.
