Quebec - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, today announced the significant improvement of the support program for people who have to repay their student debt . With this improvement, 18,500 additional people will be able to benefit from this new measure.
In the wake of the announcements made at the end of the Summit on Higher Education, the government made a commitment to significantly improve the student financial assistance system.
&quot;I am convinced that this new measure meets the objectives that the government has set for itself, which is to improve access to higher education and encourage an increase in the number of first generation graduates,&quot; said Minister Duchesne.
People who are experiencing significant financial difficulties when they must begin to repay their student debt can now count on this measure, which allows for a reduced payment, established according to the financial and family situation.
The enhancement of the current deferred repayment program consists of an extension of the eligibility period to 60 months, rather than 24 months, within a maximum period of 10 years, rather than 5 years, after the end of studies. If the financial situation warrants it, it is even possible that no payment will be required for the period covered by a claim.
<//sub>
Before the improvement announced today, only people in a precarious financial situation were eligible, that is to say those who have a gross monthly income below the threshold established according to the minimum wage in force and the family situation. . This threshold represents an annual income of approximately $ 19,500.
From now on, those with modest incomes (approximately between $ 19,500 and $ 29,000, depending on the various criteria) and who are unable to make the payments required by their financial institution will also be eligible.
It is estimated that the number of beneficiaries who will be able to take advantage of the deferred repayment program will be doubled. In fact, nearly 34,500 people will benefit from the enhanced program in 2013-2014, compared to 16,000 in 2012-2013.
“We wanted to offer a more flexible program that promotes autonomy and allows beneficiaries to assume their family and financial responsibilities. The Deferred Repayment Program is now aimed at a new clientele who, despite a difficult financial situation, can undertake the repayment of their student debt, ”said Minister Duchesne.
For example, a borrower with two dependent children, with student debt of $ 10,000 and with an annual income of $ 26,000, would not be eligible for the current program. With the bonus, he would not only be eligible, but would have to make a monthly payment of less than $ 50 to his financial institution.
To learn more about the Deferred Repayment Program or the different options available to people who have to repay their student debt, we invite you to consult the Repayment section of the Aide financière aux studies (www.afe.gouv.qc.ca).
