Quebec - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, received with satisfaction the report by Mr. Claude Corbo on a National Council of Universities. This report marks the end of the work of a second project just four months after the holding of the Summit on higher education.
&quot;I would like to congratulate and thank Mr. Claude Corbo for the quality of his report which contains several interesting proposals which will help to provide the higher education community with an organization that will ensure the harmonious and coherent development of the university system. Quebecois. At the beginning of the fall, I will be announcing the follow-up to it as well as the proposed legislative framework, ”said Minister Duchesne.
Let us recall that from the first preparatory meeting for the Summit on higher education, the idea of the National Council of Universities had emerged and achieved consensus. The president of the site, Mr. Claude Corbo, was responsible for drawing up a proposal for the structure and mandate of the future National Council of Universities, including its composition.
The Corbo report recommends the constitution of a National Council of Universities in the form of an independent and autonomous public body made up of 13 members appointed by the government on the proposal of the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and of Technology. It is recommended that these members be selected on the basis of the principles of competence, legitimacy and independence.
While respecting the autonomy of institutions and the principle of academic freedom and drawing inspiration from best practices observable around the world, the National Council of Universities, as recommended by Mr. Claude Corbo, would have the following mission:
The entire report, its recommendations to the Minister as well as the opinions and documents sent by the partners as part of the consultation surrounding its drafting are available online at the following address: www.mesrst.gouv.qc. ca / cnu.
The Summit on Higher Education was an opportunity for the government to announce the establishment of five work camps. On May 14, the Minister announced three new measures that will be put in place as of fall 2013 following the tabling of the worksite report on financial assistance for studies. It should be remembered that this report was very well received by the partners.
The next report to be submitted to the Minister is the one on a Framework Law for Universities, which is expected at the end of August 2013. Reports from the work sites on the offer of college training and on a university funding policy are expected for the next month. month of June 2014.
For more information on the construction sites, visit www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca/chantiers.
