Quebec - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is pleased to highlight the work accomplished since the Summit on Higher Education was held a year ago. .
“I am very proud of the progress made over the past year. The Summit ended the worst social crisis that Quebec has known in the past 25 years. It made it possible to initiate major reforms in higher education. It was also an opportunity to rebuild bridges and re-establish dialogue between generations. For the first time since spring 2012, all the players in the education network were gathered around the same table, ”said Minister Duchesne.
Following the consensus obtained during the Summit and the worksite reports, structuring measures were put in place to ensure and maintain accessible and quality higher education for all:
More than 7,000 people received a scholarship for the first time this year thanks to the increase in the parental contribution limit. This measure is the result of the work on financial assistance for studies, which helps to promote accessibility to higher education;
More than 120,000 people saw their scholarships increase as a result of improvements from the worksite on financial assistance for studies and measures resulting from the Summit. This will be the first time since 1985 that the Quebec government will grant more grants than loans, since in 2013-2014, 52% of the financial assistance granted will take the form of grants and 48% will be in the form of loans;
Additional financial assistance of $ 5 million is granted to CEGEPs to strengthen support for students with special needs;
An annual injection of $ 15 million for the creation of the college-university alignment program will improve collaboration and synergy between these two levels;
Nearly 34,500 people in financial difficulty will benefit from an improvement in the support program for the deferred repayment of their student debts;
The bills resulting from the work on the National Council of Universities and the work on the framework law for universities are being drafted with a view to tabling in the National Assembly as soon as possible. The final reports of the projects on the university funding policy and on the college training offer are expected in June 2014;
A reinvestment of nearly $ 1.8 billion will be injected into our universities until 2018-2019.
The Summit was preceded by four thematic meetings. These focused on the quality of teaching, accessibility and participation in higher education, governance and funding of universities as well as the contribution of educational and research institutions to the development of the entire Quebec.
Citizens were able to express themselves during the four citizens&#39; assemblies in different regions of Quebec and during the holding of a “special summit” winter school in collaboration with the Institut du Nouveau Monde (INM).
The Summit on Higher Education took place on February 25 and 26, 2013 in the presence of the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois. It brought together 350 people and helped identify solutions to ensure the future of our CEGEPs and universities.
The government also seized the opportunity to innovate and be transparent, by allowing all interested parties to follow and participate in the Summit discussions. In addition to setting up a Facebook page and website, all proceedings were webcast live. This enabled more than 10,000 people to follow the discussions and participate in them in real time.
“If many had predicted failure, it is clear today that the Summit was a great success. Fifty years after the creation of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, our government has taken important steps with its partners to promote our CEGEPs and universities so that they can play their roles. As I have said on several occasions, the Summit was not the end but the beginning of important and necessary reforms ”, concluded Minister Duchesne.
Highlights
A year ago, more precisely on February 25 and 26, 2013, the Summit on Higher Education was held.
The Summit, in figures, is:
