Quebec— The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, welcomes the report by Ms. Lise Bissonnette and Mr. John R. Porter on a framework law for universities . This report marks the end of work on a third project stemming from the Summit on Higher Education which was held last February.
“I salute the important reflection presented to me by Ms. Lise Bissonnette and Mr. John R. Porter and I would like to thank them. This report contains interesting proposals that will help clarify the mission of universities in Quebec. Given the scope of the recommendations formulated by the co-chairs of the worksite, an exhaustive analysis of the report will be undertaken by my department in order to give this report the appropriate follow-up, ”declared Minister Duchesne.
It should be remembered that during the four preparatory meetings for the Summit on Higher Education, many expressed the wish that Quebec universities be endowed with clear and consensual orientations and policies with regard to their management, their mission and their values. The co-presidents of the workcamp were mandated to produce a proposal for a framework law covering the entire university system.
The report contains several recommendations relating to elements to be taken into consideration with a view to presenting a draft framework law to the National Assembly. We are thinking in particular of the inclusion, in the framework bill, of a preamble that sets out the university&#39;s mission, the values it must promote and the State&#39;s commitment to defend and promote it. support. It is also a question of the recognition of the autonomy of each university education establishment and the requirement for each of them to adopt a code of practice which governs their operation.
“From the outset, this report confirms to me that it is time to modernize certain laws that have been in force for several decades. The drafting of the framework law, just like the establishment of the National Council of Universities, will be carried out over the coming months while respecting the mission and autonomy of the universities ”, specified Minister Duchesne.
The full report and its recommendations are available online at the following address: www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca/le-sommet/les-chantiers-de-travail/une-loi-cadre-des-universites .
Let us recall that the Summit on higher education was in particular the occasion for the government to announce the setting up of five vast work sites. The next reports, namely the one on the college training offer and the one on a university funding policy, are expected in June 2014.
For more information on construction sites, visit http://www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca/chantiers.
