Montreal - On the occasion of the Interdisciplinary Summit on Accessibility to Health Care organized by the Regroupement des médecins omnipraticiens pour une Médecine Committed, the MNA for Taillon and official opposition spokesperson for health and accessibility care, Diane Lamarre, spoke to a few hundred people gathered to discuss solutions that could improve access to services and health care in Quebec.
&quot;Given the improvisation of the Minister of Health - who disrupts our health system without prior consultation - and his intransigence, we are meeting today to send him a message: his approach is not the right one and the&quot; wall &quot; to wall ”, it does not work. A solution as simplistic as Bill 20 will not solve a problem as complex as that of the lack of accessibility to our public health system. If he really wants to improve the situation, the Minister must bring together all the actors concerned and encourage their mobilization around realistic solutions, the effects of which will result in less waiting in the emergency room, better access to family doctors and to other professionals, as well as through real interdisciplinarity, ”said Diane Lamarre.
Human solutions
The MP also stressed the importance of developing solutions based on the needs of the population, and not based on those of health professionals. She recalled that the major users of our emergency rooms, ie some 250,000 patients, alone represent nearly 50% of hospitalizations. However, interdisciplinary collaboration could avoid a good number of recourse to the hospital and ensure, in addition, a reduction in relapses. For all citizens, we must plan a better trajectory of care. The emergency room occupancy rate is only a symptom, because the real problems of our health system lie before and after. Among the courses of action that will help relieve emergencies, deal with the aging of the population and, above all, save significant sums that can then be reinvested in care and prevention, the member notably proposed to :
achieve real interdisciplinarity between health professionals;
make the shift towards home care and support;
get active in computerizing the health network;
ensure greater accountability of each of the actors;
“I would like to salute the instigators of this summit; they have succeeded in mobilizing a large number of citizens, health professionals, students and representatives of associations and federations from across the health network. Together, today and tomorrow, they will discuss access to care and propose promising solutions for the future of our public health network. I thank them once again for their daily commitment and their desire to ensure that our health system is accessible to all, at the right time, and, above all, proportionately effective to the substantial sums devoted to it, ”concluded the MP. from Taillon.
