Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, will represent the Government of Quebec and the Premier, Ms. Pauline Marois, at the Regional Summit of Governors and Premiers members of the Great Lakes Board of Governors, which will be held from May 31 to June 2 in Mackinac Island, Michigan. The objective of this meeting is to adopt common positions and to agree on intervention strategies in matters of common interest, such as water management, transport and economic development.
“Québec&#39;s participation in this summit allows us to express our priorities and our positions with regard to a number of environmental and economic issues to States with which we have close relations. Quebec is a major player in the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence River area, particularly in all regional issues related to water management and invasive species, as well as transport infrastructure and the economy ” , underlined Minister Blanchet. It should be noted that the members of the Council of Governors of the Great Lakes represent an economic space of great strategic importance for Quebec, with more than 100 million inhabitants and a total GDP exceeding 5,000 billion dollars, i.e. the fourth largest economy in the world. .
During the Summit, the Minister will participate in a meeting of governors and prime ministers who are members of the Regional Council of Great Lakes and St.Lawrence River Water Resources, which manages the Agreement on Sustainable Water Resources for the Basin. Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River.
This is Minister Blanchet&#39;s second mission to the United States this month. Last week, the Minister went to Washington to promote Quebec&#39;s various initiatives in the fight against climate change, including the agreement linking the carbon markets of Quebec and California. &quot;This type of mission is a great opportunity to develop privileged links with high-level interlocutors, to highlight the achievements of Quebec and to defend our interests,&quot; said the Minister.
Created in 1983, the Great Lakes Board of Governors is made up of the governors of the eight states bordering the Great Lakes (Illinois, Michigan, Pennsylvania, New York, Minnesota, Ohio, Indiana and Wisconsin) and the premiers of Quebec and Ontario. For 30 years, representatives of these governments have met annually to discuss issues of shared interest. The Council is particularly interested in sustainable development issues relating to the Great Lakes region, in particular the protection of the water resources of the Great Lakes basin and of the St.Lawrence River, which contains one fifth of the surface fresh water of the planet. Quebec has been an associate member of the Council since 1997.
