Quebec City, May 1, 2017 - In the wake of today&#39;s announcement of the establishment of six superclinics in Laval, Diane Lamarre, Parti Québécois spokesperson for health, access to care and home support, notes that the government is reneging on its commitment that they must be open 84 hours a week, 7 days a week.
IN SHORT
- The Liberals renounce their commitment; the superclinics will not all be open 7 days a week, 12 hours a day.- Once again, the Minister of Health bends his back in front of the doctors.- Gaétan Barrette seems to have &quot;forgotten&quot; to inform the Prime Minister of its failure.
In the technical document released today, it is mentioned that only 2 clinics announced out of 6 will be open on weekends, alternately. However, the Liberal commitment - repeated many times by the Minister of Health and the Premier of Quebec - provided that the superclinics would be open 84 hours a week.
“It seems to be impossible for this minister to guarantee care, apart from hospital emergencies, on weekend evenings. People are not allowed to be sick two evenings a week. But the disease does not take rest on Saturdays and Sundays! Already, the Minister of Health has allowed GMFs not to be open on weekend evenings. He replied that it would be the responsibility of the superclinics. What is now clear is that he crashed in front of the doctors who did not want to work on the weekends. After having folded for the opening hours of the GMF, it is another failure signed Gaétan Barrette. At 10 or 20 doctors per clinic, that&#39;s 2 to 5 weekends a year; this is not, however, excessive! Are we trying to pretend that patients do not have a urinary tract infection, ear infections or abdominal pain on Saturday and Sunday evening? », Asked Diane Lamarre.
“The Minister of Health has always presented the extended opening hours as the added value of superclinics. However, it only renames the network clinics &quot;superclinics&quot;. By not being able to concretely increase access on weekend evenings for the population, it still makes concessions in favor of doctors and it makes this initiative meaningless. We already suspected it, but we now have confirmation that the superclinics will not meet the immense needs of all the people who go to the emergency room because everything is closed elsewhere. The superclinics he claims to open already exist and offer tens of thousands of appointments! This is false good news and it is a shame to spark false hopes in Quebecers, ”she added.
“The minister has an archaic approach to health care. Everything still has to go through the doctors. The emergency room problem is just the symptom. It is access to primary care and home support that will resolve the overflows in emergencies. But the minister&#39;s commitments to physicians prevent him from making the right decisions that would provide care at the right time, in the right place, by the right person and at the right cost. In short, because the Minister bowed down in front of the doctors, we understand that it is again Quebecers who will be deprived of legitimate access to care and who will have to adjust to the system and not the opposite, ”notes the report. besides Mrs. Lamarre.
Remember that less than a month ago, on April 4, Prime Minister Philippe Couillard declared: “What are superclinics? (…) These are places where parents can take their children at the end of the day, after coming home from work, 7 days a week, 12 hours a day, with blood tests, radiology tests on site to avoid going to the hospital. &quot;&quot; Has the Minister of Health &#39;forgotten&#39; to report his failure to the Prime Minister? Asks the member.
