Quebec - The Premier, Ms. Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, tabled their fourth and last proposal of the day, at the occasion of the Summit on Higher Education. This proposal is articulated in a strategy aimed at accessibility and perseverance in studies. In particular, it provides for the indexation of tuition fees according to the growth rate of the disposable income of families, ie around 3%, and the inclusion of the related fees within the scope of this indexation.
“This proposal appears to us to be the fairest and most equitable choice for society. The weight of funding that depends on students would remain stable and several measures will be put in place to reduce the already minimal impacts of indexation. So, no more sudden increase, no more surprise. Those days are over, ”said the Prime Minister.
Main source of the conflict that punctuated the spring of 2012, tuition fees were a theme expected from all participants. In this regard, let us remember that the current government has already taken a very important step in favor of the financial accessibility of higher education by canceling the tuition fee increase of $ 1,778 over seven years decreed by the previous government.
The approach advocated by the government of Pauline Marois will make it possible to stabilize in a sustainable way the contribution of students to the financing of their university studies while avoiding making Quebec taxpayers bear an ever greater share of the latter.
The inclusion of related fees assumed by students in the scope of the indexation of tuition fees demonstrates the government&#39;s desire to protect students by stabilizing their contribution. This would allow universities to absorb the system costs associated with services funded by mandatory institutional fees.
The indexation of tuition fees of 3% per year, as of 2013-2014, would be accompanied by an increase in financial support for students, which includes financial assistance for studies and taxation, in order to increase support. available to them during the year and during their studies. These initiatives will directly contribute to limiting student indebtedness.
By revising the non-refundable tax credit associated with tuition and examination fees in order to free up sufficient financial leeway, the government is proposing:
The proposed work site will make it possible to study the possibility of introducing other measures to improve financial aid for studies, which will take into account the priorities of the students expressed through their associations. Work will be carried out to introduce new measures from 2013-2014.
“The conflict of last spring had serious consequences. The time has come to turn the page, agreeing on an approach based on fairness, sustainability and stability. An approach that testifies to our desire to allow all those who have the ability and desire to pursue higher education to be able to do so, regardless of their family&#39;s income, ”added Minister Pierre Duchesne.
For more information on the Summit process and progress, go to www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca/sommet.
