Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Pierre Duchesne, as well as the MP for Laval-des-Rapides and parliamentary assistant to the first Minister for Youth Affairs, Léo Bureau-Blouin, today unveiled the participatory process that will lead to the Summit on Higher Education, which will take place in Montreal in mid-February.
“As soon as we were elected, we chose the way out of the crisis and we respected our commitments by canceling the increase in tuition fees and repealing Law 12. Social peace having returned, we must collectively resume dialogue and rebuild the bridges between generations. We must reconnect with this spirit of cooperation which has always helped Quebec move forward. I hope that we have a constructive debate on the future and the role of higher education in Quebec. I wish everyone a fruitful debate, ”said the Prime Minister.
In anticipation of the Summit, four themes will be explored in depth with the aim of developing a common understanding of the findings and challenges facing higher education institutions, professors, staff and students, namely:
“What sets the Higher Education Summit apart from other meetings of its kind is its open and transparent approach. No way of thinking or position is pre-established. Today we are undertaking real teamwork that will lead to consensus around findings and concrete courses of action, but also issues and questions to be explored in depth after the Summit. Thus, the Summit is not an end, but a new beginning, ”said Minister Pierre Duchesne.
In fact, over the next few months, all of Quebec will be invited to prepare for the Summit as part of an open and unifying process, based on the active participation of players in the higher education sector, the population and, above all, young people. This approach will take different forms:
Starting at the end of November, four working meetings, focusing in turn on each of the Summit&#39;s themes, will be organized in various university towns in Quebec.
In order to allow the expression of all opinions as well as the sharing of knowledge, a website and a Facebook page have been online since October 12, 2012. These discussion spaces allow Internet users to present their points of view and their opinions. expectations, in addition to posting thoughts that they wish to make available to the general public. All the preparatory documents for the Summit will also be published there. Already, more than 500 comments have been made on the Summit&#39;s Facebook page, which has some 2,500 followers.
Some 500 young people from the four corners of Quebec, and from various backgrounds, will be called upon, over the course of a weekend, to imagine the Quebec university of tomorrow as part of an activity similar to the École d &#39; summer organized each year by the Institut du Nouveau Monde (INM).
Because the citizen&#39;s point of view is rich and must be taken into account, in addition to the formal places for discussion and deliberation, four meetings which will take the form of citizen activities will be organized by the INM.
“Today, I am proud to see that the time for clashes between young people and the government is over. We are now entering an era of dialogue and openness. I invite all students to be part of the solution. Together, let&#39;s think about the university of tomorrow. Together, let&#39;s work to bequeath to future generations better and more accessible institutions, ”said deputy Léo Bureau-Blouin.
An information document on the participatory approach of the Summit was made public during the press conference. It can be consulted at www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca.
Finally, Minister Pierre Duchesne announced the holding of the first thematic meeting in Quebec City on November 29 and 30. It will focus on the quality of higher education. A thematic booklet in preparation for this meeting has also been made public and can also be consulted at www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca.
