Quebec - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Maka Kotto, today announced financial assistance of nearly $ 2.5 million to promote the creation, updating or renewal of ten permanent exhibitions in the network Quebec museum. These grants are distributed in seven regions of Quebec and are paid to nine museum institutions.
“The production of permanent exhibitions is an essential element of the mission of museums and places of interpretation. Associated with multiple educational and cultural activities, the renewal of these exhibitions helps stimulate the interest of different audiences and increase attendance. The democratization of culture is not only a question of access to places of culture; it is thanks to the quality and excellence that we find there that it will be truly and fully realized ”, declared the Minister.
For the 2011-2012 edition, ten projects were selected for a sum of $ 2,422,662, paid under component 4 of the Quebec Cultural Heritage Fund, intended to support permanent exhibitions. This sum, added to the contributions of community partners, represents an amount of more than $ 3,988,742 for the realization of these new projects.
Spread across seven regions of Quebec, these exhibitions will highlight new themes and know-how that bear witness to the variety and richness of our heritage, as the following examples highlight.
The permanent exhibition of La Maison Lamontagne in Rimouski, entitled Follow the wire… Three generations of fabrics at Maison Lamontagne, will focus on the place of fabrics through the ages and present the different aspects of the supply of clothing and household linen and of their production, through three generations of occupants, from the second half of the 18th century to the first third of the 19th century.
The Musée de Société des Deux-Rives, in Montérégie, is presenting a first permanent exhibition project, entitled MOCO, which will showcase the history of the Montreal Cottons (MOCO), a cotton industry that has marked well. ways the landscape and development of the city of Salaberry-de-Valleyfield.
The expansion of the Pointe-à-Callière Museum is an opportunity for this institution to review the layout of its spaces and present its first permanent exhibition dedicated to young audiences, Montreal, Treasure Island. This exhibition will transport the visitor into the fascinating world of explorers and privateers who have marked the past of Montreal and Quebec.
Finally, the National Museum of Fine Arts of Quebec sees two of its recommended projects.
The exhibition Alfred Pellan, the awakened dreamer will immerse the visitor in the surrealist universe specific to this artist. It will develop around four major themes dear to Pellan: women, theater and poetry, Bestiary and art and everyday life.
The new permanent exhibition entitled Contemporary Art will offer visitors a selection of works created from 1960 to the present day. This is the first permanent exhibition entirely dedicated to this segment of the Museum&#39;s collection since the early 1990s.
