Chicoutimi - On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the Member for Chicoutimi, Minister responsible for Government Administration, President of the Treasury Board and Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region, Stéphane Bédard, announces the allocation of financial assistance of $ 135,000 for the restoration of the presbytery of the Sacré-Coeur, in Chicoutimi.
“Integrating culture, heritage and economic activity is an admirable way to develop the feeling of belonging. In this listed heritage building, activity is swarming, and the significant number of visitors demonstrates the merits of supporting the restoration project of the Sacré-Cœur presbytery, ”said Maka Kotto.
“The activities of Place du presbytère are so well integrated into the community fabric of Chicoutimi that it is important for the government to ensure that it takes all possible measures to continue to support them. I congratulate the people who are fully involved in this project and who make sure to stimulate the local social economy, ”said Stéphane Bédard.
The Sacré-Cœur presbytery, classified as a heritage building in 2001, is owned by Entreprises-Jeunesse inc., Which recycled the building to provide office space for various social economy enterprises and integration into employment, including a bookstore approved by the Minister of Culture and Communications. The work that will be carried out will help preserve the heritage value of the building and keep it in good condition.
Financial assistance of $ 135,000, or 50% of the estimated cost of the project, is made possible through the Capital Assistance program of the Ministry of Culture and Communications. The Entreprises-Jeunesse inc. will contribute more than $ 80,000, in particular thanks to a reserve accumulated within the framework of the Mécénat Placements Culture program of the Conseil des arts et des lettres du Québec.
Additional information concerning the Sacré-Coeur presbytery as well as all the heritage elements registered in the Cultural Heritage Register are available on the website of the Quebec Cultural Heritage Directory (RPCQ), at www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc. it.
New tools for disseminating cultural heritage have been added to the RPCQ, making it possible to discover all of its richness and diversity, by making it accessible to all. In fact, part of the content of the RPCQ can now be found on the Quebec government&#39;s open data portal, at www.donnees.gouv.qc.ca, as well as on the social network Pinterest, in the form of virtual exhibitions, at www.donnees.gouv.qc.ca .pinterest.com / rpcq.
Online training is also available at www.formation-patrimoine.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. Composed of video capsules and learning activities, it presents the basic concepts of the Cultural Heritage Act and explains the roles and responsibilities of each to promote the knowledge, protection, enhancement and transmission of Cultural Heritage.
