Québec - The MP for Vachon and official opposition spokesperson for transport, Martine Ouellet, the MP for Labelle and spokesperson for healthy lifestyles, recreation and sports, Sylvain Pagé, MP de Bertrand and spokesperson for tourism, Claude Cousineau, as well as the MNA for Jonquière and spokesperson for sustainable development and the environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, once again denounced the Liberal decision to cut funding of the Route verte maintenance program.
“As soon as the budget cut for the Route verte was announced, we questioned the Minister of Transport, but since then he has never ceased to turn a deaf ear. However, we are no longer alone in believing that this decision is completely foolish. This Liberal government cut has generated over 150 resolutions adopted by municipalities, RCMs, corporations and regional tourism associations to ensure continued funding for the maintenance of the Route verte. Will the minister face the facts? This is a very bad decision for all of Quebec, particularly for the regions, ”said Martine Ouellet.
“This cut of 2.8 million endangers the axes of tourism development that have become essential in several regions of Quebec. These infrastructures ensure user safety and encourage physical activity for millions of Quebecers. The latest report from the Institut national de santé publique du Québec puts the costs directly associated with obesity at $ 1.5 billion per year. For the Quebec nation to become one of the fittest in the world, we must invest in our infrastructure that has a direct impact on public health; in this sense, the Route verte is one of our greatest successes, ”said Sylvain Pagé.
The Route verte, important for the economic development of the regions “This cycling network crisscrossing Quebec for more than 5,000 kilometers is the envy of everyone; it was also placed at the top of the list of the best cycle routes in the world by National Geographic magazine. The Route verte is important for the economic development of the regions of Quebec. According to an economic impact study by the Institut de la statistique du Québec, the Le P&#39;tit Train du Nord linear park alone brings in more to the government than the total cost of the Route verte program, ”continued Claude Cousineau.
“According to another study by the Corporation du circuit cycle“ Tour du lac Saint-Jean ”, in 2010 alone, the Véloroute des Bleuets generated $ 9.5 million in spinoffs. Investing in infrastructures like the Route verte, not only does it provide economic benefits for all regions of Quebec, but, in addition, it allows us to define the bases of a society that invests in sustainable mobility and the fight against climate change by reducing greenhouse gases, ”concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
