Montreal - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced the payment of a non-repayable financial contribution of $ 289,000 to the start-up plconnect, located in Montreal. This support will be used to carry out a project valued at $ 723,000 which consists of developing an innovative mobile communication solution, namely a virtual smart phone.
Essentially, this solution will allow users to access the information contained in their smartphone at all times, no matter where they are. The user will only have to connect to his pplconnect account from a computer, tablet or other cell phone to obtain a full replica of the data and functions present in his phone.
“The information and communications technology (ICT) sector is evolving incredibly quickly,” said Minister Delegate Élaine Zakaïb. “To stay ahead of the curve, we need creative, well-connected young entrepreneurs like those at pplconnect. The strength of this sector is also based on a strong synergy between the research and education communities on the one hand and between large companies and SMEs on the other. A synergy that we must work to strengthen. This is how ICT will continue to contribute to the development of a creative and avant-garde Quebec society. &quot;
Denzil D&#39;Sa, co-founder of pplconnect, was delighted with this financial support. “The support from the Quebec government will help us complete the development of an original product that meets the needs of a growing clientele. We are fortunate to be able to count on the contribution of a creative and competent Quebec workforce that will allow us to achieve our growth objectives. One of our goals is to conquer promising markets, such as the United States and India. &quot;
&quot;It is with pride that we support the development of dynamic SMEs such as pplconnect, which rely on innovation to stand out from the competition,&quot; added Minister Delegate Élaine Zakaïb. “The expertise of the management team of this young, creative company will certainly work in its favor as it continues to grow. &quot;
