Duhmel-Ouest– The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, accompanied by the Member for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Labor, Mr. Gilles Chapadeau, announced the allocation of grants totaling $ 158,560, or $ 35,000 to the Société de développement du Témiscamingue (SDT) for the organization of an economic forum, the cost of which will be $ 213,000 and $ 123,560 at Ferme Martin and Julien Forget for a new production line estimated at $ 315,800.
“Our government is present in all regions of Quebec to support entrepreneurs, particularly in the manufacturing sector, and stakeholders in carrying out promising projects,” declared Élaine Zakaïb. “It is in this perspective that we are putting in place powerful levers for economic growth, such as the 2013-2017 Québec industrial policy. We want to give them the means to prosper and to contribute to the development of Quebec, in particular by focusing on their niches of excellence. &quot;
&quot;Abitibi-Témiscamingue has great growth potential with its abundant resources and its three promising niches of excellence resulting from the ACCORD process,&quot; said Gilles Chapadeau. &quot;Local organizations and businesses are actively working to promote and exploit the strengths of their region, as evidenced by these two projects which will contribute to the economic strength of Abitibi-Témiscamingue and with which our government is proudly associated. . &quot;
Created in 1994, the SDT carries out important mandates for the achievement of the socio-economic development objectives of the region. The holding of the economic forum, the cost of which is estimated at $ 213,000, will promote the creation of economic links between Abitibi, Témiscamingue and northeastern Ontario. Government support consists of an amount of $ 15,000 paid by the Ministry of Finance and the Economy and an amount of $ 20,000 granted by Emploi-Québec. This regional economic forum will take place on February 21 and 22, 2014.
“Over the next few years, Témiscamese businesses, like those across Quebec, will face major challenges in terms of workforce recruitment, retention and training. In this regard, the Government of Quebec intends to continue to support business people in Témiscamingue by implementing innovative measures to promote sustainable employment in their region, ”said the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity. , Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais.
&quot;This forum is a major event that will facilitate the establishment of relationships and partnerships between business people in this economic space,&quot; said SDT President Karen Lachapelle. “The participating companies will be able to better understand the economic, social and environmental challenges of their territory and perhaps even discover business opportunities. &quot;
La Ferme Martin et Julien Forget specializes in the production and sale of purebred beef embryos, cows, grain, hay and commercial straw. In partnership with the company GAL Industriel, Ferme Martin and Julien Forget will develop new equipment to create a production line intended mainly for the manufacture of square hay bales. This additional equipment will include a collector, a self-unloading trailer and a wrapper. This $ 315,800 project, of which $ 123,560 is allocated by the Government of Quebec, will help increase manufacturing activity in the region as well as the competitiveness of the Northern Agriculture niche of excellence focused on beef production.
&quot;Our new equipment will be very useful to farmers who produce large volumes of hay,&quot; said the general manager of Ferme Martin and Julien Forget, Mr. Martin Forget. “They will provide a much more efficient and productive hay bale collection and storage system. This system will require fewer personnel and will thus have the advantage of alleviating the labor shortage affecting the agricultural sector. &quot;
The ACCORD approach (Concerted action for regional development cooperation) aims to boost the economy of the regions of Quebec. This approach is based on the mobilization and dynamism of business people in the regions as well as on the search for excellence in key sectors of Quebec. Its purpose is to build a competitive regional production system in each region of Quebec, by developing niches of excellence that can become their brand image.
To find out more about the ACCORD approach and the niches and centers of excellence, visit www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/accord.
To learn more about Quebec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, visit www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
