Rimouski - On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the Minister for Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, Pascal Bérubé, announces the allocation of financial assistance of $ 42,000 for the enhancement of cultural heritage in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region.
“This financial support is good news, because it will allow the implementation of the projects proposed by Les Amis des Jardins de Métis and by the Corporation du patrimoine de Rivière-Bleue. These organizations will be able to enrich our regional cultural heritage and will make a substantial contribution to our collective heritage, ”Minister Bérubé said.
Total financial assistance of nearly $ 630,000 was announced by the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, for the realization of 24 cultural heritage projects in several regions of Quebec. In the wake of the first call for projects launched in December 2012, a second call was launched in September 2013 to once again enable local, regional and national organizations as well as municipalities and RCMs to make a tangible contribution to the implementation of the Cultural Heritage Law.
“This new financial contribution constitutes a lever for concrete and diversified actions which will put forward this collective wealth that is our cultural heritage. It is important that our identity marks be better known and preserved, and I am pleased to note that this support will allow organizations to participate, ”Minister Kotto said.
When the call for projects closed, the Ministry of Culture and Communications had received a total of 56 requests for financial assistance. Among these, it selected 24 projects that best meet the objectives of the program and allow organizations to carry out studies, as well as dissemination, inventory and enhancement of cultural heritage activities.
“Our heritage gives us roots, allows us to better understand the path we have traveled and the direction we are taking. Supporting our heritage and allowing it to be better known by all, better understood by all is part of our government&#39;s desire to promote Quebec&#39;s identity. I would like to thank all those who, day after day, work to showcase Quebec&#39;s history and its heritage, ”continued Maka Kotto.
Additional information about the Cultural Heritage Act is available on the website of the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications, at www..mcc.gouv.qc.ca.
New tools for disseminating cultural heritage are added to the Directory of Cultural Heritage of Quebec (RPCQ), making it possible to discover all its richness and diversity, by making it accessible to all. In fact, part of the RPCQ&#39;s content can now be found on the Government of Quebec&#39;s open data portal, at www.data.gouv.qc.ca, as well as on the social network Pinterest, in the form of virtual exhibitions, atwww. pinterest.com/rpcq.
Online training is also available at www.formation-patrimoine.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. Composed of video capsules and learning activities, it presents the basic concepts of the Cultural Heritage Act and explains the roles and responsibilities of each to promote the knowledge, protection, enhancement and transmission of Cultural Heritage.
