Baie-Saint-Paul– In the wake of the launch of the Food Sovereignty Policy, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron , supported by La Financière agricole du Québec (FADQ), are pleased to announce an increase in the financial assistance granted to the next generation. This first phase of subsidy, which may go up to 20%, is complementary to an improved offer of support services that will better meet the needs and expectations of young farmers.
“Support for the next generation of agriculture is on my government&#39;s list of priorities. Moreover, the Food Sovereignty Policy gives a significant place to young agricultural entrepreneurs. Throughout each of the axes of this Policy, the concern for youth is present. I am convinced that with the dynamism and creativity shown by our succession, the future of the agricultural sector is assured, ”said the Premier.
The government therefore intends to further support the transfer and start-up of agricultural businesses by young people who have the training and skills necessary to achieve this. On the one hand, the expansion of the mandate of the Investment Fund for Agricultural Succession (FIRA) will help all young entrepreneurs, including those in the process of acquiring a family farm.
On the other hand, the FADQ&#39;s financial support program for agricultural succession will thus be enhanced:
With the implementation of the Food Sovereignty Policy, the time is right to review the regional ministerial service offer in order to support young agricultural entrepreneurs in their development and their initiatives to ensure the development of the sector. Succession advisers from the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, establishment experts, will play a central role in overall support for young agricultural entrepreneurs throughout their project. They will thus be able to follow the evolution of the company&#39;s situation during the first five years, a period which is decisive for its survival. This service will also promote better coordination of regional resources working with the next generation.
“For several years, La Financière agricole du Québec, in particular through its financial support program for agricultural succession, has supported young entrepreneurs. It has made the development of their skills and their business a priority in its strategic objectives. We are therefore very proud to support the new Food Sovereignty Policy. I assure you that we will continue, together with our partners, to do everything possible to promote rich, diversified and sustainable agriculture, ”added Robert Keating, President and CEO of La Financière agricole.
For his part, Minister François Gendron wanted to send a clear message to emerging young people. “As Minister, I want to establish a special relationship with you, because you are already shaping the agricultural Quebec of tomorrow. This is very important for me, especially since I will need this great succession to ensure the success of the Food Sovereignty Policy that we launched today. This policy will only make sense if you jump on the same train as us. To implement it, I will need you, ”he concluded.
The improvements announced today represent an additional annual investment of $ 3.8 million by La Financière agricole du Québec in support of the next generation of farmers.
For more information on the establishment and the next generation of farmers, we invite you to regularly consult the website of the Ministère de l&#39;Agriculture, des Pêcheries et de l&#39;Alimentation at www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/releveagricole and that of La Financière agricole du Québec atwww.fadq.qc.ca/financement/la_releve_agricole/la_releve_agricole.html, or follow the Ministry on Twitter at: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
Consult the [press release] [4] issued during the unveiling of the Food Sovereignty Policy.
