Warmick– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions and Member of Parliament for Johnson, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announced at the name of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation, through Investissement Québec, of a loan of $ 650,000 and a guarantee of loan of $ 250,000 to Champoux Machineries to allow the transfer of ownership and the acquisition of all of the remaining shares by the two minority shareholders.
&quot;Our government is determined to support the growth and prosperity of Quebec businesses that create value and jobs here in the regions,&quot; said Minister Blanchet. “The Quebec economy is dependent on strong and dynamic entrepreneurial succession. This is why we are very proud to support the approach of Champoux Machineries, which ensures the succession and the sustainability of the company. &quot;
Founded in 1930 by Mr. Armand Champoux, the company specializes in the sale of new and used agricultural machinery and equipment. In addition to offering Massey Ferguson branded products, it has been selling the new Fendt premium product line since June 2013.
&quot;I am delighted with this harmonious transition at Champoux Machineries&quot;, underlined Minister Zakaïb. “This transaction will allow the company to maintain its activities and thus preserve the 11 current jobs, while encouraging the economic development of the region. &quot;
“Our close collaboration with Investissement Québec has enabled us to make this project a reality. The support of the Quebec government greatly facilitated the purchasing process. That said, we are very pleased to be able to take over from a growing company in which we have complete confidence, ”said the new owners of the company, Messrs. Dany Lafrance and Martin Nolin.
Investissement Québec&#39;s mission is to promote the growth of investment in Québec, thereby contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The Company provides businesses with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity investments, to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, she is responsible for administering tax measures and prospecting for investments abroad.
