Clermont– The Premier of Quebec and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix – Côte-de-Beaupré, Pauline Marois, confirms the payment of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 700,000 to the company Fibrotek de Clermont, specializing in the manufacture of parts in composite materials. This government support will support the completion of a project totaling $ 3,379,270 which aims to expand the company&#39;s plant and design a production line for basalt fiber reinforcing bars. This project will consolidate 15 jobs in the region, in addition to creating 25 others.
&quot;Innovation is at the heart of the success of Quebec businesses and contributes greatly to their sustainability,&quot; said the Premier. We are working to promote the prosperity of our businesses throughout Quebec and support for technological innovation is a priority for my government. It is therefore with pride that we support Fibrotek, a young local company, in carrying out an innovative project that will generate positive spinoffs in the region, including the creation of new quality jobs. &quot;
&quot;It is by focusing on the manufacture of unique products that our companies are carving out a place of choice in an increasingly competitive economic context,&quot; added the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, &quot; Élaine Zakaïb. With the upcoming creation of the Banque de développement économique du Québec, our government is working, among other things, to put in place the necessary tools to simplify the lives of our entrepreneurs, who will be able to focus on creating jobs, and therefore wealth, for the benefit of all Quebecers. &quot;
Founded in 2008, Fibrotek markets different types of parts in composite materials intended for several applications, particularly in the mining and aeronautics sectors. In addition, Fibrotek is working on the design of equipment that will allow it to continuously produce, by a microwave cooking process, reinforcing rods in fiberglass and basalt fiber that will replace the steel rods. conventional used in concrete structures and infrastructure.
&quot;The support from the Quebec government will help us in particular to implement all of the molding manufacturing processes, including equipment design, manufacturing and optimization,&quot; said Fibrotek president Luc Tremblay. Our great expertise in the composite materials sector and our in-depth knowledge of markets and business opportunities will also contribute to the success of our project. &quot;
