Îles-de-la-Madeleine– The Member for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (fisheries component), Ms. Jeannine Richard, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, announces the allocation of a sum of $ 125,000 to support the next generation of the fishing industry in the Îles-de- Madeleine.
This government initiative allows five young Madelinot fishermen, namely MM. Jason Clarke, Chad Clark, Marcel Dickson, Murray McKay and Luc Vigneau, to take advantage of a grant of up to $ 25,000 to acquire their first fishing business. Financial assistance comes from the Financial Support Program for the next generation in the catching sector, implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
&quot;More than ever, young people play a capital role in the future of fisheries, while the industry of the Islands like that of other maritime regions must deal with the aging of its members and with the difficulty of ensuring a succession&quot;, Ms. Jeannine Richard clarified.
For commercial fishermen under 40 who wish to establish themselves in the commercial fishing industry, obtaining financing is difficult due to the high value of the assets required. The Department therefore provides them with financial assistance corresponding to 20% of the total cost of their purchase, up to a maximum of $ 25,000, in order to support the realization of their project.
“Since its implementation in 2008, the measure has benefited 74 fishermen in the Magdalen Islands. This is proof of the success of this program and above all of its importance for these young people who wish to take up the torch of a profession essential to the economy of our region, ”concluded Ms. Richard.
Fostering a young, trained and competent succession is one of the priorities put forward in the 2013-2018 Action Plan. Develop our commercial fishing and aquaculture industry. This plan is linked to the Food Sovereignty Policy, which is one of the government&#39;s preferred tools to support the economic prosperity of Quebec and its regions.
It should be noted that with investments of $ 2.3 billion and an annual food demand of nearly $ 34 billion, which generates 475,000 jobs, the biofood industry is an important engine of the Quebec economy.
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, we invite you to regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or to visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and of Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
