Quebec - The member for Terrebonne and official opposition spokesperson for families, Mathieu Traversy, strongly denounces the decision of the Minister of Families, Francine Charbonneau, to suspend the allocation of new child care spaces.
“Parents are waiting for these places and the childcare services are preparing to make them available. It is totally unacceptable to put this whole process on hold. The Liberal Party never talked about this during the election campaign; this is once again the good old liberal recipe. Quebec families should have known what to expect, ”said Mathieu Traversy.
In addition to not authorizing the 15,000 places from the last call for tenders, the Minister goes so far as to suspend those from the previous call for tenders, launched by the Liberal government in 2011.
“When we came to power, we accelerated the allocation of places, since there was a significant delay. However, history risks repeating itself. We have no assurance that these seats will not simply be canceled. It is totally irresponsible; families from all regions of Quebec are waiting for places, ”said the member for Terrebonne.
The minister must tell the network what to expect. Childcare centers and subsidized daycare centers have received their promises to allocate places. A whole process is initiated by the teams of these establishments; freezing it will cause concern throughout the network.
“Let us not forget that the last time a Liberal government delayed the allocation of child care spaces, there was the Liberal child care scandal. The Minister must immediately reassure parents who are waiting for a place and the entire network of childcare services, ”continued Mathieu Traversy.
“Seeing the development of the childcare network as an expense is a simplistic vision,” concluded the member for Terrebonne. Developing places means encouraging job creation in all regions, promoting work-family balance and facilitating the entry of young parents, especially women, into the labor market. This development should not be slowed down. &quot;
