Quebec– Sylvain Gaudreault, MP for Jonquière and official opposition spokesperson for sustainable development and the environment, and Bernard for Marie-Victorin and spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, welcome with great satisfaction the decision of the Superior Court of Quebec, which suspends until October 15, 2014 the geotechnical drilling of TransCanada authorized by the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment and the Fight against Climate Change , David Heurtel.
By confirming the major flaws in Minister Heurtel&#39;s decision to grant a certificate of authorization to TransCanada on August 21, 2014, the judge very severely criticizes its management. “Contrary to repeated statements by David Heurtel, the Court concludes that the Minister never had the best scientific information available in his hands to grant his certificate of authorization. This is very serious for a Minister of the Environment who has a duty to be more rigorous and consistent than anyone in the Government of Quebec when it comes to the protection of an endangered species such as the beluga. The Court even points out that the Sustainable Development Act was not respected in the Minister&#39;s decision. It is very disturbing and unacceptable! The Minister must immediately renounce granting certificates of authorization to TransCanada and immediately mandate a BAPE for the entire project, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
The reasons of the Court go even further; they characterize the Minister&#39;s decision as &quot;unreasonable&quot; and claim that it is based on &quot;unexplained reasons&quot;. “The court ruling is a bitter failure for the Liberal government, which has placed TransCanada&#39;s agenda above environmental protection and the public interest. The judgment shows that the minister showed no consistency or rigor. It is clearer than ever: TransCanada&#39;s oil export project involves disproportionate environmental and safety risks for Quebec, without convincing economic benefits, ”said Bernard Drainville.
Finally, this judgment is proof that the Liberal government is simply not defending the territory of Quebec. “We have been saying for a long time that the environment is Quebec&#39;s jurisdiction and that it must enforce its laws and regulations and decide what happens in its territory. Obviously, it is time for TransCanada to respect Quebec&#39;s environmental legislation and stop considering it optional in the evaluation process of the Energy East project, ”concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
