Montreal - The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane De Courcy, and the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region , Mr. Jean-François Lisée, this morning asked the Canadian government to maintain the suspension of removals in the case of Haiti, given the situation that still prevails in this country.
The Quebec ministers also asked the Minister of Citizenship, Immigration and Multiculturalism, Mr. Jason Kenney, to put in place a public interest policy for asylum seekers who have been rejected for at least three years. , but who, due to the temporary suspension of removals to their country of origin, are still in Quebec.
Ms. De Courcy and Mr. Lisée participated in a meeting with nationals, established in Quebec, of countries affected by a temporary suspension of removals, mainly from Haiti and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Nearly 5,000 Haitian nationals are in Quebec and could be affected by a possible lifting of the suspension of removals, introduced by Canada in 2004. Several of these people found refuge in Quebec following the earthquake that affected Haiti in January. 2010.
The ministers announced that the Government of Quebec will formally ask the Minister of Public Safety, Mr. Vic Toews, and the Minister of Citizenship, Immigration and Multiculturalism, Mr. Jason Kenney, to maintain the suspension of removals to Haiti. Recently, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees informed the Canadian authorities that the situation in Haiti still does not allow the basic humanitarian needs of the population to be met. The High Commissioner recommended that the suspension of removals be continued until the situation improves.
“Not only do we share the analysis of the High Commission on the situation in Haiti, but our government is also of the opinion that we have a responsibility towards the people who live in Quebec and who are grappling with a precarious status so that they have the opportunity to regularize their status and be able to participate fully in Quebec society, ”said Minister Jean-François Lisée.
Currently, five countries are subject to a suspension of removals: Afghanistan, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Zimbabwe, Iraq and Haiti. Canada considers that these countries presently expose the civilian population to generalized risk resulting from armed conflict, major natural disaster or other generalized temporary circumstance. However, in 2012, Canada assessed that the situation in Haiti had improved enough to request a progress report in June 2013. It is in the context of this progress report that the Office of the High Commissioner issued its opinion. and that representatives of the Haitian community and the government of Quebec have made their proposals known.
&quot;A public policy, decreed by the Minister of Citizenship, Immigration and Multiculturalism, Mr. Jason Kenney, would allow people whose asylum application has been refused, but who three years later are still in Quebec because their country is subject to a temporary suspension of removals, to make an application for permanent residence accompanied by a notice on their integration pathway formulated by Quebec, ”said Minister Diane De Courcy. This policy would apply to anyone established in Canada and in a similar situation.
“Several of these foreign nationals have been living under suspension of removal for many years. Why wait until the suspension of removals is over to give them a chance to settle down and participate fully in society? We believe we can and must do better. We also know that the granting of permanent residence is the trigger for genuine social and economic integration, ”said Ms. De Courcy, who believes that Quebec&#39;s proposals will make it possible to offer a lasting solution to these people.
Haitian nationals who, at the time of the earthquake, were in Quebec as visitors, temporary workers or foreign students, or people who were urgently evacuated by the Canadian government, will also be able to benefit from this policy if the federal government follows through.
Minister Diane De Courcy said in closing that &quot;none of the proposed changes calls into question the integrity of our immigration policies&quot;. The two Quebec ministers want the federal government to confirm, in the short term, the continued suspension of removals to Haiti.
