Quebec - The Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Mrs. Agnès Maltais, on behalf of the Deputy Premier Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron, announces the allocation of financial assistance of $ 123,340 to the company Pisciculture de la Jacques-Cartier inc. for the realization of its redevelopment project of its fish farming facilities.
Located in Cap-Santé in the Portneuf region, the company specializes in breeding brook trout and rainbow trout for the stocking market. It wishes to improve its environmental performance by reducing phosphorus discharges from its activities to a maximum of 4.2 kilograms per tonne of annual production. To achieve this target, that is, the one set in the Sustainable Development Strategy for Freshwater Aquaculture in Quebec (STRADDAQ), it will notably make improvements to its rearing ponds and modify its water treatment system.
“By adopting good practices and environmentally friendly production methods, Pisciculture de la Jacques-Cartier is concerned about its competitiveness and takes into account the community&#39;s environmental concerns. This is a fine example of a project that promotes the harmonious development of our region, ”said Ms. Agnès Maltais.
It should be noted that STRADDAQ is the result of concerted action by all the players in freshwater aquaculture in Quebec. The Strategy highlights innovative ways of reducing the impact of fish farming on the aquatic environment without jeopardizing the achievements and development potential of the industry.
Financial assistance from the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food is granted under the Aquableu program; this measure is in line with the objectives defined in the Food Sovereignty Policy, since it contributes to the harmonization of the sector with the environment while encouraging companies to embark on the path of sustainable development.
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www .mapaq.gouv.qc.ca / PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
