Quebec, April 2, 2019 - Sylvain Gaudreault, the member for Jonquière and spokesperson for the third opposition group in health matters, is very pleased with the positive reception his request has received for the Commission de la santé and social services (CSSS) take on a mandate of initiative concerning the consumption of psychostimulants in children and young people.
IN SHORT
On February 18, through the voice of the member for Jonquière, the Parti Québécois demanded that parliamentarians be able to examine the consumption of psychostimulants among young Quebecers, in particular to regulate ADHD. “We have noted a worrying increase in the consumption of these drugs since the early 2000s. We want to understand why. We also want to know if the psychological distress of children and young people is more marked here than elsewhere and, if so, how to remedy the situation, ”Sylvain Gaudreault first indicated.
The MP points out that he was not alone in calling for such an exercise to be held. “Last January, nearly fifty pediatricians denounced the over-medication of children, deploring the too rapid use of psychostimulants to treat behavioral problems. Since then, several other health professionals have joined the movement; all call for a great collective reflection, for the good of the young people. This is exactly the objective of the parliamentary commission that we obtained, ”he continued.
Thus, parliamentarians will be able to hear experts take stock of this more than worrying situation. Possible solutions can then be identified, which will be added to those already put forward by specialists: better dialogue between parents, teachers, psychologists and doctors, improved offer of physical activity for young people, more in-depth assessment of what causes behavioral problems, improvement of psychosocial services… “The issue is paramount; it affects the health and quality of life of children. It&#39;s up to us, adults, to adapt, to find solutions. I am happy that my colleagues at the CSSS also hear it as well, and that they have unanimously affirmed it, ”concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
