Baie-Saint-Paul– In the wake of the launch of the Food Sovereignty Policy, the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, and the Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, today met for the first time the members of the Table de concertation des partners du bioalimentaire québécois. The mandate of the Table is to shed light on the minister and the government on the implementation of the new policy as well as on various questions of interest concerning the development of the biofood sector.
“While bringing together the players in the field, the Food Sovereignty Policy will generate undeniable benefits for all Quebecers, both as consumers and as citizens. It is a mobilizing collective project that will make sustainable use of the potential of the biofood sector for the economy of Quebec, ”said Mr. Gendron.
“The success of the Policy depends on the community&#39;s ability to work together. I am therefore very happy with the progress of this first meeting, during which we discussed the priority actions to be taken to initiate the implementation of the Food Sovereignty Policy. About forty courses of action were proposed and the work of the Table made it possible to agree on the priority actions to be put forward in order to quickly take action ”, indicated Mr. François Gendron. It should be noted that the Table is made up of 22 people appointed by the Minister, who himself chairs the proceedings. It brings together the senior leaders of organizations deemed to be the most representative of the various links in the biofood sector and interested partners in Quebec society.
Thus, more than fifteen organizations participate. They come from:
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, we invite you to regularly consult the blog (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and its website (www .mapaq.gouv.qc.ca / PolitiqueSA), or to follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
