The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the candidates Pascal Bérubé (Matane-Matapédia) and Méganne Perry-Mélançon (Gaspé), today presented robust measures to ensure that Quebec workers respect the their rights.
Based on an investigation by the Commission des normes du travail, Mr. Lisée and his colleagues denounced the practice of a minority of bosses who steal every year from 250,000 non-union workers in excess of $ 350 million in remuneration, while they are entitled to it.
The time has also come to better support self-employed workers, in particular by creating group insurance for them that will provide them with adequate social benefits, and to modify the Labor Code to better adapt it to the current challenges of the labor market.
IN SHORT
“The Parti Québécois, it is known, has a favorable prejudice towards workers. In 2018, we are still there for those who stand up every day to build, care for, serve, create and advance Quebec. We give notice to delinquent bosses; they cannot continue to underpay 250,000 non-union workers with impunity. And our measures are aimed at both self-employed workers and employees, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
“We will first tackle the issue of non-compliance with the minimum wage, as well as that of overtime and unpaid leave,” said Méganne Perry-Mélançon. Too many employers abuse it. Each year, the CNESST receives thousands of complaints in this regard. These injustices must end. Quebec is ripe for a government that will defend workers, that will apply and enforce the Act respecting labor standards! &quot;
We will achieve this by empowering and mobilizing employers&#39; organizations, we will deploy the resources of the CNESST to fight against these offenses (and add more, if necessary), we will produce an awareness campaign and publish an annual survey to measure progress.
Furthermore, as we know, it may be more difficult for a self-employed worker to have access to group insurance. “Quebec has nearly 500,000 self-employed workers, who contribute to all economic sectors. We will therefore set up a service to help them use strength in numbers to obtain group insurance and a complementary retirement program at a lower cost, ”added Pascal Bérubé.
For seasonal workers who are victims of the &quot;black hole&quot; (without resources for weeks, between the end of their benefits and the resumption of their work), we will lead the fight with Ottawa and will consider avenues with the MRCs concerned to offer jobs of short duration.
We will complete the reform of the Act respecting occupational health and safety. We will also act to renovate several elements of the Labor Code, and we will protect the rights of domestic workers.
Finally, to ensure every worker a decent standard of living, regardless of their job, a Parti Québécois government will gradually increase the minimum wage to $ 15 an hour, within a first term. “We will establish a mechanism for continuous evaluation of the measure, to ensure that the positive effects clearly outweigh the negative effects. Whether in the tourism sector, in the agricultural sector, for SMEs or community organizations, no one should perceive the increase in the minimum wage as a burden, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
For more information, click here.
For our explanatory sheet, click here.
