Quebec - In recent weeks, the Quebec government has done everything to ensure that the construction conflict is resolved through negotiation. The result is convincing, since the employers&#39; associations in the residential, road and civil engineering sectors as well as the Union Alliance have reached agreements in principle negotiated, allowing nearly 100,000 workers to return to the sites. at the beginning of last week. Unfortunately, the discussion at the institutional-commercial and industrial sector table failed; representatives of the parties were unable to come to an agreement.
Faced with this situation, the National Assembly was convened and Bill 54, Act respecting the resumption of work in the construction industry, was tabled.
First, the bill requires the reopening of the sites on July 2, 2013.
Second, article 11 extends the collective agreements, signed in 2010 by the two parties, until April 30, 2017. This agreement end date is the same as that provided for by the agreements in principle in the residential sectors, roads and civil engineering, and complies with Law R-20 governing labor relations in the construction industry, adopted unanimously on December 2, 2011.
Third, this same article sets out the wage rate increases provided for in the agreement in principle reached on June 24 between an employers&#39; association (the ACRGTQ) and the Alliance syndicale at the road network and civil engineering table, i.e. 2 % the first year, 2.1% the next, 2.2% the third and 2.3% the last year. This article also provides that these increases apply to the applicable travel expenses.
In addition, the government provides that the parties can agree at any time to changes to the collective agreement, which leaves all the leeway they need to continue negotiating (article 12).
Finally, the bill contains civil and criminal penalties for anyone, whether on the management or union side, who does not respect this law.
The Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltais, declared when tabling this bill: “It is not out of heart that we are proceeding in this way, but the impasse at the negotiating table imposes it. This bill is fair and reasonable, and we appeal to the responsibility of the opposition parties so that the entrepreneurs restart the construction sites next Tuesday and the workers can get back to work. &quot;
“I call on the elected members of this House to ensure that we quickly pass this back-to-work law. For the good of the Quebec economy. For the benefit of construction workers and contractors. And for the general interest of Quebec. Let&#39;s do what is right and responsible. Let us ensure that activity resumes on all construction sites in Quebec, starting Tuesday morning, ”concluded Premier Pauline Marois.
