The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, the candidate in the riding of Rimouski, Harold LeBel, and the candidate in Rivière-du-Loup, Vincent Couture, announced several measures to improve the living conditions of seniors. “It is time for society, and more particularly our health system, to adapt to the needs and realities of seniors and their families; a Parti Québécois government will provide care, services, recognition and dignity to seniors, ”they declared.
IN SHORT
And CHSLD
“After 15 years of liberal rule, one thing is clear: the living conditions of seniors, particularly in CHSLDs, have deteriorated a lot. We saw it with the sad episodes of the second bath and the &quot;powdered potatoes&quot;: austerity hurt a lot. It has led to the rationing of care, its dehumanization, and a lot of distress among nursing staff. It is unworthy of a state like Quebec, ”summarized Jean ‑ François Lisée.
The Parti Québécois commits in particular to air-conditioning the CHSLDs by summer 2019. “We will immediately release funds from the Quebec Infrastructure Plan to air-condition all the CHSLDs that can be air-conditioned. We know that heatwaves are set to increase in the future, and we can no longer tolerate the elderly suffocating in their living environment, ”continued the leader of the Parti Québécois.
Among the other measures proposed, let us mention that a Parti Québécois government will add $ 200 million to the sums already allocated to the PQI to carry out the necessary renovations in dilapidated CHSLDs. We will also ensure the presence of dental hygienists and teams of pharmacists and nurses. Finally, we will give the Ombudsperson the mandate to investigate living conditions in CHSLDs.
In society
“Today&#39;s seniors are the people who have helped build the prosperous, open and proud society in which we live. Yet many are struggling to make ends meet. This situation causes stress, has definite effects on health, and can even lead to isolation. This is why we will introduce a “solidarity seniors” tax credit; we want all seniors to be able to at least meet their basic needs, ”explained Harold LeBel.
In addition, there are still many people aged 65 and over who remain active in the labor market. We think of them too. “If they wish, they can stop contributing to the Quebec Pension Plan. In other words, they will keep the equivalent of their contributions in their pockets, as if their salary increased by more than 5%! Their retirement will continue to be enhanced by the employer who will continue to be required to contribute, ”said Vincent Couture for his part.
Then, it is well known, for the most part, the elderly want to stay at home as long as possible. We will give them the means to do so. “No more rationing! A Parti Québécois government will increase the home care offer by 900,000 hours in the first year of its mandate. Our plan also includes measures to support informal caregivers and promote the deployment of supervised housing, ”added Jean-François Lisée.
“We know what to do now, and we will put these measures in place immediately. The government must realize the importance of the aging population. We have to think about what will happen in 10, 15 or 20 years, and prepare the ground. We are going to launch the Estates General on the living conditions of seniors, ”announced Harold LeBel.
Finally, the Parti Québécois will take all possible measures to encourage seniors to remain active and engaged in their community, and to break the isolation in which too many of them live. “In Quebec, we are ripe for a Parti Québécois government; a government that will have a heart and that will work so that all seniors live with dignity, ”concluded the chief.
For more information, click here.
