MONTREAL, November 13, 2017 – It was in a most convivial atmosphere that the launch of the book entitled L&#39;Autre 150e took place on November 13 at the headquarters of the Lionel-Groulx Foundation; the story behind the anniversary, resulting from the operation of the same name imagined by the leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, and animated by a group of emeritus historians, including the co-directors of the book, Michel Sarra- Bournet and Gilles Laporte, the idea being to take advantage of this year of commemoration of the 150th anniversary of the Canadian federation to promote our national history, broken down into 150 facts and events that have occurred since the years surrounding the entry into force of the Act. of British North America. The two co-spokespersons of L&#39;Autre 150e, Marie Imalta Pierre Lys and Rod Le Stod were present and took part in the evening&#39;s entertainment.
Help the Lionel-Groulx Foundation in its mission to promote history
The CEO of the Lionel-Groulx Foundation, host of the evening, Pierre Graveline, after welcoming the many people who came for the occasion, underlined his pride in seeing the Foundation being associated with the launch of this work. “Due to our mission focused on promoting the history, language and culture of the Quebec nation, it was only natural for me to be associated with the launch of this richest book in terms of its content, images, his memories, ”he said.
A way to perpetuateThe Other 150th
The Quebec America publishing house, having noted the seriousness and the notoriety of this operation then being deployed mainly on social networks, seized the potential presented by L&#39;Autre 150 and expressed the wish to collect texts, images and references in order to to publish it in a book. “Considerable work has been done to achieve the success that everyone knows today, thanks to people who are not only motivated, but above all dedicated to the success of a very large-scale project”, d &#39;&#39; add the representative of the publishing house, Éric St-Pierre.
The fruit of the rigorous work of dedicated collaborators
The deputy for Verchères and responsible for the Other 150th, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, then warmly thanked the many collaborators associated directly or indirectly with the operation. “We started off with a great idea, but with few resources. We knew that we could not compete with the colossal resources that would be invested by the federal government for the celebrations of the 150th of `` Confederation &#39;&#39; and that we could only count on a good dose of arm oil and a lot of goodwill. The Other 150 has nonetheless enjoyed undeniable success, which we owe to the rigor and dedication of a great many people, to whom I express my deepest gratitude. I would particularly like to thank the two co-directors of the book, Michel Sarra-Bournet and Gilles Laporte, who have spared no effort to ensure that this book comes into being and who have had the generosity, moreover, of waive any compensation for the benefit of the Lionel-Groulx Foundation, ”declared Stéphane Bergeron.
Expanding the reach of The Other 150th
Incidentally, Messrs Sarra-Bournet and Laporte then said a few words. &quot;We must salute the exceptional contribution of all these people to the success of the project and especially that of the people who took part in the events and capsules. Without these precious collaborations, we do not would never have been able to deliver a product with such high quality content as that which was unveiled throughout the year and which is now taking shape in these pages, ”stated Mr. Laporte. &quot;This project has not only made it possible to restore, with objectivity, the veracity of historical facts and events, but also and above all, I hope, to revive the historical and national awareness of Quebecers through our various platforms. in particular via Twitter, Facebook, Youtube or even the website, which will remain online after 2017. It will therefore still be possible to consult the capsules, ”continues Michel Sarra-Bournet.
Take a look at the past to understand the present and look to the future
“From the outset, I would like to underline the titanic work that has been done by this very small team. The results obtained so far are phenomenal, taking into account the scarce resources available for the implementation and deployment of this project. Despite all the challenges encountered, the committee was able to stay the course and show great rigor in the delivery of these 150 facts and events, all revealed by staying glued to the facts, sometimes in a humorous tone, but always with the aim to better discover, know and appreciate our national history. Now that the 150 has come to an end, let us ask ourselves this fundamental question in relation to our collective future: do we really want to sign another 150-year lease with Canada? ”Concluded Jean-François Lisée.
