Quebec - The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Chaudière-Appalaches region, Ms. Agnès Maltais, today announced that the organization Résidence Le Tremplin received confirmation from the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ) that 16 community housing units were reserved for it to carry out a project submitted under the AccèsLogis Québec program.
This announcement is an important step for this organization, which is now invited to submit to the SHQ the documents necessary for the further analysis of its request for financial assistance.
“I am delighted that the Résidence Le Tremplin project is underway, because I know that it will help provide a better quality of life to many disabled people in Chaudière-Appalaches. The latter, who might have had to leave the region for lack of housing adapted to their needs, will thus be offered an affordable, quality and safe living environment, in the environment that is dear to them. Thus, these new community housing units will help counter the devitalization of the sector and promote the dynamism of the community, ”said Minister Agnès Maltais.
The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Sylvain Gaudreault, added his voice to that of his colleague to specify that &quot;the investments of the Government of Quebec for creating affordable housing is part of a vast plan based on social solidarity and which aims to ensure that every Quebecer has access to decent living conditions and can play an active role in society ”. He added that it was &quot;important to continue interventions in housing, since they represent an excellent way to fight poverty and promote greater equality between citizens&quot;.
Since the implementation of the AccèsLogis Québec and Affordable Housing Québec programs of the SHQ, 1,780 community housing units have been built or are in the process of being built in the Chaudière-Appalaches region, which represents investments totaling nearly 187 M $.
Remember that in its most recent budget, the Government of Quebec announced an envelope of $ 231 million for the construction of 3,000 housing units.
The SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Each year, thanks to its programs and its many partners, it helps more than 230,000 Quebec households. For more information on its programs and services, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca.
