Quebec - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, is sorry for the partisan attitude of the members of the Liberal Party of Quebec and the Coalition futur Quebec, who have chosen once again to campaign in favor of &#39;&#39; a drastic 20% increase in hydroelectricity tariffs. In fact, the two opposition parties voted against replacing this increase with indexation of tariffs, a fairer solution for Quebeckers.
Recall that Raymond Bachand had announced, in March 2010, a 20% increase in the tariffs of the heritage pool of electricity. The Coalition d&#39;avenir Québec took up this idea during the last election campaign.
In last November&#39;s budget, Minister Marceau replaced this increase by indexing the rates of the heritage pool, which preserves the purchasing power of families. We are talking about an average saving of $ 288 per family.
“By opposing Bill 25, the Liberal and Caquist MPs voted against the abolition of the unjust and inequitable rate hike initiated by the former Liberal government. Our approach is more balanced. It will make it possible to prevent a drastic increase in tariffs from the pockets of Quebecers while reducing the debt, ”said the Minister.
Moreover, by refusing to make legislative changes to allow Hydro-Québec to quickly proceed with the allocation of the additional 800 MW of wind power announced, the opposition parties are slapping the populations of the Gaspé and the Bas-Saint-Laurent.
“The opposition is acting contrary to the interests of the regions and particularly of the Gaspésie - Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, in addition to threatening the Gaspé wind industry. Did the leader of the Quebec Liberal Party, Philippe Couillard, listen to the economic stakeholders in the Gaspé during his visit last week? The question may arise, since the first gesture of his political party was to block the measures necessary for the allocation of part of the additional 800 MW granted by the Marois government. The continued development of the wind industry will generate $ 2 billion in investments and 2,000 jobs. Let us recall that the previous government dragged its feet for several years before announcing in disaster, a few days before the call of the elections of 2012, its intention to grant the 700 MW orphans which were claimed by the industry and the communities. », Expressed indignation the Minister for the Regions, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre.
“The regions are demanding these measures, but the opposition parties choose to block these advances. Ironically, the Liberal Party of Quebec and the Coalition Avenir Québec are creating uncertainty in these regions by preventing us from implementing the development of an additional 800 MW of wind power, ”concluded Mr. Marceau.
