Montreal - The MNA for Gouin and official opposition critic for transport, Nicolas Girard, suspects the Minister of Transport of Quebec, Sam Hamad, and his federal counterpart, Denis Lebel, of being in cahoots and of wanting to knowingly concealing relevant and essential information on the state of the Champlain Bridge by refusing to make inspection reports public, on the pretext that this would &quot;insecure&quot; citizens.
“Sam Hamad recently said that Quebeckers would not understand the Mercier Bridge inspection reports; yesterday, it was federal Minister Denis Lebel&#39;s turn to give us the same answer for the Champlain Bridge. Both show paternalism and arrogance. They insult the intelligence of Quebecers, ”said Nicolas Girard.
The member for Gouin pointed out that last June in the National Assembly, the Liberal member for La Pinière, Fatima Houda-Pepin, also called for the publication of inspection reports. &quot;Why did Sam Hamad choose to play hiding with Denis Lebel rather than be transparent and support his colleague MP who also wants to put an end to all possible speculation on the state of Champlain Bridge by making the studies public? Asks Mr. Girard.
The Parti Québécois would like to point out that the Government of Quebec assumed 40% of the cost of the feasibility studies and that, for the sake of transparency and accountability, the Minister of Transport must make them public. “The lack of accountability at the Quebec Ministry of Transport was also a severe criticism of the Johnson commission in 2007. Although it is a federal structure, the Champlain Bridge is used overwhelmingly by Quebeckers. Minister Hamad should reread the Johnson report and set the record straight, ”added MP Girard.
“Currently, it is the attitude of the two transport ministers that creates this unhealthy insecurity. What must be feared is that Minister Hamad is playing the political game of the federal government, which is still procrastinating for the construction of a new bridge in Montreal. Sam Hamad&#39;s role is not to be Denis Lebel&#39;s spokesperson, but to be the spokesperson for Quebeckers who are calling for a new bridge, ”concluded the member for Gouin.
