Quebec - “The studies published by the Office québécois de la langue française (OQLF) on the language of commerce and business confirm it once again, Bill 101 is not being respected. The liberal regime may well appeal to its friend Luc Ouellet with thousands of dollars to try to swallow the pill and make the figures say what they do not say in terms of signage and the language of commerce, French is on the decline, English is advancing and institutional bilingualism is firmly established. &quot;
This was declared today by the member for Drummond and official opposition spokesperson for language, Yves-François Blanchet, after having read the conclusions of the five studies unveiled today by the OQLF.
These studies show that in 2012, 18% of businesses do not display a business name that complies with the provisions of the Charter of the French language in downtown Montreal. We also learned that among the companies that derogate from the law, 63% of them display trademarks without generic or slogan in French only. In 2010, 89% of downtown Montreal businesses greeted their customers in French. This proportion slipped, two years later, to 74%. In short, for the language of display on the entire island of Montreal, 28% of businesses violate the law.
“Nearly one in five businesses does not comply with the current provisions of the charter in terms of signage. It is enormous. Likewise, it is particularly worrying to note that bilingual reception is progressing massively to the detriment of French and that in one in twenty businesses, we are unable to address customers in French. The extent of this decline in just two years leaves you speechless, ”continued Yves-François Blanchet.
This further decline in the language of reception and of service has a direct impact on the language of work, noted the member for Drummond. “This therefore means that in these businesses, the working language is not French. This means that employees are knowingly required to be fluent in English. This encouragement anglicizes Montreal because it is the personal preference of the boss. We don&#39;t need studies to understand that! Continued the member for Drummond, who wonders about the OQLF&#39;s decision to delay the publication of studies on language of work until the fall.
For the Parti Québécois, these studies show that nothing has been done or nothing has been successful to correct the situation. &quot;Minister Christine St-Pierre does not have the will or the permission of her leader to enforce Bill 101. The Liberal regime is spending more time, effort and money to cover up a disturbing situation than to resolve this that the OQLF confirms and that we all knew. It took five years to admit lip service to a decline in French in Quebec and in Montreal in particular. We were entitled to an advertising campaign and bonuses in subsidies to companies that have not deigned to respect our language for years, ”denounced Yves-François Blanchet.
“We could order and wait for reports for years to come, put our money in there rather than on the ground and hire the Prime Minister&#39;s friends to make their complicit inaction seem as little as possible. Ultimately, it will cost us our language, ”he added.
For the Parti Québécois, the need to rewrite the Charter of the French language no longer needs to be demonstrated. “It is imperative that we first ensure that the charter is respected. It is a minimum, but the liberal regime is unable to do so for political reasons. In addition, to help make the language of commerce more French, it must be extended to businesses with 11 to 49 employees. Moreover, the French future of Montreal necessarily depends on effective policies for the integration and francization of immigrants, which is not currently the case, recalled the spokesperson. We must give all Quebecers a taste for a French Quebec, but to get there, we must start by showing our determination and respecting ourselves, ”concluded Yves-François Blanchet.
