Quebec, September 21, 2017 - The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois pour les Seniors, Harold LeBel, the Quebec Association for the Defense of the Rights of Retired and Pre-Retired Persons (AQDR), the Quebec Association of Retirees of the Sectors public and parapublic (AQRP), the Association of Retirees and Retirees of Education and Other Public Services of Quebec (AREQ), the FADOQ Network as well as the Interprofessional Regroupement of Retired Health Services Stakeholders (RIIRS) are delighted to the mobilization that the petition for the holding of general statements on the living conditions of the elderly will have aroused. The government will have no choice but to respond to the 15,000 signatories.
IN SHORT
“The government needs to realize the importance of an aging population. We have to think about what will happen in 10, 15 or 20 years, and prepare the ground. However, online consultations or other forums at the hotel are insufficient, because they involve very few people. Again this summer, we heard about cases of abuse, substandard residences, isolation, seniors separated for administrative reasons, and so on. All this has led thousands of Quebecers to demand the holding of the States General, ”declared Harold LeBel.
“Living and aging with dignity depends first and foremost on a decent income. But nearly one in five seniors live in poverty. Health, housing, transport, social participation of seniors, in particular, are affected. Ultimately, society as a whole pays the price. The holding of general statements would provide us with a global vision of the various issues. We could thus find concrete and concerted solutions that would ensure a better quality of life for Quebec seniors ”, underlined the president of the AQDR, Judith Gagnon.
“The aging of the population is not a problem in itself, but the government must adopt a comprehensive game plan to meet the many challenges associated with it. If he continues to deal with each case piecemeal, we will run out of resources. We need a real global policy on aging, ”added President of the FADOQ Network, Maurice Dupont.
“The results of the 2016 census show a 2.5% increase in Quebec in the number of people aged 65 and over considered to be in low income. This is worrying, and this is exactly the kind of questions that the Estates General would address, ”for his part illustrated Donald Tremblay, president of the AQRP.
“The government should give more consideration to the living conditions of seniors. In terms of their well-being, they face major obstacles; let us think, among other things, of home care, which is often inaccessible or insufficient in certain regions of Quebec. Let us overcome these obstacles for today&#39;s seniors, and we will ensure a better future for all Quebecers, ”added AREQ President Lise Lapointe.
“A broad consultation must be initiated quickly in order to develop a comprehensive policy on home care and services. We want to promote the maintenance of seniors at home, but it must be done with respect and provide sufficient resources, ”concluded Andrée Lamontagne, President of the RIIRS.
