Québec - The member for Marie-Victorin and official opposition critic for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, strongly denounced the fact that the state-owned Hydro-Québec, owned by the whole des Québécois, imposes a ridiculously high interest rate on customers who are struggling to make ends meet.
“We recently reported on several questionable practices at Hydro-Québec: investments of $ 1 billion for a transmission line whose need has not been demonstrated, installation of smart meters on houses due to be demolished, $ 67 million in relief costs billed, while the operation, in principle, no longer exists ... Meanwhile, the Crown corporation imposes an annual interest rate of 14.4% on Quebec families who are struggling to pay their electricity bill - some 300,000 of them have signed a reimbursement agreement with Hydro-Québec. Does the minister find this situation normal? Does he think this interest rate is reasonable? », Asked the deputy this morning to the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, Pierre Arcand. He was also not moved by the situation, preferring to create a diversion rather than take it in hand. Is the Liberal Party so obsessed with its fear of the new leader of the official opposition that it is unable to defend Quebec taxpayers?
In addition, in her report tabled this morning in the National Assembly, the Auditor General severely criticizes Hydro-Québec for having sold a new turbine worth some $ 80 million for only $ 75,000. She speaks of a “not very rigorous” evaluation of the equipment and questions the ardor with which the crown corporation sought potential buyers.
“Obviously, Hydro-Québec has homework to do; with one hand, it liquidates the assets of Quebecers and, with the other, it imposes an outrageous interest rate on them. Hydro-Québec customers are therefore captives, since it is a state monopoly, and it is all the more ironic that they are also its owners. The minister must commit to putting an end to this indecent practice, ”demanded Bernard Drainville.
