Quebec, February 3, 2017 - After 10 months of struggle, Parti Québécois agriculture and food spokesperson André Villeneuve welcomes the news that the Liberal government will finally cancel its unacceptable reform of the Program agricultural property tax credit (PCTFA). “As early as April 2016, during the study of the budget appropriations, I warned the then minister, Pierre Paradis, that the changes he wanted to make to the PCTFA would force Quebec farmers to take out several thousand additional dollars from their pockets. After having called the farmers liars for months, the government has finally decided to back down, ”he said.
For months, the Union des producteurs agricoles (UPA), the Quebec Federation of Municipalities (FQM), the Quebec Federation of Snowmobile Clubs and the Parti Québécois have been asking the government to reverse the reform of the PCTFA. “It took the mobilization of farmers and municipalities, in addition to demonstrations, questions to the National Assembly, several independent reports, a mandate given to tax expert Luc Godbout, the threat of a blockade of trails. snowmobile and, finally, a change of minister so that the government finally sees the light. During those 10 months, the Liberal Party left thousands of farmers in limbo. Why did you wait for there to be real negative impacts on the tourist season before taking action? », Asked the spokesperson.
The UPA had calculated that farmers would suffer an average increase in their taxes of up to 40%. The firm Raymond Chabot Grant Thornton had confirmed these calculations, and another independent study by the firm Forest Lavoie had arrived at the same conclusion. Yet Minister Paradis chose not to believe the farmers; last December, he gave the mandate to Luc Godbout to verify their statements. “Liberal intransigence, in addition to causing a lot of uncertainty, will have cost an audit contract that will have turned out to be useless. While the Liberal Party is asking Quebeckers to tighten their belts, it is spending public funds because a minister refuses to admit that he was wrong, ”continued the MP.
However, it should be noted that despite this retreat by the Liberals, agricultural property taxation remains problematic, in particular because of the meteoric rise in the value of land over the past two decades. “The problem of agricultural property taxation remains relevant, and the government should not sweep the issue under the carpet. It is still imperative to create a working table where the government, municipalities and farmers can determine how to review the method of taxing agricultural land, ”concluded André Villeneuve.
