Quebec - “The recent studies by the Lionel-Groulx Foundation on the place of history in college and in university education, as well as the study on history courses in high school, are of great concern to us. The teaching of our national history is declining within our educational establishments, it is very worrying. We cannot stand idly by. The Parti Québécois asks the government to hold a parliamentary commission to study the teaching of history in our schools as well as its place in the training of teachers ”, indicated the Member of Parliament for Taillon and spokesperson for the official opposition in matters of higher education, Marie Malavoy, the member for Jonquière and spokesperson for primary and secondary education, Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the member for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques and vice-president of the Committee on Culture and Education, Martin Lemay.
“The researchers&#39; observation is alarming, the teachers who pass on our national history to high school students lack knowledge. These same students arrive at college where history lessons are on the way out. I do not understand why the Minister of Education is not at all concerned about this issue. Future generations will not have enough knowledge of our national, political and institutional history, that is unacceptable, ”denounced Marie Malavoy.
For his part, the member for Jonquière also deplores the new tangent in the teaching of history at the secondary level. “We must restore a perspective of the evolution of national history. There are a number of facts and a number of texts which must be known and studied. It is imperative to ensure that our students have the opportunity to do so at school, ”added Sylvain Gaudreault.
&quot;How to understand that a French-speaking nation could not only subsist, but develop in North America? Only the study of national history can explain this phenomenon. It is high time that it regains its letters of nobility. This is why we will ask the commission to take up this mandate and we sincerely hope that it will be accepted, ”concluded Martin Lemay.
