Quebec— In order to establish a balanced and environmentally friendly approach to English language teaching, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, announced today that the government is raising the bar. requirement for all francophone primary schools in Quebec to offer intensive English as a second language instruction in the 6th grade by 2015-2016.
“Our government is firm on the objective, but flexible on the means. Through this flexibility, we want to ensure that each school will be able to set up projects that respect its characteristics, ”declared Minister Malavoy.
At the end of secondary school, students should be able to make themselves understood easily by an English-speaking interlocutor by expressing themselves with ease and of understanding him without difficulty.
Intensive teaching of English as a second language is recognized as an effective means of achieving this objective, but other means adapted to each school environment may also be retained.
Improving fluency in English, a second language, must become a project supported by each school team. In this regard, the role of the governing board, which brings together parents, members of the teaching staff and the school administration, will be decisive. &quot;This flexible approach aims to ensure that parents and teachers actively participate in the reflection and development of school projects,&quot; said Minister Malavoy.
School boards and private educational institutions can count on the accompaniment and support of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. This will provide guides to support the work of teachers and teachers of English as a second language. It will also suggest directions for students in difficulty, allophone students and those who already master English.
Finally, the Minister mandates the National School of Public Administration (ENAP) to:
It is on the basis of a first report expected in the fall of 2013 that the Department will establish the procedure for the coming years concerning the teaching of English as a second language.
“In closing, I reaffirm that it is necessary to strengthen the teaching of French. In this regard, the Ministry is preparing measures likely to better support student learning in reading and writing. Schools will be informed of our actions over the coming months, ”Minister Malavoy concluded.
