Quebec - The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Chaudière-Appalaches and Capitale-Nationale regions, Ms. Agnès Maltais, announced on behalf of by the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 250,000 to XpertSea Solutions Inc., a company specializing in the field of marine optics.
Totaling $ 625,000, this assistance aims to optimize the XperCount counting device, which allows the enumeration and characterization of aquatic microorganisms. The modifications made to the device will be a significant improvement of the current product, in particular by modifying the software for processing the data which is collected by the optical sensor system.
&quot;Through its ability to innovate and its expertise in the marine optics sector, XpertSea Solutions contributes to the reputation of excellence of the Applied Technologies niche in the Capitale-Nationale region,&quot; said Agnès Maltais. “We are particularly proud of the completion of this structuring project which allows our region to shine as a hub of innovation and technological development. &quot;
&quot;It is essential, for our government, to support start-up companies that have strong potential, such as XpertSea Solutions, so that they can grow,&quot; added Élaine Zakaïb. “Thanks to this financial support, the company will ensure its competitiveness and strengthen its position of excellence in a booming applied technology industry. &quot;
Founded in 2009, XpertSea Solutions inc. develops, manufactures and markets optical systems for the counting and characterization of aquatic microorganisms, in particular larvae of shrimps, molluscs and fish as well as microalgae and live food.
&quot;Our company has given itself the mission of developing and adapting technological concepts in order to optimize management and operating performance in the aquaculture industry,&quot; said the president of the company XpertSea Solutions. inc., Ms. Valérie Robitaille. “The support of the Government of Quebec is therefore invaluable in helping to achieve our objectives, in particular that of solving the problems of counting and characterizing small aquatic organisms. &quot;
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
