Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, today announced the participation of the Government of Quebec in the Cycle Capital III Fund, for an amount of $ 50 million . This fund&#39;s mission is to invest in clean technology companies.
“The government has set itself the objective of financing businesses in the clean technology sector and thus promoting the establishment of a green economy in Quebec. This is a growing sector in which we will be able to develop expertise that will be increasingly sought after. The Cycle Capital III Fund is a tool that will allow us to participate in the development of promising businesses, which will contribute to our economic prosperity, ”declared the Premier.
Managed by Cycle Capital Management, an investment platform that brings together investment professionals, strategic advisors and experts in sustainable development and green technologies, the Cycle Capital III Fund will invest in clean technology companies at the development stage. . It will target in particular the niches of energy efficiency, smart infrastructure, renewable energies, value-added recycling, green transport, green chemistry, green agriculture, industrial energy and recovery systems. of waste.
In addition to the amount paid by the Government of Quebec, Hydro-Quebec will contribute to the fund for an amount of $ 20 million. Private partners, notably Teralys Capital, Fondaction CSN, Aluminerie Alouette, Cascades and Gaz Métro, will also participate in its capitalization. In total, the fund will have an envelope of $ 108 million.
Minister Marceau noted the importance of venture capital for a young sector such as clean technologies. “The clean technology sector is a sector of the future. However, it must be able to rely on sufficient and available risk capital to ensure its development. This is why the Quebec government is adopting innovative public policies in this area that promote the involvement of private investors in businesses, ”he stressed.
The Premier recalled that Quebec&#39;s industrial policy, which will be tabled over the next few months, will rely in particular on the strength of several sectors in which Quebec excels, including the green technology sector. This policy will provide a budget of $ 200 million which will be used, among other things, to support the development of green technologies and the electrification of transport.
