Thetford Mines - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, has confirmed the allocation of financial assistance of $ 57,200 to the company LDetek for the development of a prototype device for measuring gases. The project is valued at nearly $ 143,000.
Founded in 2009, LDetek designs, manufactures and markets systems and equipment used for the analysis of gases by the chromatography process, a method of chemical analysis of the components of a mixture. The device prototype envisaged will make it possible, thanks to a new analysis method, to measure the presence of several types of gas at different degrees of concentration.
“LDetek is a high-performance technological company that operates in a cutting-edge field,” declared Élaine Zakaïb. “His expertise contributes to the reputation of the city of Thetford Mines as a place of high knowledge, and his project promotes the economic diversification of the MRC des Appalaches. Our government is there to support talented entrepreneurs and their promising initiatives for the regional economy. &quot;
Currently, LDetek offers its products to various clienteles, particularly from the industrial sector, the health sector and the electronics field. Its head office is located in Thetford Mines and the company has sales offices in France and China. It also has several partners, who distribute its products throughout the world, particularly in the United States and in several countries in Europe and Asia.
&quot;We are working to design new devices that will meet the needs of our current customers, in addition to allowing us to reach new markets,&quot; said Louis Paradis, President of LDetek. “Research and development are at the heart of our activities and the support of the Government of Quebec will help us to diversify our products and promote our growth. &quot;
Minister Zakaïb was in Thetford Mines today to meet elected officials and to draw up a positive assessment of the Interministerial Table of the MRC des Appalaches, as well as to present three new priorities for action. The Table was set up with a view to proposing innovative and promising solutions to the social and economic consequences resulting from the cessation of mining activities in the region.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
