Sherbrooke– The Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Seniors, Minister responsible for the Estrie region and Member of Parliament for the riding of Saint-François, Dr. Réjean Hébert, announced, on behalf of the Minister responsible for the Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the payment of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 135,700 to the company Studios GolemLabs, for the development of simulation software, and the performance of related experiments, which will be used for the training of nursing staff. This financial support comes from the Support Program for the Development of Strategic Sectors and Niches of Excellence.
&quot;This innovative initiative will promote the development of cutting-edge expertise in the training of nursing personnel,&quot; Minister Réjean Hébert underlined. “The Estrie region is already distinguished by the presence of many researchers, clinicians and practitioners recognized for their expertise in the field of care and services for the elderly. In addition to this great capacity for innovation, there is a network of companies of all sizes and international scope which, through their development and marketing activities, contribute to the socio-economic development of the region. &quot;
The software developed by Studios GolemLabs will reproduce an emergency room, its environment as well as its patients. Nursing staff will have to deal with different trauma scenarios in real time and perform the actions appropriate to each situation. The software will allow dozens of users to work in the same situation thanks to the interconnection of networks and can be used both at home and in the classroom. The project will be developed in close collaboration with researchers from the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, the Faculty of Education, the Faculty of Science and the Department of Computer Science of the University of Sherbrooke.
“The project developed by Studios GolemLabs clearly demonstrates the wealth that can be produced by a company that uses its creativity and expertise to innovate,” added Minister Delegate Élaine Zakaïb. “For our government, it is essential to support and encourage entrepreneurs who take action to innovate, diversify and enter new markets. To prosper, we must bring together the know-how of our entrepreneurs and the expertise of the research community. This project is a very good example of what this collaboration can give. &quot;
Founded in December 2000, GolemLabs Studios has marketed video games globally. Specializing in strategy games, the company subsequently diversified its activities by integrating the simulation games market, which is growing strongly. The current project is part of this new direction. &quot;The financial support from the Quebec government will allow us to develop the different scenarios that will be offered by the software according to the target groups,&quot; said Jean-René Couture, president of Studios GolemLabs. “When the design of this one is completely finished, we will be able to carry out the first tests with users. I am very proud of this project which, ultimately, will be an integral part of the training of health professionals. &quot;
Dr. Hébert also took advantage of his visit to Sherbrooke to report on the evolution of the ACCORD Biotech Santé niche of excellence. This was the subject of a repositioning, announced last January, in order to orient its actions more towards the fields of aging and the autonomy of the elderly. Dr. Hébert also introduced the two new co-chairs of the niche, namely MM. Carol Fillion, Director General of the Center de santé et de services sociaux - Institut universitaire de gériatrie de Sherbrooke (CSSS-IUGS), and Christian De Grâce, President of RideUp Mobility.
&quot;I would also like to underline the collaboration between the Pôle Allongement de la Vie Charles Foix, through Sol&#39;iage, and our niche of excellence in Estrie,&quot; added Minister Hébert. “In fact, since last March, more than forty players in the region have taken part in a cooperation exercise which allows them to discover the innovative initiatives of our French colleagues in, among others, the gray economy sector. &quot;
&quot;In consultation with these French experts and stakeholders in the field, we are currently building our action plan,&quot; explained Mr. Carol Fillion. “The objective is to arrive at a new offer of personalized services and technologies for greater autonomy for the elderly. &quot;
&quot;Our relationship opens up the field of possibilities, from the implementation of major international university projects to the acceleration of business opportunities for our respective companies,&quot; said Benjamin Zimmer, Manager, Development and Innovation, at Sol&#39;iage France.
