Richmond– The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced the allocation of non-refundable financial assistance of $ 100,000 to the manufacturing company Usinatech for the realization of an investment project of $ 988,600 which will create 20 jobs and consolidate 235 others.
Usinatech specializes in the manufacture and assembly of very high precision mechanical parts intended primarily for the recreational vehicle and automotive sector. The project aims to improve the technology used by the company in order to meet the needs of increasingly demanding customers.
&quot;The requirements are constantly increasing for manufacturing companies, which must constantly stay at the cutting edge of technology,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “This is all the more true for a company like Usinatech, where precision is played out in tiny proportions. The 2013-2017 Québec industrial policy, which we have just made public, is intended to be a major lever to support these manufacturing companies which must innovate and modernize to meet demand and stay in the race. By helping them to progress and to be more productive and competitive, all of Quebec will benefit from the spinoffs. Thanks to some twenty measures and investments of more than $ 1 billion over four years, we are indeed anticipating the creation of more than 25,000 jobs in the long term. &quot;
Usinatech is known for its complex, precise, high-quality parts produced in large volumes, such as gear and transmission parts. The project announced today aims to improve the finishing activities of very high precision parts by setting up a production unit specializing in the grinding of parts with tight tolerances. It also includes the construction of a new controlled atmosphere section to reduce the impact of temperature changes on the precision of the parts so ground.
&quot;The Usinatech company has experienced great development since its inception more than 25 years ago,&quot; said the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors and the Estrie region, Mr. Réjean. Hébert. “This is a strategic enterprise for the economic growth of the Eastern Townships, of which we are very proud. The project announced today will not only allow it to better meet the requirements of its main client, BRP, but also to consolidate its diversification into the automotive industry. The development of the regions, which necessarily involves the creation of sustainable jobs throughout Quebec, is a priority for our government. It is therefore with enthusiasm that we help Usinatech to grow, innovate and create quality jobs in Estrie. &quot;
“Our improvement project will allow us to meet the increasingly specific needs of our customers,” said Usinatech President Rudy Pelletier. “There are several aspects that need to be taken into account in manufacturing high precision parts relating to the appropriate measuring instruments, filtration of abrasive particles from coolants and temperature variation in the plant, among others. Part grinding is a very complex operation that requires the right equipment and the right operations in an ultra-clean environment. Government support will help us continue to grow and remain a leader in precision part machining. &quot;
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
