Shawinigan - On the occasion of her tour of several regions of Quebec, the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announces, along with the Member for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, the allocation of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 789,712 to Technologies Bionest in Shawinigan for a project valued at $ 2,106,716. This initiative consists of demonstrating the effectiveness of a new technology for treating municipal wastewater.
Bionest® technology increases the treatment capacity of aerated ponds to extend their life. The demonstration, which will take place over a period of three years, will be carried out on the site of the water treatment plant for the indigenous community of Wemotaci, located 250 km north of Shawinigan. This station has two aerated ponds, with a water content of 6,528 m3 and 4,352 m3 respectively.
“To promote sustainable economic growth, we must capitalize on the development of green technologies. Our government is also committed to positioning Quebec on a path of sustainable development that combines prosperity, social benefit and environmental protection, for current and future generations. In this regard, the Bionest Technologies project is part of our vision and we are very happy to support it, ”said Minister Delegate Élaine Zakaïb.
“By supporting the Bionest Technologies project, our government confirms the importance of supporting the development of Shawinigan by promoting the diversification of its economy. Since its inception, the company has been able to create several solutions allowing it to meet the needs of consumers and diversify its clientele. It is an ally in achieving our growth objectives for the region, ”said the MP for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel.
Founded in 1999, Bionest Technologies designs, manufactures and markets advanced treatment solutions for wastewater. The company, which currently employs 130 people, markets a large part of its products abroad, notably in France, the United States, the Middle East and Latin America. Over the years, Bionest Technologies has acquired a solid reputation by bringing water purification to a level considerably exceeding global standards.
“In addition to increasing the life of aerated ponds, our technology offers the advantage of requiring little infrastructure and respecting the existing footprint during its installation. This makes it a potentially more economical technology than competing technologies. The support of the Government of Quebec and the community of Wemotaci in carrying out our demonstration project will help us stand out in the wastewater treatment markets and demonstrate our expertise in this area, ”said the vice-president. Executive and Managing Director of Technologies Bionest, Mr. Pierre Saint-Laurent.
The project announced today will be carried out in collaboration with the following partners: the Council of the Atikamekw Nation of Wemotaci, which makes its facilities available to Technologies Bionest; Axor Experts-Conseils, for support, analysis of results and obtaining a technical sheet; and the National Center for Electrochemistry and Environmental Technologies (CNETE), for sampling.
The Minister Delegate undertook this tour of several regions of Quebec in order to present her orientations in terms of regional economic development, to explain the mandate of the Banque de développement économique du Québec and to outline the main lines of industrial policy and measures. aimed at increasing the productivity and competitiveness of Quebec businesses. She takes the opportunity to listen to what regional actors have to tell her about the strengths, challenges and needs of their own region in order to adjust the Bank&#39;s project accordingly.
