Quebec - “Every day, too many Quebeckers suffer from the effects of poverty and social exclusion. The gap between rich and poor is growing steadily. The decisions taken in recent years by the government, such as multiple increases in electricity rates or the $ 200 health tax, have nothing to improve the lot of the poor. Almost ten years after the adoption of the Act to combat poverty and social exclusion, it is time to take stock ”.
It is in these terms that the member for Saint-Jean and official opposition critic for employment, social solidarity and the fight against poverty, Dave Turcotte, called for the holding of a real commission. parliamentary so that the State can better fight against poverty and social exclusion. The Parti Québécois returns to the charge with this request, this time alongside the Collective for a Poverty-Free Quebec and with the support of several organizations that work daily with the most disadvantaged.
For the member for Saint-Jean, this parliamentary committee would make it possible to hear experts and also those who work every day with the most disadvantaged. “Today in the National Assembly, for four hours, we will hear the Advisory Committee for the Fight against Poverty and Social Exclusion and the Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity. This is good, but we have to go further. The gap is widening between the income of the richest and that of the poorest. Obviously, the distribution of wealth is not done correctly, ”added Dave Turcotte.
The gap between rich and poor is widening
According to the Center for the Study of Poverty and Exclusion, which is attached to the Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity, the latest available data (2009) show that the poorest quintile had an income of 14,800. $ while the richest had an income of $ 69,200. The richest quintile therefore had an income 4.7 times higher than that of the poorest. In 1990, the poorest quintile had an income of $ 12,200 and the richest had an income of $ 52,900. The gap was 4.3 times. So it is a sign that the situation is not improving.
The member for Saint-Jean recalled that the Parti Québécois is proposing several ideas to fight poverty and social exclusion, including the repatriation of employment insurance in Quebec and the exclusion from any fee-for-service pricing policy, such as “user fees” or any other form of regressive taxation in the health sector.
“The Liberal government does not measure the meaning of decisions on the most disadvantaged. It is time for him to take off his rose-colored glasses and see the reality: with the growing number of food banks, the number of people living in poverty is greater today than ten years ago, ”concluded Dave. Turcotte.
