Quebec - The members of the Priorité PME team of the official opposition, the deputies Alain Therrien (Sanguinet), Mireille Jean (Chicoutimi) and Martin Ouellet (René-Lévesque), took stock of three months of touring in the regions of Quebec on the subject of regulatory relief. The observation is clear: Our SMEs continue to face too heavy a bureaucratic and regulatory burden.
The Priorité PME team met entrepreneurs from all sectors, including manufacturing, retail and services. During a tour that took him to Germany, Great Britain and Spain, the leader of the official opposition, for his part, visited several companies with the aim of drawing inspiration from best European practices in the field of support for SMEs and innovation.
IN SHORT
“Over the past three months, we have traveled nearly 7,000 kilometers to meet the leaders of 237 SMEs and associations working with them located in 41 municipalities. Today we are unveiling a list of the 10 government departments and agencies most often singled out by these entrepreneurs when it comes to bureaucratic difficulties. Across all regions and all sectors of activity, Revenu Québec wins the prize! “, Said, at the outset, Alain Therrien.
“There is a lot to do to make life easier for our entrepreneurs. In the course of our encounters, we have heard horror stories: incredibly long delays in obtaining routine clearances or even just talking to an official; a maze of aid programs in which entrepreneurs are often lost; government departments and agencies that do not talk to each other; administrative costs which are literally as high for an SME as the amount of the subsidy it seeks to obtain, and so on! Based on these testimonials, we will write and publish a report that will reflect the main findings that we make, but which will also contain concrete solutions to make life easier for our job creators, ”added Mireille Jean.
“Our SMEs have also told us how difficult it can be for them to access government calls for tenders, as well as the disadvantages faced by businesses established in remote regions compared to those located in large centers. They also denounced the fact that innovation budgets were reserved for large companies. A government that has economic nationalism and regional economic development at heart should tackle these unacceptable and inconsistent barriers without further delay, ”concluded Martin Ouellet.
