Québec, March 12, 2021 - Sylvain Gaudreault, MP for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of the environment and the fight against climate change, MP for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and spokesperson for of transport and maritime strategy, Joël Arseneau, as well as the MNA for Joliette and spokesperson for Quebec-Canada relations, Véronique Hivon, join their voices to those of citizen groups and elected municipal officials who are calling for the holding of a study by the Office of Public Hearings on the Environment (BAPE) on the Laurentia project, an intermodal container terminal in deep water that the Port of Quebec and its partners wish to develop.
IN SHORT
- The BAPE must look into the Laurentia project to answer the legitimate questions of elected officials and the population of Quebec - In this file, as in all the others, Quebec should be the only level of government to decide on the projects that can be carried out on our territory.- This is an opportunity that the CAQ cannot let slip: obtain concrete results, beyond rhetoric.
“Laurentia is a large-scale project, the impacts of which, if realized, will be felt for decades. However, more and more voices are being raised; One wonders, in particular, about the effects on air quality, on the presence of fine particles, as well as on the foreseeable increase in heavy traffic in the sector. Because it is the only one able to provide satisfactory answers to the legitimate concerns of the population and elected officials of Quebec, the BAPE must examine the project in all its aspects, and this, before its realization ”, claimed Joël Arseneau, who specifies that in its current form, Laurentia does not meet the minimum criteria for social acceptability.
Sylvain Gaudreault refuses that Ottawa force the population of Lower Town of Quebec to accept this megaproject. “The Port of Quebec is under federal authority; against all logic and in a completely aberrant way, Quebec laws do not apply! In our view, from an environmental point of view, in particular, Quebec must be the only one to decide what happens on its territory; so either we demand the retrocession of the Port of Quebec, or we adopt without delay our Bill 391, which affirms the primacy of Quebec&#39;s jurisdiction in environmental matters, ”he recalled.
Véronique Hivon, for her part, underlines the request expressed by the Premier of Quebec, François Legault, to the federal party leaders during the last federal election campaign: that Quebec be able to conduct environmental assessments alone on Quebec territory, including for federal projects. “With the Laurentia project, the Caquista government has a great opportunity to put into practice its federalism, which would have a supposed autonomist component, by submitting the project to hearings by the BAPE. This is a concrete result that the CAQ is committed to obtaining. The government must join us and support the demand of the citizens and elected municipal officials of Quebec, ”concluded the Member for Joliette.
– 30 –
SOURCE :
Laura Chouinard-Thuly
Press Officer
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois
514 880-9594
Laura.Chouinard-Thuly@assnat.qc.ca
