by Sylvain Gaudreault, Scott McKay and Martine Ouellet
The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment and Parks (MDDEP), Pierre Arcand, last week made public the list of members and the mandate of the committee that will be responsible for carrying out the strategic environmental assessment (SEA) on shale gas. The imbalance in the composition of the committee and the lack of consultation in the SEA process demand a change of course on the part of the Liberal government.
In fact, out of the eleven people chosen, none represents an environmental group or a citizen group, while the gas industry has two representatives registered as lobbyists for Junex and Talisman Energy. Even among academics, links with industry appear worrying.
Under current conditions, the gas industry will lead the SEA. Rather, we would like the members of this committee to be chosen on the basis of their independence of mind. For us, the ability to analyze and criticize all aspects of this delicate issue should be paramount, whether they are scientific, social, environmental, political or technical.
The reality is quite different: the gas companies will be judges and parts of a committee responsible for examining their own practices! This really defies all logic since the gas companies will have privileged access to influence the work and decisions of the committee both in terms of the authorization of fracturing and the content and monitoring of studies. Will their representatives really be able to question &quot;the socioeconomic relevance of the exploitation of gas resources&quot; when this is one of the fundamental aspects of the mandate entrusted to this committee? We strongly doubt it ...
After the devastating report of the Commissioner for Sustainable Development on shale gas, which concludes that the Liberal government had failed in the management of this file, the population expected the establishment of an impartial and transparent process on the part of from the Liberal government. Minister Arcand has once again failed and we are now faced with a mock SEA that is flawed at its very base.
The Parti Québécois had proposed, several months ago, that the ESA be led by the Office of Public Hearings on the Environment (BAPE) which, through its independence and its expertise, would really reassure Quebecers. Québécois on the impartiality of the evaluation process which will begin in the coming weeks. Remember that the BAPE has already carried out similar evaluations in the past, particularly during generic hearings on water and the pork industry.
Although we still believe that this would be the best solution, the minimum would be that environmental groups and citizens&#39; committees involved in the file could be members of the committee. Gas companies and private companies are currently over-represented. However, the BAPE should be given the mandate for public review of the report before the MDDEP analyzes the proposals and the government takes decisions.
On the other hand, we strongly question the relevance of carrying out other hydraulic fracturing during the SEA. While France has just banned this process, some recent events remind us that hydraulic fracturing is not without risk: leakage from two wells in Montérégie; major explosion of a well in Pennsylvania with significant impacts for water; the study from Duke University in North Carolina which confirms the presence of methane in groundwater tables for homes near a shale gas well.
In order to avoid any risk, the Parti Québécois asks that there be no more hydraulic fracturing of new wells for the duration of the SEA. In our opinion, the information gathered here with the 18 already fractured wells is quite sufficient to meet our scientific needs on this subject. If the Liberal government continues to authorize further fracking anyway, this will only be further proof that it prefers to serve the commercial interests of gas companies rather than the public interest.
It therefore appears to us that three modifications to the current process are necessary. First, change the composition of the committee so that the gas companies are no longer leading the way. Then, failing to entrust the ESA to the BAPE, it must at least be given a mandate to consult on the report. Finally, stop hydraulic fracturing because the wells drilled to date are already problematic enough. This change of course is essential to establish a minimum of public confidence. It is not too late to raise the bar!
The authors of this text are members of the Parti Québécois
Sylvain Gaudreault, Member of Parliament for Jonquière and Official Opposition Critic for Energy
Scott McKay, Member of Parliament for L&#39;Assomption and Official Opposition Critic for Mines
Martine Ouellet, Member of Parliament for Vachon and Official Opposition critic for the environment, sustainable development, parks and water
This text was published among others in Le Soleil on May 28, 2011.
