Quebec - The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, enthusiastically welcomes the confirmation of the holding in Quebec, next September, of the second presentation of BÉNÉFIQ, on “International meeting on health ingredients”. This world-class event will welcome many players from the broad sector of nutrition and functional foods.
&quot;This meeting is an excellent opportunity for our biofood companies to learn about new technologies and existing ingredients, to forge research partnerships and to enrich their business network in the food sector at health value. I would like to congratulate the Institute on Nutrition and Functional Foods at Laval University, which initiated this meeting and which orchestrates it brilliantly, ”said the Minister.
BÉNÉFIQ is intended for all members of industries and establishments that manufacture or use healthy ingredients. In addition to the numerous conferences, participants will be able to visit a trade exhibition highlighting a multitude of new products and services as well as innovative technologies. Personalized business meetings with the partners present will also be offered.
“Providing Quebecers with more foods with improved nutritional value or which have health value is one of the objectives of our Food Sovereignty Policy, and I know that our partners in the biofood sector share this concern. In this context, it is important to be on the lookout for the latest trends and innovations in this field and I hope that many of our companies will participate in BÉNÉFIQ ”, concluded François Gendron.
With investments of $ 2.3 billion and annual food demand of nearly $ 34 billion generating 475,000 jobs, the biofood industry is a driving force behind the Quebec economy.
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, we invite you to regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or to visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and of Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
