Quebec - In light of statistics showing the increase in the number of young people under 25 receiving social assistance, the member for Rimouski and official opposition critic for the fight against poverty and solidarity and social economy, Harold LeBel, as well as the member for Saint-Jean and critic for employment, vocational training, literacy and youth, Dave Turcotte, call on the Liberal government to act firmly and without delay to stimulate job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
“The number of young people receiving social assistance has increased by 14.4% in the past year. The nefarious liberal effect obviously spares no one; we are now seeing it among young people, who are often the first to lose their jobs when the labor market is bad. The significant increase in the poverty rate among young people is not an isolated phenomenon. It is the direct consequence of liberal actions, which directly attack the most vulnerable and the most deprived of our society. While the National Strategy for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion expired in 2013, this government has no vision or concrete measure to propose in terms of social solidarity. Moreover, I am very afraid that his future reform of social assistance will be just another attack on our young people, ”declared Harold LeBel.
The Liberals, champions of job losses
“The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, François Blais, highlighted the cause of these setbacks: the poor state of the labor market and employment. In fact, 35,900 full-time jobs have been lost since the Liberals came to power. Quebec has the worst job creation record in Canada, and the government is doing nothing to remedy this unfortunate situation. He is waiting. This Liberal inaction hurts families and young people. The government must find how to stimulate job creation. If he is looking for ideas, we invite him to resume our Priority Jobs economic policy, ”added Dave Turcotte.
The deputy also stresses that the reform of the youth employment centers (CJE) means that thousands of young people find themselves without services and without support. “In several regions, CJE budgets are cut by 10%. How does the government think it can prevent other young people from ending up on social assistance, when it is cutting significant resources to support them? », He concluded.
