Toronto - Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, provided an update on the meeting of provincial and territorial finance ministers held today in Toronto. “The purpose of this meeting was to discuss priority topics for future discussions with the federal government, including unilateral changes to federal programs, the retirement income system and fiscal imbalance. I took the opportunity to recall Quebec&#39;s positions on these various issues, ”the Minister indicated.
The main mandates on which the finance ministers work are:
Regarding the production of a detailed inventory of unilateral federal changes to programs affecting the provinces, the Minister argued that the ceilings imposed on the equalization program and the Canada health transfer, the end of the credit d The tax relating to labor-sponsored funds, the establishment of the Canada Job Grant as well as the reduction and misappropriation of part of the funds intended for the Canada-Quebec Agreement relating to the labor market have major impacts for Quebec.
“Several decisions of the federal government have significant consequences on our public finances, particularly with regard to the equalization program and the Canada health transfer. The abolition of the labor-sponsored funds tax credit harms taxpayer savings and threatens access to venture capital for businesses. Finally, I would like to remind you that we are asking to withdraw from the Canada Job Grant program with full financial compensation and that the labor market agreement be renewed according to the current terms, ”declared the Minister.
With regard to improving the retirement income system, Mr. Marceau reiterated that Quebec is in favor of a responsible, gradual and fully funded enhancement of the Quebec Pension Plan and the CPP. Ministers agreed to strike a balance between long-term benefits for future retirees and short- and medium-term impacts on workers, businesses and the economy. “Quebec will continue its collaboration with other governments in order to assess the possible avenues. Any improvement to the Quebec Pension Plan will have to take into account the evolution of the economic situation and the results of the next actuarial valuations of the plan, ”the Minister reminded us.
Regarding the impacts relating to the increase in the age of eligibility from 65 to 67 for the SRG and the PSV, the Minister told his counterparts that his government is continuing its analytical work in order to obtain fair compensation. from the federal government. &quot;It is obvious that this change will have a significant impact not only for many Quebecers, but also on our public finances, which will be subject to additional pressures resulting from the savings made by the federal government,&quot; he declared.
“As for updating the state of the fiscal imbalance, it is time to analyze the situation, in the context where the federal government will be racking up significant budget surpluses in the years to come, mainly due to unilateral changes it makes in its programs. We must avoid going back to the time when the federal government balanced its finances on the backs of the provinces. This is moreover the commitment made by Prime Minister Harper, ”concluded Mr. Marceau.
