Quebec— The Minister of Public Security, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, announces that all detention facilities in Quebec will become completely non-smoking in the coming months.
The implementation of the complete ban on smoking will take place gradually in all detention facilities in Quebec, and will begin in June 2013 in the facilities in Sept-Îles and Percé. In spring 2014, all detention facilities under the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Security will be non-smoking.
To facilitate the transition, awareness workshops, support from nurses and a smoking cessation support program will be offered.
It is on the initiative of prison staff that such a measure is put in place. It should be remembered that a partial smoking ban, allowing inmates to smoke outside the walls of detention facilities, was decreed by the previous government and proved difficult to manage by correctional staff, since inmates remain in possession of their cigarettes, even when they are inside the establishment. As a result, the presence of second-hand smoke in several detention facilities has been observed, despite the ban on smoking inside the buildings.
Concerned about the health of incarcerated non-smokers and employees, the Union des officers de la paix en services correctionnels du Québec pleaded in favor of the return of the implementation of a total ban on smoking in all establishments. detention, both inside and outside.
A pilot project was implemented at the Chicoutimi Detention Center last June. It aimed to assess the effectiveness of the total smoking ban in resolving the problem of second-hand smoke, as well as to determine the winning conditions for such an implementation process. &quot;Following a positive analysis of the results of the pilot project, I asked the ministry to progressively move forward in all detention facilities in Quebec,&quot; said Minister Bergeron.
This decision was welcomed by the Minister of Health, Mr. Réjean Hébert: &quot;The complete ban on smoking in detention facilities will protect the health of prisoners as well as that of the staff who work there, while supporting those who are who want to stop smoking ”.
