Quebec - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, announces an investment of $ 3M to allow graduate students to carry out internships research in the practice setting. These credits will allow the Fonds de recherche du Québec (FRQ) - Nature et technologies to offer 600 additional internships, as part of the Acceleration Québec-FRQ-MITACS program, implemented in partnership with the organization mandated by the federal government, the Mathematics of Information Technology and Complex System (MITACS).
“In a world where science and innovation are everywhere, scientific careers are increasingly required to be built outside the traditional framework of universities. Field experience is gradually becoming an important part of the training. In-depth knowledge of industrial and institutional environments has therefore become essential. This is why my department is working with the Quebec Research Funds to fully integrate field practice into higher education training, ”said Minister Duchesne.
The National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI), unveiled on October 16, is one of the four major strategic initiatives around which the Government of Quebec&#39;s Priority Employment economic policy is based. In terms of research and innovation, the PNRI represents an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion with a budget base that will extend over five years.
“The new National Research and Innovation Policy is focused on strengthening scientific culture. This government policy presents new ways of stimulating the next generation of Quebecers in science and technology and gives greater importance than ever to synergy between research, industry and innovative businesses. Training the next generations of researchers and innovators is a top priority for our government, ”added Minister Duchesne.
The Fonds de recherche du Québec- Nature et technologies and MITACS offer short-term paid internships in the practice environment to graduate students and postdoctoral fellows.
The Acceleration Québec-FRQ-MITACS program connects companies and organizations with universities. Trainees can thus translate their theoretical knowledge into a real situation and companies benefit from high-quality research expertise.
“Practice-based research internships are very beneficial to graduate students and postdoctoral fellows. They genuinely meet a need for highly qualified labor. Given the great success of this initiative in the natural sciences and engineering, the Funds extend it to all research fields and offer it to all deserving students and postdoctoral fellows who wish to carry out an internship in a practical environment. », Explains Mr. Rémi Quirion, Chief Scientist of Quebec.
Concretely, these internships are open to all disciplines and a student can benefit from more than one internship. Eligibility extends to international students and permanent residents.
Several of the major economic sectors where Quebec stands out internationally are looking for personnel with high-level training. According to Emploi-Québec, the aeronautics, hydroelectricity, information technology, communication and biopharmaceutical sectors will experience significant employment growth by 2021.
The $ 3M investment from the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology will allow the granting of 600 additional research internships in a practical environment in 2013-2014. For each Acceleration Quebec-FRQ-MITACS internship, Quebec invests $ 5,000, MITACS contributes an amount varying from $ 5,000 to $ 7,500, and the partner invests $ 7,500.
The research funds are important players in the Quebec research and innovation system. Their mandate is to ensure the strategic and coherent development of research, to financially support research and the training of researchers, to promote the mobilization of knowledge and to establish the partnerships necessary for the achievement of their mission. Together, they help create a true knowledge society, recognized for the excellence of its researchers and the quality of its research achievements.
The PNRI confirms the government&#39;s support for the three Quebec research funds, namely the Nature and Technology Fund, the Health Fund and the Society and Culture Fund. Thus, the Policy renews the budgets devoted to merit scholarships, thematic scholarships, training scholarships and career scholarships administered by the Funds. The budgetary base of the Funds will be increased by 25% from 2014-2015. Over five years, more than $ 1 billion will be allocated to them, an increase of $ 142 million for the reference period, compared to 2012-2013.
Collaboration remains the central theme of the PNRI. It reiterates the importance of bringing together the driving forces of research and innovation in order to meet the societal challenges that are at our doorstep in terms of demography, environment and identity.
