Québec– Diane Lamarre, the member for Taillon and official opposition spokesperson for health and access to care, participates in the Second National Meeting on the Future of the Public Health and Social Services System. Organized by the INM, the AQESSS and the CSN, this day focuses on finding concrete solutions to improve our health system and follows the one in June, which focused more on its problems.
“All the players in the network are gathered today in Quebec. Only one is absent: the Minister of Health. He misses a real meeting with those he should consider as his partners, preferring to lead alone, against all odds, a reform of structures which, by his own admission, will in no way improve access to care. This does not mean that the will of the network&#39;s players is shaken and I salute their unwavering commitment, despite the little consideration the Minister gives to their approach. Parliamentary work has also shown that the Minister has a very hospitable vision and that he does not know the entire network, which must meet both health and social services needs through curative treatment, but also through prevention, ”said Diane Lamarre.
To succeed in change, we must establish bonds of trust, listen, then take action by introducing a real culture of evaluation of acts and systems, in order to ensure tangible results for every Quebecer. However, the minister is missing all of these steps.
“It was important for me to participate in this day of exchanges and discussions, and to note the commitment of the actors and partners of the network as well as their openness to do things differently. The absence of Minister Barrette illustrates, once again, his lack of listening, his claim to know everything and remains disappointing for all those who met today. The Parti Québécois, for its part, intends to continue its work to remind the Liberal government that beyond structures, the health system is made up of humans, who work with other humans on a daily basis. What is needed are priorities focused on the first line and home support, it is to focus on interdisciplinarity and a high-performance information system. Really, the minister, by his absence, made another bad choice, ”concluded Diane Lamarre.
