Carleton-sur-Mer - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces the taking of an ordinance to ensure the immediate security and decontamination of the site belonging to The company Reliance Power Equipment Ltée (Reliance). The deadlines provided for in this ordinance are intended to ensure that no other deadline will compromise the securing of the sector.
“Up to now, the Ministry has used all the means at its disposal to ensure that the company complies with the law, but without satisfactory results. It&#39;s time to take the next step. Indeed, there is no question that the safety of citizens is further compromised by the stubbornness of a company not to comply with environmental standards in force. We are therefore taking very restrictive means today in order to force and if necessary carry out the operations which will make it possible to secure the site and ensure its decontamination, ”declared Minister Blanchet.
On August 13, the company received a notice prior to the order. The Law imposes a minimum period of 15 days to allow the company time to present its observations. This deadline expired on August 28 at midnight. The Minister therefore appealed to the powers conferred on him by section 70.1 of the Environment Quality Act (EQA) in order to issue an order against Reliance. The company has 24 hours to confirm its intention to comply with the entire order. In the event of no response, unsatisfactory response or negative response from Reliance, the MDDEFP will immediately take charge of the necessary operations to secure the premises and decontaminate the site.
Recall that the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP) has confirmed the presence of residual hazardous materials contaminated by polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) on land belonging to the firm Reliance following a oil and oily water spill on March 26, 2013. The MDDEFP closely followed up the situation with Reliance, through six visits, three notices of non-compliance, two letters, remainder and notice prior to an order. Despite everything, the company did not provide an action plan deemed satisfactory in view of the gravity of the situation.
If the company undertakes beyond any doubt to comply with all of the ordinance, it must among other things submit a preliminary action plan no later than Tuesday, September 3, aimed at freeing the site of all stored PCBs. &quot;The recent actions of the directors of the company are not reassuring. The law imposes a minimum delay, but good judgment requires a more convincing commitment than what I expect&quot;, admitted the minister.
The action plan expected from the company should at least provide for measures ensuring the permanent and complete security of the site; the implementation of safe and compliant storage techniques; followed by a process for moving PCBs to a safe and listed site, a plan for the elimination of residual hazardous materials present on the site as well as soil characterization and decontamination. The Ministry would provide day-to-day supervision of site activities to ensure the company complies with the terms of the order. As soon as a breach is noted, the Ministry may choose to take the actions instead and at the expense of the company.
As soon as the Ministry takes action on the site, all appropriate remedies can be implemented to recover the costs incurred, including, where applicable, the registration of a legal hypothec on the existing buildings.
Given the clandestine and illegal nature of the activities of the Reliance company, namely the storage of residual hazardous materials contaminated by biphenylspolychlorinated (PCBs), an investigation was opened to the MDDEFP with the firm intention of sending a file to the Director of Prosecutions. criminal and penal, who could decide to initiate criminal proceedings.
Given the strong media coverage of the location of the illegal site, Minister Blanchet yesterday asked the Service de police de la Ville de Montréal (SPVM) to ensure without delay a permanent police presence on the scene, both as long as the situation requires. Since the unveiling of the existence of this place, security teams hired by the Ministry also ensure a presence on the site 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Since Wednesday evening, this surveillance has been ensured by police officers from the SPVM.
