Saint-André-d&#39;Argenteuil - During a regional tour in the Laurentians, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Maka Kotto, announced financial assistance of $ 100,000 for the renewal of the permanent exhibition at the Argenteuil Regional Museum. This exhibition entitled Argenteuil, my life as rivers will highlight the historical development of Argenteuil through its territorial development along the banks of the Ottawa River. Minister Maka Kotto made the announcement with the deputy for Argenteuil, Mr. Roland Richer.
“Holding this exhibition will breathe new life into the Argenteuil Regional Museum and consolidate its roots in the region&#39;s cultural environment. This exhibition is of both historical, cultural and tourist interest. Its didactic nature constitutes an additional attraction for increasing the number of visitors to the museum by school groups, young families and cultural tourists ”, declared Minister Kotto.
The deputy of Argenteuil, Mr. Roland Richer, is delighted with the impact that this new exhibition will have on his territory. “Developing cultural tourism means continuing to develop the region&#39;s brand image with a view to attracting tourists and providing them with good reasons to extend their stay. I would like to pay tribute to the Historical Society of the County of Argenteuil for its crucial role in the founding of this museum as well as to the new board of directors of the Argenteuil Regional Museum which has given new impetus to this essential institution. for the region, ”added MP Richer.
This exhibition will cover a period of approximately five hundred years and will illustrate how rivers have shaped the development of the Argenteuil region, from the first explorations in the territory of New France to the use of rivers as transit routes by coureurs des bois, from the development of shipping lanes to the establishment of settlements.
The costs related to the renewal of the exhibition are estimated at $ 160,300. The financial assistance of $ 100,000 granted by the Ministry of Culture and Communications was allocated within the framework of the call for projects to support permanent exhibitions, linked to component 4 of the Quebec Cultural Heritage Fund.
The Argenteuil Regional Museum is the only regional history museum in the Laurentians. Its mission is to promote and appreciate the history of the Argenteuil region and the Laurentian valley of the Ottawa River. It manages, conserves and distributes a collection of more than 10,000 artefacts that bear witness to the history of Argenteuil.
As part of his tour in the Laurentians region, Minister Kotto also went to the Musée d&#39;art contemporain des Laurentides, in Saint-Jérôme, for a courtesy visit with the MNA for Labelle and chairman of the government caucus. , Mr. Sylvain Pagé. Minister Kotto will join the members of the parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois and the deputies for the presessional caucus, on January 31 and February 1, in Estérel, in the Saint-Sauveur valley.
