Quebec - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is pleased to announce the payment of a contribution of $ 75,000 aimed at supporting the achievement once again this year. of the Science Pavilion. The activity, both fun and scientific, is held as part of Expo Québec, which will take place from August 16 to 25, at the Expo Cité site in Québec.
“The Government of Quebec is proud to be associated with this initiative aimed at promoting science and technology in a family, festive and fun setting. It is a unique opportunity to stimulate the interest of young people and the general population in these fields. The development of a strong scientific and technological culture is an important issue for the development of Quebec as a knowledge society. A few weeks before the unveiling of the National Research and Innovation Policy, I am thus affirming the importance of investing in projects that will foster a taste for science among the next generation, ”declared the Minister. Duchesne.
The Science Pavilion is a partnership initiative in which the organization La Boîte à science receives one-third of the funding for the development of content and the coordination of the event. For its part, Expo Cité receives assistance as an official organizer.
Under the theme When science makes its circus, the Science Pavilion, which is in its 13th edition, will offer this year a host of fun and educational activities related to the circus arts. From the centrifugal force of the diabolo to the anatomy of the contortionists, including the effects of adrenaline on the fildeferists and the mathematics of the hula hoop, the public will have the opportunity to discover that the sciences are behind each circus discipline. .
Among the activities offered, participants will have the opportunity to walk on a wire, follow the course of the strong men or explore the chemistry of the fire eater. A thirty-minute science show will also be presented three times a day by circus artists in partnership with the École de Cirque de Québec and the troupeFlip FabriQue.
“The theme of this year&#39;s Science Pavilion is a fine example of Quebec creativity and entrepreneurship, since local organizations and businesses have fully developed the concept. I therefore invite all Quebecers to come and admire the know-how of our circus artists and to discover the sciences through their prowess, ”concluded Minister Duchesne.
Financial assistance from the Department is granted through the Partnership Initiative component of the NovaScience program, which aims in particular to promote greater understanding and better appropriation of science and technology by the population by supporting organizations and projects. working in these niches of activity.
The program also aims to strengthen the culture of innovation and entrepreneurship, as well as to promote careers in science and technology in order to ensure the development and availability of a qualified succession in these fields.
