Quebec - The member for Terrebonne and official opposition spokesperson for families, Mathieu Traversy, notes that the Liberals are breaking the promise made to Quebec families concerning the indexation of childcare services.
“We discover that there is one truth before and another after the elections. The Liberal government is proving to us that its promises lasted three months, that is to say until the next budget, ”said Mathieu Traversy.
In fact, the Liberal Party made a commitment, last March 18, during an election campaign, to cancel the increase in childcare fees and to index them &quot;as of 2015&quot;. However, the Minister of Families, Francine Charbonneau, confirmed today that the indexation of rates would be for the next budget only.
“The masks are falling. While advocating the virtues of transparent government, the Prime Minister is reneging on the commitment he made to parents in Quebec. The Liberal Party improvises in the management of the network of child care services. The government entrusts decision-making to commissions and shadow committees, instead of assuming its responsibilities and clearly stating what its intentions are, ”added Mathieu Traversy.
Remember that the Parti Québécois government was transparent with Quebec families, announcing a gradual increase in fares and making available the 28,000 places to complete the network. This solution, which he had put forward to ensure the development and sustainability of the network, was a consensus among the population and representatives of the community.
“In two weeks, this government has succeeded in sowing anxiety among families and in ganging up the childcare network against its proposals. Uncertainty still hangs over the development of places after this year. These places are eagerly awaited, not only by parents, but also by childcare centers and subsidized daycare centers. Will the minister stand up for families and ensure that they do not pay for the austerity advocated by her government? », Concluded the spokesperson for the official opposition.
