Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and responsible for the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec region, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, is pleased to announce , on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that a subsidy of $ 81,400 is granted to the MRC des Chenaux for the maintenance of a service of public transport in its territory.
This subsidy is paid within the framework of the government assistance program for regional public transport intended for the development of public transport.
“Our government encourages and supports the development of public transit, which makes it possible to optimize the use of the road network while increasing the fluidity of travel, reducing the level of congestion and reducing pollution attributable to the consumption of hydrocarbons. . Today&#39;s announcement will allow the Center-du-Québec region to increase the use of public transit compared to other modes of passenger transportation, in both urban and rural areas. In doing so, it contributes to Québec&#39;s accession to its ambitious goal of reducing greenhouse gases, ”declared Minister Blanchet.
Today&#39;s announcement will allow the MRC des Chenaux to directly participate in the implementation of sustainable development because of the benefits arising from the use of public transit and its accessibility.
&quot;By participating in the financing of public transit, we are investing in sustainable development and the mobility of people, a social, environmental and economic issue that is at the heart of our government&#39;s mission,&quot; added Mr. Blanchet.
Public transit is one of the cornerstones of the next Québec Sustainable Mobility Policy. Currently being developed, this policy will take over from the Québec Public Transport Policy. The new policy, which will be adopted by the end of fall 2013, will place the user at the heart of his concerns and guide the actions that will be undertaken by 2020 with a view to improving the public transport service offer. throughout Quebec. The preparatory documents as well as some of the briefs filed during the consultation can be viewed on the website of the Ministère des Transports at www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca.
The parameters of this program can be viewed on the website of the Ministère des Transports at www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca.
