Financial assistance from the Government of Quebec of more than $ 1.7 million
Sherbrooke– The Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Seniors, Minister responsible for the Estrie region and Member of Parliament for Saint-François, Doctor Réjean Hébert, is proud to participate in the inauguration of the new facilities of the Sercovie organization in Sherbrooke, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault. He takes this opportunity to recall that Sercovie received government assistance of $ 1,741,393 from the Quebec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM) for the realization of its project.
“I am very happy to participate today in the inauguration of Sercovie&#39;s new facilities, which bring together and house several organizations working with seniors under one roof. Thanks to these improvements, Sercovie can now offer more services and activities for people aged 50 and over in Sherbrooke and the surrounding area. Also, by offering its services to a greater number of seniors, the organization contributes to their maintenance at home as long as possible. Increasing services for seniors means improving their quality of life, contributing to their development in their environment, in the community, ”said Minister Réjean Hébert.
Let us recall that the project aimed at the renovation and adaptation of the Sercovie building as well as the construction of a four-storey extension. The building concerned is an old church built in 1884 and located near downtown Sherbrooke. Upgrading and improvements were made to the existing part to make it more functional, safer and better suited to customers. Other interventions have also made it possible to increase the capacity of the cafeteria to 120 places and the annual production of the kitchen to 200,000 meals, in addition to developing around twenty office spaces for the tenant partners. An upgrade of the six existing rooms and the addition of five multifunctional rooms complete the entire project.
Note that Sercovie is a community non-profit organization that has existed for 40 years. Its mission is to ensure the quality of life of seniors in the City of Sherbrooke and the surrounding area and has more than 1,500 members who organize and participate in more than fifty activities. Almost 3,000 citizens benefit from the services of Sercovie each year, which forecasts an increase in attendance of around 50% over the next few years.
Completion of this project required an investment of $ 3,482,786, assumed equally by the Government of Quebec and Sercovie, under component 2.1 of the PIQM. Each person&#39;s contribution is $ 1,741,393, in accordance with the requirements of this project. Sercovie&#39;s participation comes in particular from the City of Sherbrooke and other local and regional partners.
The Government of Quebec&#39;s contribution to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
