Quebec - The Parti Québécois wants to allow the Auditor General of Quebec to have full and free access to Hydro-Quebec.
&quot;The history of smart meters stored in dubious premises, the proliferation of contracts without a call for tenders for the use of helicopters, the award of a $ 300 million contract without a call for tenders which we refuse to unveil the details, these are disturbing new facts which are piling up with many others and which would justify that the Auditor General of Quebec can finally have full and free access to Hydro-Quebec ”, declared the member for Marie-Victorin and official opposition critic for energy, Bernard Drainville.
In March 2011, through the member for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, the Parti Québécois tabled Bill 197, An Act to amend the Auditor General Act in order to allow the comprehensive audit of Hydro-Québec. This orientation was taken by the leader of the official opposition, Pauline Marois, in December 2010 by unveiling several measures to restore citizens&#39; confidence in their institutions. This orientation is also included in the new Parti Québécois program adopted at the last convention.
The bill stipulates that it would no longer be necessary for Hydro-Québec&#39;s board of directors to give its consent for the Auditor General to audit the books and accounts of the Crown corporation. &quot;This necessary consent means that the Auditor General has never been able to set foot at Hydro-Québec,&quot; said the member for Marie-Victorin.
“The chronic lack of transparency at Hydro-Québec has forced the President of the National Assembly to threaten the leaders of the crown corporation with contempt of Parliament. This is very serious. The Liberal government must face the facts that the public wants Hydro-Québec to be an efficient and transparent company. The Auditor General of Quebec can play a crucial role, ”continued Mr. Drainville.
A motion will therefore be debated in the National Assembly on Wednesday, September 28, from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. At the end of this debate, the deputies will have to vote. &quot;We invite the Liberal deputation to speak out and to trust the Auditor General of Quebec,&quot; concluded Bernard Drainville.
The wording of the motion is as follows:
