Québec - The Minister for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Matane-Matapédia, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, a grant of $ 691,496 to Club les Amoureux de la Motoneige Inc0. of the Bas-Saint-Laurent region for the realization of trail infrastructure projects.
This grant, stemming from Component I of the Financial Assistance Program for Trail Infrastructure and Wildlife Protection, will allow the club to build a multifunctional footbridge over the Matane River. This infrastructure, with a span of 107 m, will have a driveway of 3.6 m and a load-bearing capacity of 8,000 kg, allowing the movement of quads, snowmobiles and the groomer ensuring the maintenance of the trails. What&#39;s more, the location of the footbridge will help ensure a more harmonious coexistence between ORV enthusiasts and the neighborhood, while promoting the sustainability of the trails.
“Such subsidies are critical to the sustainability of the off-road vehicle industry. With this assistance program, we thus wish to promote the permanence of the trails while limiting the inconveniences associated with the practice of this leisure activity, and this, in a context that is always more secure for enthusiasts ”, underlined Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
“The practice of snowmobiling is an important economic and tourist lever for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region. It is therefore essential to set up quality trail infrastructures, with the greatest respect for residents and wildlife habitats. I am delighted that the club can move forward with such a promising project for our region, ”added Minister Delegate Pascal Bérubé.
For the 2012-2013 fiscal year, Component I of the Financial Assistance Program for Trail Infrastructure and Wildlife Protection will fund 38 off-road vehicle infrastructure projects for a total of nearly $ 4 million.
