Chambord - It is in the historic village of Val-Jalbert that the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, and the president of Tourisme Saguenay? Lac-Saint-Jean, Mr. Éric Larouche, along with the MP for Roberval, Mr. Denis Trottier, announced the renewal of the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement (EPRT) aimed at promoting the development of the tourism offer. By 2015, an amount of $ 1.5 million will be invested to achieve this objective.
Under the terms of the agreement, Tourisme Québec and Tourisme Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean will each inject an amount of $ 750,000 until 2015. Ultimately, the leverage effect of this fund is likely to generate valued investments. to $ 15 million.
“I am delighted by the renewal of this agreement, since it demonstrates our common desire to improve the region&#39;s tourist offer. Saguenay? Lac-Saint-Jean is distinguished by a wide range of attractions and products such as gourmet tourism, cycle tourism, adventure tourism and winter tourism combined with unique resort sites. With nearly 1,200 businesses linked to regional tourism activity, I am convinced that they will be able to innovate more and make the region more competitive on the tourism scene in Quebec, ”said Minister Bérubé.
“The tourism industry represents an essential economic development engine for the region. I would also like to underline the remarkable work of entrepreneurs who have been able to develop structuring projects, promoting the maintenance and creation of several jobs. The successes achieved so far have become a source of great pride for our region. I am thinking, in particular, of the historic village of Val-Jalbert, of course, the Moulin des Pionniers project, the St-Félicien Zoo sauvage and many others, ”added MP Trottier.
According to the president of Tourisme Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, Éric Larouche, “the renewal of the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement is very good news for our industry. It will enable us to effectively achieve the objectives of the Québec Tourism Industry Development Plan, will serve to stimulate innovation in our tourism businesses and consolidate our ties with Tourisme Québec. I am satisfied with the progress made, as the results of the last agreement prove. And today&#39;s announcement will, I hope, make it possible to further raise the quality of the tourist offer in our region ”.
A first call for projects has been announced and interested tourism stakeholders have until January 17, 2014 to submit their request. For more information and to submit a request, you can contact Tourisme Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean.
To date, the 2008-2012 agreement has made it possible to support 43 tourism projects for total investments of nearly $ 2.3 million. The partners&#39; investment had a leverage effect of more than ten times the total investments, or more than $ 27.7 million. The signatory partners of the 2008-2012 Agreement are Tourisme Québec, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, the Ministry of Culture and Communications, the Regional Conference of Elected Saguenay-Lac-Saint -Jean, Tourisme Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, Promotion Saguenay, the regional county municipalities of Fjord-du-Saguenay and Lac-Saint-Jean Est, as well as the local development centers of Lac-Saint-Jean-Est , Maria-Chapdelaine and Domaine-du-Roy.
It should be remembered that the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement aims to concentrate investments in the tourism industry according to regional priorities and to strengthen the synergy of all regional partners.
