Quebec - The Ministère du Développement durable, de l&#39;Environnement, de la Faune et des Parcs confirms the presence of residual hazardous materials contaminated by polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) on land owned by Les equipments de power Reliance Ltée (Reliance) in Pointe-Claire. Ministry experts have been following this file rigorously since March 26, 2013, when a spill of 800 to 1,200 liters of oil and oily water with a high concentration of PCBs occurred on the company&#39;s site. . It should be remembered that Reliance does not hold the authorizations provided for by the Regulation respecting hazardous materials to store such materials in its facilities. Had it not been for the March 26 spill, the existence of such clandestine and illegal practices would have remained unknown.
Department officials have carried out several on-site inspections in recent months. These verifications, as well as the opinion obtained from the Public Health Department, made it possible to confirm the presence of hazardous materials liable to cause harm to human health or damage to the environment. The Ministry has communicated with the company on numerous occasions since April 2013 to demand the elimination of hazardous materials present on the site and the securing of the premises. Various notices of non-compliance were sent to Reliance which, in return, submitted action plans which were deemed insufficient given the seriousness of the situation. The Ministry reiterated its requests in a formal notice sent in July 2013.
As of August 13, a pre-order notice was served on Reliance. This notice provides that the offender secures the premises, that he proceeds to the elimination of the characterized materials, from the most contaminated to the least contaminated, that he finalizes the characterization and the inventory of the materials present on the site and that he proceeds available to soil contaminated by the March 26, 2013 spill. Reliance to provide comments no later than August 28. The preliminary opinion can be consulted on the website of the MDDEFP and presents in detail all the interventions of the ministry with the offending company.
At the request of Minister Yves-François Blanchet, an intervention was made this morning to the City of Pointe-Claire so that it ensures an increased police presence on the scene of illegal storage. In addition, the Department has mandated a security firm to monitor the premises.
In recent months, the Ministry has repeatedly demanded that the premises be secured by the company. Some corrections have been made but, to date, these remain insufficient for the Department. Faced with the strong media coverage of the existence of the place where hazardous materials are illegally stored, immediate security measures were imposed.
The Department ensures that all measures are currently taken to quickly correct the situation and to ensure the health and safety of the population. Depending on the progress of the case, other actions could be announced soon.
