Montreal - On the occasion of the activities surrounding the 50th anniversary of the Cinémathèque québécoise, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announced the allocation of financial assistance of $ 3,705,500 to the Cinémathèque québécoise for the modernization of its equipment and installations.
“The Cinémathèque fulfills an important mandate of researching, archiving and safeguarding a precious, unique and highly diversified cinematographic heritage. With this financial assistance, this place will have new instruments and equipment that will enable it to meet the challenges of the 21st century. Its positioning as a national and international cultural center of reference will be preserved in a sustainable way ”, declared Minister Kotto.
The aid will be used to finance development works and to proceed to a technological upgrade of the equipment allowing it to fully achieve its mission of conservation and dissemination of national and international film and television heritage. In the digital context, the Cinémathèque must modernize its equipment and practices. This real youth cure will ensure the protection and enhancement of an important part of Quebec&#39;s film and television heritage, in addition to making Quebec&#39;s cultural content accessible to the public.
Minister Kotto also announced the allocation of a $ 100,000 grant to support the Cinémathèque in developing a new business plan. In fact, a committee made up of representatives of the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications and the Cinémathèque québécoise is currently working to find solutions to the financial issues facing the organization, as well as to review certain elements of governance and management. adequacy with the means at its disposal.
The Department&#39;s contribution is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan, made public in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 2 billion for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make informed choices.
