Montreal - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, and the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, participated today in the inauguration of the School of Public Health of the University of Montreal (ESPUM).
“The University of Montreal has been participating in the training of public health professionals and in the development of knowledge in this area for over 60 years. With more than 225 professors and researchers, 630 master&#39;s and doctoral students, as well as many major partners in the field of public health, the School of Public Health of the University of Montreal has everything in hand to ensure its success. establish itself as a true center of excellence in this field, ”declared Minister Pierre Duchesne.
Founded in June 2013, ESPUM offers numerous educational programs accredited by North American organizations such as the Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Management Education (CAHME) and the Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH). It should also be noted that it brings together the International Health Unit (ICU), which contributes to the development of the health of populations in developing countries, and the Institute for Public Health Research of the University of Montreal (IRSPUM) .
The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, participated today in the inauguration of the School of Public Health of the University of Montreal (ESPUM). // (c) Joël Bouchard
“The University of Montreal&#39;s School of Public Health is not only the largest concentration of researchers and experts in public health in Canada, it is also the largest French-speaking pole of excellence in public health in the world. It is therefore a great source of pride for Montrealers and for all Quebecers to see such a school created here, ”added Minister Lisée.
“This School of Public Health, the first in Quebec, will certainly make a remarkable contribution to the advancement of knowledge in a key sector of the health sector. Today&#39;s inauguration testifies to our common desire to improve the health of populations, to better manage health risks, to improve the health care system and to reduce social inequalities ”, stated the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert.
Minister Duchesne took the opportunity to announce that the Government of Quebec is providing financial assistance of $ 1.865 million to allow the completion of a feasibility study for the construction of a building specific to the ESPUM.
Once this study is completed, the Government of Quebec and the University of Montreal plan to erect the 18,000 square meter building on the southern section of the Voyageur block. This is a strategic location that will maximize interaction with the Center hospitalier de l&#39;Université de Montréal, the Department of Public Health and the National Institute of Public Health.
“For our researchers to continue to stand out internationally, we must increase knowledge sharing in order to create a synergy conducive to excelling and innovation. The construction of a building to house the ESPUM is directly linked to this vision of collaboration set out in the National Research and Innovation Policy that I recently unveiled. By physically bringing together researchers and students, this project fosters collaboration and excellence, ”said Minister Duchesne.
&quot;This is a historic moment for the University of Montreal and I thank the Government of Quebec for joining it,&quot; concluded the Rector of the University of Montreal, Dr. Guy Breton. The public health sector is booming and our researchers are making a powerful contribution to it while training the next generation of Quebec and the entire Francophonie. The creation of a faculty dedicated specifically to public health will breathe new life into this area of expertise for the benefit of all Quebecers. &quot;
