Quebec - In order to meet the needs of disaster victims affected by the rail accident that occurred on July 6 in the city of Lac-Mégantic, and in the wake of the government action plan announced yesterday by the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, the Minister of Public Security, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, presents the specific financial assistance program for individuals, businesses and municipalities that were victims of this disaster. This $ 25M assistance is available immediately.
“The citizens of Lac-Mégantic are devastated and all of Quebec is in shock. We are wholeheartedly with the relatives of the victims. Few words can ease the pain of losing a parent, sister, brother, friend or loved one. In a tightly knit municipality like Lac-Mégantic, this tragedy is all the more disarming, ”said Minister Bergeron.
Faced with the scale of this tragedy, the Government of Quebec acted promptly by setting up, in a very exceptional way, a specific financial assistance program that will support the victims and the efforts of all stakeholders working to restore the situation. This assistance will represent one less concern for the victims of this disaster.
The specific financial assistance program is broken down as follows:
As of Monday July 15, an information office will be open to support citizens in their efforts to obtain government financial assistance. Staff from nine partner departments and agencies will be present. Contact details and opening hours will be confirmed shortly. Until then, evacuated families will be able to obtain checks for $ 1,000 at the Polyvalente Montignac located at 3409, rue de Laval, in Lac-Mégantic.
Minister Bergeron takes the opportunity to reiterate his gratitude to the emergency responders who quickly mobilized to offer their support to the hard-hit citizens of Lac-Mégantic. “From the first hours following the tragedy, these men and women worked tirelessly to lend a hand to the disaster-stricken community, according to their respective fields of competence. I would like to underline their remarkable work and their dedication, in difficult circumstances, ”concluded Minister Bergeron.
Details of the specific financial assistance program can be found at www.securitepublique.gouv.qc.ca.
