Quebec - On the occasion of the 20th edition of the Magog-Orford Harvest Festival, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, announced that a sum of two million dollars will be devoted to the renewal of the Support Program for the Terroir Alcohol Sector (PASAT) and to the continuation of the “Terroir Alcohols: À la tienne, Québec!” campaign. For the year 2013-2014.
“I am delighted with the renewal of PASAT and the continuation of the campaign. The support given to local alcohol producers and the promotion of the specific features of their products contribute to the implementation of our Food Sovereignty Policy. I am the ally of the entire local alcohol sector. We have products of exceptional quality and we can be proud of them, ”said Minister François Gendron.
Insisting on the importance of the local alcohol sector for the development of the regions of Quebec, particularly with regard to agrotourism, the Minister took the opportunity to stress that it is through the PASAT that the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food has granted a sum of $ 25,000 for the realization of the Magog-Orford Harvest Festival.
The PASAT aims to accompany and financially support companies, business groups or associations in the realization of projects whose objectives are to improve the quality of processes and products, to promote and position local alcohols on the market. the internal market or to improve knowledge in this sector.
“The eligible projects may have as their object, for example, the development of a collective quality control and management system or the organization of large-scale promotional activities. I invite Quebec producers to submit their project now, ”the Minister concluded.
Businesses wishing to take advantage of the support program can submit a request by contacting the advisor from the Ministry in their region or consult the Internetwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/pasat page.
The third phase of the “Terroir Alcohols: À la tienne Québec!” Campaign »Aims to make consumers aware of the variety of local Quebec alcohols and to encourage them to purchase it from 225 regional producers.
To discover the local alcohols, you can consult the website alcoholsduterroir.com. In particular, interactive maps are made available to the public to help them plan a visit to the producers.
To learn more about the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can consult the blog (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or the Internetwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA) website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and of Food. You can also follow the Department&#39;s activities on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
