Gatineau - After a detailed analysis of the report of the task force on pre-hospital emergency services in the Outaouais, the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, announced today that he acted on its recommendations. He was accompanied for the occasion by the Minister of Public Security and Minister responsible for the Outaouais region, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, as well as by the chair of the working group on pre-hospital emergency services in the Outaouais, Dr. Jean Lapointe .
The analysis of the situation of prehospital services in the region made it possible to identify the strengths and weaknesses of the organization of services in the territory. Ambulance coverage is adequate but would require some adjustments. The reports of the Coopérative des paramédics de l&#39;Outaouais (CPO) and the Center de communication santé de l&#39;Outaouais (CCSO) with their main partners, including the Center de santé et des services sociaux de Gatineau (CSSSG), now present a interesting dynamic, focused on the quality of care and the needs of patients. The professionalism and commitment of all the players in the field was underlined.
However, several areas for improvement have been identified on which all the partners will have to work over the coming months for better service delivery. Among these few observations, let us mention:
“In light of the report submitted to me, I am announcing that the 168 hours per week of additional ambulance service granted to the region last December will be maintained for the next six months, while measures to optimize and efficiency measures are put in place. The working group will carry out a second evaluation in order to determine whether all of these hours must be maintained and the best way to distribute them, ”announced Minister Hébert. Indeed, the Coopérative des paramédics de l&#39;Outaouais will be asked to reach, by September 1, 2013, the intra-hospital delay target (time spent by ambulance technicians in the establishments) determined by the national emergency department. .
“I am also announcing the granting of a replacement ambulance vehicle to the Coopérative des paramédics de l&#39;Outaouais (CPO). This back-up vehicle, known in the field of pre-hospital emergency services under the name &quot;mule&quot;, will allow the CPO to cover shift changes, &quot;continued the Minister.
Among other measures to ensure a better distribution of resources in the territory, the CPO will be asked to review the plan for the deployment of ambulance resources as well as their distribution. This new plan will have to be approved by the ministry.
&quot;I am also announcing that the particular organizational model of the region, based on the coexistence of the Outaouais Health Communication Center (CCSO) and the Outaouais Paramedics Cooperative (CPO) will be maintained, but that several readjustments will be carried out with a view to achieving efficiency gains, ”said Minister Hébert.
Indeed, certain corrections will be made in order to clarify and optimize the governance of the two organizations, their financial management and non-interference in the principles of allocation of ambulance resources. The Minister will also appoint an observer to the CCSO&#39;s board of directors until March 31, 2014, as well as an assistant to the Outaouais health and social services agency to ensure the monitoring of all recommendations of the working group to the bodies concerned.
&quot;Excellent bonds of trust and collaboration exist between the partners of the pre-hospital emergency services and public security, in particular the City of Gatineau, the 9-1-1 service of the MRC des Collines-de-l&#39;Outaouais. and the Sûreté du Québec. The solutions put forward today will help ensure quality services that will meet the needs of the people of the region even better, ”Minister Stéphane Bergeron said.
Remember that the task force, whose creation was confirmed by the Minister last December, was mandated to analyze the overall situation of pre-hospital emergency services in the territory and to formulate recommendations in order to adequately meet the needs. of the population, given the challenges facing the Outaouais region in this area.
In addition to its president, Doctor Jean Lapointe, CCMF (MU) CSPQ, medical consultant of the National Institute of Excellence in Health and Social Services, the team of experts was made up of Mr. François Ferland, responsible for health communication centers and telecommunications prehospital emergency services at the Ministry of Health and Social Services, as well as Mr. Martin Forgues, expert in reengineering and advisor to the access department at the Ministry of Health and Social services.
To consult the report of the working group: www.msss.gouv.qc.ca/presse
