Quebec - “The inability of the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Pierre Corbeil, to paint a detailed portrait of religious ritual slaughter in Quebec is unacceptable. The information provided by the Minister is unsatisfactory and does not allow us to know the extent of the phenomenon. ”
This is what the member for Kamouraska-Témiscouata and official opposition spokesperson for agriculture and food, André Simard, declared after an interpellation in the National Assembly on the issue of &#39;Agriculture.
Last week, the deputy publicly demanded from Minister Corbeil a complete portrait on a device permitted by law, namely religious ritual slaughter. “I repeat: we are not questioning this aspect of the law. What is abnormal, however, is that the Minister and his department do not have any information on a provision of their law !, indicated André Simard, who intends to return to the charge during the study of appropriations which will take place on next month. Minister Corbeil cannot escape; he has the obligation to draw up a complete portrait of the situation of religious ritual slaughter, ”he added.
Note that Minister Corbeil was unable to clarify whether the religious ritual slaughter had an influence on the price.
Quebec standards provide for measures to numb animals and minimize their suffering during slaughter. &quot;This must be the general rule and religious ritual slaughter must be the exception,&quot; said the deputy.
In order to respond to everyone&#39;s concerns, the Parti Québécois believes it is necessary for the government to put in place a labeling system so that consumers are informed of the origin of the meat they buy.
“Quebecers want to know what they are eating. The Liberal government therefore has an obligation today to respond to their wishes and in this case, everything must be done to ensure that labeling rules are implemented quickly. Minister Corbeil has what it takes to act; he even received an order from his prime minister. It cannot therefore fall back on the federal government to sit idly by, ”concluded André Simard.
