Quebec - Following the public consultation, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, today presented the conservation plan for the heritage site of Sillery as well as a series of measures aimed at ensuring the conservation of this protected territory under the Cultural Heritage Act.
“The plan was drafted in order to respond to the aspirations and concerns of citizens concerned by the protection of this historic gem in the heart of the national capital. This document reflects the vision that will guide us to ensure the conservation of the Sillery heritage site. I am convinced that our collective development must rely more and more on sustainable development that takes into account the protection and enhancement of cultural heritage, ”said Minister Kotto.
The public consultation on the draft conservation plan was conducted by the Conseil du patrimoine culturel du Québec and was held from February 20 to April 3, 2013. Some 270 briefs were brought to the attention of the Council, including about 70 were the subject of a public presentation during the hearing sessions. The concerns raised by the citizens found an echo in the conservation plan. In light of the many comments received, the document has been revised in order to propose a more precise, better adapted and more complete plan. The result is an enriched plan that will better mark out future interventions that respect the history of this heritage site.
Maka Kotto, Minister of Culture and Communications (c) Marc-André De Blois- MCC
However, some of the requests made by the various stakeholders exceeded the limits set by the Cultural Heritage Act. So Minister Kotto has put forward a number of actions that add to the conservation plan.
A round table under the joint responsibility of the Ministry of Culture and Communications and the City of Quebec will be created. It will bring together the main actors interested in the future of the heritage site of Sillery and will have in particular for mandate to propose a plan of protection and enhancement of the site.
As the Law does not allow the identification of non-building sectors, areas which require great vigilance have been defined. This is particularly the case for the large estate sector as well as most green spaces, including the cliff. The study of authorization requests in these areas will be approached with particular attention and with the watchwords preservation of heritage and minimal intervention. In the same vein, interventions in the sectors of the workers&#39; cores of the heritage site of Sillery will be subject to strict control, in order to preserve their exceptional historical cachet.
Consequently, the Conseil du patrimoine culturel du Québec will provide an opinion on the Woodfield and Sous-les-Bois projects based on these guidelines and the conservation plan.
The project to create a linear path is underway thanks to the joint work of the City of Quebec and the National Capital Commission, to which the Department offers its support and expertise.
As for the desired increase in spaces accessible to the public, the Minister responsible for the National Capital, Agnès Maltais, will initiate a feasibility study which will make it possible to propose the best possible scenarios for the territory concerned and to suggest an organization and a management mode for this purpose.
Discussions will be undertaken with the City of Quebec in order to enrich the cultural development agreement to include actions aimed at the protection and enhancement of the Sillery heritage site. The Department is ready to substantially increase the amounts it invests in it.
The Department will examine the possibility and relevance of revising the boundaries of the Sillery heritage site. The possible redistribution may be the subject of a public consultation, as provided for in the Law.
The Ministry will propose a draft legislative amendment to allow the inclusion in the Cultural Heritage Law of provisions aimed at increasing the scope of conservation plans, in particular the creation of non-building zones, and to modulate the control measures to inside a declared site.
&quot;I am convinced that the actions announced today, combined with those presented in the conservation plan, will allow us to meet the preservation objectives of the Sillery heritage site, while ensuring that it remains a living environment adapted to realities. of today&#39;s Quebec. This vision calls on the living forces of our nation to share salutary vigilance, a vision in which we are all dependent on the cultural heritage that unites us, ”concluded the Minister.
The conservation plan for the Sillery heritage site and related information are available on the Department&#39;s website at www..mcc.gouv.qc.ca/planSillery.
