Quebec - On the occasion of the celebrations surrounding the 50th anniversary of the Parent Report held this evening at the Library of the National Archives of Quebec, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, announced the creation of two new marks of honors which will be added to the presentation of the Minister&#39;s Prizes for Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, starting in 2014.
The two new prizes will reward the quality of teaching as well as the inventiveness of knowledge transmission methods: the Paul-Gérin-Lajoie prize will reward a college-level teacher while the Guy-Rocher prize will reward a teacher. at university level.
“The exceptional contribution of Messrs. Paul Gérin-Lajoie and Guy Rocher to the development of the Quebec higher education system deserves not only the recognition of the government, but also the gratitude of all of Quebec. On this 50th anniversary of the Parent Report, it is with great pride that I institute these new awards which underline the commitment of our teachers, ”said Minister Duchesne.
These new awards will highlight the quality of university and college education and recognize the educational achievements of university professors and college teachers. Nomination procedures for these two awards will be announced during the year.
“The Minister&#39;s Awards showcase educational quality and excellence in our colleges and universities. The creation of these awards turned out to be very natural, especially on the occasion of the celebrations surrounding the Parent Report, a major fragment of our history and of the development of Quebec, ”added Minister Pierre Duchesne.
Messrs. Paul Gérin-Lajoie and Guy Rocher are examples of public commitment whose contribution to the development of Quebec society, and more particularly to that of our education system, has been exceptional. First holder of the Quebec Ministry of Education, Mr. Paul Gérin-Lajoie has distinguished himself as one of the architects of the profound changes brought to the Quebec education system. Member of the Parent Commission, Mr. Guy Rocher participated in particular in the creation of CEGEPs.
The Minister&#39;s Awards ceremony is an annual event that aims to highlight the exceptional quality of educational material produced in French and intended for college and undergraduate students. The Minister&#39;s Awards are primarily intended to encourage members of the college and university networks to produce their own teaching material in French and to publish their research results in French. They also aim to make known the quality of written material and computer equipment as well as to reward the authors of the best creations. The ceremony for the 2013-2014 edition will be held on May 23, 2014.
