Quebec - The member for Sanguinet and official opposition spokesperson for the Conseil du trésor, Alain Therrien, criticizes the Liberal government for reneging on the commitment it made to the population last December, namely that of not not impose new rate increases on Quebec families.
&quot;We remember: in December, Philippe Couillard tried to reassure Quebecers by telling them that they had done their part to achieve a balanced budget, that they did not have to fear others. rate increases. However, since then, the price of daycare services in schools has been revised upwards, such as that for obtaining a hunting or fishing license. So what does the future hold? This is the question we can ask ourselves, ”declared Alain Therrien at a press briefing.
The member also recalls that during the last election campaign, in 2014, the Liberals made a commitment not to increase the tax burden on Quebecers. “What did they do when elected? They have increased electricity rates, municipal and school taxes, child care costs, and so on. However, thanks to the vigilance of the Parti Québécois, the government had to back down on its desire to impose an increase on seniors in CHSLDs, people with disabilities, for their adapted transport service, and users of day centers ”, a- he continued.
These gains for the population, the CAQ could not have obtained, maintains Alain Therrien. “François Legault and his team improvise and try to make Quebeckers believe that they are working in their best interests. But what results have they obtained? No. The CAQ cannot make the government back down, since it applies its ideas! Let us remember that in 2012, MM. Legault and Bonnardel were in favor of the 83% increase in tuition fees and the increase in electricity tariffs of $ 1.6 billion, which the Charest government wanted to impose, increases that the Parti Québécois government canceled ”, he added. underlined the spokesperson.
“As the saying goes, &#39;he who has drunk, will drink&#39;. With Philippe Couillard&#39;s government, Quebeckers can and should expect further rate increases. Minister Pierre Arcand has already admitted that they have less money in their pockets since the Liberals took back power. And, this morning, we learned that an obscure committee was still studying the recommendations of the Québec Taxation Review Commission which, I would remind you, proposed, in its report, several inventive ways of taxing Quebecers more, including that of to raise the QST, ”concluded Alain Therrien.
