Quebec City, November 14, 2017 - The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the Finance Critic, Nicolas Marceau, have greeted with disappointment the action plan on tax havens released last week by the Liberal government. They also announced that they had called on the members of the Committee on Public Finance (CFP) so that the Ministry of Finance (MFQ) could be heard on these essential issues for the entire population of Quebec. “The MFQ refused the consensus of parliamentarians and protects the status quo, which is only favorable to users of tax havens. He must come and explain himself to the members of the PSC and answer their questions, ”Mr. Lisée said straight away.
IN SHORT
“The PSC drew up a comprehensive report which was adopted unanimously by the political parties. It contains concrete measures and strong gestures to counter tax evasion and avoidance. The government, by proposing a few more minor measures, which achieve consensus but do not involve strong action, is missing the target, ”said the leader of the official opposition.
Let us just take the example of cross-border electronic commerce: the Liberal government, which wants to require the collection of taxes at source only for intangible goods, is saying no to Peter Simons and to most merchants who have stores in Quebec. Indeed, all material goods - clothing, jewelry, electronic and computer products, for example - can be sold abroad to Quebecers, without the sellers having to collect taxes. In short, it is the status for most traders and entrepreneurs here.
“In addition, not only does the government of Quebec still rely on Canadian customs officials - recognized for their inefficiency - but, in addition, it proposes to contribute financially to the improvement of federal customs, as if we were not already paying collectively. for this through our federal taxes, ”continued Jean-François Lisée. He recalled, at the same time, the global solution to restore fairness presented last week by Nicolas Marceau: require the collection of sales taxes by foreign sellers, and reduce the rate of GST and QST. so as to have a neutral effect, overall, on government tax revenues and the tax burden on consumers.
The Ministry of Finance has spoken out against the two major changes proposed by the CFP, namely the imposition of a tax on misappropriated profits (“Google tax”) and the abolition of tax treaties with tax havens. “With regard to the tax on embezzled profits, the government had to carry out a complete study to analyze the effects of its implementation. In reality, he simply hypothesized that the companies concerned would only reduce their activities in Quebec by a proportion proportional to the tax increase imposed on them. However, this assessment is not in line with what has happened elsewhere, notably in Great Britain, where the introduction of a tax on embezzled profits has given results beyond expectations ”, noted Nicolas Marceau.
Such a tax was indeed introduced in Great Britain in 2015. It brought in Canadian $ 470 million in 2016-2017, which is more than expected. The tax authorities predict that it will bring in C $ 3 billion by 2021. Some 145 companies have been notified that they are entering the fold of the tax on embezzled profits.
Tax treaties with certain countries must be abolished
“Although the Quebec government says it has full legitimacy to do so, it refuses to act to abolish tax agreements with certain countries clearly identified as tax havens. Such agreements are not problematic when they are concluded with other Western countries whose tax structures are comparable to ours. However, they become unacceptable when signed with jurisdictions of convenience, whose strategy is to attract disproportionate amounts of capital which they tax at derisory rates. Once again, the Ministry of Finance brandishes the threat of relocation and the reduction of economic activities to justify its inaction. The Liberals&#39; lack of courage is deplorable, ”concluded the member for Rousseau.
