Gatineau– On behalf of the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology (MESRST), Mr. Pierre Duchesne, the Minister of Public Security and Minister responsible for the Outaouais region, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, took part today in the official groundbreaking launching work to expand the Félix-Leclerc campus of Cégep de l&#39;Outaouais.
Minister Bergeron took advantage of his presence to confirm financial assistance of nearly $ 4.4 million which will promote the implementation of the Biomedical Analysis Technology study program at the Cégep de l&#39;Outaouais. Sums of $ 1.8 million and $ 2.6 million are allocated respectively for the acquisition of equipment and the redevelopment of premises at the Félix-Leclerc campus and the Gabrielle-Roy campus.
“CEGEPs occupy an important place in the regions and play an essential role in their vitality, both economically and socially. This project represents for the Outaouais the achievement of its educational aspirations and demonstrates the importance that our government attaches to the training of qualified young people in cutting-edge fields, ”declared Minister Bergeron.
Remember that on December 15, 2010, the Quebec government authorized the Cégep de l&#39;Outaouais to offer the Biomedical Analysis Technology study program on a permanent basis.
On June 19, 2012, the Government of Quebec announced an investment of $ 22.4 million intended for the expansion and redevelopment of the Félix-Leclerc campus as well as the redevelopment of the spaces of the Gabrielle-Roy campus of Cégep.
Since then, the premises and equipment needs have been reassessed. The redevelopment requires a change in vocation of certain premises in order to adapt them to an environment that meets the requirements of biomedical analysis laboratories. Consequently, an organic chemistry, microbiology, hematology and histology laboratory as well as preparation rooms will be set up.
Thus, the amount of $ 4.4 million announced today is in addition to the investment announced in 2012.
“These investments for the acquisition of equipment and the redevelopment of premises allow students in the Outaouais to have access to quality infrastructure following the implementation of the Biomedical Analysis Technology study program. The authorization of this program and the expansion of the Félix-Leclerc campus are materializing for the benefit of students in the region while contributing to socio-economic development. This is news that I am sure will delight the whole community, ”said Minister Duchesne.
In the 2010-2011 Budget Speech, the Government of Quebec announced investments of $ 75 million in vocational and technical training to meet the needs of skilled labor in Quebec. This project is included in the 2010-2015 Five-Year Capital Works Plan approved by the Conseil du trésor in its decision of July 7, 2011.
