Quebec - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, today recalled the expectations of the Government of Quebec with regard to the next federal budget, which will be tabled this Thursday by the Minister of Finance, Mr. James M. Flaherty.
“Two days before the federal budget, it is important to recall the major issues that concern Quebec. The unilateral decisions taken by the federal government, particularly with regard to federal transfers, lead us to believe that Ottawa wants to consolidate its finances at the expense of the provinces, which Stephen Harper promised not to do. These changes are creating a significant financial gap between Quebec and the federal government, which takes us back ten years to the era of fiscal imbalance, ”declared Nicolas Marceau.
The Minister recalled that the National Assembly unanimously adopted last week a motion asking the federal government to renew the funding of the Canada-Quebec Agreement on the labor market.
“Under this agreement, Quebec obtains $ 116 million per year, which is administered by Emploi-Québec. The measures thus funded play an essential role in promoting maximum integration of Quebec workers into the labor market and in meeting the labor needs of Quebec businesses. In this context, adequate, predictable and long-term funding is necessary in order to pursue the implementation of active employment measures that help ensure the maintenance of a pool of skilled workers essential for Quebec within the framework of the global economic competition. Last December, during the federal-provincial-territorial meeting of finance ministers, I formally asked Minister Flaherty to renew the funding relating to this agreement in his next budget, ”he declared.
In addition, the Minister indicated that to ensure optimal intervention by public employment services adapted to the reality of its labor market, Quebec also requests that all federal funds devoted to active employment measures be transferred to it. which are aimed at young people, older workers and disabled people in Quebec.
Minister Marceau recalled that the federal government announced in 2011 its intention to develop a new infrastructure plan for 2014.
“We expect that the terms and conditions surrounding the disbursement of federal funds in the field of infrastructure will respect Quebec&#39;s jurisdiction and will be such as to ensure effective and efficient management of infrastructure projects carried out in Quebec. As indicated on numerous occasions in recent months, Quebec is asking that the federal funds due to it be paid in the form of a “block” transfer. This is the most respectful approach to our skills and our priorities, and which would allow us to fully assume the management and monitoring of infrastructure projects in our territory, ”explained the Minister.
It should be remembered that in the past Quebec has encountered many difficulties in the implementation of federal infrastructure programs. The Building Canada plan, announced in 2007, required the signing of a framework agreement and the negotiation of numerous contribution agreements, “project by project”. The signing of agreements and the launch of projects were seriously delayed by this complex process.
Minister Marceau also wished to recall Quebec&#39;s demands with regard to federal transfers, in particular with regard to equalization, federal funding for health care, as well as with regard to social programs.
The caps imposed on the equalization program resulted in losses of around $ 7.6 billion for Quebec between 2009-2010 and 2013-2014.
Also, the changes announced in 2011 to the Canada Health Transfer will represent a shortfall for Quebec of $ 8.6 billion between 2014-2015 and 2024-2025. “The share of federal funding for provincial health spending, which is currently around 21%, should gradually return to 25%. It should be remembered that it has already been 50%, which clearly illustrates that Quebec is already doing its part to a large extent in this sector, so important for the people of Quebec, ”said Mr. Marceau.
He also indicated that the level of the Canada Social Transfer will have to be adjusted to return, at a minimum, to that of 1994-1995, in addition to taking inflation into account, and will have to be distributed more equitably in order to take into account the number of social assistance recipients, which represents approximately $ 1.3 billion more per year for Quebec.
“The decisions of the federal government have major impacts on Quebec&#39;s public finances and, by the same token, on vulnerable people. In addition to federal transfers and the Labor Market Agreement, let us think about the reform of employment insurance, which could result in an increase in the number of unemployed who do not have access to insurance. -employment, and possibly the number of recipients of social assistance. We expect the federal government to keep its promise not to consolidate its public finances at the expense of the provinces, ”Minister Marceau concluded.
