Quebec - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to confirm that the responsibilities of public transport have been added under Mr. André Meloche, deputy Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Transport. Mr. Gaudreault had made the announcement in advance on October 3, during a speech delivered on the occasion of the 10th annual conference of the Quebec Urban Transport Association. Mr. Meloche therefore now occupies the position of Assistant Deputy Minister for Public Transit, Policy and Safety.
“The governance of public transit is an essential issue that will make it possible to achieve the objectives of the new Québec policy on sustainable mobility. This will be made public in November and will come into effect at the beginning of 2014. With the appointment of Mr. Meloche, government action in public transport will be more visible and integrated within the Ministry of Transport. I intend to go even further in this area when setting up a transport agency and redefining the Department&#39;s mandates, ”said Mr. Gaudreault.
Public transit is one of the cornerstones of the Québec policy on sustainable mobility, which will take over from the Québec policy on public transit. The new policy will place the user at the heart of his concerns and guide the actions that will be undertaken by 2020, with a view to improving the public transport service offer throughout Quebec.
“Our government wishes to register as that of public transport. Beyond the policy that will soon be unveiled, major actions are already underway. Among the main ones, let us note the electrification of transport, preferential measures in public transport for the Montreal region and additional investments for adapted transport services for people with disabilities ”, underlined the Minister.
Mr. Meloche holds a bachelor&#39;s degree in economics from the Royal Military College Saint-Jean, Quebec, and the Royal Military College of Canada in Kingston, Ontario, as well as a bachelor&#39;s degree in accounting from the University. Laval. He began his career in 1971 with the Canadian Armed Forces. Subsequently, he worked from 1974 to 1980 at the Secretariat for External Affairs of the Government of Canada. Since 1980, Mr. Meloche has held various positions within the Quebec Ministry of Transport, acquiring extensive experience in various modes of transport.
