Quebec - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today inaugurated the new premises of the Research Center of the Center hospitalier universitaire de Sherbrooke (CR-CHUS), a research center located in the Sherbrooke biomedical park.
“The expansion work carried out at the Research Center provided our researchers with an environment better suited to their needs. These new premises will provide them with a more favorable environment for their cutting-edge research, to the great benefit of our health network and the entire population of Quebec, ”declared Minister Hébert.
The project made it possible to double the surface area reserved for research and to equip the CR-CHUS with new laboratory equipment, in particular thanks to the construction of a three-storey building, with a total surface area of 6,889 square meters, which communicates with existing buildings. A vault was also erected to accommodate a new cyclotron, which will allow researchers to continue their work and produce radioactive isotopes that are important in nuclear medicine and for the diagnosis of certain diseases. In the end, this work will benefit some 220 researchers from the six research axes of the CR-CHUS, namely Cancer, Diabetes, Obesity and Cardiovascular Complications, Medical Imaging, Inflammation and Pain, as well as Mother and Child.
The expansion and redevelopment of the CR-CHUS, which began in July 2012, will ultimately be carried out at a total cost of $ 31.7 million. With the expansion now complete, the redevelopment of the first wing left vacant for the moment will begin soon and be completed at the end of summer 2014, in order to allow other researchers to carry out their research work there. health. The Government of Quebec funded the project to the tune of $ 25.2 million and the Fondation du CHUS provided an amount of $ 6 million. The CHUS Research Center, for its part, assumed the balance of $ 500,000.
“It is important that this internationally renowned research center, which is one of the five largest research centers in Quebec, remains at the cutting edge of technology. This will benefit all of Quebec by allowing us to be at the forefront in a host of sectors. This objective corresponds to those expressed in the National Research and Innovation Policy that I unveiled last fall. I am happy that our government is giving its support to these researchers, because their contribution is major in the advancement of health sciences in Quebec ”, for his part added Mr. Pierre Duchesne, Minister of Higher Education and Research. , Science and Technology.
