Quebec - “We have often said that the Food Sovereignty Policy is one of action. The tabling of this bill confirms our government&#39;s firm determination to fight against the phenomenon of farmland grabbing. We must guard against increases in the price of land that could be triggered by requests for the acquisition of agricultural land by foreign interests. We want the land to remain in the hands of our businesses and to be accessible to the next generation. &quot;
This was stated by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, after presenting to the National Assembly Bill No. 46 which, s &#39;it is adopted, will better combat the seizure of agricultural land.
Essentially, the purpose of the bill is to tighten up the rules governing access to farmland by non-residents. More precisely, it highlights three measures:
Tighten the definition of resident status provided for in the Law on the Acquisition of Agricultural Land by Non-Residents, in order to prevent a foreign investor from using this provision to acquire agricultural land without going through the process of authorization from the Commission for the protection of agricultural land in Quebec;
Review the evaluation criteria, when examining an application, to take into account the possible consequences on the occupation of the territory of the acquisition of agricultural land by non-residents. The updating of the evaluation criteria will also make it possible to take into account the positive effects of an acquisition when it aims to develop under-exploited agricultural land;
“We must act now to ensure that our legislation is better adapted to today&#39;s reality. We cannot remain inactive in the face of the interest shown by foreign investors in our agricultural lands. I believe that these measures will have the effect of reassuring farmers and many stakeholders in several regions of Quebec, ”continued the Minister.
Mr. Gendron also indicated that by making these changes to the Act, the Government of Quebec is part of a global context where states exercise legitimate power over their territory. Not only Canadian provinces impose such constraints, but also several American states and many countries firmly prohibit foreign interests from owning agricultural land.
“The global food crisis in 2008 amplified the phenomenon of farmland grabbing because investors see farmland as a safe haven. Although the phenomenon is relatively marginal in Quebec, it is necessary to prevent rather than cure ”, argued Mr. François Gendron.
In addition, the Minister indicated that he was currently working on the development of a financial tool to promote the conservation of agricultural land in the hands of Quebec producers and members of the next generation.
“Preserving our heritage will help give our next generation access to quality land and better guarantee our food sovereignty. It is an essential gesture that we must make for future generations, ”concluded the Minister.
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food ( www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
