Québec, October 10, 2014 - The members of the Parti Québécois are dismayed by the decision of the Commission des transports du Québec to authorize the reduction and even the abolition of certain services of Autocars Orléans Express inc. These changes will have enormous direct consequences in several regions of Quebec, such as reduced mobility for seniors, young people and the most disadvantaged, and could even threaten tourism development.
“On the one hand, the Commission recognizes that all the stakeholders have asked it to reject the Orléans Express requests and it says it is very sensitive to the inconveniences that the population of the regions will suffer. On the other hand, it authorizes all of the company&#39;s requests; it is inconceivable. This decision is harmful for the development of the regions. Minister Poëti must intervene and ensure that services are maintained until replacement solutions are found ”, underlined the MP for Vachon and official opposition spokesperson for transport and electrification. of transport and maritime strategy, Martine Ouellet.
“With almost non-existent rail service and overpriced air service, the bus is becoming the one and only means of public transportation for a large part of the inhabitants of Gaspésie and Bas-Saint-Laurent. This decision will have the effect of isolating these regions and endangers our economic development! », Reminded the member for Gaspé and official opposition spokesperson for municipal affairs and regional development, Gaétan Lelièvre, on behalf of his colleagues from Rimouski, Harold LeBel, from Matane-Matapédia, Pascal Bérubé, and from Bonaventure, Sylvain Roy.
Let us recall that the Parti Québécois submitted, on September 3, a brief to the public hearings of the Commission asking for the formation of a working committee bringing together the various private and public stakeholders. Until the committee&#39;s recommendations were tabled, the Parti Québécois demanded the full maintenance of Orléans Express services. Thus, it would have been possible to consider new solutions that could guarantee the maintenance of the public transport service, already precarious in several regions, and the profitability of transport companies.
