Quebec - The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, today tabled in the National Assembly the annual report on the activities of the Secretariat for the selection of candidates for the office of judge for the period covering activities from February 1, 2013 to January 31, 2014.
The production of this annual report is provided for in the Regulation respecting the procedure for selecting candidates for the office of judge of the Court of Québec, municipal court judge and presiding justice of the peace. In addition to reporting on activities related to calls for candidates to fill vacant posts, this report takes stock of the appointments of judges to managerial positions as well as the appointments of deputy judges. The tabling of this report makes the process of selecting candidates for the office of judge more transparent.
During the reporting period, the Minister of Justice appointed 39 judges, both to the Court of Quebec and to municipal courts. Of these judges, almost half are women. These appointments have been made expeditiously so that the courts have all the judges permitted by law, which contributes to more efficient justice.
“As soon as I took office in September 2012, I made sure that our justice system was more accessible, faster and more efficient. That is why I have since recommended to the Council of Ministers the appointment of 58 new judges, including 45 to the Court of Quebec. By far, a record in such a short time! I am more particularly proud to have chosen these judges at the end of a rigorous and completely apolitical process and to have selected women and men certainly recognized for their competences but also for their human qualities and their social and community implication. », Declared the Minister of Justice.
The annual report on the activities of the Secretariat for the selection of candidates for the office of judge can be consulted on the website of the Ministère de la Justice du Québec: www.justice.gouv.qc.ca.
