Quebec - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, accompanied by the Member of Parliament for Saint-Jean and Deputy Government Whip, Mr. Dave Turcotte, announced today that it authorized, on a permanent basis, the Architectural Technology study program at Cégep Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu. This new program will meet the demand for architectural technologists in Montérégie.
“I am happy that this new study program is a permanent part of Cégep Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu&#39;s training offer. This must respond to regional needs and allow young people to study at home and then find employment in their region. This is one of the main objectives of the work on the college training offer, the final report of which is expected next June, ”said Minister Duchesne.
The Architectural Technology program will be offered at Cégep Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu from the 2015-2016 school year. The Cégep will welcome a cohort of 25 new students each year.
The placement rate for a full-time job in this training is excellent, at 91.9%. The implementation of this program on a permanent basis at Cégep Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu will increase the regional recruitment potential of graduates and thus meet the labor needs of businesses in the region or neighboring regions.
“This study program will increase the skilled workforce in the field of architecture and thus meet the needs of the region which is experiencing significant demographic and economic growth. I am happy that Cégep Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu can offer this training for which graduates are in demand. This is excellent news for the Montérégie region! », Declared MP Turcotte.
“The Minister&#39;s announcement is not only excellent news for Cégep Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, but also for all of Montérégie. Future holders of a diploma in the new Architectural Technology program will meet the many workforce needs of companies and organizations looking for quality succession. The Cégep already offers the Interior design techniques program, a field related to that of architectural technology, ”said the director of the Cégep de Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, Ms. Chantal Denis.
