Quebec - The Minister of Public Security, Stéphane Bergeron, announces the establishment of a Special Commission to Examine the Events of Spring 2012, whose work will make it possible to draw up a global portrait of the events surrounding the multiple protests of the spring latest.
“The demonstrations, the disruption actions, the crowd control operations, the legal remedies, as well as all the other events that took place during this turbulent time, have had various consequences, some of which are still being felt. The entire population of Quebec, but more particularly certain associations, municipalities, businesses, as well as students suffered the repercussions of these events. We have a duty to learn from these events, and I am confident that the work of the Special Review Commission will enlighten the government in order to enable it to prevent such a social crisis in the future ”, declared the Minister. Bergeron.
This special examination commission will be composed of three members appointed by government decree. They are Me Serge Ménard, who will act as president, Me Bernard Grenier and Ms. Claudette Carbonneau. These people were selected for their expertise, vast experience, credibility and objectivity.
For the purposes of fulfilling its mandate, the Special Review Commission will analyze all the elements it deems essential. She will meet with all the stakeholders she deems necessary for the achievement of her mandate, and these meetings will take place in private in order to allow people who wish to give their testimony to do so in serenity, to be able to express themselves in complete freedom and without fear of retaliation. Any person, association, company, municipality, or other will be able to submit facts to the Commission in writing as of June 1. A website dedicated to the Special Review Commission will then be made available. It contains relevant information on the Commission, its constitution, its members, its functioning, as well as on the ways of giving it opinions and testimonies. The address of this site will be known in the coming weeks. The working methods of the work of the Commission will soon be made public by the members.
At the end of its work, which expires on December 20, 2013, the Commission will present to the Minister of Public Security a report setting out, among other things, the testimony and opinions received, containing an analysis of the events, as well as recommendations that will aim in particular to enlighten the government on ways to detect the warning signs of possible social unrest and on the best ways to react to them to maintain social peace. This report will be made public within 45 days of its filing.
The Special Examination Commission is mandated to draw up an overall portrait of the events of spring 2012, taking into consideration the role played by all the key players involved.
ANNEX
SPRING 2012 EVENTS SPECIAL REVIEW COMMITTEE
Mandate
For the purposes of carrying out its mandate, the Special Commission may in particular examine:
MEMBER BIOGRAPHY
Me Serge Ménard, Ad. E., President of the Special Commission
Me Ménard practiced private practice as a criminal lawyer from 1968 to 1994, lecturer at the Faculty of Law of the University of Montreal from 1969 to 1983, where he teaches evidence in criminal matters and professor of law at the School. of the Bar from 1971 to 1982.
He was Minister, in particular of Public Security from September 26, 1994 to January 29, 1996 and from December 15, 1998 to January 30, 2002.
Among his important accomplishments in Public Security, let us mention that he created the Carcajou squad which led the fight against criminal bikers. He also ensured police security preparation during the Spring 2001 Summit of the Americas, where Quebec hosted all the heads of state of the Americas.
He also led a major reform that led to the adoption of the Police Act in 2001, after the publication of the Report of the Commission of Inquiry responsible for investigating the Sûreté du Québec (Poitras Report).
Me Bernard Grenier
Me Grenier was a judge in the Criminal and Penal Division of the Court of Quebec from 1980 to the end of 2002.
During his career, Me Grenier worked in criminal law at the Legal Assistance Office of the Bar of Montreal, the Ministry of the Solicitor General in Ottawa, the Law Reform Commission of Canada and the Center communautaire juridique de Montréal. He was president of the Société de criminologie du Québec from 1984 to 1990 and worked at various levels in the field of judicial training.
In January 2006, he was appointed investigating commissioner by the Chief Electoral Officer of Quebec in relation to the Option Canada file.
He is now legal counsel at the Schurman Longo &amp; Grenier law firm.
Ms. Claudette Carbonneau
An activist in the Syndicat des Travailleurs de l&#39;Hôpital Notre-Dame de Montréal, she served as vice-president of the Montreal region at the Federation of Health and Social Services of the CSN from 1980 to 1982.
In 1985, she became Secretary General of the Central Council of Metropolitan Montreal (CSN), a position she held until 1991. From September 1991 to June 2002, she held the position of First Vice-President of the CSN. She will become the first woman president of the Confederation of National Trade Unions from 2002 to 2011.
Ms. Carbonneau works regularly with the Quebec media.
