Paris, France - The Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, today concluded a European mission in France which began on June 20. During his visit to Paris, the Minister met with four members of the French government, in addition to participating in announcements that will help strengthen the Franco-Quebecois relationship in the cultural and youth sectors.
In the company of the president of the Sorbonne Nouvelle-Paris 3 University, Marie-Christine Lemardeley, Minister Lisée inaugurated the Gaston Miron Library, recently redeployed in the prestigious university institution of the Latin Quarter. The Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, as well as former Prime Minister Bernard Landry were present at this inauguration.
Through this partnership, Quebec ensures greater accessibility to Quebec works while retaining ownership of some 17,000 books and periodicals which form Quebec&#39;s largest documentary collection abroad. This project is part of a broader context of cooperation since the establishment has hosted since 2007 the Chair of Contemporary Quebec Studies and, since 2012, the Center d&#39;études québécoises.
&quot;Thanks to its association with the Research Chair and to a sustained program of cultural meetings, conferences and seminars, the Gaston Miron Library becomes a real place for the dissemination of Quebec culture and knowledge in the heart of university Paris&quot;, indicated the minister.
Mr. Lisée participated in the announcement of financial support, by the Minister of Sports, Youth, Popular Education and Associative Life, Ms. Valérie Fourneyron, which will allow eight young French people to carry out a internship in Quebec under the aegis of the Franco-Quebec political action committee (CAP-FQ), starting next September.
“Thanks to this organization, young Quebec and French activists from all political horizons can do internships in firms or within political parties, on the other territory, in the name of the Franco-Quebecois relationship. This is an original way of building bridges between the youths of Quebec and France while stimulating their political commitment, an essential dimension of democratic exercise, ”declared Minister Lisée.
Young Quebecers currently in internship in Paris were present during this announcement. It should be noted that the government of Quebec supports the CAP-FQ through the Permanent Commission for Franco-Quebec Cooperation.
Economic relations with France were also on the agenda. The Minister met with the Minister of Economy and Finance, Mr. Pierre Moscovici, as well as with the Minister of Foreign Trade, Ms. Nicole Bricq. The discussions focused in particular on the proposed Canada-European Union economic agreement. The possible arrival in Quebec of a trade mission in the transport electrification sector led by Minister Moscovici was also mentioned.
The Minister met the Minister Delegate in charge of French citizens living abroad, Ms. Hélène Conway-Mouret. They both co-chaired the 5th Meeting of the Bilateral Monitoring Committee for the Agreement between Quebec and France on the Mutual Recognition of Professional Qualifications. The ministers took advantage of this meeting to invite veterinarians and psychologists to conclude mutual recognition arrangements.
On June 24, before his arrival in Paris, the Minister met in Brussels with the Minister of Education, Youth, Equal Opportunities and Brussels Affairs of the Flemish government, Mr. Pascal Smet. He also exchanged views on European issues with leaders of the Center for European Policy Studies and the European Policy Center.
&quot;The numerous meetings on the program, coupled with the important economic component carried out in Germany in the presence of Quebec companies in the electromobility sector, testify to the uniqueness and depth of our relations with our European partners&quot;, concluded the Minister Lisée.
