Sainte-Perpétue– Thanks to the joint investments of the governments of Canada and Quebec and their partners in the community, seniors with a slight loss of autonomy now have access to 20 new affordable housing adapted to their needs.
The inauguration of the Abri des Appalaches, the construction of which required investments totaling nearly $ 3.2 million, was celebrated today by Jacques Gourde, Parliamentary Secretary to the Prime Minister, on behalf of the Honorable Candice Bergen , Minister of State (Social Development), as well as by the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault . The ceremony took place in the presence of the mayoress of Sainte-Perpétue, Ms. Céline Avoine, the president and CEO of the SHQ, Mr. Charles Larochelle, and many community partners.
The Government of Canada, through Canada&#39;s Economic Action Plan, and the Government of Quebec, under the SHQ&#39;s AccèsLogis Québec program, have jointly invested nearly $ 1.4 million for this project. . The community&#39;s total contribution amounts to nearly $ 561,000, of which $ 350,000 was granted by the Municipality of Sainte-Perpétue.
“Our government is working to help those in need. These new homes are more than just a safe and affordable place to live, they are the key to a better life for seniors who will find a home there. We continue to focus on four priorities, as articulated by the Prime Minister, that matter most to Canadians: their families, the safety of our streets and our communities, their pride in being citizens of this country and, of course. , their personal financial security, ”said Parliamentary Secretary Jacques Gourde.
“The Côte-du-Sud sector is a magnificent territory to which its residents are attached. However, we know that many of them, and particularly the elderly, are forced to leave it because they cannot find housing suited to their needs. Fortunately, these 20 housing units allow the deans of Sainte-Perpétue and the surrounding area to stay in the environment that is dear and familiar to them and to evolve in a peaceful and safe environment, ”Minister Gaudreault said.
It should be noted that additional financial assistance of more than $ 344,000, spread over five years and assumed 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the Municipality, currently allows all tenants of the Abri des Appalaches to benefit of the Rent Supplement program. Thus, they spend only 25% of their income for housing, which helps to increase their purchasing power for essential goods.
L&#39;Abri des Appalaches also received a grant of nearly $ 39,000 from the Office of Energy Efficiency and Innovation of the Ministry of Natural Resources so that the building meets the Novoclimat standard. This standard provides tenants with comfortable accommodation and significant savings in heating costs.
This year, through CMHC, the Government of Canada will invest approximately $ 2 billion in housing. Of this amount, $ 1.7 billion will be devoted to supporting nearly 594,000 households living in social housing. In Quebec, this represents some 127,150 households. These investments improve the quality of life of low-income Canadians and households living in social housing, including the homeless and those at risk of becoming homeless, seniors, people with disabilities, recent immigrants and Indigenous people.
To learn more about how CMHC supports building strong homes and thriving communities for all Canadians, contact CMHC at 1-800-668-2642 or visit www.cmhc-schl.gc.ca.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether it is by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000 people. households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
