Trois-Rivières - The Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, and the President of Tourisme Mauricie, Mr. Benoît Gauthier, today announced the renewal of the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement aimed at promoting the development of the region. tourist offer. By 2015, an amount of $ 1,275,000 will be invested to achieve this objective.
“I am proud to confirm the renewal of this agreement, a true model for mobilizing regional development actors. The first agreement (2008-2012) contributed to the realization of 30 projects in the Mauricie region thanks to funding of $ 1.5 million for total investments of over $ 24.6 million. The projects carried out under this agreement have made it possible to renew the tourist offer, which is very important for our destination and our businesses to remain competitive, ”said Minister Bérubé.
“The renewal of this Partnership Agreement is excellent news for the Mauricie tourism industry. It responds to a real need of our businesses which, through the financial support they receive, can carry out innovative and structuring projects for our tourism offer, thus strengthening the place of Mauricie as one of the major tourist destinations in Quebec ” , said the president of Tourisme Mauricie, Mr. Benoît Gauthier
Under the terms of this new Agreement, Tourisme Québec and Tourisme Mauricie will each devote an amount of $ 500,000 until 2015. The other financial partners are the CRÉ de la Mauricie ($ 140,000), the CLD de Mékinac ($ 15,000) ), the CLD du Haut Saint-Maurice ($ 22,500), the CLD des Chenaux ($ 15,000), the CLD of the MRC de Maskinongé ($ 22,500), the City of Shawinigan ($ 30,000) and Innovation and Trois-Rivières Economic Development ($ 30,000).
“The contribution of the tourism industry to the socio-economic vitality of the Mauricie is indisputable and with the Partnership Agreement announced today, we are giving ourselves, as a region, the leverage that will allow us to maintain this contribution on an upward slope. I would point out that this Agreement is perfectly in line with the orientations and priorities of the five-year regional development plan for the Mauricie 2010-2015 ”added the president of the Mauricie regional conference of elected officials (CRÉ), prefect of the MRC. des Chenaux, mayor of Saint-Maurice and president of the CLD des Chenaux, Mr. Gérard Bruneau.
&quot;The tourism industry is an important economic engine for Trois-Rivières and the Mauricie, and investments in the development of the offer in this sector of activity can only be positive for our whole community&quot;, indicated the Mayor of Trois-Rivières and representative of Innovation and Economic Development Trois-Rivières, Mr. Yves Lévesque.
“This Partnership Agreement will have a real leverage effect. This is a great opportunity to give ourselves the means to achieve our ambitions to support the development of our recreational tourism industry, ”said the mayor of Shawinigan, Mr. Michel Angers.
“The renewal of this Agreement will allow us to realize a dream that the Mauricie has cherished for a long time, that of making the Saint-Maurice River navigable between La Tuque and Shawinigan. This is a major tourism project for our region, because the Saint-Maurice River is the link that unites all of Mauricie together. This project is a great way to give the river back to our population and to attract tourists to us. Without the help of Tourisme Québec, we could not carry out all these projects that create wealth for our region, ”added the mayor of La Tuque and president of the CLD du Haut Saint-Maurice, Mr. Normand Beaudoin.
“This agreement directly supports the expansion or innovation projects of our tourism businesses. We salute this great initiative, ”continued the Prefect of the Maskinongé MRC, Mayor of Saint-Léon Le Grand and President of the Maskinongé CLD, Mr. Robert Lalonde.
“The Mékinac territory is certainly one of the sectors of the Mauricie with strong tourism development potential. We believe that several promising projects will be developed there over the next few years and this agreement will certainly contribute to the realization of many of them. In addition, this agreement makes it possible to mobilize regional players around common projects allowing the development of a quality and distinctive tourist offer, ”concluded the prefect of the MRC de Mékinac and mayor of Sainte-Thècle, Mr. Alain Vallée.
At the same time, stakeholders revealed six new projects supported under this Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement. The projects, which share a sum of $ 469,700 alone, represent $ 4,448,290 in tourism investments. The financial assistance breaks down as follows:
-Ferme La Bisionnière: $ 49,700 for an expansion project to accommodate groups all year round -Maïkan Aventure: $ 75,000 for the construction of the reception pavilion and the improvement of the range of outdoor activities air-Committee for the protection of the works of Ozias Leduc: $ 20,000 for the modernization of the lighting system -Tourisme Mauricie: $ 200,000 for the markup of the Saint-Maurice river, from the confluence of the Mekinac river to the new marina in La Tuque -Ville de La Tuque: $ 75,000 for the development of nautical infrastructures on the Saint-Maurice River and the construction of a marina in La Tuque -Cité de l&#39;Énergie: $ 50,000 for modernization and the enhancement of the “Tout feu, tout flame” exhibition
It should be remembered that the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement aims to concentrate investments in the tourism industry according to regional priorities and to strengthen the role of partners in this process. The regional partners sit on the Management Committee of this Agreement in which the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy also participates.
Finally, on a visit to Mauricie, Minister Bérubé met several tourism stakeholders in the region. &quot;I am happy to have had the opportunity to speak directly with the operators in the region,&quot; said Mr. Bérubé. The Mauricie stands out for its dynamism and a remarkable bubbling of ideas ”.
