Québec, November 28, 2017 - In the company of representatives from the Davie de Lévis shipyard, the leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesperson for maritime strategy and responsible for the Chaudière-Appalaches region , Harold LeBel, and the head of the Capitale-Nationale region, Agnès Maltais, denounced Liberal inaction, both in Ottawa and in Quebec.
IN SHORT
“The federal government is making a significant productive investment right now, valued at over $ 76 billion. And less than 1% of this amount, or some 650 million, is invested in Quebec. While the people here are contributing to these investments by paying tens of billions in taxes, it is in Vancouver and Halifax that they will take shape, ”said the leader of the official opposition.
“When we questioned them last week, the Minister for Maritime Affairs, Jean D&#39;Amour, and Prime Minister Philippe Couillard said that Ottawa maintained that it did not need a second supply vessel. However, according to a report made public, this is totally false! What did the Quebec government do to put pressure on Ottawa? Prime Minister Philippe Couillard timidly asked the federal government to act. This is clearly insufficient, we must insist, make Ottawa listen to reason, ”added Harold LeBel.
&quot;The Davie site has nevertheless proven its worth,&quot; Agnès Maltais also recalls. Two years ago it was named the best shipyard in North America! In addition, the Asterix supply vessel was delivered on time and without cost overruns. There is therefore no reason why our workers cannot continue to show their skills. The National Assembly must speak with one voice and demand Quebec&#39;s fair share for these major federal investments ”.
“Last week alone, the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions lost more than 100 jobs related to Davie; some 100 families will therefore have to deal with less wages as the holiday season approaches. These people can count on us; we will continue to support them. We will ensure that the Liberal governments, both in Ottawa and in Quebec, stop ignoring them and finally take action, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
