Saguenay - On the occasion of the 175th anniversary of the founding of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, Dubuc MNA Jean-Marie Claveau announced that Culture and Communications Minister Maka Kotto designated the arrival of the Société des Vingt-et-un as a historic event, under the Cultural Heritage Act.
“The designation of the arrival of the Société des Vingt-et-un is a first for the region since the entry into force of the Cultural Heritage Act. It attests to the importance that the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean territory represents in the history of Quebec and in the hearts of our fellow citizens, ”Minister Kotto said.
“I am delighted with the magnitude of this event today and all the influence it will benefit from. The memory of the founders of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean will thus remain etched in our memories, ”said Dubuc MNA Jean-Marie Claveau.
The designation is a legal gesture that aims to recall the memory of certain characters, events and historic places significant for Quebec, to maintain their place in the collective memory and to promote a better knowledge of the history of Quebec. In the case of the arrival of the Société des Vingt-et-un, the action taken by the Minister of Culture and Communications attests to the consideration that the Government of Quebec gives to these pioneers.
Remember that on June 11, 1838, a group of 21 inhabitants from La Malbaie in Charlevoix opened Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean to the forestry industry. His foray into this territory, until then closed to colonization, is considered the event that allowed the development of the region.
In 1924, a monument was erected in Grande-Baie, known today as the borough of La Baie de Saguenay, to commemorate the arrival of the Société des Vingt-et-un. Since 1953, an annual celebration has been held on June 11 to mark the event at the base of the founding of towns and villages in the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region.
Additional information concerning the arrival of the Société des Vingt-et-un is available on the Quebec Cultural Heritage Directory (RPCQ) website at [www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca] (http: //www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca]. This dissemination tool from the Ministry of Culture and Communications allows visitors to discover the richness and diversity of Quebec&#39;s cultural heritage by making it accessible to all. of the RPCQ can now be found on the Government of Quebec&#39;s open data portal at www.data.gouv.qc.ca.
