Montreal - The Quebec Minister of International Relations, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, said this morning he was &quot;very concerned&quot; by the statements of the Canadian Minister for International Cooperation, Mr. Julian Fantino, about the freezing of aid programs Canadians in Haiti. “Quebeckers and their government have made supporting the Haitian people the priority of our international aid action. So far, the Canadian government has been an important partner in international aid and it would be tragic for this commitment to be jeopardized by ideological mood swings, ”said Mr. Lisée.
“Given its significant involvement in international solidarity, especially in Haiti, Quebec should be consulted before considering freezing CIDA&#39;s programs. Unfortunately, Quebecers are once again faced with unilateral action by the Harper government which could have serious consequences, ”for his part lamented the Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Alexandre Cloutier.
Over the past 15 years, Quebec has funded 139 projects in Haiti, many of which received additional funding from CIDA. In 2011, the MRI carried out an evaluation report on the relevance, effectiveness and impact of its actions in Haiti for the period 2004 to 2011. The latter demonstrated that the funded projects produced positive results. The vast majority of projects promote, to varying degrees, the response to basic needs defined by the population and the local partner, gender equity, human resource training and organizational strengthening of partners.
&quot;The assistance provided by organizations funded by Quebec in Haiti have proven their effectiveness and sustainability,&quot; said Mr. Lisée. We are very proud of this and we intend to continue this action. These results are largely attributable to the remarkable work carried out in the field by Quebec international cooperation organizations, nearly half of which are active in Haiti. However, several projects are cofinanced by CIDA. A withdrawal or too long postponement of Canadian aid would hamper the scope of our action. &quot;
Mr. Lisée wrote to Minister Fantino to express his concern and request a rapid meeting between senior officials to ensure that the new orientations being developed by CIDA do not harm the actions undertaken by Quebec.
&quot;I told Minister Fantino that I hope that the current reassessment of Canadian aid to Haiti will not result in a Canadian disengagement and quickly lead to a resumption of aid.&quot;
Almost half of Quebec&#39;s international cooperation organizations (OICs) carry out activities in Haiti. In the event that CIDA is slow to put in place a renewed framework to fund new OIC projects in Haiti, this will have an impact on the capacity of Quebec organizations to develop new projects.
The Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, invites media representatives to a press briefing on the subject.
DATE: Friday, January 11 TIME: 11:25 a.m. LOCATION: Westin Hotel in Montreal, 270 St-Antoine West, 9th floor, near Salon Ville-Marie B
Summary of the conclusions of the &#39;Evaluation report on the relevance, effectiveness and impact of actions supported by the PQDI in Haiti since 2004&#39;
As for the effectiveness and impact of the actions carried out in Haiti
The actions supported in Haiti by the PQDI are effective. We should note in this regard the high rate of results obtained (83%) at the end of the projects which remain in force today, the vast majority of the infrastructures built which are still functional and the long-term partnerships developed.
The training activities present in almost all the funded projects, as well as those linked to the organizational strengthening of Haitian partners, particularly contribute to the sustainability of the initiatives carried out.
