Quebec - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, reintroduces the words “Arts and Letters” in the title of the pre-university program “Culture and Communication”. From now on, the program will be called Arts, Letters and Communication. The title has been changed, but the changes to the content of the program that have achieved consensus in the college network remain.
It should be remembered that after a long process of revising the program which lasted 3 years and which was carried out in partnership with college teachers as well as with the departments of studies of colleges and universities, the content of the Arts and Letters program was reviewed and enriched. Since then, the requirements with regard to the quality of the French language have been higher. In addition, with these 30 additional hours for specific training, this college program will no longer be the pre-university program with the least number of teaching hours. This situation had to be corrected and this program will now have over 700 hours of instruction, like the other pre-university programs.
Despite the enhanced content of this program, the title change caused a lot of reaction. The fact of naming it “Culture and Communication” and eliminating the words “Arts and Letters” was perceived by several actors in the field as a way of devaluing this field of teaching. Which is not the minister&#39;s intention.
“The arts and letters are part of the precious knowledge linked to the humanities. These subjects are the torches that illuminate the critical thinking of students enrolled in our colleges. By offering a solid general culture to both students enrolled in pre-university training and those in technical training, we are helping to train young adults who are more responsible, generous and critical, capable of having a grip on their future ”, declared the Minister. .
It is therefore in this spirit that the new program which had been named “Culture and Communication” will henceforth bear the name of Arts, Letters and Communication. The title is changed but the changes to the content of the program remain.
