Quebec - The Minister for Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that a subsidy of $ 59,522 is granted to the regional county municipality of Témiscouata to operate public transport services in its territory.
This subsidy is paid within the framework of the government assistance program for regional public transport intended for the development of public transport.
“Our government encourages and supports the development of public transit, which makes it possible to optimize the use of the road network while increasing the fluidity of travel, reducing the level of congestion and reducing pollution attributable to the consumption of hydrocarbons. . Today&#39;s announcement will allow the Bas-Saint-Laurent region to be directly involved in the implementation of sustainable development because of the advantages arising from the use of public transit and its accessibility ”, a declared Minister Bérubé.
The financial assistance granted by the Minister of Transport will allow the MRC de Témiscouata to ensure the continuity of the public transport service on its territory for the year 2013.
&quot;By participating in the financing of public transit, we are investing in sustainable development and the mobility of people, a social, environmental and economic issue that is at the heart of our government&#39;s mission,&quot; added Mr. Bérubé.
Public transit is one of the cornerstones of the next Québec Sustainable Mobility Policy. Currently being developed, this policy will take over from the Québec Public Transport Policy. The new policy, which will be adopted by the end of fall 2013, will place the user at the heart of his concerns and guide the actions that will be undertaken by 2020 with a view to improving the public transport service offer. throughout Quebec. The preparatory documents as well as some of the briefs filed during the consultation can be viewed on the website of the Ministère des Transports at www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca.
The parameters of this program can be viewed on the website of the Ministère des Transports at www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca.
