Saint-Hyacinthe– The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, accompanied by the Member of Parliament for Saint-Hyacinthe, Mr. Émilien Pelletier, today announced a financial contribution of $ 10.4 million to Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe to help it respond to the increase in student numbers.
“CEGEPs play a strategic role in the development of Quebec and the regions. They train young people who will be able to work in fields of the future and that is why it is important to invest in these educational establishments. I am therefore proud to grant this financial assistance, which will allow even more students to pursue their higher education at the Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe, ”said Minister Duchesne.
This creation of student places follows a significant increase in the workforce at Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe, where the graduation rate is, two years after the expected duration of studies, 64.9%, or two percentage points. above that of all of Quebec.
Minister Pierre Duchesne, accompanied by the Member of Parliament for Saint-Hyacinthe, Mr. Émilien Pelletier, today announced a financial contribution of $ 10.4 million to the Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe to help it respond to the increase in the student body. // (c) Joël Bouchard
To support the growth of the student body, a total of 1,100 student places will be created at the CEGEP, bringing the number of students to approximately 4,000. The grant will also make it possible to carry out expansion and redevelopment work, in addition to acquiring equipment, much of which is intended for laboratories. This investment fits well with the National Research and Innovation Policy which provides for the updating of teaching infrastructures, particularly with regard to laboratories.
“I am very happy with this investment, which is an asset to foster the success of students, to encourage them to persevere and stay in the region. Moreover, the Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe is an important player in the development of Montérégie and Quebec, ”said MP Pelletier.
&quot;With the growth in student numbers experienced by the Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe over the past six years, the announcement of this permanent increase in the school budget and the granting of an investment budget appear to be essential. . While promoting greater accessibility to higher education in the regions, this investment will improve the services offered to the student population and bring a greater quality of life to our entire college community, ”added Roger Sylvestre, Director General of the CEGEP.
The creation of student places took into account the offer of new programs, namely insurance and financial services advice and visual arts. This last training, which gives an important place to new media, allows the student to have access to excellent teaching tools in a variety of traditional plastic mediums (drawing, painting, sculpture, photography) as well as tools of current creation using new technologies (digital image processing software, 2D and 3D drawing and animation).
