Quebec - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to confirm the granting of an additional $ 5 million for the continuation of the Infrastructure Intervention Plan local roads (PIIRL) and the municipal road safety intervention plan (PISRMM). Mr. Gaudreault had previously made the announcement on September 28 at the closing of the 72nd Annual Meeting of the Federation of Quebec Municipalities (FQM), to the satisfaction of the municipal representatives present. This amount is in addition to the $ 5 million announced on August 1, bringing the total envelope for these two programs to $ 10 million for the 2013-2014 fiscal year.
“I am delighted that more RCMs and eligible organizations can benefit from these programs. By increasing the budget allocated to it, we recognize the importance of promoting mobility and travel safety throughout Quebec, ”said Mr. Gaudreault.
PIIRL and PISRMM are effective planning and decision support tools aimed at enabling municipalities to optimize investments in the municipal road network by intervening at the right time and in the right place.
The PIIRL is aimed at 84 rural and semi-rural MRCs in Quebec with local level 1 and 2 roads on their territory, as well as 4 towns and agglomerations exercising certain MRC powers, as well as the non-MRC municipality of Baie-James and all its component localities (including the town of Chibougamau). The proposed approach provides for the determination by the community of a proportion of approximately 25% of local roads essential to socioeconomic development and to the vitality of the territory. The state of these roads, the type of interventions required and the available budgets will subsequently condition the content of the intervention plan. In short, the constituent municipalities of an RCM will be able to determine the portions of the level 1 or 2 local road network to be treated as a priority and consequently plan the interventions required for rehabilitation.
For its part, the PISRMM is aimed at MRCs, agglomerations and municipalities exercising MRC powers. It allows, on the one hand, to carry out a diagnosis targeting the main problems and, on the other hand, to develop an action plan describing the most effective solutions to solve them. A PISRMM aims to determine the optimal interventions to be carried out to improve road safety and reduce the number of accidents and victims on the municipal road network.
MRCs and eligible organizations wishing to register for these programs can obtain all the documentation at www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca, in the Partners section, under the Municipalities, Assistance programs, Municipal road network tabs.
