Quebec - The Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs and Sovereignty Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, today concluded a two-day mission to London. On the occasion of this first ministerial mission abroad, he represented the government of Quebec at a gala highlighting 50 years of economic relations between Quebec and the United Kingdom, in addition to meeting representatives from political and academic circles. from the British capital.
“The United Kingdom is Quebec&#39;s leading economic partner in Europe. As the Délégation générale du Québec à Londres celebrates its 50th anniversary, we need to send a clear signal to the Quebec and British companies which are contributing today to nurturing this rich relationship, for the mutual benefit of our two companies ”, declared Minister Cloutier.
Minister Cloutier participated on October 3, as co-guest of honor with the British Minister of State for Trade and Investment, Lord Green, in an economic gala during which several awards were presented recognizing the excellence of British and Quebec companies. A tribute prize was also awarded to Cirque du Soleil. Organized by the Délégation générale du Québec in London, in collaboration with the Canada-United Kingdom Chamber of Commerce, this gala was the culmination of the program of activities started at the beginning of the year to mark the 50th anniversary of the permanent representation. of Quebec.
This event brought together some 160 guests from the business community of Quebec and the United Kingdom, including about fifty Quebecers. Minister Cloutier was able to meet several business leaders during this evening, including Rio Tinto, ArcelorMittal, CAE, Bombardier and Cirque du Soleil.
On the Quebec side, in addition to representatives of Quebec companies based in the United Kingdom, we should mention the presence of a delegation of fifteen Quebecers participating in London in an economic mission led under the aegis of the Montreal Chamber of Commerce. Metropolitan. Minister Cloutier was also able to meet with the participants in this mission during an activity held on the sidelines of the gala.
In addition, Minister Cloutier met with Rio Tinto executives at the company&#39;s head office to discuss investment projects in Quebec.
Mr. Cloutier also took advantage of his visit to London to discuss with specialists in public policy and constitutional law. Meetings were held, among others, with leaders of the Institute for Public Policy Research and the Institute for Government, influential research groups in the United Kingdom. It was also an opportunity to discuss with specialists from Scotland and Catalonia.
Remember that the United Kingdom is one of Quebec&#39;s very first international partners. The Quebec government established its permanent representation there in 1962, just one year after Paris.
The list of winners at the Quebec-UK Gala: 50 Years of Economic Relations can be found at www.mri.gouv.qc.ca / quebecuk.
