Montreal - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is proud to announce the government&#39;s contribution to the Cégep de Sainte-Foy project selected for the last college-industry fund for innovation (FCII) competition. The Government of Quebec is providing financial assistance of $ 198,400 for this project, for which total investments amount to $ 496,800.
“Supporting excellence in research and innovation is essential for our government. The research infrastructures, made available to colleges and the groups of researchers working there, make it possible to acquire know-how, particularly in applied research and technological development. The colleges thus contribute, with their partners, to making Quebec a knowledge society among the most efficient, for the benefit of the population, ”said Minister Duchesne.
This project aims to acquire forest remote sensing research equipment for the Forestry Education and Research Center (CERFO) at Cégep de Sainte-Foy. CERFO will acquire equipment for the storage and dissemination of field data and images, high-performance software and, finally, technical field equipment to capture information such as meteorological data and height of the sea. canopy.
This new equipment will enable the research team to strengthen its partnerships with forestry companies. These will be able to obtain from CERFO, in addition to technical assistance, applied research services which will increase efficiency in the planning and implementation of harvesting and silvicultural treatment activities.
“The specialized equipment that will be acquired by the CERFO of the Cégep de Sainte-Foy will allow students to have access to quality infrastructure while promoting higher education in the Capitale-Nationale region. These investments contribute to the socio-economic development of Sainte-Foy by strengthening the partnership with forestry companies. This is news that I am sure will delight the whole community, ”said Minister Maltais.
The financial contribution of $ 198,400 is part of the overall investment of $ 4,434,179 announced on April 16 by Minister Duchesne for equipment acquisition projects in colleges and collegial technology transfer centers. The projects were selected for the 2012 CFII competition of the Canada Foundation for Innovation.
This Fund enables college establishments to develop partnerships with the private sector, and therefore to support innovation in businesses. The Fund thus gives colleges the opportunity to benefit from the infrastructure necessary to carry out cutting-edge research.
The projects selected are co-financed in equal parts by the Government of Quebec and the Canadian Foundation for Innovation. In addition, there is a 20% financial contribution from establishments or private partners.
“The sums announced today for the acquisition of a forest remote sensing laboratory by our collegial technology transfer center, CERFO, will be invested not only for the benefit of forestry research, but will have a direct impact on education, which will benefit future generations of forest technologists, ”said Carole Lavoie, Executive Director of Cégep de Sainte-Foy.
The Ministry is currently developing the next National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI). This policy will be the result of numerous consultations held with stakeholders from all sectors concerned by research and innovation: businesses, educational institutions, the State and society. The PNRI will make it possible to meet the common objective of advancing Québec on the world stage of knowledge. This policy is intended to reflect an open society concerned with its future. The deposit is scheduled for June.
