Quebec - Following the publication of the new budgetary rules, the member for Labelle and official opposition spokesperson for families, Sylvain Pagé, is sorry not to find specific directives concerning the ban on expel a child from a childcare center (CPE).
“The minister was affirmative during the consideration of supply, then he repeated during question period that the directives concerning the attendance rate would be published in the budgetary rules this week. However, it is not the case. There is no clarification. We still do not know if a child can be expelled from his childcare center. This discrepancy between the speech of the minister and that of his ministry is the result of the financial objectives imposed by his reorganization. The Minister must observe that his objectives are not in conformity with the reality of today&#39;s families, review them and adapt, ”declared the Member for Labelle.
“In the absence of clear guidelines, we fear that parents and children will be penalized. The minister must quickly clarify what is allowed and what is not. However, he must be aware that in certain family settings and contexts, for example in the case of parents who have atypical jobs or for those who are separated, a directive allowing expulsion would cause serious harm, ”added Sylvain Pagé.
“We must not penalize childcare centers in underprivileged areas, which have a more at-risk clientele. On the contrary, we must protect them and give them more flexibility. The important thing is to guarantee equal opportunities for all children, in all settings, everywhere in Quebec, ”continued the spokesperson.
“The network of childcare centers has proven, a long time ago, that it contributes to the integration and academic success of our children. During his opening speech, the Prime Minister had rightly designated education as a priority of his government; despite this, cuts of hundreds of millions of dollars in schools, CEGEPs and universities were made. At least, for the future of our children, let him spare the CPEs! », Concluded the member for Labelle.
