Québec, May 3, 2016 - Mathieu Traversy, Parti Québécois spokesperson for sustainable development, the environment and the fight against climate change, believes that the Minister of the Environment, David Heurtel, managed the issue of water in a disastrous way since taking office. Regarding, more specifically, the National Water Policy, it asks it to engage in a much broader consultation process than the insufficient targeted consultations that it has announced. David Heurtel must also proceed in full transparency with the publication of a workbook and a financial framework, according to the Parti Québécois.
Let us recall that in 2002, at the end of a consultation which lasted three years, and during which the actors concerned clearly showed their common desire to adopt a vision that is both more global and better integrated of the governance of the In Quebec, the National Water Policy was born. “Almost 15 years later, the Policy needs to be thoroughly updated. However, a simple consultation using traditional methods cannot replace a consultation process. For Quebec to once again become an innovative and pioneering nation in terms of the protection of this unique resource, David Heurtel must invite Quebecers to a broad public debate to develop the future Quebec water strategy, ”added affirmed Mathieu Traversy.
In addition, the Parti Québécois believes that Minister Heurtel must proceed with transparency and present immediately the state of the reflections of the Government of Quebec regarding the revision of the National Water Policy. It must also submit preliminary proposals and present to the water partners the financial resources available for the period covered by the next strategy.
“The Minister of the Environment seems to care very little about our water resources; he obviously does not understand their importance and his inaction puts them in danger. The announcement of targeted consultations for a water strategy is very modest and will certainly not forget the disastrous record of his mandate to date. Let us just think of: the calamitous management he carried out of the issue of billions of liters of wastewater being discharged into the river by the City of Montreal; the two-year postponement of a permanent law on the conservation of wetlands; the abolition of the blue-green algae awareness program and cuts in funding for the mission of watershed organizations; finally, the accumulation of pesticides in our rivers, for which it provides no solution.
In short, the water issue has never been a ministerial priority for David Heurtel, ”concluded Mathieu Traversy.
