Quebec - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is pleased to support the intercollegiate scientific competitionScience, on tour! By awarding financial assistance of 48 $ 319. This competition is organized by the Center de demonstration en sciences physique du Cégep Garneau.
“I am pleased to grant financial assistance to an event that promotes and shines the passion of our young people for science. I am convinced that this year we will again be dazzled by the ingenuity, talent and creativity of the participants. Scientific vocations often emerge very early in life and participation in a challenge like Science on Turn! allows young people to explore their interest in science and, who knows? to continue their college or university training in an associated field of study, ”said Minister Duchesne.
The Science, we turn! aims to foster a better understanding of the various aspects of science and technology among young people. About fifty college education establishments are participating.
This year&#39;s contestants will have the opportunity to discover, explore and apply basic science concepts in a project called “Grows But Grows Equal”. The challenge is to build a device which, by launching a projectile as far as possible, will propel itself in the opposite direction towards a precise destination. The national final of the competition will take place at Cégep Vanier in Montreal on May 3.
The funding offered by the Department comes from two programs. An envelope of $ 33,319 comes from NovaScience, Support for Partnership Initiatives component. This program promotes a better understanding of science and technology by young people and the general public as well as the development of a succession in these fields. The other part of the funding comes from the Promotion of college education: student productions program. This supports the realization of special projects in the context of extracurricular activities related to the studies or the development of the student.
“I encourage students to participate in large numbers in this event, which helps develop their skills and interest in science and technology. Since its creation in 1992, Science, on tour! has allowed many young people studying at college to demonstrate their ingenuity by carrying out the most stimulating scientific and technological projects. This competition is perfectly in line with one of the objectives of the National Research and Innovation Policy that I launched last fall and which provides for numerous measures to pass on the passion for science and innovation to young people ” , concluded Minister Duchesne.
The National Research and Innovation Policy is part of the four strategic initiatives of the Government of Quebec&#39;s Priority Employment economic policy. It is the result of numerous consultations held with stakeholders from all sectors concerned by research and innovation: businesses, educational establishments, the State and society. With an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion over five years, it will help advance Québec in the knowledge and innovation society.
For more information on the PNRI, visit www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca/pnri.
