Meech Lake - Following the federal-provincial-territorial meeting of finance ministers, which took place today at Meech Lake, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, provided an update on the main topics that were on the agenda of the meeting.
The federal government has not announced any changes to the equalization program for 2013-2014 and only technical changes as of 2014-2015. &quot;These technical changes will be minor and will have only a slight impact on our public finances, which does not call into question the efforts of Quebec to find a balanced budget,&quot; said Minister Marceau.
On the other hand, the Minister reminded the federal government that in the longer term, “Quebec&#39;s efforts to balance its finances have been made more difficult by the unilateral decisions taken by the federal government last year in health, in particular with regard to health. end of taking into account the value of tax points in the Canada Health Transfer (CHT) ”. This change alone will cause Quebec to lose $ 172 million in 2014-2015. Combined with CHT growth limited to nominal Canadian GDP, this loss will reach $ 321 million in 2017-18. These losses will total $ 8.6 billion in 2024-2025.
Minister Marceau recalled that the federal share of funding for provincial health spending is currently 21%, a percentage well below the initial share of 50% established when the health systems were put in place in Canada. Canada. Quebec&#39;s position in this regard is to see the share of federal health funding gradually increase to 25% within ten years.
In addition to the impacts resulting from the federal disengagement in health, the federal government has not considered removing the caps from the equalization program, i.e. returning to the 2007 formula.
“The renewal of federal transfers in 2014 could have been an opportunity for the federal government to reverse certain decisions in order to avoid a return to the fiscal imbalance created by the unilateral changes made to federal transfers in recent years, particularly with regard to caps on equalization and lower growth in the federal health contribution, ”the Minister insisted on.
Discussions took place with regard to the adequate training of the workforce. Minister Marceau recalled that the Canada-Quebec Labor Market Agreement (EMT) expires in March 2014. This agreement has a significant impact on the funding of employability measures intended for clients who are not eligible for the labor market. &#39;Employment Insurance. EMT is of strategic importance in terms of integration into the labor market as well as in terms of supporting business competitiveness. The federal government must therefore renew the funding granted to the EMT in order to ensure the stability and sustainability of these measures.
As for the new federal infrastructure plan announced in 2011, the Minister recalled that Quebec has encountered multiple difficulties in the implementation of federal infrastructure programs in the past and that, therefore, his government wants its share of federal funds from the new infrastructure plan planned for from 2014 be paid to it in the form of a “block” transfer, in accordance with its priorities and its powers.
The finance ministers also continued their discussion on the retirement income system, particularly with regard to a possible enhancement of public plans and new voluntary retirement savings plans.
With regard to a gradual improvement of the Canada Pension Plan and the Quebec Pension Plan, Mr. Marceau stressed that “Quebec is in favor of improvements to public pension plans. In this regard, we will continue to work in collaboration with the other provinces and the federal government to find lasting and realistic solutions, taking into account the current economic context, characterized by a fragile recovery in growth. To this end, work will be undertaken to define the extent of the possible improvements as well as the timetable for their implementation.
In the meantime, Mr. Marceau told his counterparts that the Quebec government will table a bill in spring 2013 to implement the new voluntary retirement savings plans. &quot;The implementation of voluntary retirement savings plans will facilitate savings and allow all workers to have access to a group retirement plan,&quot; added the Minister.
The ministers finally discussed the difficult international economic situation, marked by a slow recovery among our American neighbors. Quebec&#39;s most recent economic growth outlook is moreover cautious, with an expected real GDP growth rate of 0.9% in 2012 and 1.5% in 2013.
Minister Marceau stressed to his counterparts that despite this fragile economic situation, Quebec is staying the course when it comes to returning to a balanced budget. In this regard, the Minister indicated that his government has limited the growth of program spending to 1.8% for 2013-2014 and to 2.4% for 2014-2015. &quot;All of the measures announced in last November&#39;s budget will enable us to achieve our budgetary objectives within the time limits set and to maintain them thereafter,&quot; the Minister concluded.
