Quebec - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, confirms the granting of non-refundable financial assistance of $ 300,000 to the firm Laserax. This aid will be used to develop industrial laser cutting systems. It will also consolidate three high-level jobs in addition to creating ten new jobs over the next two years.
“The Laserax project has all the qualities of a promising project for society: it will not only contribute to the development of photonics in Quebec, but also to the creation of high-level jobs for the Chaudière regions. Appalaches and Capitale-Nationale. This is further proof that innovation is at the service of the social and economic development of all regions of Quebec, ”said Minister Duchesne.
Thanks to this project, which will be implemented over 18 months, this company will be able to exploit a distinctive niche and finalize the product to be marketed. The company has developed an algorithm that optimizes laser parameters for fine material cutting applications at industrial speeds. The very compact design facilitates the integration of the system in environments where space is limited.
More specifically, Laserax specializes in the development and marketing of laser cutting systems for the manufacturing industry. The technology used by Laserax was developed jointly with the Center for Optics, Photonics and Laser at Laval University in Quebec City. The company has obtained the “Laser Safety Officer” accreditation from the French company LasOptic.
“Collaboration and partnership occupy an important place in the National Research and Innovation Policy. This policy optimizes, among other things, networking and exchanges between the various players for better synergy and greater efficiency, notably allowing easier access to innovation for SMEs, ”added the Minister.
“Our company considers relationships with business partners to be of paramount importance. We want to offer manufacturing companies a diverse range of high quality laser solutions to enable them to improve their productivity and their capacity for innovation. The financial support of the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology will help us to use our know-how and carry out this project ”, affirmed Mr. Xavier P. Godmaire, president of Laserax.
Financial assistance of $ 300,000 from the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology (MESRST) comes from the Innovation Support Program (PAI), Support for technological companies in start-up. The financial package for the company&#39;s project will be supplemented by a round of private investment, including $ 100,000 from the SOVAR valuation company.
This global financial package should allow Laserax to take an important step in its development to prepare for the marketing of its system over the next year.
The SOVAR limited partnership is dedicated to the development of new technologies resulting from university research activities and from partner research centers. It also meets the needs of companies looking for innovation.
SOVAR works in close collaboration with Quebec researchers in order to cross the difficult passage allowing to transform an innovation still at the conceptual stage into a concrete and marketable application. It also develops partnerships with key players in the Quebec and Canadian innovation system, and with potential investors.
The National Research and Innovation Policy is part of the four strategic initiatives of the Québec government&#39;s Priority Employment Economic Policy. It is the result of numerous consultations held with stakeholders from all sectors concerned by research and innovation: businesses, educational establishments, the State and society. With an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion over five years, it will help advance Québec in the knowledge and innovation society.
For more information on the programs and services of the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, visit www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca.
