Petite-Vallée - On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the Minister for the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Gaétan Lelièvre, announces financial assistance of 106 $ 000 to Télé-Sourire in Petite-Vallée and Télé-Soleil in Mont-Louis, to enable them to acquire specialized equipment.
“Community media are important vectors of social cohesion in their region and they do essential work for their environment. I am satisfied with our support for Télé-Sourire and Télé-Soleil because these televisions are media recognized for their faithful proximity to the people of the Gaspé, ”said Minister Kotto.
“Télé-Sourire is an essential information tool that directs and produces television programs that reflect the community it serves. This financial assistance will allow the organization to undertake a technological shift and to put in place the necessary infrastructures to offer diversified programming always focused on information, culture and services to citizens of the Foreshore sector ”, he added. indicated Minister Lelièvre.
Petite-Vallée community television has been in existence since 1991. With the help of volunteers, this television presents four hours of original local productions per week. A local and regional news bulletin is also produced weekly. The digital shift is essential for this community television to remain competitive. The realization of this project is therefore part of an ambitious initiative to capture and broadcast in high definition mode in this part of the Gaspé region.
Thanks to equipment better suited to new technological realities, the production conditions of the diffuser will be considerably improved. In addition, the Télé-Sourire building requires minor development work: repairing the gallery and making it accessible to people with reduced mobility, redoing the floor and purchasing extra furniture.
Télé-Sourire will sponsor Télé-Soleil de Mont-Louis, a community media in the neighboring municipality, and will acquire certain specialized equipment for it. &quot;We have here a fine example of creativity in the help provided by two organizations that are established in two MRCs in addition,&quot; concluded Minister Lelièvre.
The $ 106,000 subsidy paid by the Ministry of Culture and Communications comes from the Capital Assistance program and breaks down as follows: $ 71,000 is granted to Télé-Sourire in Petite-Vallée and $ 35,000 to Télé-Soleil. of Mont-Louis.
