Quebec– The MP for Johnson and official opposition spokesperson for roads, Etienne-Alexis Boucher, the MP for Matane, Pascal Bérubé, and the MP for L&#39;Assomption and spokesperson for the official opposition in environment, sustainable development and parks, Scott McKay, supports the approach of elected officials, business people and citizens of the Gaspé to preserve the Gaspé railway.
Indeed, in the eyes of the Parti Québécois, the rail link between the Gaspé and the rest of Quebec is essential to promote its economic development and to avoid the isolation of the region. “The trains now stop 300 km from Gaspé, the rails are in such bad condition. The ultimatum was set for March 31 and measures must be taken by then to avoid the closure of the section. The Gaspé needs these investments, ”said Pascal Bérubé.
All levels of government must contribute to the request for $ 93.5 million made by the Société du chemin de fer de la Gaspésie. “A real policy for the development of sustainable transport must certainly provide for the conservation of existing railway rights-of-way and infrastructure. It is in fact provided for in the Parti Québécois program. The reduction in road transport requires the development of the principle of intermodality, of which rail transport is one of the cornerstones, ”said Etienne-Alexis Boucher. According to him, we must preserve our road infrastructure and see in the long term so that the train occupies a greater place, particularly in the transport of goods.
Finally, the increase in rail transport and its corollary, namely the reduction in road transport, must be part of an overall strategy to fight greenhouse gases. “In Quebec, the road transport sector alone accounts for 43% of greenhouse gas emissions. It is essential to reduce the environmental impact of the transport of goods and people. In addition, it allows us to free ourselves from our dependence on oil, ”continued Scott McKay.
Recalling that millions of dollars are earmarked for the construction of new infrastructures in the Liberal government&#39;s Plan Nord, the Parti Québécois underlines the need to maintain current infrastructures. “It is particularly blatant in the Gaspé. To safeguard the rail network, the Government of Quebec must force the hand of the federal government, which is once again having its ears pulled. Quebec must announce its contribution in order to send the message to Ottawa that the Gaspé is on hold, ”concluded the member for Matane.
