Quebec - The member for Rimouski and official opposition critic for the fight against poverty, solidarity and social economy, Harold LeBel, said he was very disappointed with the closure of the Liberal Party as to the need to update the Loivisant to fight against poverty and social exclusion.
&quot;The law, adopted unanimously by the National Assembly in 2002, is now obsolete and no longer includes long-term targets,&quot; said Harold LeBel. After 10 years of application of the law, it is time to invite stakeholders and experts to take stock and project ourselves into the future in order to define new objectives. &quot;
By tabling a motion proposing a mandate of initiative to the Committee on the Economy and Labor, the Member for Rimouski wished to engage parliamentarians in an open process, in order to review article 4 of the law and provide it with new goals for the next decade. Unfortunately, the Liberal members of the Commission, with one voice, defeated the proposal.
“It is not simply a matter of giving Quebeckers a new three- or five-year action plan, but of giving us ambitious and long-term objectives which will guide future action plans. It would be a shame if the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity subcontracted his responsibilities to Lucienne Robillard and to the Permanent Program Review Commission, recently set up by the Liberal government, ”continued Harold LeBel.
If we do not collectively set objectives in the fight against poverty and exclusion, what will be the guidelines of the Robillard commission to preserve, or not, the funds, measures and programs already in place? What will be the guidelines for recommending to the President of the Conseil du trésor the creation of new strategies to fight poverty?
&quot;We will come back to the charge in order to be heard and understood by the Committee on the Economy and Labor as well as by the Minister. The study of budgetary appropriations will prove to the members of the Commission that there are no new measures for the fight against poverty and exclusion; we therefore hope that the members will take upon themselves the responsibility of relaunching the work ”, concluded the deputy.
