Quebec - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, welcomes the report tabled today by the Task Force on the Future of the Museum Network, chaired by the former rector of the Université du Québec à Montreal, Claude Corbo.
“I would like to sincerely thank Mr. Corbo for the thoroughness of his work. Drawing on his remarkable professional background, he was the perfect person to take on such a mandate. I also wish to underline the considerable contribution of its two experienced collaborators, Marie Lavigne and Laurier Lacroix, as well as of all the actors who contributed to the reflection, in particular the members of the expert panel ”, indicated the Minister. Kotto.
It was last May that the Minister set up the Task Force on the Future of the Quebec Museum Network. Its mandate was to consult the national and regional players concerned by the future of the museum network and to formulate recommendations on which the Ministry of Culture and Communications could rely to maximize the scope of its future interventions.
With more than 13.4 million visitors in 2012, the 450 or so museum institutions in Quebec play a fundamental role in the sustainable development of communities, the structuring and identity of regions and their own cultural life. Since the task force has now delivered the fruit of its consultations, its reflections and its recommendations, the Minister will analyze with interest this document, which is most important for the viability of a network of establishments of which Quebecers are very proud.
“The future of museums is a priority for my department, and I intend to act quickly on the recommendations of the task force. As of today, I am giving a specific mandate to the Deputy Minister for Culture and Communications, Rachel Laperrière, to analyze the report and its recommendations in order to submit an action plan to me that I will present to the Council of Ministers. in the short term ”, assured Minister Kotto.
Based on the 127 briefs submitted by museum institutions and organizations from other sectors and on the 8 days of consultations held in 6 cities in Quebec, during which 68 hearings were held, the working group wrote with address and skill in a report whose roots are undoubtedly representative of the needs of the community. It is possible to see at a glance the rigor with which the members of the working group applied themselves, and the 61 recommendations demonstrate a comprehensive analysis of the situation. Several of the working group&#39;s proposals will redesign Quebec&#39;s museum environment.
The task force report is available on the website of the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications: http: //www.mcc.gouv.qc.ca
