Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet, wished to allay concerns about hydraulic fracturing technology, an aspect of which is dealt with in the framework of the draft regulation on water withdrawal and protection (RPEP) which is currently the subject of a consultation. Indeed, an article published on a few national media websites this morning claimed that the government was &quot;moving forward&quot; with hydraulic fracturing.
“The RPEP deals with all aspects of the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons from the specific angle of the protection of our drinking water resources. It is not intended to provide a general framework for the use of the hydraulic fracturing technique. What we have read is a major shift in the meaning of the regulations, said the minister after question period in the National Assembly. In the event of a hydraulic fracturing project, there is nothing to presume the issuance of permits by the Ministry of Natural Resources or certificates of authorization by my ministry, and even less of circumvention of environmental assessment mechanisms. &quot;
The Minister stressed that the draft regulation in no way modifies the rules in force but that it strengthens and improves them. Henceforth, in addition to requiring a certificate of authorization, any fracturing and exploration drilling for shale oil must be preceded by a hydrogeological study within a radius of two kilometers from the potential site. According to the conclusions of this study, the protection zone could be extended. As for the minimum protection zone of 400 meters deep, the Minister specified that it is located below the water table and that it will therefore generally reach a minimum of 600 meters. For the sake of understanding, note that 91.45% of wells used for water supply in Quebec have a depth of less than 100 meters.
The minister also made a point of stressing that the experts of his ministry had extensively studied the scientific literature on the subject before determining this protection zone. These notably took into account the particularities of the territory of Quebec, the regulatory framework of other provinces and neighboring states and the scientific literature concerning the impacts of oil and natural gas exploitation.
“Regarding the specific situation on Anticosti Island, I have indicated on several occasions that it will be the subject of a specific environmental assessment. We will make it known at the appropriate time. But I would like to remind you that there are currently no drilling permits under study for Anticosti Island, ”Minister Blanchet said.
“In addition, the Parti Québécois government has tabled a bill decreeing a moratorium on the exploration and exploitation of shale gas in the St. Lawrence Valley,” the Minister recalled. However, the opposition parties are currently blocking the adoption of this bill, ”noted the Minister.
“Our government is taking concrete, responsible and rigorous action when it comes to resource development and environmental protection. I absolutely respect the opinion of groups or citizens who do not want Quebec to explore or exploit its hydrocarbon resources. However, this is not the position of the Government of Quebec. However, we intend to show firmness and rigor in the application of exemplary environmental standards with a view to supervising such activities in Quebec, ”the Minister concluded.
Finally, it should be noted that the draft regulation was the subject of a public announcement on May 15 and that a press release was issued the same day on this subject. In addition, a website has been put on line as well as a video explaining the draft regulation. The website can be consulted at www.protegeonsleau.gouv.qc.ca.
