Montreal - Vermont State Governor Peter Shumlin was in Montreal today to sign a new multisectoral cooperation agreement with Quebec Premier Pauline Marois. This agreement strengthens the commitments between Quebec and Vermont, particularly in terms of trade relations, energy and transport, in addition to adding the health and cultural sectors to this collaboration.
“I am convinced that our future and our prosperity lie in this ability to work together to meet our common challenges and to enhance the heritage we share. The governor and I wanted to push our collaboration even further and this agreement is the realization of this common will, ”said Ms. Marois when signing the agreement.
This agreement, which replaces the one signed in 2003, aims among other things, in commercial matters, to promote the movement of people, goods and services while strengthening security. On the energy front, it will broaden the exchange of information and expertise to smart grid technologies, innovative energy efficiency programs and clean energy supply in the North East region.
The improvements in transport commitments range from harmonizing standards relating to transport services, through the exchange of information on road safety, the restoration of the international bridge in Sutton / East Richford and the improvement of bicycle links. cross-border.
From a cultural point of view, Quebec and Vermont are committed to stimulating exchanges in the performing arts, while in health, new avenues of collaboration will be explored in the field of policies and healthcare delivery systems. . The other sectors that will benefit from this cooperation agreement are the environment, security and agriculture.
In addition to being a leading institutional partner, Vermont is Quebec&#39;s largest trading partner in New England. Our trade with this region reached 3.6 billion Canadian dollars in 2011. Conversely, Quebec is by far Vermont&#39;s most important trading partner on the international scene. Last year, 90% of Vermont&#39;s exports to Canada went to Quebec, while 80% of its Canadian imports came from here.
