Quebec - The Minister of Justice and Minister responsible for the fight against homophobia, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, today launched a first awareness campaign to fight against homophobia.
“Quebec is famous on the international scene in terms of respect for the rights and freedoms of individuals, regardless of their sexual orientation or identity. However, much remains to be done to ensure that acquired legal equality goes hand in hand with social equality, ”declared Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud.
Despite the openness of Quebec society, prejudices and homophobic feelings remain. For example, it is not uncommon to see people withhold their sexual orientation so as not to suffer the disapproval in their environment, with the consequences that one suspects on their quality of life.
The two French television commercials and the English radio message, broadcast from March 3 to 31, aim to make people question their real openness to sexual diversity. In addition to the messages, a website, Luttehomophobie.gouv.qc.ca, invites visitors to react to scenarios allowing them to assess themselves and learn more about the different faces of homophobia and the available resources.
“Surprise without shocking, get each of us to question our degree of personal openness: this is how we want to get people to question ourselves. This is the basis for real and lasting change for a Quebec that is more open and richer in its diversity, a Quebec for all, ”said the Minister responsible for the fight against homophobia.
The campaign is part of a long tradition in Quebec of actions and government awareness campaigns targeting reprehensible and harmful behavior or attitudes. It is one of the flagship measures of the 2011-2016 government action plan to combat homophobia. The plan provides for a second phase of this awareness campaign in 2014-2015. Thus, it will be possible to address other subjects, including homoparentality.
Among the other measures already put forward by the Quebec Ministry of Justice, let us mention the creation of a university research chair on homophobia, the increase in financial support for organizations promoting and defending human rights. rights of persons of sexual minorities, and the establishment of an office to fight against homophobia.
“Fighting against all forms of homophobia is essential. It is about the right of everyone to develop and participate fully in all dimensions of life in society, regardless of their sexual orientation or gender identity. So today, let us take on the collective challenge of making Quebec a nation proud to fight against homophobia in all its forms, ”concluded the Minister of Justice.
Awareness campaign to fight homophobia In brief
The campaign is part of a long tradition in Quebec of actions and government awareness campaigns targeting reprehensible and harmful behavior or attitudes. It is one of the flagship measures of the 2011-2016 government action plan to combat homophobia. The plan provides for a second phase of this awareness campaign in 2014-2015. Thus, it will be possible to address other subjects, including homoparentality.
Help Quebeckers realize that homophobic and sometimes insidious attitudes and behaviors still persist and have serious consequences for the people who are victims of them. It is this necessary awareness that is the basis for a real and lasting change in homophobic behavior or attitudes.
The awareness campaign to fight homophobia is based on a positive approach, drawing on scenes from everyday life. Through this message, Quebeckers are led to reflect on their real degree of openness to sexual diversity.
This first phase of the media awareness campaign to fight homophobia includes the production of two French-language television commercials (30 seconds) and their broadcast on traditional networks, on certain targeted specialized channels and on community channels. These messages will air for a period of four weeks, from March 3 to 31, 2013.
The advertising message is accompanied by a reference to a new Internet site: Luthomophobie.gouv.qc.ca. This site contains information on the realities of people of sexual minorities in order to deconstruct the myths as well as the prejudices of which they are victims. Based on the same principle as the television advertising concepts, an interactive portion, in the form of a questionnaire, was also developed in order to continue the participants&#39; self-assessment on their real openness to sexual diversity. Finally, the site presents the main resources available to help victims of homophobia and their families and to demystify homosexuality and transsexuality.
For more information, please consult: justice.gouv.qc.caouluttehomophobie.gouv.qc.ca
