Quebec - The Minister of Justice of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, announces the appointment of Ms. Nathalie Chalifour, Mr. Jeffrey Edwards, Ms. Myriam Lachance, Mr. Gaston Paul Langevin, Ms. Magali Lewis and Ms. Dominique Vézina as judges of the Court of Quebec.
The Minister also announces the designation of Madam Justice Louise Comeau as Associate Coordinating Judge, Madam Justice Sylvie Durand as Judge responsible for the professional development of judges of the Court of Quebec as well as Judge Yvan Nolet as member of the Tribunal des human rights.
Ms. Nathalie Chalifour holds a bachelor&#39;s degree in law from the University of Montreal. Since her admission to the Bar in 1991, she has practiced her profession in private practice. His practice specialized in entertainment law, intellectual property law and civil and commercial litigation. Since May 2013, she has been practicing her profession within the firm Chalifour Avocats inc. She will exercise her functions mainly at the Civil Chamber in Montreal.
Mr. Jeffrey Edwards holds a bachelor&#39;s degree in civil law and a bachelor&#39;s degree in common law from McGill University as well as a doctorate in law from Laval University. He was admitted to the Bar in 1987 and practiced his profession mainly in civil and commercial litigation in private practice. He is also a certified arbitrator and mediator. Since 1998, he has been head of the litigation sector at the firm Tutino Edwards Joseph. He will exercise his functions mainly at the Civil Chamber in Montreal.
Ms. Myriam Lachance holds a bachelor&#39;s degree in law from the University of Sherbrooke. She was called to the Bar in 1994 and began her career as a Deputy Attorney General. From 1996, she acted in defense in private practice in the criminal, penal and youth sectors and also worked in disciplinary law, ethics and in the field of internal investigations in police matters. At the time of her appointment, she was a lawyer with Lachance Tardif, Avocats. Since 2008, she was also an agent for the Public Prosecution Service of Canada. She will perform her duties mainly in the Criminal and Penal Division in Montreal.
Mr. Gaston Paul Langevin holds a law degree from the University of Ottawa. He was called to the Bar in 1986 and began his career as Deputy Attorney General. From 1990 to 2001, he practiced his profession in private practice. In 2001, he joined the team of attorneys general in Gatineau and subsequently in Mont-Laurier. Since 2010, he was a team leader in the special projects division of the Organized Crime Bureau. He will exercise his functions mainly in the Criminal and Penal Division in Gatineau.
Ms. Magali Lewis holds a bachelor&#39;s and a master&#39;s degree in law from the University of Montreal as well as a master&#39;s degree in American law from the University of Santa Clara in California. She was admitted to the Bar in 1988. She began her career at the Center for Research in Public Law at the University of Montreal. Subsequently, she practiced in private practice. Since 2003, she practiced her profession within the firm Barrette &amp; Associés in civil law, mainly in family and inheritance law, in civil and medical liability and in construction law. She was also an accredited family mediator since 2011. She will exercise her functions mainly at the Civil Chamber in Montreal.
Ms. Dominique Vézina holds a bachelor&#39;s degree in civil law and a bachelor&#39;s degree in common law from McGill University. Since her admission to the Bar in 1988, she has practiced her profession in private practice. She was specialized in civil liability, professional liability, insurance and construction law. Since 2003, she has been practicing her profession at the Donati Maisonneuve firm. She will exercise her functions mainly at the Civil Chamber in Montreal.
At the request of the Chief Justice of the Court of Quebec, the Government of Quebec approved the designation of Judge Louise Comeau as Associate Coordinating Judge, as provided for in the Courts of Justice Act, for a two-year term. as of January 16, 2014.
The government also approved the appointment of Judge Sylvie Durand as judge responsible for the professional development of judges of the Court of Quebec for a two-year term as of February 22, 2014.
The appointment of Judge Yvan Nolet follows the request of the President of the Human Rights Tribunal, as provided for in the Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms. The President of the Tribunal and the Chief Justice of the Court of Quebec recommended that Judge Yvan Nolet be appointed to this function for a two-year term as of January 29, 2014.
