Quebec - The Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to have taken part in the tenth presentation of the Capitale-Nationale Gastronomic Test Bench.
This festive activity brings together local producers and restaurateurs from the Capitale-Nationale each year. For the occasion, six brigades made up of a chef and students in the kitchen of the establishment prepared a gourmet meal prepared using products from the region. This dinner was preceded by an exhibition where agricultural producers and food processors had the products on the menu tasted.
“Here is an excellent pretext to showcase the products of the region and the know-how of all the players in the biofood industry. It is really a great pleasure for me to be present at this evening to taste the fruits of their labor. It seems essential to me to promote the development of the restaurant market for local products, especially when we know that this sector is of prime importance in the Capitale-Nationale, with a gross domestic product of 440 million dollars and its 16,300 jobs, ”said the Minister.
Over the years, more than 115 companies have seen their products used in the preparation of the dishes offered during this meeting, which has helped to highlight the regional biofood potential and the variety of products offered. This is why the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food this year granted financial assistance of $ 6,000 for the holding of the 10th Gastronomic Test Bench in the Capitale-Nationale; thus, the Ministry has invested more than $ 50,000 in this prestigious meeting since its creation.
The activity is organized by the Federation of the Union of Agricultural Producers of the North Shore of Quebec, the Quebec Chapter of the Society of Chefs, Cooks and Patissiers of Quebec and the Fierbourg Professional Training Center, which specializes in particular in the fields of food and tourism.
“I am happy to see all the links in the biofood chain working together to promote local products on the Quebec market. This is, moreover, a major objective that the food sovereignty policy that the government will introduce this spring will pursue. The gastronomic evening which is being held today is an initiative which goes in this direction, since it allows artisans to make their products known to restaurateurs, so that the latter reserve them a place of choice in their menus ”, concluded M Gendron.
Those who wish to obtain more information on the draft food sovereignty policy are invited to consult the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA ). It is also possible to follow the activities of the Department on Twitter (https://twitter.com/mapaquebec).
