Montreal - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces the creation of an advisory committee on climate change. Made up of representatives from various sectors of Quebec society interested in the fight against climate change, this committee will advise the Minister on the measures to be taken in order to achieve the Quebec objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 25%. , based on 1990 emissions at the 2020 threshold.
“Our approach to combating climate change must reflect the expectations and concerns of all the players concerned. The establishment of this committee will provide additional insight and valuable expertise in the implementation of a government strategy of unprecedented ambition in the fight against climate change, ”said Minister Blanchet.
In particular, the Advisory Committee will:
The Minister met for the first time the advisory committee yesterday, November 14 in Montreal to launch the work. The Minister insisted that this meeting, like all the others to come, will be carbon neutral activities.
Members of this advisory committee are:
Minister Blanchet took advantage of this first meeting with the members of this new advisory committee on climate change to underline that the National Assembly unanimously gave the green light to the implementation of the agreement reached with California on the link. cap-and-trade systems for greenhouse gas emission rights. This will create a large North American cross-border market. “Quebec and California are the first two states of a North American-wide carbon market. We will be scrutinized by all the other jurisdictions on the continent, while the international community is also interested in it with great interest. The next step will be to quickly rally other partners to this market, such as California and Quebec, have committed themselves to it, so as to strengthen the signal linked to the carbon cost thus sent to all North American economic players and of the planet ”, indicated the Minister.
Thanks to emissions unit auctions, the Quebec government anticipates revenues of more than $ 3 billion by 2020, a sum totally reinvested in the fight against climate change, in particular through the implementation of the comprehensive transport electrification plan announced by the Prime Minister. It is in this context that the advisory committee was set up.
It is also in order to present this model of the fight against climate change and the ambitious goal of reducing Quebec&#39;s emissions by 25% for the period 1990-2020 that Minister Blanchet will be visiting Warsaw, Poland, this Saturday. The Minister therefore took advantage of this first meeting of the advisory committee to inform it that he will present Quebec initiatives to reduce GHG emissions in Warsaw, during this 19th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Changes climatic. He was notably invited to participate in the event “Implementing Climate Action on cooperation”, organized by the Climate Group and that organized by the International Carbon Action Partnership (ICAP) and entitled “Emission Trading Schemes worldwide: where do we stand , what lies ahead ”. The Minister will take advantage of these forums to publicize the various initiatives to fight climate change implemented in Quebec and which are helping to make Quebec one of the leaders in this area. These initiatives include the Québec-California carbon market, the climate change action plan, as well as important policies such as the Transportation Electrification Strategy and the National Research and Innovation Policy which have just been announced, and which focus on innovation, on the development and export of clean technologies and Quebec know-how.
“By acting locally and internationally, Québec is making a significant contribution to the global effort required to reduce CO2 concentrations in the atmosphere, while stimulating its economic development with a smaller carbon footprint. In everything, Quebec should speak with its own voice, with its one voice. The issue of GHG emissions and climate change is one where Quebec cannot restrict itself to suggesting that the Canadian position is also its own. In the context where the Canadian government has withdrawn from the Kyoto protocol, it is important that all the countries gathered in Warsaw know that Quebec has made a different choice. They must also know that, with other states, we are resolutely committed to the fight against climate change and that we are taking the necessary means to achieve our ambitious and responsible goals. Means that could create a school, ”concluded Minister Blanchet.
Information on the Advisory Committee, the Carbon Market and the Warsaw Conference is available at the following address:
www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca/changementsclimatiques.
