Quebec - As National Mental Health Week has been in full swing since last Monday, the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, wishes to underline the involvement of our partners in mental health in this awareness raising effort. He recalls that mental health is a government priority and that it is essential to continue efforts to put an end to prejudices and stigma.
“Even today, people with mental health problems are often victims of prejudice. Awareness and information are essential to fight against stigma. This is why National Mental Health Week and the many initiatives that go with it are so important. I am very happy to see the strong mobilization of our partners in mental health in the field and would like today to highlight their creativity, their commitment and the exceptional work they are doing in this awareness week - and every day of the week. year - to the four corners of Quebec to break down taboos and inform the population ”indicated Minister Hébert.
Improving front-line mental health services, maintaining the services offered in the community for people with serious mental disorders, developing a service offering for marginalized clients, improving networking between health professionals. health, the deployment of prevention tools as well as the pursuit of the fight against stigma are among the main issues that will be addressed in the next Mental Health Action Plan currently under development and which will be made public in the next few years. month. The future Prevention Policy will also address the issue of mental health.
“Mental health is a priority area of intervention for us. Our approach is part of a new vision that promotes new modes of collaboration and new ways of doing things. We aim to improve accessibility and mental health services for the entire population, ”Minister Hébert concluded.
In Quebec, it is estimated that one in five people is currently living with a mental health problem. According to the World Health Organization, mental illness will be the second leading cause of distress and disability within a few years, second only to cardiovascular disease.
During Mental Health Week, various activities are organized in all regions of Quebec. With its theme You are great! Do you know ?, the Canadian Mental Health Association - Quebec Division wants to focus on self-esteem this year. To find out more, visit www.acsm.qc.ca/ACSM_Quebec/pages/accueil/00_introduction.php.
