Quebec - The Minister of Justice and Minister responsible for the application of professional laws, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, today presented to the National Assembly Bill No. 62- An Act to amend the Professional Code to allow a suspension or immediate provisional limitation of the activities of a professional.
As its title indicates, Bill 62 proposes in particular to allow a disciplinary council of a professional order to immediately suspend or provisionally limit the activities of one of its members accused of a criminal charge. serious punishable by imprisonment for five years or more.
“When a serious criminal charge is brought against one of its members, a professional order should be able to ensure that the public is adequately protected during the duration of the syndic&#39;s investigation or the legal process, as much as several months, or even years, may elapse before a decision is rendered in a criminal case. The public&#39;s confidence in the professional system is at stake, which thus responds to the demands of several professional orders including the Barreau du Québec and the Ordre des ingénieurs du Québec ”declared Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud.
Concretely, on a simple request from the syndic of an order, and if the disciplinary council judges that the protection of the public so requires, the new measure may be imposed on a member of the order who is the subject of a prosecution. for an offense punishable by five years&#39; imprisonment or more, if this offense is related to the practice of the profession or if it represents an attack on the honor or dignity of the profession. Currently, it is only once the syndic&#39;s investigation has been completed or once the court&#39;s decision has been rendered, with the long delays inherent in the investigation or the criminal trial, that an order can intervene to strike one of his members, suspend or limit his right to practice his profession.
&quot;If Bill 62 is adopted, it is clear that we will ensure better efficiency of the disciplinary mechanisms applied in Quebec within the 45 professional orders&quot; concluded Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud.
Finally, it should be noted that the provisions of Bill 62 are added to the package of measures aimed at modernizing the disciplinary justice system contained in the Act to amend the Professional Code in matters of disciplinary justice (Bill 17), adopted by the National Assembly in June 2013.
