Quebec - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, today reacted to the federal government&#39;s decision to go ahead with its bill on the elimination of the relative tax credit. labor-sponsored funds. “I do not understand the attitude of the Government of Canada on this issue. By refusing any compromise and turning a deaf ear to arguments in favor of maintaining the tax credit, the federal government is harming the growth of the Quebec economy and the development of our businesses, particularly SMEs, ”he added. he declares.
The Minister recalled that labor-sponsored funds are an important economic development tool for Quebec. They invest 60% of their net assets in venture and development capital in SMEs in Quebec. Thus, these funds promote the creation of many jobs in all regions and attract private and foreign capital.
Their investments also help make Quebec businesses more productive and innovative. &quot;By abolishing the tax credit for labor-sponsored funds, the federal government will reduce their capitalization and limit their power to intervene in the economy, in addition to depriving Quebec of significant leverage to attract partners and investors ”, underlined the Minister.
Concretely, the abolition of the federal tax credit will significantly reduce the investments of labor-sponsored funds in Quebec businesses, which amount to $ 600 million per year. These investments represent $ 200 million per year in venture capital and $ 400 million per year in development capital.
&quot;The federal government is ignoring other avenues that would allow it to achieve its objectives of increasing the availability of venture capital across Canada and limiting its tax costs,&quot; said the Minister. Thus, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ and Fondaction CSN recently proposed to maintain the tax credit while reducing its cost by $ 300 million over 10 years, for example by capping capital inflows into the funds. In return, labor-sponsored funds would commit to investing $ 2 in venture capital for every dollar of tax credit.
With this proposal, Quebec labor-sponsored funds would continue to invest in venture capital. Thus, over a 10-year period, $ 2 billion in venture capital would be invested, particularly as part of the federal action plan on venture capital. These amounts would be in addition to the $ 4 billion that would be invested in development capital. &quot;This proposal would have made it possible to substantially increase the availability of venture capital in Canada, but the federal government did not take it into account,&quot; lamented the Minister.
In addition to contributing to the economic development of Quebec, labor-sponsored funds are important savings tools that allow more than 720,000 Quebecers to create or improve their retirement plans. Saving for retirement is an important issue for governments and all Quebecers.
“Despite the federal government&#39;s withdrawal, we will continue to support labor-sponsored funds by maintaining the Quebec tax credit. We will not take any action that could increase the fiscal cost to the government. We will maintain our participation in these institutions given their importance to Quebec&#39;s economic development and their appeal to savers. Moreover, it is not too late; the federal government can still reverse its decision, ”concluded the Minister.
