Montreal - On the occasion of a conference given to the Chamber of Commerce of Metropolitan Montreal, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, assured this noon that the government is committed to the long term with stable and sustainable funding for higher education and research.
“Our government is committed to a knowledge society. To achieve this, our universities need stable resources that ensure their sustainability. Higher education represents a powerful social and economic lever for Quebec. For this reason, we have made the decision to increase university funding until 2018-2019, recognizing the importance of our university network, ”said Minister Duchesne.
At the Higher Education Summit, held last February, the government presented the financial framework for universities, confirming a massive reinvestment of nearly $ 1.8 billion from 2012-2013 to 2018-2019. Concretely, this means that from 2013-2014 to 2014-2015, the budget will go from 3.075 billion to 3.337 billion dollars. This is an increase of $ 262 million. Over the next few weeks, the Ministry will undertake a series of meetings with the leaders of each university to establish the partnership agreement with each of them, which will determine in particular the level of reinvestment for their establishment.
In subsequent years, the appropriations will continue to grow until 2018-2019. Ultimately, in 2018-2019, government grants to universities will have been increased by more than $ 800 million, from $ 2.97 billion in 2012-2013 to $ 3.8 billion in 2018-2019.
During a conference given to the Chamber of Commerce of Metropolitan Montreal, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, assured this noon that the government is committed in the long term with stable and sustainable funding in higher education and research. // (c) Joël Bouchard (source)
On the research side, with the recent entry into force of the National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI), a sum of $ 3.7 billion over five years is invested by the government. From next January, several calls for projects will be launched to implement the various measures.
Among other success factors, Québec&#39;s economic development depends on better mobilization of the research, teaching and business communities. The PNRI foresees different initiatives that will build bridges between the various actors, in a variety of disciplines and sectors. Thus, basic and applied research receives significant support, as do the natural sciences as well as the social and human sciences.
By promoting synergy between the higher education network and the private sector, by investing more in research infrastructures, by encouraging research centers, institutions and companies to work more in partnership, the government wishes to reach a level investment in research and development corresponding to 3% of its gross domestic product (GDP).
“More than ever, higher education and research are at the heart of government priorities, because they ultimately enrich Quebecers. The recent establishment of the PNRI confirms this. Knowledge is a common good. We must develop and enrich it, and that is what our government is doing, ”concluded Minister Duchesne.
Through its policies and actions, the Ministry supports the development of higher education, research, science and technology, in particular by promoting the coordination and consultation of the various actors working in these areas of expertise. It also encourages an increase in the level of education of Quebecers and facilitates access to the highest forms of knowledge and culture, among other things through programs relating to financial aid for studies. Finally, the Department supports and promotes the advancement of research, science, innovation and technology in academic, industrial and social circles, with a view to sustainable development.
The PNRI is one of the four major strategic initiatives around which the Québec government&#39;s Priority Employment Economic Policy is based.
For more information on the Ministère and the PNRI, visit www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca.
