Salaberry-de-Valleyfield– The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, today inaugurated the enlarged and renovated Salaberry-de-Valleyfield courthouse.
The ceremony took place in the presence of the Chief Justice of the Superior Court, the Honorable François Rolland, the Chief Justice of the Court of Quebec, the Honorable Elizabeth Corte, legal interveners as well as representatives of the Real Estate Company. of Quebec, project manager.
“The population now has a building with more spacious rooms at the cutting edge of technology. The new facilities also ensure safer traffic and provide premises better suited to the needs of victims, court workers and staff. They were carried out within the schedule set at the start of the work and within the authorized budget of $ 59.2 million, ”the Minister declared.
Built in 1901 and renovated in 1975, the Salaberry-de-Valleyfield courthouse no longer met the growing needs of its occupants. Begun in 2008, the renovation and expansion project made it possible to add 3 courtrooms, bringing their number to 10.
In addition to the redevelopment of the premises necessary for the administration of justice, the expanded and renovated courthouse has two new mediation rooms, one of which can also serve as an additional courtroom. The new arrangements not only make it possible to better meet the needs of victims, but also to facilitate the teletesting of children. Finally, they offer several meeting spaces for the legal community.
The size of the courthouse has doubled from 6,000 to 12,000 square meters. The renovation work on the existing part was carried out in order to preserve the heritage aspect of the original building. Finally, the project was carried out to meet high standards in terms of sustainable development and energy efficiency.
“The Salaberry-de-Valleyfield courthouse is now one of the most modern in Quebec and it becomes the second largest in Montérégie, after Longueuil. It is a source of inspiration for future work to modernize our judicial facilities, at the heart of the actions of the Government of Quebec for ever more accessible and efficient justice, justice for all, ”concluded the Minister of Justice.
