Quebec - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is proud to announce the award of a $ 700,000 grant to the society for the development of Univalor university research to support a research project aimed at developing a treatment for type 1 myotonic dystrophy, also known as Steinert&#39;s disease. The total cost of the project is $ 900,000. The AmorChem seed fund, specializing in biotechnology, will contribute $ 200,000.
“At the dawn of the tabling of the National Research and Innovation Policy, the government can already rely on a health research network that stands out. I look forward to the collaboration between research centers and companies. This collaboration is, moreover, one of the privileged axes of the future National Research and Innovation Policy. The researchers we are supporting today will be able to carry out research aimed at improving the quality of life of Quebecers, ”Minister Duchesne stressed.
The promoter of the project, Univalor, has contributed for more than ten years to the promotion of university research by creating links between the university and the business world. More specifically, it helps commercialize scientific discoveries and technological innovations resulting from the work of researchers from the University of Montreal and its affiliated health centers, Polytechnique Montreal and HEC Montreal.
&quot;We are pleased that Dr. Pascal Chartrand and his team at the University of Montreal are benefiting from the financial support of the Quebec government&#39;s valuation and transfer support program,&quot; said Jacques Simoneau, President and CEO. of Univalor. This program has an undeniable positive impact on the ability of researchers to advance their work and is a key tool for Univalor in fulfilling its mandate of promoting university research. Coupled with the support of a solid business partner such as AmorChem, which will inject an additional $ 300,000 for other chemistry work carried out by NuChem Thérapeutiques, the contribution of the Government of Quebec now allows us to send a message of hope to people with type 1 myotonic dystrophy. &quot;
Particularly widespread in Quebec, mainly in the Charlevoix and Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean regions, type 1 myotonic dystrophy is the most common form of muscular dystrophy in adults. People with the condition show symptoms of loss of muscle tone, generalized muscle weakness, cardiac arrhythmia, excessive sleepiness, and cataracts. The development of this disease is variable, but it progresses slowly and leads to complete disability of the patient. There is currently no treatment for this disease.
“Pharmaceutical companies are particularly interested in orphan diseases and are constantly looking for new innovative avenues for their treatment. We are banking on the fact that the work carried out within the framework of this project will meet their expectations, ”says Inès Holzbaur, senior partner at AmorChem.
This $ 700,000 grant is part of the third component of the Promotion and Transfer Support Program, dedicated to support for technological maturation. This component aims to promote the development of institutional research results with real commercial potential and which correspond to the needs of the business community and society.
The preclinical study project supported by the grant and which aims to treat this rare genetic disease will be carried out at the University of Montreal under the scientific direction of Dr. Pascal Chartrand.
For more information on the programs and services of the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, visit www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca.
