Montreal - The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, announces the establishment of a drug addiction treatment program under judicial supervision for adult offenders who commit certain crimes because of their addiction .
On this day when the provisions of Bill C-10 relating to minimum prison sentences for drugs come into force, the Minister is invoking section 720 (2) of the Criminal Code, which allows a province to set up a drug treatment program under judicial supervision. By doing so, it thus gives the possibility to judges not to impose the new minimum sentences of imprisonment when the offender successfully completes the drug treatment program, in accordance with Article 10 (5). of the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act.
“In the case of crimes that are not likely to endanger the safety of the public, this judicial program makes it possible to intervene effectively with addicted offenders to help them end their addiction. Through this approach, we want to prevent the cycle of successive crimes and imprisonments through treatment, rehabilitation and reintegration, ”said the Minister of Justice.
The Quebec program is in line with the recommendations of the Court of Quebec and similar projects currently administered by specialized courts in six large Canadian cities. It involves an interaction between the program interveners, both the prosecutor, the defense, the court and the treatment units as well as the community services, in order to maximize the chances of success of the therapy and facilitate the social reintegration of the offender. The resources associated with it are certified community or private establishments that revolve around the health and social services network.
The framework program can be adapted according to the resources and needs of each region. The program will leave it to the partners to make local arrangements regarding their respective roles, the process for admitting a defendant to the program and the criteria for successful participation.
The Minister of Justice will shortly be sending guidelines to the Director of Criminal and Penal Prosecutions (DPCP), so as to encourage prosecutors to prioritize treatment when the accused meets the conditions of the program.
“I would like to thank all the partners who contributed to the establishment of the drug treatment court program. It is by joining forces that we will be able to better prevent recidivism and ensure the protection of the public in the long term, ”concluded Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud.
