Quebec - After a visit to London largely devoted to the theme of the economy, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, concluded her mission in Edinburgh, Scotland, with an interview with Prime Minister Alex Salmond.
“We want to build concrete links with Scotland that can help enrich our society, for the benefit of its economy, culture and areas of expertise. Discussions with our Scottish interlocutors made it possible to explore avenues of collaboration that we now intend to explore, ”said the Prime Minister.
In a statement at the end of the interview, the Prime Minister, Pauline Marois, and the Prime Minister, Alex Salmond, expressed the wish to strengthen economic collaboration between Quebec and Scotland, while multiplying cultural links , already very dynamic. Given in particular the ambitious targets that Quebec and Scotland have set for the fight against climate change, the energy and environment sectors appear to be the most promising for increasing this economic collaboration.
Earlier today, the First Minister met with Scottish Parliament Deputy Speaker Elaine Smith as well as Official Opposition Leader Johann Lamont before being introduced to all parliamentarians meeting in the Debates Chamber.
Ms Marois met with the director of Festivals Edinburgh, Faith Liddell, as well as the directors of eight festivals in this group which contributes to making the Scottish capital an important cultural center. This meeting made it possible to signify Quebec&#39;s will to work jointly to develop a strong Quebec cultural presence in 2014. Many Quebec artists have already performed at the Edinburgh festivals, which constitute a hub in international distribution. performing arts.
Finally, the Premier participated in a working meeting bringing together stakeholders from business, culture and the environment. Discussions took place in particular on the possibilities of exchange in the field of renewable energies, in particular wind energy, as well as in terms of innovation and technological transfer.
In the British capital, the Prime Minister addressed nearly 200 representatives of the business community gathered at the invitation of the Canada – United Kingdom Chamber of Commerce. On this occasion, she highlighted the capacity for innovation and creativity of Quebec society, as well as the new government measures put forward to promote investment and the establishment of business links in Quebec. The Premier also indicated that her government wanted to give new impetus to northern development in Quebec.
The Prime Minister also announced, during her visit to London, the establishment in Montreal of the British company Framestore. Thanks to the investment project of this world leader in visual effects and animation for the film and television industry, 200 new jobs will be created over the next three years. The Quebec government supported this project by granting the company a repayable financial contribution.
“The United Kingdom is our most important economic partner abroad, after China and the United States. This mission made it possible to maintain dialogue with significant partners for our economy and our development, and to underline that Quebec has undeniable assets to attract new investments, ”concluded the Premier.
