Quebec - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today unveils the details of the mandate given to the Research Chair on Mistreatment of Seniors as part of the 3rd Partners&#39; Forum on elder abuse, held on October 11.
&quot;To better address the phenomenon of mistreatment and ensure the health and well-being of our seniors in the most optimal way possible, it is important to base our actions on facts and to take into account the various measures in place as well as the existing mechanisms, in Quebec and elsewhere in the world. Mistreatment in an institutional setting is poorly documented for the time being, hence the relevance and the need for the mandate entrusted to the Research Chair on Mistreatment of Seniors, ”declared Minister Hébert.
The mandate of the Research Chair in Elder Abuse is divided into three segments. It consists, on the one hand, of:
The Research Chair will also see to draw up, in partnership with the Secretariat for Seniors, an inventory of the Quebec authorities that can currently be mobilized in a situation of mistreatment of seniors in residential settings, and the way in which their respective mechanisms are used. .
Finally, the mandate of the Chair also aims to document, based on an international review of scientific writings on the subject, the extent, nature and circumstances of the various forms of elder abuse in residential settings. , as well as the proposed action strategies.
“We hope that the Research Chair on Mistreatment of Seniors will be able to equip us to lead the fight against mistreatment in residential settings that is as effective as possible. Abuse is a persistent taboo, and people who experience it are often reluctant to talk about it. This is why it is all the more important to deploy operative and effective means to counter it, ”also indicated Minister Hébert.
Remember that the Research Chair on elder abuse entrusted to the University of Sherbrooke is one of the four structuring actions of the government action plan to counter elder abuse. To date, it has carried out no less than 14 studies, 9 research projects, 30 publications, 10 scientific activities as well as various training activities, in person and online. The work she will do under this new mandate should be completed by the end of March 2014.
The preliminary results of the Chair&#39;s work will be communicated next January to the Committee of National Non-Governmental Partners in the Seniors Sector, and will serve to fuel its discussions. This committee, which brings together no less than forty Quebec organizations, is the realization of Minister Hébert&#39;s desire expressed in December 2012, and plays the dual role of consultant and information relay in major issues concerning elders.
