Quebec - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, announces that he is granting the Université du Québec à Montréal (UQAM), for the Institut des sciences Mathematics (ISM), a financial aid totaling $ 987,000 for the next three academic years. This grant will allow the ISM to pursue its mission and activities, which relate not only to the coordination of research in mathematics, but also to the promotion of mathematical sciences and the development of scientific culture.
“It is essential for Quebec to innovate in all spheres of higher education. However, mathematics is the common denominator of most sciences. The deepening of our knowledge in this field therefore benefits a host of scientific disciplines and makes it possible to stimulate research and innovation. I encourage the Institute to continue its excellent research work, but also to instill a taste for science in young people, who are the next generation of the Quebec of tomorrow. Moreover, the National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI) that I launched last fall aims in particular to support the development of scientific careers, ”said Minister Duchesne.
The Institute of Mathematical Sciences brings together the eight Quebec universities with a department of mathematics and statistics, namely Bishop&#39;s, Concordia, Laval, McGill universities, the universities of Montreal and Sherbrooke, the University of Quebec at Trois-Rivières and UQAM. The latter was mandated by the members to administer the Institute.
The Institute has sought cooperation and the sharing of resources among its members since its founding 22 years ago. The ISM brings together some 175 professors and researchers and more than 525 graduate students in ten research groups. The Government of Quebec has financially supported the ISM since its founding in 1991. Since 2007-2008, the grant has amounted to $ 329,000 per year. Member universities contribute an amount of $ 28,000 annually.
“The ISM is a shining example of what Quebec universities can accomplish when they work together. The great doctoral school that constitutes the ISM is a formidable incubator of mathematical talents and a pole of attraction on a global scale. Its activities and publications, such as Accromath and the Annals Mathematics of Quebec, contribute to Quebec&#39;s influence on the international scene. It is this mission that the new subsidy from the Ministry will allow us to pursue and the entire mathematical community is delighted. It is a vote of confidence that we will be able to show ourselves worthy, ”said ISM director and professor at McGill University, Mr. Christian Genest.
The National Research and Innovation Policy is part of the four strategic initiatives of the Government of Quebec&#39;s Priority Employment economic policy. It is the result of numerous consultations held with stakeholders from all sectors concerned by research and innovation: businesses, educational establishments, the State and society. With an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion over five years, it will help advance Québec in the knowledge and innovation society.
For more information on the Department&#39;s programs and services, visit www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca.
