Quebec - As part of theMonth of Archeology, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announces the signing of a notice of intent to classify for the archaeological site of Couvents-de-Château-Richer, in Château -Richer, under the Cultural Heritage Act.
“Today&#39;s announcement clearly illustrates the Government of Quebec&#39;s desire to safeguard our cultural heritage and preserve the remains and archaeological sites of our nation. It is a real pleasure for me to issue a notice of intention to classify the Couvents-de-Château-Richer site and this announcement comes at the right time, while Archeology Month in Quebec is taking place ”, said Minister Kotto.
The notice of intent to classify aims to protect the grounds of the Château-Richer convent. Archaeological interventions have revealed the foundations of the first two convents that were built on the site. The remains of a windmill, a dairy and other outbuildings built up to the 19th century have also been found. All these vestiges inform us about the daily life of the occupants of the premises since the French Regime.
The Couvents-de-Château-Richer site is of heritage interest for its historical and archaeological values. Indeed, the place bears witness to the settlement of the Côte-de-Beaupré and the history of education. The convent of Château-Richer is the only known site in Quebec associated with teaching young girls in rural areas during the French Regime. The convent, which is located on the archaeological site, has for its part been cited as a heritage building by the municipality.
Additional information concerning the archaeological site of Couvents-de-Château-Richer, the current convent of Château-Richer as well as all the heritage elements registered in the Cultural Heritage Register are available on the site of the Quebec Cultural Heritage Directory. (RPCQ), atwww.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca. This dissemination tool from the Ministry of Culture and Communications makes it possible to discover the richness and diversity of Quebec&#39;s cultural heritage by making it accessible to all. Some of the content of the RPCQ can now be found on the Government of Quebec&#39;s open data portal, at www.data.gouv.qc.ca.
