Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, will carry out a mission in Europe, from December 13 to 17, which will take her to Paris, Monaco and Brussels. This mission comes in the wake of major economic announcements that point to new prospects for exchanges with Quebec&#39;s European partners.
“This mission will notably allow the presentation of the French authorities&#39; new Priorité Emploiaux economic policy. In particular, we wish to establish fruitful collaboration with France in the field of transport electrification, a sector of the future for which Québec has many assets, ”declared the Premier.
In Paris, Pauline Marois will meet with the President of the French Republic, François Hollande, the Prime Minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, and the Minister of the Economy and Finance, Pierre Moscovici. She will also take advantage of her visit to the capital to meet the Secretary General of La Francophonie, Abdou Diouf. Finally, in Monaco, the Prime Minister will meet with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of France, Laurent Fabius, and will speak at the World Policy Conference, an annual forum on global governance issues that will bring together hundreds of foreign personalities.
The Prime Minister will then travel to Brussels where she will participate in working meetings. She will be accompanied by the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée. A meeting with the European Commissioner for Internal Market and Services, Michel Barnier, is scheduled, as well as with the Minister-President of the Flemish government, Kris Peeters. Ms. Marois will also meet the Vice-President and Minister of the Economy, SMEs, Foreign Trade, New Technologies and Higher Education of the Walloon government, Jean-Claude Marcourt. In addition, the Premier will deliver an important speech to Belgian and European business circles in order to promote Quebec as a business partner.
“A new transatlantic economic context is emerging thanks to recent developments in connection with the draft Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union. We must now position Quebec, its expertise and its businesses with European political and economic decision-makers, ”concluded the Premier.
