Chicoutimi - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, accompanied by the Minister responsible for Government Administration, President of the Treasury Board and Minister responsible for the Saguenay region -Lac-Saint-Jean, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, announces the allocation of a $ 6.5M grant for the acquisition of the Grand Séminaire de Chicoutimi by the University of Quebec at Chicoutimi (UQAC).
“The acquisition of this building will provide training in physiotherapy in partnership with McGill University. New ways of learning and creating communities of practice and collaborative networks of projects are powerful engines of social and economic development. The spinoffs will be positive for everyone and for the advancement of knowledge, ”said Minister Duchesne.
The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne. // (c) Joel Bouchard
The acquisition of the Major Seminary by UQAC includes the purchase of the building, the renovation of the spaces and the purchase of basic and specialized equipment that will be used to offer the bachelor&#39;s and master&#39;s programs in physiotherapy.
“The University of Quebec at Chicoutimi is a fine example of the excellence of higher education in the region. Our government will always be there to consolidate and maintain programming that meets the needs of universities in the regions. We keep our young people here for their studies, and we are banking on the fact that they will stay here after their studies, ”said Minister Bédard.
Physiotherapy programs have only been offered at UQAC since last year and seek to meet the growing needs for manpower in this field. In order to speed up the process of setting up programs and their recognition by the Professional Order of Physiotherapy of Quebec, UQAC has chosen to offer McGill University programs as an extension. Note that since 2010, only obtaining a master&#39;s degree in physiotherapy gives access to the practice of the profession.
The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, and the Minister responsible for Government Administration, President of the Treasury Board and Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac region -Saint-Jean, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, discussing with the students of UQAC. // (c) Joel Bouchard
“Higher education institutions play a strategic role in education, research and innovation, as well as in community services. Our government is ensuring that it has the means to take action to fully participate in these networks for the creation, use and dissemination of knowledge and skills. It is essential to give scope to our knowledge institutions because they contribute to the development of our cities and regions, ”Minister Duchesne concluded.
At the end of the Higher Education Summit, held in February 2013, three of the five work sites that were set up concern universities:
