Quebec - &quot;Our government had for the first time, last February, adopted a regulation on the certification of private residences, in particular to improve the training of patient attendants, to tighten fire safety standards and to impose a threshold. minimum evening and night surveillance. Our objective is firm: the safety of the elderly, first and foremost, ”declared the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, who wanted to take stock of the regulation of private residences.
Following the coming into force of this Regulation respecting the conditions for obtaining a certificate of compliance and the operating standards of a private seniors&#39; residence, many small residences of the NPO type and health cooperatives for persons self-employed with less than 50 rooms as well as groups representing seniors have expressed their concerns about the new requirements and the short deadline imposed by the application schedule.
Thus, a draft regulation proposing accommodations for these small residences was published in the Official Gazette on December 27 for consultations and comments. Other changes relate to the time limits for entry into force.
“These modifications constituted an accommodation for us allowing these small residences for independent persons to remain certified while continuing to ensure the safety of people and the quality of services. There was however an introduction in the pre-published rules of an amendment which did not correspond to our intention. It is therefore understood that these accommodations apply to all residences, all clienteles combined. This is a mistake and I accept it. The government&#39;s intention was only to target small residences with 50 rooms or less for independent seniors and concerned the person who must provide supervision and their level of training, ”continued the Minister.
“In addition, it is important to remember that the draft regulation is only at the pre-publication stage, the necessary corrections will be made. Thus, residences for the elderly with more than 50 rooms remain fully subject to the initial regulations of last March, ”the Minister said.
“We must maintain a fair balance between the necessary improvement in the quality and safety of services and maintaining accessibility to this type of accommodation, particularly in the regions. Above all, we want all private seniors&#39; residences to continue their commitment to safety and that they can continue to be certified. Last February, we took an important first step and we are continuing our work. Moreover, the intersectoral committee coordinated by Public Security is already examining other aspects of security in private residences for the elderly. The Isle-Verte tragedy forces us to speed up this reflection. Our government is resolutely committed to ensuring the safety of our seniors, ”Minister Réjean Hébert concluded.
