Saint-Irénée– The Premier of Quebec and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix – Côte-de-Beaupré, Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, took part today in the inauguration of the residence of students Paul Lafleur from Domaine Forget, in Saint-Irénée.
“I am very happy to proceed with this long-awaited inauguration, and I am convinced that this new residence will meet the expectations of customers. Domaine Forget, this cultural place of discovery, meeting and discussion, is recognized as an important player in the training of the next generation of artists and the vitality of the Charlevoix region, ”declared the Premier.
This new accommodation complex is part of the first phase of a larger cultural project. The investment by the Government of Quebec for this pavilion amounts to $ 2,047,537 and will provide adequate accommodation for students of the International Academy of Music and Dance.
“Encrusted in a natural and inspiring setting, the Domaine Forget is one of our most renowned institutions in terms of teaching and distributing classical music. I want to underline the constant efforts invested by this organization to offer young musicians, destined for promising careers, a place conducive to learning and artistic development, ”added Minister Kotto.
A second phase, estimated at nearly $ 1 million, will begin in the fall of 2013 and will consist, among other things, of redeveloping the existing dormitories into apartments for the accommodation of teachers and students of the Academy.
The total cost of the work for the two phases is $ 4,860,446. The participation of the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications, under its Capital Assistance program, represents 49% of the total cost, or an amount of $ 2,403,300.
The other part of the financial package breaks down as follows: $ 1,200,000 is allocated by Canada Economic Development, $ 349,880 is paid by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, $ 175,000 comes from the Secretariat in the Capitale-Nationale, and $ 50,000 is granted by the Center local de développement de la MRC de Charlevoix-Est. Domaine Forget completes the financing of the project with a contribution of $ 682,266 from various donors.
The contribution of the Ministry of Culture and Communications is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan, made public in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 2 billion for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make informed choices.
Domaine Forget is a non-profit corporation, which works in the fields of training, creation and dissemination of the arts, music and dance. Its main activity is its International Academy of Music and Dance, which targets young people and future professionals.
Each summer, it also presents the International Festival, which offers quality musical programming and sees renowned Quebec and international musicians parade on stage. The inauguration of the student residence was also followed by the opening concert of the Festival.
