Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, today announced the publication in the Official Gazette of Quebec of the draft regulation on municipal wastewater treatment works. wastewater, for public consultation. “This regulation will allow us to continue to improve the health of our waterways. These precious sources of drinking water are also home to ecosystems that must be protected. The new phase of municipal wastewater treatment will, in time, make it possible to restore to Quebecers several uses of the river and our waterways, such as swimming and fishing, ”said Minister Blanchet.
The draft regulation submitted for consultation is in line with the objectives of the National Water Policy and follows recent recommendations from the Commissioner for Sustainable Development. It will make it possible to complete the municipal wastewater treatment program and carry out major work to upgrade existing treatment facilities throughout Quebec.
The draft regulation makes it possible to introduce new performance standards applicable in all Quebec municipalities, and which will be at least equivalent to those set out in the Canada-wide Strategy for the management of municipal wastewater effluents. Thus, existing wastewater treatment plants that do not meet these standards will have to comply with the regulations by 2020, 2030 or 2040, depending on the level of risk they represent for the environment. The adopted Strategy also includes requirements for the control of raw sewage overflows and requires the production of plans for the reduction of such overflows. Although it subscribes to the objectives pursued by this strategy, Québec has not officially adhered to it because, to date, it has not obtained the guarantees requested of the federal government with regard to compliance. of its powers and an adequate federal contribution to the investments that will be required.
By this gesture, Quebec is demonstrating its desire to fully exercise its jurisdiction in this area and to be exempted from the application of the Regulation respecting effluent from wastewater systems enacted by the federal government on June 29, 2012. To this end , an intergovernmental agreement must be concluded so that the Quebec regulations are the only ones to apply in Quebec.
The draft regulation establishes new discharge standards and prohibits the overflow of untreated wastewater in dry weather. The current treatment facilities will be gradually improved and new ones will be built in order to meet these new standards.
The draft regulation also provides that the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks will issue municipal sanitation certificates that will specify the specific requirements to be met depending on the vulnerability of the receiving environment, in addition to those included in the regulations. These certificates, renewable every five years, will make it possible to adjust these requirements, if necessary, according to changes in the situation and in knowledge.
It should be noted that the draft regulation also specifies the professional qualifications that operators of municipal wastewater treatment plants must henceforth have.
In addition, under the new ministerial position on the application of overflow standards for municipal sewer networks, it is important to note that as of April 1, 2014, no sewer network extension project likely to increasing the frequency of combined, domestic or pseudomestic sewer overflows will not be permitted. This procedure will also apply to any increase in flow in the sewer network resulting from the redevelopment of a sector or the establishment, expansion or increase in production of an industry. However, this rule will not apply to projects with an average flow rate of less than 10 m3 / day, if the existing sewer network meets its overflow requirements.
It will cost approximately $ 3 billion to bring all municipal wastewater treatment facilities up to the expected performance standards. In addition, the costs to reduce untreated wastewater overflows to a level allowing full recovery of uses could reach up to $ 6 billion. The federal government is expected to provide a significant portion of the long-term funding required to make these investments. “Greater efficiency of facilities, more stringent standards, rigorous monitoring, these are our objectives to ensure the health of the population and improve the quality of our waterways. I invite all the organizations concerned by the draft regulation to participate in the consultation, ”concluded Minister Blanchet.
The public consultation will take place from May 15 to July 13, 2013. The draft by-law, the terms and conditions relating to the public consultation, as well as the ministerial position on the application of overflow standards for municipal sewer systems are available on the website. Ministry website at http://www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca/eau/eaux-usees/ouvrages-municipaux/reglement2013.htm.
