Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, took advantage of her visit to the annual Assises of the Federation of Quebec Municipalities (FQM) to announce the renewal of the National Policy on Rurality. This new generation of the Policy provides for investments of $ 470 million over 10 years.
“Our government is taking a big step forward for the advancement of rural areas by placing the MRC at the heart of the new policy. With this agreement, enhanced by some $ 70 million, we are reaffirming our concrete commitment to rural communities, ”declared the Premier.
The Policy will cover the period 2014-2024, in order to allow the development and implementation of structuring projects for rural communities. To achieve this, it provides for a new generation of enhanced rural pacts which will be based on strong intersectoral consultation, with a view to fostering innovative and daring progress, as well as on a strengthened network of rural development agents.
“Our government is taking a big step forward for the advancement of rural areas by placing the MRC at the heart of the new policy. With this agreement, enhanced by some $ 70 million, we are reaffirming our concrete commitment to rural communities, ”declared the Premier. // (c) Luc Trudel (source)
“Citizens want their living environment to be welcoming and dynamic. Thanks to this new policy, Quebec meets these expectations and gives communities effective means to ensure a strong, inspired and inspiring rurality, in complementarity with urban environments, and for the benefit of all of Quebec society ”added Pauline Marois.
With regard to the negotiations surrounding the next Quebec-municipalities agreement, the Premier recalled that at the request of municipal organizations, the government agreed to extend the agreement on fiscal and financial partnership by one year. , which will allow the negotiations on the new agreement to be completed. She made it clear that the amount provided by the government for the reimbursement of the QST to municipalities will drop from $ 472 million in 2013 to $ 482 million in 2014. In addition, there is no question of reducing amounts transferred to municipalities.
