Québec, March 4, 2015 - The member for Saint-Jérôme and official opposition critic for the economy, entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports, Pierre Karl Péladeau, as well as the member for Gaspé and regional development spokesperson, Gaétan Lelièvre, deplore the fact that Minister Jacques Daoust has added to his unacceptable statements concerning entrepreneurs in the region: according to him, the “kings of the village” do not create real wealth.
Earlier today, the minister apologized for the use of the terms, but not on the substance of his thinking. The deputies therefore again ask the minister to stop denigrating the regions and their entrepreneurs. They also invite him to embark on a tour to meet those who run companies proudly employing people and contributing to the development of their region.
“For the minister, the real wealth would come from foreign investors. Quebec companies that invest and create jobs here do not generate wealth, according to him. The denigration of entrepreneurs continues. When a business creates 200 jobs in a locality, is it not wealth creation? The minister should get his feet back on the ground. We agree that foreign investment must be there. Unfortunately, given the poor tangible results of the government&#39;s economic missions for Quebecers, we can be worried about economic development, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“By trivializing the closures of businesses in the region, Minister Daoust is a good illustration of his government&#39;s lack of consideration for the many job losses affecting families. Those he called &quot;village kings&quot; are often the owners of 2nd or 3rd generation family businesses, who are actively involved in the survival and development of their community, and who are not always recognized at their fair value. They are now facing the end of 40 years of regional consultation because of the actions of the Liberal government. Instead of trivializing job losses, the government should be concerned and come to meet entrepreneurs; we invite him to do so, ”concluded Gaétan Lelièvre.
