Paris, France - At the end of a four-day mission to Paris carried out on the sidelines of the Quebec National Day celebrations, the Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier is delighted with the fruitful meetings he has had and which bear witness to the great friendship that unites France and Quebec.
During his mission, Minister Alexandre Cloutier met numerous French political representatives with whom he notably discussed the political, economic and cultural relations between France and Quebec. The minister, among others, exchanged with members of the France-Quebec Friendship Committee, deputies of the French National Assembly, French senators, as well as with representatives of the municipal administration of Paris.
As part of the various events organized by the Délégation générale du Québec in Paris on the occasion of the Fête nationale du Québec, Minister Cloutier addressed several distinguished guests, including ambassadors, parliamentarians, members of the French government. , as well as to many guests of honor to talk about the orientations and the record of the Marois government since it came to power.
The Minister then recalled the various measures taken by the government to make the Quebec political system more honest. He also wished to indicate the great importance he attaches to the consolidation of public finances, to economic development and to the improvement of social policies. In this regard, he mentioned the transportation electrification worksite, but also Quebec&#39;s new food sovereignty policy, as well as the White Paper on Autonomy Insurance that his government presented in the spring.
Minister Alexandre Cloutier also presented the fundamental elements of sovereignist governance, which aims to be the line of conduct of a sovereignist government until Quebecers decide to give themselves a country. He also wished to underline the National Day of Quebec and the importance of the relationship of friendship which unites France and Quebec.
“Our national holiday is a special time to celebrate the pride we have in belonging to the people of Quebec, to promote our difference around the world and also to thank the faithful friends of Quebec,” said Minister Cloutier.
During an interview with the Secretary General of La Francophonie, Mr. Abdou Diouf, Minister Cloutier and Mr. Diouf discussed in particular the place of Quebec in the international Francophonie, the situation of French in Quebec and on the stage. international, as well as the promotion of the French language.
Minister Cloutier attended the most important hunting and fishing fair in France, the Game Fair, which took place at the Domaine National de Chambord and which welcomes more than 71,000 visitors annually. Quebec was this year the guest of honor at the Show and to mark the occasion, 24 Quebec stands promoted activities related to hunting and fishing in Quebec.
“Quebec is a true paradise for all hunting and fishing enthusiasts and being the guest of honor at an event as important as the Game Fair constitutes an invaluable promotional showcase for Quebec,” declared the Minister. Alexandre Cloutier.
Minister Cloutier also attended the inauguration of the Gaston Miron Library at Sorbonne Nouvelle-Paris 3 University in the company, among others, of the former Premier of Quebec, Mr. Bernard Landry, and the General Delegate of Québec in Paris, Mr. Michel Robitaille.Inaugurated by the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, as well as by the President of the Sorbonne Nouvelle-Paris 3 University, Ms. Marie- Christine Lemardeley, this library will make it possible to promote Quebec&#39;s largest documentary holdings abroad and to showcase the some 17,000 works and periodicals in its collection.
