Îles-de-la-Madeleine - In the presence of several partners, the Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, and the Member of Parliament for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and parliamentary assistant, Jeannine Richard, today unveiled an action plan for the next five years to develop the commercial fishing and aquaculture industry in Quebec. The Minister also took the opportunity to announce an investment of $ 12.5 million per year for the implementation of this action plan over the next two years.
“The fishing and aquaculture industry in Quebec provides more than 8,000 jobs and has sales of more than 350 million per year. The activity and employment generated by this sector are essential, in particular for the economy of the maritime regions of Quebec and the coastal communities that depend on them. This is why our government intends to support this sector by devoting an articulated action plan to it that allows it to move on to the development stage, ”declared Mr. Gendron.
This action plan is made public a few weeks before the unveiling of the first food sovereignty policy. Fisheries partners will be called upon to play an essential role in the deployment of this policy and will have a distinctive action plan. In this regard, in the next two years, government investments in the fisheries sector will reach $ 25 million, an increase of nearly 20%.
The 27 actions included in the 2013-2018 Action Plan. Developing our commercial fishing and aquaculture industry, as well as the priorities set out therein, meet the expectations expressed by all industry partners. “The action plan is the result of a great collaboration between the links in the industry who have worked in the same direction, aiming for the same objectives, to establish priorities for the development of our fishing industry and the fishing industry. &#39;aquaculture in the coming years, ”said Ms. Richard.
The first priority emphasizes the development, competitiveness and sustainability of the sector. The second relates to the development of aquatic products and the third relates to the dynamic occupation of the territory and sustainable development. The three priorities concern capture, aquaculture, food processing and marketing.
“Marketing is an aspect that particularly appeals to me since the identification and promotion of Quebec foods are at the heart of our food sovereignty policy. Our aquatic products, both original and of high quality, have everything you need to seduce. They must be better highlighted, ”the Minister concluded, stressing that consultation and innovation are two essential elements for the success of the action plan. To learn more about the action plan to develop the commercial fishing and aquaculture industry in Quebec, you can consult the document at the following address: www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/pechesaquaculture, as well as as the video of the Minister: http: //pq.org/video/le-ministre-gendron-devoile-un-plan-daction-pour-d/.
