Quebec - As the moving season is in full swing, the MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and official opposition critic for housing, Carole Poirier, takes stock of the Liberal government&#39;s actions in this area.
“Since the Liberals came to power, the management of the housing file has been a real disaster. The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Pierre Moreau, made a series of bad decisions, and it is families, single or vulnerable people and people living in the regions who are paying the price, ”declared the MP.
Let us remember that the Liberals axed several programs aimed at home renovation and access to property - RénoVillage, the emergency renovation program, the Rénovation Québec program - and that they considerably reduced the adaptation program. of homes for people with disabilities. The government then attacked social housing; it slashed by 50% the number of units to be built (from 3,000, we went to 1,500) as well as the budget of the AccèsLogis Québec program. The amount granted per unit is now equivalent to that of 2009.
“Since the construction of social and community housing creates jobs, supports social diversity and allows urban revitalization, it thereby promotes the economic development of all regions of Quebec; for every dollar paid in subsidy, an AECOM study estimates that $ 2.3 is injected into the Quebec economy. In addition, this type of housing meets a significant demand from seniors, single people, families and people with special needs or who are homeless, ”continued the spokesperson.
When will there be a national housing policy?
Carole Poirier recalled that the Parti Québécois government planned to endow Quebec with a national housing policy in order to increase the coherence of State interventions, promote the coordination of actions and allow the sustainable development of the city. home. Unfortunately, the Liberals did not pick up the torch. Time passes, and the partners of the housing network are still waiting.
“The inconsistency and disastrous management of the Liberal government nonetheless demonstrate the need to implement a comprehensive and coordinated housing strategy. Although Minister Moreau is not interested in the subject - he himself said, during the study of the budget appropriations, that he had not met any group of partners in the field - I ask him to present quickly a national housing policy and proposing harmonious and studied interventions, rather than imposing senseless cuts which not only have not been the subject of any analysis, but which, in addition, directly attack the young families as well as single, elderly or vulnerable people, ”concluded the spokesperson.
