Quebec - Premier Pauline Marois said she was satisfied with her meeting with the mayoress of Bécancour, Ms. Gaétane Désilets. The discussion was frank, open and constructive. The views of each party were expressed.
“We reiterated to the mayoress our determination to proceed with the decommissioning of the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant. In addition, we reminded him of our firm desire to support the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions so that they diversify their economy and take advantage of the context to become a force for Quebec, ”declared the prime minister.
Three elements reached consensus during the meeting. First, at least 75% of the amount of the economic diversification fund, announced on October 12, will be invested in Bécancour and Trois-Rivières, and distributed according to the current economic benefits of Gentilly-2 (suppliers, subcontractors and services). Then, Hydro-Québec will meet with the mayoress of Bécancour and the president of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Cœur-du-Québec, Mr. Jean-Denis Girard, to answer all their technical questions. Finally, as of next Monday, the members of the Table de diversification économique de la Mauricie et du Center-du-Québec, created on October 12 by the government, will meet for the first time to officially launch the work. This Table, of which several local partners are part, will be responsible for coordinating the fund&#39;s investments, in addition to giving them an order of priority.
In fact, the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions will have access to an economic diversification fund of $ 200 million. It is expected that this fund will generate direct investments in the order of $ 1.2 billion within five years. Pauline Marois underlined that &quot;the diversification fund and government interventions will bring private investments, while the refurbishment of the power station would be essentially an expenditure of public funds&quot;.
“The members of the Economic Diversification Table have our complete confidence and we assure them the collaboration of all government departments. Moreover, Yves-François Blanchet, Member of Parliament for Johnson and responsible for the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, will sit there. Elected officials and the various local players will, we are sure, seize the opportunity that presents itself to propel the economy of Center-du-Québec and Mauricie towards the technologies of the future, green and sustainable ”, concluded the prime minister.
