Quebec - The member for Berthier and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in agriculture, fisheries and food, André Villeneuve, wonders about the future that the Liberal government has in store for the agricultural property tax credit program, the relevance of which was called into question in the most recent report of the Permanent Program Review Commission. He asks the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Pierre Paradis, to commit to maintaining it.
“In her report made public last Monday, Commission President Lucienne Robillard once again targeted the agricultural sector as fertile ground for making cuts. No doubt judging that assistance to Quebec farmers is already amply sufficient, it calls into question the existence of the agricultural property tax credit program. However, in the regions of Quebec, producers and farmers are grappling with enormous pressure, created among other things by the constant increase in the value of their land; in Quebec, we do not have a mechanism for modulating the tax rates for agricultural land, hence the existence of the agricultural property tax credit program, ”recalled the Member for Berthier.
Yesterday, Minister Pierre Paradis reacted to Lucienne Robillard&#39;s position; he said the Program was here to stay, but did not close the door to possible “fixes”. &quot;How big will these &#39;fixes&#39; be? And what exactly does he mean by &quot;fixes&quot;? Is it to avoid using the word &quot;cuts&quot;? », Continued André Villeneuve.
The Parti Québécois is worried, not without reason. Since the Liberal Party came to power in April 2014, many agricultural commitments have not been honored. “The Liberal government simply abandoned farmers. Philippe Couillard, during his meeting with the UPA during the electoral campaign, had undertaken to maintain the budgets of La Financière agricole; once prime minister, he cut them by $ 151 million. Then, a few months ago, Pierre Paradis reneged on a historic promise made by his party in 2009, namely to reimburse the accumulated deficit of La Financière agricole. This time, the Minister must reassure farmers and make a clear commitment not to touch the agricultural property tax credit, ”the spokesperson concluded.
