Sept-Îles - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, accompanied by the MP for Duplessis and President of the Committee on Culture and Education, Ms. Lorraine Richard, the President and CEO of Aluminerie Alouette, Mr. André Martel, the Mayor of Sept-Îles, Mr. Serge Lévesque, the Director General of the Cégep de Sept-Îles, Mr. Donald Bherer, and the Rector from the University of Quebec at Chicoutimi (UQAC), Mr. Martin Gauthier, this morning made the first shovelful of soil which launches the construction of the new Alouette university pavilion.
This new university pavilion will be integrated into the higher education complex of the Cégep de Sept-Îles. The construction site will get underway in the days following today&#39;s ceremony and the official inauguration of the pavilion is expected in the fall of 2014.
Estimated at $ 10 million, the investment in this construction is entirely assumed by Aluminerie Alouette. The university pavilion project originally stems from an agreement concluded in October 2011 between the Government of Quebec and Aluminerie Alouette to obtain a 500 MW energy block necessary for the realization of the third phase of its project. expansion project known as phase 3.
The President and CEO of Aluminerie Alouette, Mr. André Martel, emphasizes that this project is the result of close consultation between the various stakeholders concerned.
As for the offer of university services, it will be provided by UQAC, an institution present in Sept-Îles for more than 40 years.
“I am happy with the realization of this project, developed around the regional poles and the expectations of the community. It will benefit students in the region while contributing to the socio-economic development of Sept-Îles. This new university pavilion will promote accessibility to higher education, especially for first generation students. This is the exemplary demonstration of a fruitful collaboration between local stakeholders, people from private enterprise and representatives of higher education institutions, ”declared Minister Duchesne, who salutes Aluminerie Alouette&#39;s commitment to its middle.
The Minister also underlined that a sum of $ 1 million had been set aside as part of the 2013-2023 university investment plan of the Ministry in order to support the acquisition of equipment that will enhance the project.
“This is excellent news for the Côte-Nord region. In addition to meeting the needs of skilled labor, this university pavilion will allow the population to stay in the region to study. In addition, these quality infrastructures will attract students from abroad who might want to settle in the regions. The entire regional community is delighted with the significant contribution of this partnership in the development of the university training offer, ”said MP Richard.
The establishment of this 2,700 m2 university pavilion is intended to be an important legacy to the community. The desire of the company, as well as that of UQAC and Cégep de Sept-Îles, was to provide the means to meet current and future demand for university training in the region. The establishment of a university services pavilion will allow the region to develop further.
“The Alouette university pavilion will have a structuring effect for the North Shore in addition to guaranteeing better accessibility to studies for people here. We are very proud to invest in education in this way, which once again confirms our commitment to the next generation and the development of their skills, ”insisted Mr. Martel.
UQAC, present in Sept-Îles since 1971, has been piloting a university study center for the eastern part of the North Shore since 1975. In 2002, this center was established in the premises of the Cégep de Sept-Îles in the under an agreement established with this establishment.
More than just tenant and landlord, UQAC and the Cégep de Sept-Îles have proven to be true partners, both in the field of training and in that of research. Their complicity puts forward a model for the development of higher education in the regions based on the synergy between the university and college levels.
For Mr. Martin Gauthier, rector of UQAC, today&#39;s announcement consolidates the presence of higher education in the east of the North Shore. It also confirms the presence of university education in Sept-Îles and will improve the offer of courses while possibly implementing new research projects according to the needs of the community. Still according to the rector, the region can only rejoice in this partnership between higher education institutions, Aluminerie Alouette and the government of Quebec.
“This project offers an innovative model for the development of higher education in the regions and the resources on which it is based will certainly make a significant contribution to government orientations concerning northern Quebec. The Cégep de Sept-Îles, for its part, is proud to see the culmination of the sustained efforts it has devoted, with its partners, to the promotion of quality university services, ”added the Director General of the Cégep de Sept-Îles. Islands, Mr. Donald Bherer.
To see the perspective panels of the future pavilion: http: //www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca/actualites/a displays-des-nouvelles/article/5212/
A flagship building for regional university education and a crossroads of knowledge, the Alouette university pavilion will blend in perfectly with the higher education complex of the College (Cégep) in Sept-Îles. The construction, which will take place over one year, should allow an inauguration in the fall of 2014. It will allow the Université du Québec à Chicoutimi to position university teaching and research for the years to come, after more than 40 years. years of presence in Sept-Îles.
The various architectural components will integrate, among other things, wood and aluminum, two important north-coastal materials. In addition, construction techniques and, ultimately, use, will incorporate elements of sustainable development in accordance with Aluminerie Alouette&#39;s commitment in this area.
The pavilion in detail:
Alouette aluminum smelter investment of $ 10 million
Surface area of around 2,700 m2 spread over three levels (basement, ground floor and upper floor)
Capacity for nearly 400 students (currently a full-time equivalent of just over 125 university students in the premises of the Cégep de Sept-Îles)
Multiple classrooms, one of which can accommodate up to 72 students
Dedicated laboratories, multipurpose spaces, videoconferencing rooms, offices and a multifunctional atrium in which we should find some works by local artists
A walkway allowing users to move easily to the other buildings of the educational complex
Modern architecture by BGLA
