Quebec - The member for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, deplores that the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, refuses to put an end to incidental costs, that is to say illegal surcharges imposed by doctors on patients to obtain certain care.
In a letter sent to the Federal Minister of Health, the patient&#39;s lawyer, Me Jean-Pierre Ménard, asked him &quot;to intervene to immediately end the practice of billing incidental costs in private clinics in Quebec, [ …] A problem experienced by thousands of Quebec patients which seriously undermines their health rights, and more particularly, their right of access to certain medical care ”.
&quot;Our observation is that it is contrary to common sense to have to rely on another government to arrest our omnipotent Minister of Health, who gives himself all the powers, in particular that of making patients pay for insured services that they have already paid for, so they shouldn&#39;t have to take out their credit card. The question we must ask ourselves is: who should pay for these surcharges? Certainly not the patients, ”said Diane Lamarre.
“The minister refuses to listen to anyone who tries to make him listen to reason. However, the groups that have come forward are numerous: the Council for the Protection of the Sick, the FADOQ Network, the Association of Retirees and Retirees from Education and Other Quebec Public Services, the Interprofessional Federation of Quebec Health. , the Quebec Health Federation, the Confederation of National Trade Unions, Quebec Doctors for the Public Plan, the Pointe-Saint-Charles Community Clinic, the Coalition Solidarité Santé, even the Quebec Medical Association intervened publicly to demand that the minister stops acting on the sly, recalling that by contravening the Canada Health Act, he exposed Quebec to withholding of several million dollars from the sums that taxpayers have paid and which are due to them, ”he said. -she adds.
Recall that the remuneration of physicians totals nearly $ 7 billion, and that 1% of this sum would be sufficient to pay all ancillary costs. The Parti Québécois reiterates that the only possible solution is the complete and total elimination of ALL ancillary costs for Quebeckers.
