Quebec - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, makes public the report of the President of the Working Group on the Training of New Nurses, Dr. Pierre Durand. In addition to considering the proposal of the Ordre des infirmières et infirmiers du Québec concerning the initial training necessary to access the nursing profession, the group also studied the proposals submitted by other partners, in particular the Interprofessional Federation of santé du Québec (FIQ), the Quebec Association of Health and Social Services Establishments (AQESSS) and the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology (MESRST).
“The group did not reach consensus. Faced with the impossibility of rallying the partners around a common vision, we consider it appropriate to support the process, as recommended by the chairman of the working group. Thus, I am announcing, jointly with the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, the start of a prospective sectoral analysis in order to confirm the needs of the network on skills. that must be acquired by the different members of the nursing team. This will make it possible to identify positions where a college education is sufficient and those where a university education is required, ”said Minister Hébert.
“Collegiate institutions currently play a leading role in training the next generation of nurses. Their contribution to training is crucial and I believe that we must continue in this direction. The prospective sector study that will be carried out by my ministry will provide valuable information that will allow us to make an informed decision about the initial training required to enter the nursing profession. This study will also be backed up by an occupational analysis which will make it possible to consult the professionals of the care team and draw up a complete portrait of their work, ”said Minister Duchesne.
“We also remember the fact that the majority of members have expressed the wish to retain a qualifying college education. We also want to ensure the availability of the DEC – BAC in all regions of Quebec and thus promote the retention of professionals in different settings, ”added Minister Hébert.
A staffing plan will be drawn up regarding the critical mass of nursing professionals necessary for the provision of safe and quality care. An analysis of current positions in the network and their staffing will be carried out. Finally, following these analyzes, the Ministry of Health and Social Services will carry out an impact study in order to validate the implementation capacity and, where applicable, the inherent implementation strategies.
“We are fortunate in Quebec to be able to count on competent and dedicated nurses who play a key role in providing daily care to the population and strengthening the front line. It is therefore all the more important to base our orientations on something solid and concrete. This is the only way to ensure that we respond effectively to the evolution of our health system and the needs of the Quebec population, ”Minister Hébert also indicated.
Recall that it was in June 2012 that the Ordre des infirmières et infirmiers du Québec (OIIQ) asked the government of Quebec to establish a new standard for entry into the nursing profession, namely the baccalaureate in nursing sciences obtained after a college diploma in nursing or natural sciences. It was following this request that Minister Hébert created the Working Group on Nursing Succession, which brings together representatives of the OIIQ, the Quebec Association of Health and Social Services Establishments (AQESSS). , the Conference of Rectors and Principals of Quebec Universities (CREPUQ), the Quebec Health Federation affiliated to the Centrale des unions du Québec (FSQ-CSQ), the affiliated Health and Social Services Federation the Confederation of National Trade Unions (FSSS-CSN), the Fédération des Cégeps, the Interprofessional Health Federation of Quebec (FIQ), the Treasury Board Secretariat (SCT), the Office des professions (OPQ) , the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology (MESRST) and the Ministry of Health and Social Services (MSSS).
More specifically, the working group had to assess the advantages and disadvantages as well as the steps necessary to make the transition. To do so, it had to consider several aspects, such as the service offer, the organization of care and work, the reception capacity of educational institutions, the impacts on public finances and the situation of the workforce in terms of quality and quantity.
The report of the chairman of the Working Group on Nursing Succession can be consulted on the website of the Ministère de la Santé et des Services sociaux.
