Shawinigan - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, took advantage of his visit to the National Center for Electrochemistry and Environmental Technologies (CNETE) in Shawinigan to announce the launch at the beginning of January a call for proposals for the creation of three new college technology transfer centers (CCTT) as provided for in the National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI).
The Minister also confirmed the improvement in the funding of the current 46 college technology transfer centers (CCTTs) whose operating budgets will reach $ 16.4 million in 2016-2017, an increase of 11% compared to 2012- 2013. This is the first time that a government has increased the funding budget for each CCTT.
At the same time, Mr. Duchesne made public the new performance evaluation report of the CCTT system.
&quot;It is thanks to the excellent performance and the spinoffs generated by the CCTTs that I have chosen to announce, within the National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI), the enhancement of their funding and the creation of three new centers. CCTTs are an important part of the culture of innovation. They allow Quebec to stand out and help promote Quebec genius around the world. Each dollar invested by the Quebec government in a CCTT generates an average of $ 3.80 in new capital contributions, ”said Minister Duchesne.
The mandate of the CCTTs is to carry out, in a specific field, activities of applied research and technical assistance, as well as information and training. There are currently 46 CCTTs in Quebec, 6 in innovative social practices and 40 in technology.
As stated in the PNRI, the activities of the CCTTs have an important leverage effect in the regions. This is why the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology will extend its action to regions that are less well served. To do this, a call for proposals to recognize three new CCTTs will be launched in January 2014.
“As General Director of CNETE and Vice-President of the Trans-Tech Network, I assess the impact of CCTTs on their regions every day. Whether it is for the implementation of the innovation cycle in SMEs, their competitiveness, the attraction and retention of highly qualified labor and training, the contribution of CCTTs is an extremely valuable asset for regional development. I therefore welcome the initiative of the Government of Quebec to launch a call for tenders for the creation of new CCTTs ”, mentioned the Director General of CNETE, Ms. Nancy Déziel.
(c) Joël Bouchard
The National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI) makes it possible to consolidate the budget of the CCTTs. The latter will be indexed by 11% for the first three years. As a result, base funding will increase from $ 300,000 to $ 334,000 per center. To respond to the improvement in the operating funding of the CCTTs, the planned budget is in the order of $ 15.2 million in 2014-2015, $ 15.6 million in 2015-2016 and $ 16.4 million in 2016 -2017. Note that these amounts are taken from the PNRI budget.
“College technology transfer centers are an important link in the Quebec research and innovation chain. I am pleased that Minister Duchesne recognizes their importance by granting them financial support that will allow them to pursue their activities and develop new niches, ”said the Member for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel.
Minister Duchesne also made public the evaluation report of the system of college technology transfer centers for the period from July 1, 2006 to June 30, 2011. It indicates that, for 38 CCTTs, 3,368 Quebec companies benefited from the services of &#39;a CCTT in 2011. The analysis showed that, in general, the results for all the CCTTs included in the study once again exceeded or are in line with expectations in terms of relevance, effectiveness and impact.
The evaluation focuses on the results of 38 centers currently in operation and having obtained their recognition before 2009. The report underlines, among other things, that the economic benefits associated with public expenditure are evaluated at $ 472 million for the period concerned. In fact, the average self-financing rate of CCTTs is 65%.
“This report confirms the relevance of the CCTT network and their economic contribution to the development of Quebec. This unique intervention model demonstrates that CCTTs play an essential role in promoting innovation. The Quebec government will therefore continue to support the CCTTs over the next few years, ”added Minister Duchesne.
To consult the evaluation report, visit the Ministère&#39;s website: mesrst.gouv.qc.ca.
The National Research and Innovation Policy is part of the four strategic initiatives of the Government of Quebec&#39;s Priority Employment economic policy. It is the result of numerous consultations held with stakeholders from all sectors concerned by research and innovation: businesses, educational establishments, the State and society. With an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion over five years, it will help advance Québec in the knowledge and innovation society.
For more information: mesrst.gouv.qc.ca/pnri.
