Quebec - The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, would like to point out that the examples presented in the newspaper this morning had been detected by the Ministry and that the procedures to recover the amounts paid were undertaken in all cases. It is therefore inappropriate to suggest, as do the Journal de Québec and the Journal de Montréal, that no action is taken when a fraudulent case is reported.
“Fraud is unacceptable in all its forms. There are fraudsters in all spheres of society, we&#39;ve even been talking about bandits for a few years, that&#39;s saying it all. We must be vigilant, because it is essential for the government that the amounts paid go to the people who really need them. That is why everything is done to recover the amounts unjustly paid. To claim that the MESS is inactive does not correspond to the truth ”, declared Minister Maltais. Moreover, the sums recovered in 2011-2012 by the Recovery Center of the Ministère de l&#39;Emploi et de la Solidarité sociale are $ 134.9 million and $ 104.1 million for the first eight months of the year. &#39;year 2012-2013.
Contrary to what was reported in some media this morning, all potentially fraudulent cases reported to our department are followed up. In addition, as soon as an agent has a reasonable doubt, an additional verification is carried out and an investigation is opened. When the Department finds that there is indeed a fraud, it initiates the necessary actions to recover the amounts due.
In 2011-2012, 96.9% of the amounts paid were adequately paid. In 2011-2012, 5% of claimants had a claim for false declaration and overpayments resulting from false declarations represented 2.6% of the total value of benefits paid.
“The government has a duty to ensure that the large sums allocated to aid the poor are actually used for those who are entitled to it. While respecting its obligation to help and protect those who need it, the government must also act responsibly and ensure sound and equitable management of public funds, ”concluded the Minister.
