Gatineau– The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, took advantage of his visit to the Outaouais to announce a $ 6.4 million increase in investments aimed at rejuvenation of the furniture inventory in 48 CEGEPs.
This amount will be used in particular to replace equipment related to technical training since many CEGEPs offer programs that require the use of expensive equipment and devices that change quickly. It will also make it possible to renew equipment dedicated to science laboratories.
“I am pleased to announce today this important investment in the rejuvenation of the furniture stock of CEGEPs. The student population and the staff of the college network need infrastructures and equipment conducive to learning. By having access to modern devices and tools, students will be more inclined to pursue science studies while developing an interest in research, ”said Minister Duchesne.
It should be noted that the MAOB model (furniture, equipment, tools and library), developed by the Ministry in collaboration with the college network, makes it possible to establish the needs related to the furniture stock of the college network and to distribute the envelope among the CEGEPs. budget authorized annually by the Conseil du trésor for the renewal of this park.
Minister Pierre Duchesne took advantage of his visit to the Outaouais to announce a $ 6.4 million increase in investments aimed at rejuvenating the furniture stock in 48 CEGEPs. // (c) Joël Bouchard
This investment is part of the 2011-2016 five-year capital plan. The envelope for the furniture inventory represents $ 53.9 million for the 2011-2012 school year and $ 54.9 million for 2012-2013. An amount of $ 3.2 million has been added to it for each of those years. In total, this is therefore a bonus of $ 6.4 million in additional funds for the rejuvenation of the furniture stock of CEGEPs.
The Cégep de l&#39;Outaouais is doing well in this investment. For 2011-2012, the investment of the Government of Quebec will be increased by an amount of $ 100,590 and $ 100,339 for 2012-2013. In total, $ 200,924 will be added to the envelope for the renewal and development of the Cégep de l&#39;Outaouais furniture park.
“Thanks to the improvement I am announcing today, the student body and staff of the Cégep de l&#39;Outaouais will benefit from a more attractive and stimulating work environment. They will also be able to learn and exercise with modern equipment that better matches what is used in the field, ”said Minister Duchesne.
The increase in funding for the rejuvenation of infrastructure and equipment also represents additional support for research in CEGEPs, since they will be able to acquire state-of-the-art equipment, devices and tools. This improvement is good news at a time when Quebec is adopting the new National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI) for the years 2014-2019.
For more information on the Department&#39;s programs and services, visit www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca.
