Quebec - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, today announced the extension and indexation of the tax credit for the development of electronic business (CDAE). The tax credit will be renewed for a period of ten years from January 1, 2016, ie until December 31, 2025. In addition, as an indexation, the limit of $ 20,000 per job will be raised to 22,500 $ from January 1, 2016.
“The information technology sector, or IT, is strategic for Quebec. It represents 4% of the GDP, or an amount of more than $ 13 billion, and generates investments in research and development of more than $ 650 million per year in the Quebec economy. Investments in this area support more than 100,000 jobs and are one of the main drivers of productivity growth. Renewing support for this sector is therefore important for our economy and our positioning in the IT industry. Several companies and partners have told us about the importance of these measures; we have heard them. Quebec companies negotiating long-term contracts must be able to operate in a stable and competitive business environment. That is why we have decided to act now, ”the Minister underlined.
Established in March 2008, the CDAE aims to consolidate IT development throughout Quebec and to stimulate IT integration activities into the business process of Quebec companies, which helps to increase their level of productivity. It was introduced in the wake of the fiscal measures put in place by the government in the early 2000s to promote the development of information technologies in the Quebec economy. This tax credit supports companies specializing in IT which provide services to third parties. Tax assistance specifically targets high value-added activities, such as the development of software integrated into computer systems.
&quot;I am convinced that the decision I am announcing today will have a positive and lasting effect on the IT sector in Quebec and on our economy,&quot; concluded the Minister.
Information Bulletin 2013-7, released today, describes in detail the changes to the tax credit. It can be consulted on the website of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, at www.finances.gouv.qc.ca.
