Mont-Tremb lant - The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, today announced the lifting of the experimental status which had been given to the Center d&#39;études collégiales of Mont-Tremblant when it opens. As a result, the establishment&#39;s funding was confirmed until 2016.
“Today&#39;s announcement once again confirms my government&#39;s desire to facilitate access to higher education by promoting graduation from first generation students. In each of the regions of Quebec, college establishments represent important poles of economic, social and cultural development while energizing communities of all sizes, ”declared Minister Duchesne.
Remember that the Center d&#39;études collégiales (CEC) de Mont-Tremblant, under the authority of the Cégep de Saint-Jérôme, officially opened its doors in 2008. With an experimental status lasting five years, the CEC s &#39;is located in a building located near the Vocational Training Center of the Commission scolaire des Laurentides.
“I have always made it a point to get involved in the monitoring committee of the Center d&#39;études collégiales de Mont-Tremblant in order to ensure its sustainability. And today, this announcement confirms that we were right to believe in this wonderful project! Young people from here will be able to pursue higher education in their region and I am very happy, ”said the member for Labelle, Mr. Sylvain Pagé.
Given the increase in attendance at the Center d&#39;études collégiales de Mont-Tremblant, the Government of Quebec has also agreed to grant it a one-off grant of nearly $ 145,000 for the installation of additional modular spaces as well as an amount nearly $ 30,000 per year for their rental. This subsidy is in addition to the grant of over $ 160,000 per year already granted to the establishment for the rental of modular spaces already occupied by the Center.
Since its creation, the Cégep has drawn up a positive assessment of the experimentation of the CEC de Mont-Tremblant. The project continues to receive the support of many community partners, both economic, educational and social.
“After five years of existence, the Center d&#39;études collégial de Mont-Tremblant has 18 employees and has to its credit 109 graduates as well as more than 600 people who have benefited from continuing education services. The student population has only increased since its start. In all likelihood, our higher education institution is experiencing unabated growth ”, enthusiastically stated the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mr. Jacques Gariépy.
The abandonment of the &quot;experimental&quot; character will promote the sustainability of the EQF, which will facilitate the recruitment of students and its development. The Center could be attended by approximately 185 students in the fall of 2013.
“More and more young people and their parents are responding to the call of their region and showing, towards our college, a mark of confidence that touches me sincerely. It is now up to us to demonstrate to the students that they were right to register at the Center d&#39;études collégiales de Mont-Tremblant and to make it an establishment of which they will be proud to have been the pioneers ”, would like to point out the director of the Center d&#39;études collégiales de Mont-Tremblant, Ms. Diane Aitken.
