Quebec - The member for Berthier and official opposition critic for agriculture, fisheries and food, André Villeneuve, judges that the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Pierre Paradis , must make a clear commitment regarding the compensation to be granted to dairy and cheese producers in Quebec, for any losses they will have to assume in connection with the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada and the European Union.
The words of Minister Paradis, last Friday in the National Assembly, had nothing to calm the concerns of Quebec dairy and cheese producers. “The minister says he supports producers, nothing more. However, the time is no longer for words, it is for action. The Minister must make a clear commitment that Quebec will not ratify the agreement without there being full compensation for our producers, ”declared André Villeneuve.
In addition, last Thursday, the Liberal government refused its consent to adopt a motion presented by André Villeneuve. The motion read as follows:
&quot;That the National Assembly demand from the Government of Quebec that an agreement be concluded between the federal government and dairy and cheese producers guaranteeing full compensation for the 17,700 tonnes of fine European cheeses that will enter the market annually, and that this agreement and its terms are known before submitting the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union for its approval. &quot;
Given that, according to CETA, more than 17,000 tonnes of European cheeses will be added annually to what is already found on the Canadian and Quebec markets, the shortfall of Quebec producers must be compensated and the entry of European products on the market, spread over time.
“The support of the Quebec government is an important bargaining lever for producers. We will continue to hound the Minister so that he takes a clear position in favor of full compensation for our dairy and cheese producers, ”concluded the Member for Berthier.
