Saguenay - The Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé is proud to announce the opening of the Annual Tourism Reception Days (JAAT). Organized by Tourisme Québec, they will be held from October 16 to 18 at the hotel le Montagnais in the dynamic Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region. Under the theme A welcome on the move !, participants will be greeted in a big way by their colleagues from Saguenay for this tenth edition of the JAAT, which promises to be the most grandiose.
The JAATs provide an opportunity for key players in the hospitality and tourist information industry to discuss best practices in this field. The rich and up-to-date program features renowned speakers, including Mr. Rémi Tremblay and Mr. Pierre Lavoie.
The Azimut awards ceremony during the gala evening on October 17 will reward innovation in the network. The Minister for Tourism, Pascal Bérubé, will meet the participants during this evening where several great initiatives will be highlighted.
“Quebec is rich in its network of visitors and tourist information. The quality of our welcome is recognized internationally. We owe it to ourselves to maintain the dynamism of our network and to encourage the people who work there to constantly innovate. Through initiatives such as the holding of the JAAT and the Azimut competition, we recognize the importance of these first-rate players in the Quebec tourism industry, Minister Bérubé said ”.
“Tourist hospitality is and will always be one of the main pillars of our industry. Front-line staff play a major role in the overall visitor experience and this is why in Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, we make it a point of honor to promote them. The forthcoming implementation of a new reception policy in our region will allow us to take this experience further. We are pleased to welcome the JAATs and wish all the candidates nominated for the Azimut Awards good luck, ”said Éric Larouche, President of Tourisme Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean.
The JAAT are the result of an initiative by Tourisme Québec, in collaboration with the Provincial Committee for Tourist Information and Reception Locations (CPLART).
For more information on the JAAT: www.tourisme.gouv.qc.ca/activites/jaat
