Montreal - This morning, the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, kicked off the work of the Summit on Higher Education. Accompanied by the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs. Marie Malavoy, and the Member of Parliament for Laval- des-Rapides and parliamentary assistant to the Prime Minister for youth issues, Mr. Léo Bureau-Blouin, the Prime Minister, at the same time, tabled a first government proposal on the quality of higher education and the governance of institutions .
“The Higher Education Summit was a major commitment when we took office. It is a privileged opportunity to turn the page on the past year and move forward, all together. The next two days are very important. We are going to lay the foundations for the Quebec of tomorrow, with our partners, a Quebec of knowledge, a Quebec for all, ”said Premier Pauline Marois.
The Prime Minister opened the discussion by tabling a first proposal aimed at promoting the quality of higher education and the governance of institutions. This proposal has three components:
The government intends to submit to the National Assembly a framework bill that would oversee the entire university system and would make it possible to:
Promote the values, the foundations of the mission of universities in Quebec; Consistently bring together several of the laws governing the university system and review the rules of governance, in particular that relating to the composition of boards of directors. Prior to the tabling of the bill, the government will set up a work site aimed at developing this piece of legislation, which would be presented to the National Assembly before the end of 2013. It will bring together representatives of partners from academia. , the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology (MESRST) and the Ministry of Justice, and must submit its report to the Minister as soon as possible, i.e. no later than August 30, 2013 .
Proposed by several partners as part of the preparatory meetings for the Summit, the National Council of Universities would be responsible for assuming certain functions of governance and quality certification with regard to the university system. It will also have to contribute through its opinions to the coherence of the development of the university system.
A project will be set up in March 2013 in order to propose to the Minister the mandate of this Council as well as its functioning.
In order for university accountability to be more effective and more consistent, the government is proposing to implement the following avenues. In collaboration with the partners, it is proposed to:
Clarify and make more effective the reporting requirements required by law; Harmonize the elements of accountability under the responsibility of the MESRST with those required by the Committee on Culture and Education of the National Assembly; Set up a working group made up of representatives of the establishments and of the MESRST to review the accountability practices. “The preparatory meetings for the Summit provided a good picture of the situation. The first proposal made by our government is directly linked to the proposals expressed by our partners during these consultations. We propose to reduce the administrative burden and simplify the reporting, for example by requesting comparable financial statements from one establishment to another. Thus, we will increase the level of clarity of the information transmitted and, by the same token, transparency in the management of public funds and the confidence of the population in our universities, ”added Minister Pierre Duchesne.
For more information on the Summit process and progress, go to www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca/sommet.
