Quebec– The MP for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, and the MP for Bonaventure and forestry spokesperson, Sylvain Roy, denounce the liberal cuts in the forestry sector. The study of budget appropriations tells us that several measures stemming from the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise have already been or will be canceled by the government.
The Ministry of Forests, Wildlife and Parks indicates in particular that:
“[I] n the current economic context, several proposed measures have been canceled and the Permanent Program Review Commission, chaired by Ms. Lucienne Robillard, will examine existing or planned actions. &quot;
However, the Parti Québécois government had held the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécois in order to come to an agreement with the various stakeholders in the field on the measures that would ensure the prosperity of the Quebec forest sector. The Prime Minister even said yesterday that there had been “very interesting areas of consensus” and that work would continue in that direction.
“This is another ax of the Liberal government in the economic development of Quebec and jobs in the forestry sector. The Prime Minister praises the forestry industry and talks about it a lot, but obviously it is a double talk. In fact, on the other side, we are cutting important measures for the industry and for our forest workers, ”said Stéphane Bédard. As proof, the Minister of Forests, Wildlife and Parks, Laurent Lessard, confirmed that the additional money devoted to forests comes entirely from royalties paid by the community for wood harvested in public forests. No new credit is therefore allocated to the forestry sector.
&quot;We have also received confirmation of the decrease in funding for the PCEF, which will drop from 15 to 6 million dollars, while this program is essential for the survival of many communities where, often, one of the only employers is a forestry group or a cooperative. The drop in PCEF funding will hurt the regions, in particular Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie – Îles-de-la-Madeleine, which were hit hard by the forestry crisis, ”added Sylvain Roy.
Remember that the 9-year reign of the Liberal Party has been catastrophic for the forestry sector. The results of this Liberal era are striking: 30,000 jobs lost - as recognized by Minister Lessard -, 300 plant closures (permanent or temporary), as well as multiple action plans that failed one after the other. . We even came to the point where Premier Jean Charest, noting the failure of his government, invited forestry workers to go and work in the mines.
“Workers in the forest regions of Quebec are asking for better support. The concerted efforts that we had undertaken with the Rendez-vous must not be abandoned. Currently, rhetoric and words take precedence over concrete actions, which for their part remain sorely absent from the Liberal government, ”concluded the Member for Bonaventure.
