Saguenay - As the Prime Minister participates in the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, the Parti Québécois spokesperson for finance and revenue, Nicolas Marceau, and the spokesperson for economy, energy and natural resources, Alain Therrien, indicated that for 2016, in economy and finance, expectations are particularly high towards the government.
“The government has its work cut out for it. While it obviously cannot make up for the almost two years of total inertia, particularly in terms of job creation, it will have to do everything in its power to slow down the economic slowdown in Quebec. We are therefore trying to give him some advice, ”declared Nicolas Marceau from the outset.
The absolute priority of the government must be the tabling of a real economic plan, estimates the member for Rousseau. “Quebecers have been waiting for it for too long. The regions are struggling, struggling with the disappearance of certain sectoral or regional tax credits as well as the dismantling of their economic development tools, including CRÉs and CLDs. Several projects - FerroAtlántica, IFFCO - have been abandoned, and others, such as Mine Arnaud or those of our winegrowers, are not receiving the planned support. The government is reneging on its commitments, failing to attract investors and concluding ill-conceived agreements, as was the case with Bombardier. In short, the absence of a coherent strategy and the unpredictability of government decisions undermine confidence and create a great deal of uncertainty and concern, and this translates into a decrease in economic activity and private investment. We need a clear plan, and fast! &quot;, He claimed.
Alain Therrien agrees. “We learned yesterday that Quebec exports had declined and today that Quebec&#39;s GDP has contracted. In addition, the drop in the price of oil should have helped the Quebec manufacturing industry. However, it is not. We have continued to lose jobs at an astounding rate. And what has Philippe Couillard&#39;s international missions yielded up to now? Nothing at all. Obviously, a foreign investor will not be very tempted to come and settle in Quebec if he notices that the Prime Minister tears up contracts and cancels projects already authorized, as in the case of Pétrolia, ”he insisted.
The member for Sanguinet also stressed that even the most notorious liberals now admit that the economy is the Achilles heel of their party. “Nathalie Normandeau said that the Liberal Party was no longer the party of the economy. That a former Liberal minister would make such a statement is particularly significant: discontent and impatience are now widespread. We hope that Philippe Couillard and his ministers will take advantage of the start of the year to raise the bar and start delivering the 250,000 jobs promised in the election campaign by the Prime Minister. The only plan the Liberals have is austerity. And even; this austerity is very selective! », He concluded.
