Québec, June 19, 2020 - The MNA for René-Lévesque and Parti Québécois spokesperson for the economy and finances, Martin Ouellet, takes note of the Portrait of the 2020-2021 economic and financial situation tabled today by the Minister of Finance, Éric Girard. He noted in particular that while the financial situation for the current year is very serious, Quebec nevertheless has the capacity to return to balanced budgets in the near future and to put in place more energetic stimulus measures.
IN SHORT
The government&#39;s forecast, according to which Quebec will be able to return to balanced budgets within five years, is excessively conservative. “For this year, the dramatic drop in GDP and income is certainly impressive, but the government itself is forecasting a rapid recovery, starting next year. It is therefore very likely that Quebec will return to a balanced budget more quickly than the government suggests. Already, the fall in GDP - by 6.5% - is less acute than some observers predicted earlier this year, when an economic contraction of over 10% was announced, ”argued Martin Ouellet.
It also indicates that the government has all the tools in hand to ensure effective, intense and rapid economic recovery, provided, of course, that it makes the right choices. “First, we must not lose sight of the fact that the sinews of war is prevention and mitigation of the second wave. Indeed, if the possible resurgence of COVID-19 is well controlled, not only will the health of Quebecers benefit and the number of deaths will be minimized, but, in addition, the economic recovery will be accelerated, ”said the deputy.
“Second,” he continued, “the government must be bolder and put in place tough economic measures to support businesses; So far, the measures announced have been rather timid and too conventional, mainly taking the form of loans. In our opinion, the solution lies more in direct aid, because every dollar invested to save SMEs will generate tax revenues over the next few years. I therefore invite the CAQ to take inspiration from the creative proposals made by the Parti Québécois to stimulate the economy: for example, directly helping businesses adapt to teleworking will accelerate the economic recovery, even in the event of a &#39;a second wave. Let us keep in mind, too, that we are faced with an opportunity to create a more nationalist, greener, more thoughtful economic recovery, ”insisted the deputy for René-Lévesque.
Finally, the Parti Québécois believes that the government must make tools available to the public, to enable it to better understand Quebec&#39;s financial situation. “The appropriations deposited by the President of the Conseil du trésor are now obsolete; it absolutely must table new ones by the end of August, so that the public and parliamentarians have access to precise information on how the taxes paid by Quebeckers are spent. In addition, the government must create the position of Parliamentary Budget Officer, a long-standing idea of the Parti Québécois that the CAQ supported in the opposition. This will ensure greater transparency, and will allow us collectively to better follow the constant evolution of Quebec&#39;s financial situation - let us remember that last year, the government once again underestimated the surpluses by $ 1 billion. of dollars! On this subject, moreover, on November 13, I tabled a motion that the National Assembly adopted unanimously, ”said Martin Ouellet.
