Québec, March 13, 2021 - The deputy for Bonaventure and the Parti Québécois spokesperson for forests, wildlife and parks, Sylvain Roy, urges the Minister of Forests, Wildlife and Parks (MFFP), Pierre Dufour , to use the tools he already has in order to regulate the price of wood, which has tripled in recent months.
IN SHORT
The Parti Québécois wants the MFFP to work resolutely to resolve two chronic problems that plague the forestry industry:
The principle of residuality, enshrined in law, is simple. “Before allocating volumes of timber in public forests, manufacturers must first obtain supplies from private forests. However, even if this mechanism has been in law since 1988, it is not put into practice. However, its use would help our private producers who are ready to mobilize wood and, thus, reduce the pressure on our collective heritage, our public forests ”, explains Sylvain Roy, who deplores the inaction of the MFFP in this regard. .
In addition, it has been observed that the price of timber has increased excessively and totally unreasonably in recent months, partly because of the strong demand from the United States. &quot;Among Americans, the explosion in housing starts, coupled with a desertion of cities by families who have houses built outside major centers to do teleworking, means that our industry is in demand like never before&quot;, a added the deputy.
However, if Sylvain Roy is delighted to see the forestry economy work so well, he is nevertheless worried to note that this does not seem to benefit all links in the chain. &quot;Have factory workers, loggers, and lumber producers benefit from the staggering price hikes?&quot; To ask the question is to answer it: not at all. If wealth were better distributed, it is clear that the entire economy of our regions would benefit from it, ”he argued.
&quot;I hope that the government will soon resolve these problems, which are known and which have been discussed for a long time within the forestry sector, but on which the Ministry of Forests never works,&quot; concluded Sylvain Roy.
– 30 –
SOURCE :
Laura Chouinard-Thuly
Press Officer
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois
514 880-9594
Laura.Chouinard-Thuly@assnat.qc.ca
