Quebec - The Minister responsible for Government Administration and Chairman of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, today tabled in the National Assembly Bill 41, An Act to amend the Civil Service Act mainly in terms of staffing jobs. This bill will simplify the hiring process and allow the State to be more competitive in the job market.
“The changes we are proposing will make it easier for citizens to pursue a career in government. At the same time, they will allow the public service to have access at all times to the required expertise and to attract the next generation. In other words, we want to make sure that good candidates do not slip through our fingers because of the hiring delays, ”said Minister Bédard.
This bill echoes the concerns expressed by departments and agencies for several years with regard to hiring in the public service. The feared scarcity of labor in several sectors of activity, the numerous retirements and the aging of the population are all factors which are shaking up the world of work. They force the public service to adapt and be more competitive on the job market.
Under the current arrangements, applicants must first respond to a call for candidates through a competition. Then, they must meet the admission requirements and pass an assessment to be placed on a list of declaration of aptitude. All of these steps must be taken by all applicants at the same time before they can be interviewed and eventually be appointed to a position. This approach often results in long delays, which can result in the loss of good candidates. Bill 41 proposes to replace the concept of competition with a qualification process which, while remaining rigorous, introduces the possibility of:
carry out the posting of the call for candidates and registration on an ongoing basis;
This new process therefore simplifies and accelerates recruitment, while respecting the principles and objectives of the Act. In addition, the bill provides for measures to attract and retain students and trainees, as well as to recognize the qualifications already acquired by public service retirees when their specific expertise and experience are required to meet a need. punctual.
Finally, the bill provides the Chairman of the Conseil du trésor with tools, in particular to strengthen governance and accountability in human resources management.
“The next step, starting this year, is to allow everyone to apply online, as is the case for many large organizations. In this way, the State will become truly competitive in the labor market, ”concluded Minister Bédard.
