Montreal, March 20, 2018 - The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée (Rosemont), accompanied by Members of Parliament Carole Poirier (Hochelaga-Maisonneuve), Stéphane Bergeron (Verchères), Nicolas Marceau (Rousseau), Nicole Léger (Pointe -aux-Trembles) and Marc Bourcier (Saint-Jérôme), today presented Le Grand Déblocage, a plan to reduce road congestion by 10% and significantly increase the mobility of citizens of the metropolis and neighboring regions.
IN SHORT
133,000 cars, or 10%, less in the greater Montreal area.
175 new stations over 200 kilometers.
new tramway services on the island of Montreal and the South Shore.
new reserved lane services for rapid buses in Laval, in the northern crown, and on the South Shore, from Sainte-Julie to Châteauguay.
$ 1.4 billion in capital for the commuter train renaissance.
new services to Joliette, Saint-Hyacinthe, Saint-Jean, le Suroît.
more departures for the East train, the Deux-Montagnes line, the West train, the Saint-Jérôme train.
280,000 tonnes of GHG less per year.
electrification: 475,000 additional electrified trips.
an oil savings worth $ 150 million per year.
over $ 300 million in additional property value left to municipalities.
A real efficient electrified transport network
“By 2025, we want to reduce road congestion by 10% in the metropolis and neighboring regions. That means 133,000 fewer cars on the road, and more time for our families. We know that citizens want to spend less time traveling; we offer them accessible, efficient and fast transport solutions. This is our commitment! », Declared Jean-François Lisée.
“Our streets are blocked. In Montreal, on the South Shore, on the North Shore. Yesterday was an inconvenience, it is now a plague. In the greater metropolitan area, a motorist loses 76 hours per year in traffic jams. And no current project will reverse this crazy trend, ”continued the leader of the official opposition.
We need a Grand Unlock. The Parti Québécois is proposing the biggest anti-congestion offensive in our history. The objective: to reduce congestion by 10% in a few years. With an ambitious program, but simple solutions, known technologies, on existing routes.
&quot;A project that will benefit everyone, from Saint-Jérôme to Saint-Hyacinthe, from Suroît to Joliette, with new, faster options in Laval, Longueuil, as well as for the East, Center and West of Montreal. Unblocking our transport means giving ourselves quality of life, ”he added.
An unprecedented leap for the electrification of transport
“The electrification of our transport is a priority economic and environmental project for our team. Here we are making an unprecedented leap: 475,000 additional electrified trips. Five electrified tram projects will be implemented. We are thus positioning Quebec as a leader in the fight against climate change, by reducing oil consumption by 115 million liters each year, ”said Marc Bourcier, spokesperson for the official opposition in transport electrification.
Congestion in numbers
1.3 million cars at rush hour in the metropolitan area.
Economic cost: 2.0 billion.
76 hours per year in wasted time.
The Grand Unblocking compared to the REM
508,020 additional trips including 475,000 electrified - 4X the REM.
133,000 fewer cars (in rush hour) - 78X the REM.
280,040 tonnes of GHG less - 8X the REM.
For an equivalent budget,
For an equivalent schedule,
And with the local purchase of rolling stock.
