Québec, April 10, 2019 - Today is the start of the special consultations and public hearings in the National Assembly on Bill 17, An Act respecting the remunerated transport of persons by automobile. It is in this context that the member for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and the Parti Québécois transport spokesperson, Joël Arseneau, held a press briefing; he was accompanied by representatives of the taxi industry and other groups who rightly demand that they be listened to more.
IN SHORT
In its current form, Bill 17 does not get to the root of the problem and in no way guarantees the sustainability of this important economic sector. “We agree with the goal of modernization. However, we take issue with the destructuring of the taxi industry proposed by the CAQ. The consequences of such an approach have not been sufficiently documented. A more in-depth reflection is required ”, first declared the spokesperson.
“Until now, we have neglected issues relating to working conditions and driver training, safety, state revenues, the impact on adapted services for people with disabilities and the elderly, the reality in outside major centers, and so on !, continued Joël Arseneau. The government seems to believe that these issues will resolve themselves. However, magical thinking has never been able to replace a serious impact study, which, for the moment, is sorely lacking. &quot;
The MP urges Minister Bonnardel to listen more to the demands of the industry and all the groups concerned. “In this case, there is no need to act in haste. If we want to pass a bill that is beneficial in the long term for Quebec, we must base our thinking on facts, on verified and complete information. We would certainly benefit, at the very least, from knowing the results of the pilot projects that have been carried out, and those of the experiments that have been carried out abroad. We should also have the opportunity to hear the full variety of points of view in parliamentary committee. The solution that the CAQ is currently proposing to us is simplistic and incomplete; we invite it to improve it, and to do this we offer our full cooperation, ”concluded the member for Îles-de-la-Madeleine.
