Québec, December 9, 2016 - The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the parliamentary leader, Pascal Bérubé, take stock of the parliamentary session which ends under the sign of the gag order. They note that rather than take note of the strong message that Quebeckers sent it during the four by-elections, the government prefers to ignore it and, worse, it boasts, on the one hand, of having &quot;saved Quebec&quot; , while he wishes, on the other hand, to turn the page by proroguing the session. The Parti Québécois, for its part, heard the citizens&#39; desire for change, their call to listen to their concerns, and it fully intends to embody this new breath that Quebec so badly needs.
“I could spend hours telling you the long list of what the Liberals did wrong. But, beyond the crisis of delays in our justice system, beyond their catastrophic management of agriculture and the maintenance of Pierre Paradis as minister, beyond the crisis at the Ministry of Transport and the fact that Robert Poëti, who wanted to shed some light, was dismissed. What we will remember from this political session is that this government has reached the point of no return in terms of the confidence of citizens ” , said Jean-François Lisée.
A black page
In the March 2016 budget, the Ministry of Finance claimed that the year 2015-2016 would end at zero. Then, he submitted his financial monthly which showed that for the first 10 months of the 2015-2016 fiscal year, the government already posted a surplus of $ 1.66 billion. At the time of the fall update, last October, he confirmed that after all the consolidations, it was even a surplus of $ 2.2 billion.
“The Prime Minister would like to start the year 2017 with a blank page, but he cannot erase the black page he wrote in 2016. Mr. Couillard cut too much and, when he realized he was going to overtake balancing the budget and making surpluses, rather than slowing down, he stepped on the accelerator. I questioned him many times about the harm he inflicted on citizens, more particularly the most vulnerable in our society, but he remained insensitive, even after the disastrous results he experienced during the by-elections. He persists and signs, ”continued the leader of the Parti Québécois.
The Ombudsperson has confirmed what we have been denouncing for two years: “austerity has hurt”. The government has cut $ 900 million in the health sector since being elected. “It is not the reinvestment announced in the economic update that will repair the damage that has led to a situation that goes to the limits of mistreatment for our seniors. Panties for incontinence that cannot be changed if they are not full, rationed baths, timed powdered potatoes… the damning testimonies on the care offered in CHSLDs continue to accumulate. If we were to write the tombstone of this government, we would write: &quot;here lies the government which has pushed the elderly to the limits of abuse&quot;. And now the Prime Minister is begging us to turn the page? In fact, the first words of his opening speech should be a formal apology for the damage he has caused, ”added the Leader of the Official Opposition.
The Parti Québécois listening
“Voters sent a clear message in the by-elections: the Liberal government is on the wrong track. The Prime Minister replied: &quot;No, we will continue, we have saved Quebec&quot;. And the last thing the Liberals chose to do in 2016 was to pass a prop-oil bill under a gag order. The Parti Québécois, for its part, has heard from citizens who want a government that unites and looks to the future, ”declared the parliamentary leader.
We have heard from Quebecers who want a resolute, balanced and responsible approach to secularism. An approach that will make it possible to better train our young people for an engaged and enlightened citizenship around our shared values, to progress in a tangible way towards a secular state, to establish an immigration policy on a sounder basis, and to ensure the success of each Quebecer of various origins.
We have heard from Quebeckers who want progressive forces to come together in order to defeat the Liberals. While respecting their differences, the Parti Québécois and Québec solidaire have opened a dialogue in order to work together on the common objective of ousting the most toxic Liberal government in our history. We have also heard from citizens who want their votes to have more weight. On December 7, we affirmed, together with the Coalition Avenir Québec, Québec solidaire, Option nationale and the Green Party, our desire to develop and present a joint proposal for the regional mixed proportional representation, with a view to the next election. general and applicable in 2022.
We have heard from the regions, which face enormous challenges. “It was important for me that my very first question as leader of the official opposition be one about the regions, which have seen all of their development tools disappear one by one since the Liberals were elected. Farmers, for example, have suffered complete contempt from the government when it comes to property taxes and compensation for dairy and cheese producers. We will continue to fight, too, for the forest regions, while a new timber crisis threatens them ”, also affirmed Jean-François Lisée.
We have heard from Quebeckers who want a government that proposes. On December 1, we introduced the “right to be forgotten” for cancer survivors, who often face some form of discrimination when trying to get insurance. We have also proposed strong measures of economic nationalism to protect our jobs.
“The Parti Québécois listens, hears and respects Quebeckers. They told us that they did not want a short-term referendum, that they wanted to go towards green energies and get Quebec out of oil, that they expected the government to provide good health services and in education, and help families. The by-elections have shown it: we unite, we are in tune with the needs of Quebecers. And it&#39;s only just beginning, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
