Quebec - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announces the allocation of financial assistance of nearly $ 23,000 to the owner of the house Marc-Aurèle-De Foy-Suzor-Coté, located in Victoriaville, to carry out restoration work.
“By providing financial support for the restoration project of the birthplace of Marc-Aurèle de Foy Suzor-Coté, the Government of Quebec recognizes a privileged witness to our cultural history. A true space of creation, the house has served as a privileged place of creation and inspiration for several key works of the artist. It is with great pride that we support the enhancement of this historic building, an essential part of the heritage of Victoriaville and Center-du-Québec, ”said Minister Kotto.
Built in 1859, this cottage-style house is listed as a heritage building under the Cultural Heritage Act. In addition to its neoclassical architecture, it is of heritage interest for its historical value linked to the artist Marc-Aurèle de Foy Suzor-Coté. A true pillar of art in Quebec, this painter and sculptor was born and launched his career in this house which today bears his name.
Financial assistance from the Ministry of Culture and Communications comes from the Quebec Cultural Heritage Fund and represents 40% of the cost of eligible work, valued at nearly $ 60,000. Remember that the objective of this fund is to contribute to the conservation and enhancement of cultural assets and areas of significant heritage value for our nation.
Additional information about the Marc-Aurèle-De Foy-Suzor-Coté house is available on the Quebec Cultural Heritage Directory (RPCQ) website, at http://www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca. This dissemination tool from the Ministry of Culture and Communications makes it possible to discover the richness and diversity of Quebec&#39;s cultural heritage by making it accessible to all. Part of the content of the RPCQ can now be found on the Government of Quebec&#39;s open data portal, at www.data.gouv.qc.ca.
