Quebec – As announced on Wednesday July 10 by the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, the Minister of Public Security, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, specifies the terms and conditions surrounding the opening of the help desk and information, as well as those of the issuance of lump sum assistance checks.
The help and information office will be open from Monday July 15 at the Center de formation professionnelle le Granit. He will offer services, advice and expertise to the various clienteles affected by the events. Staff from thirteen partner ministries and organizations will be present at the Training Center, located at 3409, rue Laval in Lac-Mégantic (annexed to the Polyvalente Montignac). The office will be open Monday from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. The victims will be able to come there in order to obtain support as well as assistance in their procedures from the ministries and organizations present. For example, the population will be able to obtain information on health, safety and financial assistance.
“This one-stop-shop will allow citizens, businesses and municipalities affected by the tragedy to get all the help and information they need, all in one place. By bringing together all those involved in disaster support, this represents one less concern for those who have been affected by this tragedy and alleviates the burden of this ordeal ”, declared the Minister.
In addition, with regard to the lump sum first-resort assistance, which consists of issuing a check for $ 1,000 to evacuated families, the checks will be handed over from Monday, July 15, at 8 a.m., at Polyvalente Montignac in Lac-Mégantic. The details will be announced during a press briefing from the Eastern Townships Regional Civil Security Organization today in the afternoon.
&quot;I would like to once again underline the exceptional work accomplished by all of the workers in the departments and agencies, as well as the many organizations that have joined forces to lend a hand to the disaster-stricken community,&quot; added Minister Bergeron.
Details of the specific financial assistance program are available at www.securitepublique.gouv.qc.ca.
