Saint-Côme - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, has announced financial assistance of $ 1,693,700 for the upgrading of the facilities of the Père-Lindsay Music Camp in Saint-Côme. The Minister made this announcement in the company of the Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Minister responsible for the Lanaudière region and Member of Parliament for Joliette, Véronique Hivon, and the Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Municipal Affairs, of Regions and Land Occupancy (municipal affairs section) and Member of Parliament for Berthier, André Villeneuve.
“Culture occupies a preponderant place in human development. It allows to combine pleasure, emotion, reflection, identity affirmation and learning. It is in this perspective that the mandate of the Camp musical Père-Lindsay falls, a real institution which immerses young people in the holistic learning of a fabulous and accessible musical universe ”, declared Minister Kotto.
“Today&#39;s announcement will ensure the longevity of the Musical Camp and continue the mission it has accomplished admirably for more than forty years. Father Lindsay would certainly be proud to see this happy ending for the institution he founded out of love and passion for music. I am also delighted to see that the Lanaudière region has revealed itself over time as a true cultural hub in Quebec, ”said Minister Hivon.
“If Lanaudière is already famous for its famous festival, Saint-Côme can be proud to instill in young people a taste for music and to allow them to learn it in an enchanting setting. The Musical Camp relies on a high quality faculty and a passionate team. I would like to underline the involvement of the members of the board of directors in the realization of this project, ”added MP Villeneuve.
The upgrading work will be carried out at the four chalets for students, at the professors&#39; residence and at the old chapel which currently serves as a place of rehearsal and meeting. These six buildings, which date back thirty to fifty years, will undergo major renovations to meet certain standards of the National Building Code and make the premises safe and functional.
Financial assistance from the Ministry of Culture and Communications comes from the Capital Assistance program and represents 90% of the total cost of the work estimated at $ 1,881,900. The rest of the funding will be provided by the Camp musical Père-Lindsay. The Department&#39;s contribution is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan, made public in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 2 billion for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make informed choices.
