Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, is delighted with the interest shown in recent weeks to wetlands in Quebec and wishes to clarify certain information published recently regarding the situation, the government&#39;s actions and the orientations of the bill, which are currently the subject of consultations.
“It was at my express request that the Department held, on November 27, a public presentation of the study reports of the Quebec Center for the Science of Biodiversity (CSBQ) on the situation of wetlands in Quebec. About a hundred speakers from all over the world learned about and discussed, in full transparency and with the authors themselves, the results of these studies. The worrying situation of wetlands in southern Quebec is now better known to all, and the Department is working on the development of a new law on the conservation and sustainable management of wetlands and bodies of water, ”declared Minister Blanchet, who had, on this occasion, presented the main orientations of the bill.
According to the Minister, “Studies show that under the previous government wetlands were not given the care and attention they urgently need. The observations made regarding the authorization certificates issued by the Ministry concern the period from 2006 to 2010 ”. An article published in the journal L&#39;Actualité in 2011 reported that the Minister of the Environment in office in 2006, Mr. Thomas Mulcair, had affirmed that Prime Minister Jean Charest had opposed his tabling a project. of law to protect wetlands, the Prime Minister claiming “he could not do that to Mayor Gilles Vaillancourt”. “The drafting of the current bill, which targets all wetlands in Quebec, therefore seems to have been delayed for several years for the benefit of the particular interests of a friend of the liberal regime who, today, must answer for his actions before the courts ”, underlined Minister Blanchet.
He went on to note that it is also “very clear that the performance of the current regulations is inadequate. The government is therefore preparing a legislative intervention which should see the light of day in 2014. ”This bill will aim to better protect wetlands and will impose strict, fair and consistent requirements on developers who cannot avoid intervening. in these circles. It should make it possible to adapt these requirements to the realities of the different regions and to simplify authorization requests. Ultimately, the objective is not to take anything away from wetlands, neither in surface area nor in quality.
Minister Yves-François Blanchet submits for consultation measures such as the establishment of a fund reserved for the restoration or even the creation of wetlands. To do this, it will ensure the conditional establishment of compensations adapted to the level of disturbance of the affected wetlands or to their ecological value. This approach therefore aims to be consistent and fair for promoters. However, Minister Blanchet specifies that, to be effective, the legislative process must not only be preceded by consultations, but also followed by harmonization with the field work carried out by partners such as watershed organizations (VBOs). The necessary support for the expertise of first-line actors, namely municipalities, must also be taken into consideration.
“We are working hard with experts in this field with a view to tabling an innovative, consensual bill that is decisive for the future of wetlands in Quebec. We first rely on a factual inventory established by science; this is the approach we always favor. For several months, we have been holding consultations and, so far, our principles have been very well received. I would remind you that we have already taken firm action in several cases, in particular for the protection of flood-prone areas that several RCMs were slow to enforce. We are also taking concrete action in the case of the vast industrial park of Bécancour, where we can already observe a promising opening in terms of compensation. I believe that this is what the public treatment of this file should also reflect, ”insisted Minister Blanchet.
Finally, the Minister recalls that under the Environment Quality Act (LQE), an authorization must be issued beforehand for work to be carried out in wetlands and water bodies. The Ministère du Développement durable, de l&#39;Environnement, de la Faune et des Parcs (MDDEFP) thus has the right to supervise the work planned there and has the possibility of having the projects significantly modified by the promoters themselves.
For the sake of transparency towards the public, the full reports of the studies by the team of researchers from the Center de la science de la biodiversity du Québec (CSBQ), made up in particular of Université Laval and the Institut de research in plant biology, can be consulted on the Ministère&#39;s website at the following address: www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca/eau/rives/milieuxhumides.
