Montreal - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Maka Kotto, announces the classification of four properties under the Cultural Property Act. Thus, in Montreal, the building of the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and the archaeological site of the Marché-Sainte-Anne-et-du-Parlement-du-Canada-Uni, in Quebec, the Nouvelles-Casernes, and, in Saguenay , the chapel of Saint Joseph&#39;s Oratory and its movable property are now classified and registered in the Register of cultural heritage of Quebec.
“Quebec has a very rich and highly diversified heritage. Above all, he takes pride in recognizing and protecting him. The four properties for which I have signed a classification notice in the last few days are of exceptional value, widely demonstrated, ”said Mr. Kotto.
Located under a portion of Place D&#39;Youville, between McGill and Saint-Pierre streets, the archaeological site of the Marché-Sainte-Anne-et-du-Parlement-du-Canada-Uni contains the remains of the buildings that housed the Sainte-Anne market and the former Parliament of United Canada, as well as the William collector sewer. These structures were originally built in the 1830s, following the demolition of the fortifications of Montreal, in order to improve the sanitation facilities in this area and to supply the growing population of the suburbs.
The building of the first Sainte-Anne market, neoclassical in style, built in freestone from 1832 to 1834, was inspired by the Quincy Market (1824-1826), in Boston. In 1844, it became the seat of the Parliament of United Canada until the riots of 1849, when the Tories (the main opposition party) burned down the parliament to protest against the Compensation Act for losses suffered during the uprisings of 1837 and 1838. During this fire, the Parliament and the contents of its library (25,000 books) were completely destroyed. In 1851, the remains of the building were razed to the level of the cellars, and the foundations of a new Sainte-Anne market were built on those of the old parliament.
“The City of Montreal requested this classification to protect a site that contains the foundations of the first and third Sainte-Anne markets as well as the old parliament. They are extraordinary witnesses to the history of our city, ”said the person in charge of culture, heritage, design and the status of women on the executive committee of the City of Montreal, Ms. Helen Fotopulos.
The monumental architecture of the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce building, located on Saint-Jacques Street, testifies to both the presence and the prosperity of the institution. Erected from 1907 to 1909, the building includes offices spread over six floors and five vaults. The interior is characterized by the quality of the sculpture, the architectural elements and the wealth of materials such as Caen stone, mahogany, various marbles, granite, plaster and bronze. The building has an imposing portico with six Corinthian columns and an ornamental iron balcony.
The New Barracks were built from 1749 to 1752 to house French troops sent to reinforce Quebec City, following the capture of Louisbourg by the British in 1745. After the capture of Quebec in 1759, the barracks are inhabited by the British military for over a hundred years. When the garrison left Quebec City in 1871, the New Barracks were reorganized to house the first Canadian munitions factory. Its workers participated in Canada&#39;s war effort during the two world wars of the 20th century. In 1964, the cartridge factory ceased its operations definitively. In 1965, the Augustines of the Hôtel-Dieu acquired the Nouvelles-Casernes, which subsequently became the property of the Center hospitalier universitaire de Québec.
The classification of the New Barracks covers the exterior envelope of the seven buildings, the interior of sections 1, 2, 3, 4 and 7 as well as the basement of sections 5 and 6. This classification is a first step towards rescue. of the building.
The chapel of Saint Joseph&#39;s Oratory was built according to the plans of the architect Léonce Desgagné, from 1941 to 1943, in the heart of a convent and hospital complex belonging to the Augustines. Its heritage value is based in particular on its architectural interest. It has a reinforced concrete frame, and its interior has a polygonal profile. Triangular concrete pillars are raised against the polychrome brick walls.
The interior decor, resulting from the collaboration of the architect Léonce Desgagné and the artists, is a striking illustration of the revival of sacred art that occurred in Quebec from 1930 to 1950. The vast majority of the furniture, including the benches , the high altar and the side altars, was designed by Léonce Desgagné.
