Pont-Rouge - The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, is pleased to announce the allocation of financial assistance of $ 140,000 to the Corporation des sites historique de Pont-Rouge, for the repair and landscaping of the Déry house, which is part of the Déry fishing heritage site. The mayor of Pont-Rouge, Ghislain Langlais, and the chairwoman of the board of directors of the Corporation of historic sites of Pont-Rouge, Gaétane Morasse, also participate in this event.
“Heritage properties deserve special attention, and the Government of Quebec recognizes the importance of seeing to their safeguard. The Déry fishing heritage site eloquently illustrates the marriage of nature and culture and it plays a major role in the promotion of the cultural heritage for which the Portneuvoise region is famous. Thanks to the financial assistance announced today, the government is contributing to the conservation and enhancement of this place steeped in history and culture, ”said Minister Kotto.
“Maison Déry has been part of the cultural landscape of the city of Pont-Rouge since 1804 and represents an exceptional place inhabited by memories. I am therefore delighted that the Government of Quebec is participating in this repair work since it will ensure the sustainability of this heritage property, ”said the Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions. of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltais.
The Déry fishing heritage site has been classified since 1984 and is thus protected by the Cultural Heritage Act. In addition to the Déry house, there is a bridge, a section of an old road, gorges and a portion of the Jacques-Cartier River including four salmon pits. The site is today a historical and natural interpretation center. The Corporation of historic sites of Pont-Rouge, which highlights this heritage site, makes visitors discover the rich history of the place which has combined the functions of toll station, post office and outfitter in particular.
The project, estimated at $ 177,200, aims to restore part of the exterior envelope of the Déry house and secure the site. The Department&#39;s contribution of $ 140,000 is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan, made public in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 2 billion for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus to make informed choices.
Remember that last June the Ministry of Culture and Communications announced financial assistance of $ 15,000 to the City of Pont-Rouge for the repair of the stone wall bordering the exit of the Déry Bridge. Built in 1939, this bridge is a characteristic feature of the Déry fishing heritage site. The intervention made it possible to consolidate the structure, ensure the integrity of the site and secure the places for visitors.
Additional information on the Déry fishing heritage site as well as all the heritage elements listed in the Cultural Heritage Register are available on the Quebec Cultural Heritage Directory (RPCQ) site, at www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc. it. This dissemination tool from the Ministry of Culture and Communications makes it possible to discover the richness and diversity of Quebec&#39;s cultural heritage by making it accessible to all. Part of the content of the RPCQ can now be found on the Government of Quebec&#39;s open data portal, at www.data.gouv.qc.ca.
