Quebec - On the occasion of the study of the budget appropriations of the Minister of the Executive Council, the member for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, expressed his concerns regarding the creation of quality jobs for Quebec workers. He asked the Prime Minister to put in place structuring measures to support it.
“The only switchgear we see is the one the government is applying to job creation. It must take concrete action to support our SMEs; we cannot postpone the year until the next budget. What is the Prime Minister waiting for to put in place a clear and credible plan to support job creation? “, Wondered Stéphane Bédard.
The Liberals had promised Quebeckers &quot;the liberal effect&quot; on job creation. However, the result of this &quot;effect&quot; is 50,000 fewer full-time jobs in two months. The Liberal job creation plan was essentially based on another broken promise: the $ 15 billion increase in infrastructure investments. But this did not respect the ability of Quebecers to pay and would have led Quebec to a financial discount.
“Now that the Prime Minister has heard reason and backed down on the $ 15 billion, we see that the entire Liberal fiscal framework is crumbling. There is no longer a plan for economic development. The commitment to create 250,000 jobs has even become a simple objective, according to the Minister of Finance. How will the government be able to achieve this objective if it has no vision for the creation of quality jobs in all regions of Quebec? », Continued the leader of the official opposition.
It should be remembered that the government has abandoned several measures provided for by the Parti Québécois government in the Economic Policy Priority Employment.
Stéphane Bédard also considers that the agreement reached by the Liberals with doctors represents enormous pressure on the public finances of Quebec, whose condition is already precarious.
“The increase in doctors&#39; salaries, which was granted to them by the Liberals, is the most important pressure exerted on the public finances of the Government of Quebec. This represents $ 2.2 billion this year and, ultimately, $ 2.5 billion annually. This amount is higher than the total cost for the network of childcare services in Quebec! Added the leader of the official opposition. It should also be noted that the Prime Minister has confirmed that all the increases granted for the current year will be taken directly from the budget provided for the care of the population.
“A possible failure of negotiations with doctors would reduce expenses, and therefore the care given to the population. While it was a priority before the budget, these discussions drag on and Quebeckers still do not know what the impact of the agreement will be on public finances. Considering the great importance of this file, it is imperative that a settlement be reached, ”concluded the member for Chicoutimi.
