Quebec, September 19, 2017 - In the matter of the legalization of cannabis, the leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesperson for public health, prevention and healthy lifestyles, Sylvain Pagé , and the spokesperson for agriculture, André Villeneuve, are calling for a tight framework for the substance and its by-products in Quebec. They presented the responsible plan of the official opposition, given the fact that the government is not ready and that the CAQ has only been improvising since the beginning of the debate.
“This debate and the speed with which Quebec must react were imposed on us by Ottawa. Nevertheless, the Liberal government was slow to act, when it was known for a long time that legalization would become reality. Even Minister Barrette admitted last week that things were going too fast. However, today we are presenting our solid plan for tight regulation of cannabis, ”said the leader of the official opposition.
“I have taken a serious part in all the consultations the government has held on this subject. Our proposal is rigorous and prepared: we want close supervision, always having public health and safety in mind. There are several fundamental issues in this file: the legal consumption age, the places allowed, sale and distribution, production, derivative products ... The approach we are proposing is balanced and logical ”, added Sylvain Pagé.
IN SHORT
“First, a major awareness and prevention campaign should be set up, starting in January 2018. Then, the age of consumption should be consistent with that of tobacco and alcohol: 18 years. In terms of sales and distribution, we must not create a new cumbersome and bureaucratic crown corporation; instead, let&#39;s use the expertise and resources that already exist at the SAQ and Loto-Québec with regard to the responsible marketing of a product that has a significant impact on public health and safety. Thus, the Parti Québécois proposes the creation of a subsidiary of the SAQ with a distinct mission; the latter would distribute the cannabis, in points of sale different from those for alcohol. The Crown corporation will also be responsible for retail and online sales, as it already has expertise in these areas; let us note only that a strict control on the identification and the age of the purchaser will have to be carried out. Finally, to set the selling price, we should use the expertise of Loto-Québec, which has extensive experience in marketing a product whose impact we collectively want to limit as much as possible ”, specified the spokesperson.
“As for edible derivatives, we denounce the improvisation of Ottawa. The federal bill does not allow them immediately, only &quot;in a few months&quot;. However, it is a growing share of the illegal cannabis market and, if the new legal market does not take care of it, that is equivalent to leaving this niche in the hands of organized crime, ”added Sylvain Pagé.
A word to say about production
“The official opposition considers that cannabis consumed in Quebec must be produced in Quebec and that the government of Quebec has a say, at least. Quebec should claim the power to regulate production, like any other agricultural product. In addition, to contribute to regional economic development, producers should be encouraged to settle in rural communities. Finally, as for the sale, François Legault wants to entrust it to the SAQ, while he has already proposed its privatization or the end of its monopoly. Does he trust him or not? “, Wanted to know André Villeneuve.
“We have a solid plan, zero slogan. The CAQ has a slogan and no plan; the Liberals have a bad plan and lots of slogans. After being told no by Ottawa, the Liberals will introduce a bill that will need to be greatly improved. For his part, François Legault improvises and lacks rigor by asking the federal government not to impose GST on cannabis so that Quebec can, alone, impose the QST in addition to a specific tax. However, since Quebec signed an agreement on the harmonization of sales taxes, it can no longer impose QST on a product that would be exempt from GST. Quebec has also received financial compensation from the federal government for this purpose. Since Quebec will manage almost all of the responsibilities related to the legalization of cannabis, we are instead asking Ottawa to increase its transfers by an amount equal to the GST collected on sales, to offset the inherent costs, ”concluded Jean‑ François Lisée.
