Quebec - The member for Berthier and official opposition critic for agriculture, fisheries and food, André Villeneuve, denounces the fact that the Prime Minister has abandoned Quebec milk and cheese producers. He said yesterday that the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada and the European Union could be done without there being an agreement allowing producers to receive full compensation.
“For several weeks now, I have been asking Minister Pierre Paradis and the government to make a clear commitment not to ratify CETA without dairy and cheese producers receiving the assurance of full compensation. The Prime Minister is dumping the producers by canceling their balance of power with the federal government. The government is abandoning producers, and this important economic sector for our regions will suffer, ”declared André Villeneuve.
The Prime Minister also declared: “However, we are very optimistic that, on the one hand, the impacts on our producers will be mitigated by the quality of our products which will also have access to a vast European market. &quot;
“The producers say that it is illusory to believe that there will be compensation for the effects by greater entry of Quebec products on the European market. I would remind the Prime Minister that European producers are subsidized at 64%. How does he think that our producers, despite their products being of high quality, will be able to be competitive? Added the spokesperson.
Remember that according to CETA, more than 17,700 additional tonnes of European cheese will enter the Canadian and Quebec markets. The shortfall of Quebec producers must therefore be compensated.
“Minister Paradis has failed miserably in his job. He had to put pressure on the federal government to support our producers. The Prime Minister must realize that he has considerably reduced the balance of power between producers and Ottawa. It must readjust the course, step back and give its support to our producers by returning to the position we had as a government, that is to say that the National Assembly will not be seized of a Canada-Europe agreement until they are assured of obtain a full compensation agreement with the federal government, ”concluded the Member for Berthier.
