Montreal - As part of their participation in the Journées de la culture, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, recall the support of the Government of Quebec for the democratization of culture by announcing that, from October 1, the admission price for young people aged 13 to 17 to the Musée de la civilization, the Musée d&#39;art contemporain de Montréal and the Musée national des beaux-arts du Québec will be one dollar.
The Government of Quebec is therefore acting on one of the recommendations of the Task Force on Cultural Philanthropy, chaired by Pierre Bourgie. This group proposed various measures, including the one announced today, to educate and open young people to culture as early as possible. Its effects will be beneficial, since it will considerably increase accessibility to the three State museums and publicize the national collections.
“Attracting adolescent girls and boys is a challenge for museums. This privileged access to national collections becomes a great opportunity to encourage young people to learn about the arts and to instill in them a taste for culture. It is also one more step in bringing young people to build a lasting relationship with culture, a relationship that does not go without influencing the construction of identity and the relationship with others, ”declared the Prime Minister.
“I welcome this initiative since it will create meeting spaces between young people and culture. Places of curiosity, knowledge and leisure, our State museums contain rich collections that deserve to be discovered. I sincerely hope that this measure will encourage our teenagers to invade them and make them their own, ”added the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto.
Thus, as of October 1, whether as part of a visit for personal or school purposes, any young person between the ages of 13 and 17 will pay one dollar to enter the three Quebec state museums. For children 12 and under, admission will remain free.
Remember that the report entitled Vivement, pour une culture philanthropique au Québec! Was made public on June 11, 2013 and is available on the websites of the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications (www.mcc.gouv.qc.ca) and the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications (www.mcc.gouv.qc.ca). of Finance and the Economy (www.finances.gouv.qc.ca).
