Sept-Îles - Quebec Premier Pauline Marois today confirmed the expansion and redevelopment of the Gustave-Gauvreau Residence, attached to the Sept-Îles Health and Social Services Center. On this occasion, she was accompanied by the MP for Duplessis, Lorraine Richard. This project, the realization of which requires an investment of around $ 26.7 million, has been provided for in the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. It will be mainly financed by the Ministry of Health and Social Services, with an additional contribution of $ 228,000 from the establishment.
“This project will accommodate 35 people who are currently housed in a long-term care unit at the hospital. In addition, the new real estate environment will also be taken advantage of by the home support teams and mental health programs, with the resulting positive benefits for the people served, ”explained the Premier.
“This is a project that we are proud to bring into its final phase, after several years of waiting. We are thus following a strong regional consensus in favor of improving several aspects of the care and service offer, ”declared the Member for Duplessis.
It is expected that the expansion and redevelopment will be completed within three to four years. In addition, the project has the advantage of freeing up premises in the hospital, which could eventually be used for the emergency room and the outpatient unit.
&quot;Like all the other projects that our government has chosen to prioritize and include in the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, this one meets glaring and concrete needs, in addition to contributing to the socioeconomic development of the region and of Quebec as a whole. . It will therefore materialize both for the benefit of local people and the entire Quebec community, thus fulfilling the criteria that we have given ourselves and the commitment that we have made to make exclusively responsible choices within the framework of of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, ”declared the Premier.
The contribution of the Ministry of Health and Social Services to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan, made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of nearly $ 19.4 billion for the health and social services component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and, thus, to make informed choices.
