Quebec - Members of the Parti Québécois will join their voices, today, to that of community organizations, which will cease their activities for 225 minutes to demand that the Liberal government increase their funding. The member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, denounces the government&#39;s refusal to increase this funding and asks the Minister for Rehabilitation, Youth Protection and Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, to listen to the citizens and staff of organizations demonstrating today, and to take concrete action quickly.
“Since the arrival of the Liberal government, one cut does not wait for the other. This era of austerity worries us all. In its opening speech on May 21, the government told us that &quot;the services intended for the most vulnerable people in our society and the security of the population [would be] the subject of special attention&quot;. It is clear that, in fact, these services are receiving attention and, above all, special cuts, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
The member adds that the comments of the Minister of Finance, who believes that community organizations could provide public health and social services, have rightly worried the community environment; even that his prime minister must have rebuffed him from China.
At the Parti Québécois, we believe that a society&#39;s wealth is also measured by the way it takes care of the most disadvantaged, and this particularly involves support for community organizations. Our government had planned, as part of the solidarity pillar, an increase in funding of $ 162 million for the community sector, a program for the acquisition and renovation of buildings of $ 10 million intended for these groups, as well as as support measures for the staff of the 4,000 community organizations concerned.
“The government&#39;s refusal to increase funding for community organizations jeopardizes several actions that are taken on a daily basis with the most vulnerable people in our society; this is unacceptable. Supporting these people, and those who help them, should be a priority for the government. In any case, the most vulnerable should not bear the brunt of liberal austerity, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
