Montreal– The Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Rosemont, Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Jean? François Lisée, and the candidate in Borduas and Minister of Education Superior, Research, Science and Technology, Pierre Duchesne, ask Philippe Couillard to make public the information relating to the investigative documents currently under a publication ban.
Documents are in the possession of several journalists who cannot publish them, following a publication ban. However, since March 1, thanks to the blog of Bryan Myles on the site of L&#39;actualité, we know that &quot;11 people, unidentified, would have been implied in a system of hidden financing in exchange for public contracts whereas the Liberal Party of Jean Charest was in power ”.
“When police officers talk about a system of covert funding in exchange for public contracts, these are very serious allegations. Are former Liberal ministers targeted? Are these people part of Philippe Couillard&#39;s team? Are they participating in the current election campaign? “, Asked Pierre Duchesne.
In reaction, Philippe Couillard claims that he cannot give this information because the documents in question are &quot;all redacted&quot; by the Director of Criminal and Penal Prosecutions, and that he is not aware of the identity of these. 11 people.
It would be surprising, to say the least, if the PLQ&#39;s lawyers did not inform the chief of the nature of the search warrant and of the identity of the persons targeted by the investigation. It would be just as surprising if the head of the PLQ did not do everything to find out who these people are who are the subject of a criminal investigation. It is the duty of a candidate for the post of prime minister to know whether people in his immediate circle or his team of candidates are currently under investigation by UPAC.
“If Philippe Couillard did not seek to know the identity of these people, it is irresponsible. Is he hiding the truth from Quebecers? To protect people from his political formation? How can he continue to lead his campaign to be elected Prime Minister if he does not know if the people around him are the subject of a criminal investigation? Philippe Couillard continues to keep Quebecers in the dark two days before the poll. Quebecers must have the answers to these questions before going to the polls, ”added Jean-François Lisée.
“Philippe Couillard must reveal what he knows. He must tell Quebeckers the truth. To act otherwise would be a very serious denial of democracy. The publication ban is meant to protect the Liberal Party, and the Liberal leader must forgo that protection. Quebecers have the right to know before they vote, ”concluded Pierre Duchesne.
Let us recall that the Journal of Montreal informed us last Friday that these documents concerning police investigations very compromising for the Liberal Party would remain secret until April 11. We also learned from Radio-Canada that legal proceedings could have been taken before the elections. Everything suggests that the facts which are currently kept under the seal of secrecy are likely to seriously influence the decision of the voters. Two days before the vote, we therefore find ourselves in a perilous situation for democracy.
Watch the press conference.
