Quebec - The Minister of Families, Ms. Nicole Léger, is pleased to announce that Impact Emploi-CJE de L&#39;Érable is the first non-profit organization certified according to the Work-Family Balance (CTF) standard (BNQ 9700-820 ). He has reached the second level of certification.
“In Quebec, workers are looking for a balance in their lives, where family and professional responsibilities are harmonized with as much flexibility as possible. Organizations have everything to gain by opening up to this reality; this is what we want to promote with the Work-Family Balance standard. I would like to congratulate the management of Impact Emploi-CJE de l&#39;Érable, which becomes the first non-profit organization to take up this challenge. I invite other organizations to put in place work-family balance measures and to take steps to obtain this certification designed in Quebec and unique in the world, ”said Minister Nicole Léger.
“We were made aware of the standard by the Ministry of the Family during a conference dinner offered by our local development center (CLD). The proposed approach, simple and accessible, made us want to go further. We are happy with the outcome, since we finally obtained level 2 certification, ”said Marie-Claude Chouinard, Executive Director of Impact Emploi-CJE de L&#39;Érable.
This standard, at four levels, was created at the initiative of the Ministère de la Famille and was developed under the coordination of the Bureau de normalization du Québec (BNQ), by a committee of representatives of employers, employees and of the general interest. This committee was notably composed of representatives of the Ministry of the Family, Emploi-Québec and the Ministry of Labor. The CTF standard specifies the requirements for good practice in this area, while respecting the reality of organizations and workers. It aims to integrate CTF into human resource management and can be applied to all types of organizations, private, public or otherwise, regardless of their size and the products or services they provide.
Among the recognized measures, let us mention the following: leave for family reasons, reduction of working hours, flexible working hours, use of overtime banks and teleworking. Companies are encouraged to put forward work-family balance practices that meet the needs of their employees. The BNQ assesses the level of compliance of an organization&#39;s management practices with the requirements of the standard.
“This standard on work-family reconciliation is part of a series of socio-economic standards that can, among other things, be used to attract and retain a new generation of workers, more demanding in terms of quality of life. In a context of labor shortage, this is a fundamental issue for Quebec society, the first strength of an organization being its workforce. The Bureau de normalization du Québec is very proud to see that Impact Emploi-CJE de L&#39;Érable integrates work-family balance into its management methods, ”said Jean Rousseau, Director of the BNQ.
&quot;The various initiatives put forward by Impact Emploi-CJE de l&#39;Érable in the area of work-family balance help make this organization an employer of choice in its sector of activity and a source of inspiration for others. organizations in Center-du-Québec. I congratulate him for this achievement, which is proving to be a winner on all fronts, ”said the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for Mauricie and Center-du. -Quebec, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet.
Organizations interested in the Work-Family Balance Standard and the certification process can contact the Bureau de normalization directly or visit the website www.bnq.qc.ca. The Department also offers a financial support program for workplaces in matters of CTF, the terms and details of which are presented on the website www.mfa.gouv.qc.ca.
