Québec, October 5, 2016 - The member for Taschereau and Parti Québécois spokesperson for ethics and integrity, Agnès Maltais, once again denounces Laurent Lessard&#39;s negligence when it comes to activities of its employees. This morning, he confirmed that while he was Minister of Forests, no action had been taken following the departure of his press officer, Pierre-Olivier Lussier, for a company in the forestry sector, Remabec.
“A cabinet employee who leaves office has to wait a year before having the right to be hired by a company with which he has had links. Minister Lessard defended himself, referring to a letter that Mr. Lussier signed and in which he wrote that he will follow the rules. Why, then, when he was hired by Remabec, did the minister not ask the Ethics Commissioner to investigate to ensure that his press officer had indeed followed the rules? ? It is not enough to say that we are going to respect the rules, we must take concrete action in this direction to make sure, ”said the member for Taschereau indignantly.
Recall that article 26 of the Rules of Professional Conduct applicable to members of the staff of a ministerial office states the following:
A member of the staff of a firm may not, within one year of leaving office in this capacity:
1 ° accept an appointment to the board of directors or as a member of a body, company or other entity which is not a State entity within the meaning of article 56 of the Code and with which he had official, direct and important reports during the year preceding the termination of his functions or to accept to occupy a job, a position or any other function within such a body or a such company or entity.
“Only the Minister and the Prime Minister can request an investigation by the Ethics Commissioner into an employee. When the Minister of Forests, Laurent Lessard, learned that his press attaché was going to work for a company in the same sector, why did he accept this situation without asking any questions? Why did he not ask the Ethics Commissioner to investigate to make sure he was following the rules? “Asked the spokesperson.
“In the spring of 2015, there were definitely a lot of negotiations in Laurent Lessard&#39;s office. The minister&#39;s press secretary left for Remabec in April, at the same time the company bought the Parent sawmill. The following month, Pyrobiom obtained a grant for a project at the same sawmill, and Yvon Nadeau left the minister&#39;s office the same day. All these &quot;coincidences&quot; raise serious questions about the minister and his entourage, &quot;concluded Agnès Maltais.
