Québec, October 6, 2017 - Official Opposition spokesperson for health, access to care and home support, Diane Lamarre, denounces the new secret agreement between the Liberal government and the Fédération des médecins general practitioners of Quebec (FMOQ), which represents another gift of $ 255 million over 3 years to physicians.
IN SHORT
“Today, the government is pleased that a new agreement has been reached, this time with general practitioners. He unashamedly asserts that it is the result of cleaning up public finances, which leaves room for maneuver. However, when we know that the Liberal government has slashed direct services to patients, the elderly and the most vulnerable in order to achieve this, there is reason to be very angry! According to what we know, the minister has agreed to increase the salary of general practitioners by 10% over the next 3 years. Ten percent is about $ 255 million. But, since the deal is secret, it is impossible to know what additional services the public will be entitled to in return. In fact, it is not even known if there will be any guarantee of additional services whatsoever. Out of respect for the population, which will pay $ 255 million more to general practitioners, the government must immediately make the entire agreement public, ”asked Diane Lamarre.
“Without a guarantee of additional services, the $ 255 million will serve no other purpose than to enrich physicians who have already received considerable increases. Indeed, even before the new increases granted to general practitioners, the increase in physician salaries already represented more than 70% of new health initiatives this year. In comparison, only $ 69 million was reinvested in home support, while it would take $ 500 million over 5 years to provide adequate services. For 15 years, what we have been witnessing has been the spectacle of a government signing agreements with federations of physicians, giving them a big check and crossing their fingers in the hope that services will improve. It is nonsense. The government ceded the distribution of the compensation envelopes to the FMOQ, and no change was made to fee-for-service compensation, ”added the Member for Taillon.
The Parti Québécois proposes to put the health network back on track through a series of concrete measures, starting by increasing the autonomy of 200,000 health professionals, by allowing them to perform several additional acts. The Parti Québécois plan also includes a freeze on doctors&#39; salaries, genuine guarantees of access to primary health care, as well as a reinvestment of $ 500 million over 5 years in home support, after years of liberal cuts.
