Quebec - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, today launched her election campaign in the greater Quebec City area. “The choice to start our national campaign in Quebec is no accident. We intend to reconquer Quebec by presenting a very solid team there ”, declared Pauline Marois.
She took the opportunity to present three new candidates who will wear the colors of the Parti Québécois in the Quebec region.
In La Peltrie, the Parti Québécois will be represented by Jean-Luc Jolivet, the son of a former PQ minister Jean-Pierre Jolivet. He is a man who already has a great deal of experience in parliamentary affairs. “The Parti Québécois has always been my party. The sovereignty of Quebec, I have wanted to work concretely to achieve it for a long time. It is therefore with great enthusiasm that I will bring my party&#39;s ideas to the citizens of La Peltrie. I can&#39;t wait to meet them. &quot;
In Vanier-Les-Rivières, the Parti Québécois candidate will be Marc Dean, the son of another PQ minister and René Lévesque&#39;s companion, Robert Dean. Marc is a specialist in international relations. “The team that Pauline Marois presents to Quebecers, and particularly here in the Quebec City region, is exciting and I am very happy to join this party devoted strictly to the interests of Quebecers. And I will admit that I am proud to take up the torch from my father on the road to Quebec sovereignty, ”he said.
Finally, in Montmorency, the leader of the Parti Québécois introduced Michel Létourneau, a well-known figure in the Quebec region who worked at the Summer Festival for several years. He is a manager, a cultural entrepreneur, a man who delivers the goods. “I think I can make a difference in Montmorency. I have political experience and I intend to make culture an important issue in this campaign. &quot;
“We have the Capitale-Nationale region at heart. We will be present to win in Quebec with the team of men and women of quality that we present, ”concluded Pauline Marois, recalling that the Parti Québécois is the largest political formation in Quebec with its 90,000 members.
