Trois-Rivières - Quebec Premier Pauline Marois today announced that the Trois-Rivières Health and Social Services Center (CSSS) is authorized to continue phase II of the redeployment of services at the Affiliated University Hospital Center regional, a project in the order of $ 50 million that will be fully funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services, under the next Quebec Infrastructure Plan. On this occasion, Ms. Marois was accompanied by the Minister of Health and Social Services, Réjean Hébert, and the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the regions of Center-du-Québec. and from Mauricie, Yves François Blanchet.
“Our government has made a double commitment to put public finances in order and to make responsible choices within the framework of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. We want to select promising projects for the socio-economic development of Quebec, which will materialize for the benefit of the entire Quebec community. The major service redeployment project at the CSSS de Trois-Rivières falls into this category; this is why we have given priority to carrying out its last phase, ”declared the Prime Minister.
The redeployment project provides for the construction of a new four-storey wing which will accommodate 50 beds, increasing the total number of beds at the hospital to 478. In addition to this expansion component of more than 11,400 m2, a redevelopment component is added, affecting nearly 3,000 m2 of existing areas. Two care units will be moved to the new wing, while the spaces left vacant will be redeveloped to accommodate outpatient cardiology, pneumology and urology services.
“This long-awaited project can finally begin its last stretch. This is great news for the region, which has been eagerly awaiting this increase in services. In addition to making it possible to meet the growing needs in the region, this project will help ensure better access to health care and services for the population, ”Réjean Hébert, Minister of Health and Social Services, said.
“I am happy that this project can finally move forward, thanks to our government. I would like to thank the establishment as well as the Agence de la santé et des services sociaux de la Mauricie et du Center-du-Québec for the efforts made so far in this project, the outcome of which will have very significant spinoffs. for the people here, ”concluded the Minister responsible for the Mauricie region, Yves-François Blanchet.
