Quebec - Parti Québécois agriculture spokesperson André Villeneuve, transport and maritime strategy spokesperson Martine Ouellet and Beauharnois MP Guy Leclair ask the government to finally listen the farmers of the municipality of Les Cèdres, who must deal with the threat of being expropriated from their land.
“The Minister of Agriculture, Pierre Paradis, must put an end to the worry and commit not to touch this agricultural land. These possible expropriations are a threat not only for current farmers, but also for the next generation of farmers. Of the land targeted by the project, 90% are guaranteed to have a succession, ”said André Villeneuve.
The regional county municipality of Vaudreuil-Soulanges has asked the Quebec government to modify by decree the zoning of approximately 500 hectares of agricultural land, in order to create a possible logistics hub in the municipality of Les Cèdres. If the government absolutely wants to see the logistics pole or part of the logistics pole born in this region, it only has to use the industrial places, which are appropriate there and already available.
Martine Ouellet, for her part, calls on the Minister for Maritime Strategy: “The establishment of a logistics hub must not be done to the detriment of the best arable land in Quebec. The Contrecoeur site has undeniable advantages for the development of the Quebec maritime sector. The government must reassure the farmers of Vaudreuil and tell them that they will not be expropriated, ”she said.
For his part, Guy Leclair asks the government to open a dialogue with citizens: “The farmers tried to meet Lucie Charlebois, without success. The government must respect the citizens of the region. They have the right to be informed and listened to. If the government absolutely wants to move forward with a logistics hub in this region, let it use the industrial land that is already at its disposal. Let us avoid reliving the episode of the expropriations of Mirabel, ”concluded the deputy.
