Quebec - The member for Chicoutimi and leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard, deplores the many job losses announced today, namely 1000 at Bombardier Aéronautique, 200, perhaps more, at the Davie shipyard in Lévis, and 175 at the Montreal School Board.
“These job losses come the day after the announcement of more than 100 layoffs at Rio Tinto&#39;s head office in Montreal. It is a black Thursday for the workers; quality, well-paying jobs are disappearing. In the case of Bombardier, the government has been watching the parade for several months, despite being aware of the company&#39;s difficulties. The Minister of the Economy told us that he had done his job by making a phone call. Today, we are seeing the result, ”said Stéphane Bédard.
Regarding the Davie shipyard, the Leader of the Official Opposition reminds us that the Prime Minister had nevertheless told us, following the last federal budget, that obtaining contracts for our shipyards was becoming a battle horse for him. . The federal government has since announced that it will spend more than $ 100 billion on marine contracts in British Columbia and Nova Scotia. However, despite the fact that Quebeckers will pay $ 20 billion for these contracts, the Davie shipyard will not get any.
“This is precisely the problem. We have to fight to collect crumbs from Ottawa. And, just three weeks after the federal budget was tabled, the inability of the Premier of Quebec to obtain confirmation of contracts has just cost 200 jobs, perhaps more. What is the Prime Minister saying to mothers and fathers who learned this week that they no longer have a job? What will he do to prevent job losses, caused solely by the stubbornness of the federal government, from multiplying like Davie? Added the leader of the official opposition.
“The reality of the last few months is repeated bad news at Alcan, Cirque du Soleil, Bombardier, SNC-Lavalin, Resolu… all of the flagships that have left Quebec or are in difficulty. The Prime Minister&#39;s great contribution was to destabilize the entire aeronautics sector by cutting the tax credit for research and development by 20%. Does he intend to restore it, as the industry is demanding? », Concluded Stéphane Bédard.
