Quebec, August 29, 2017 - Alongside the mayor of Bois-des-Filion, Paul Larocque, as well as the mayor of Blainville and prefect of the MRC of Thérèse-de-Blainville, Richard Perreault, the leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesperson for transport, Alain Therrien, the member for Terrebonne, Mathieu Traversy, and the member for Saint-Jérôme, Marc Bourcier, firmly called on the Liberal government about the completion of the highway 19 between Bois-des-Filion and Laval.
IN SHORT
“The people of the region are discouraged by Liberal inaction, but firm in their intention to move forward, just like us. We have always been serious about completing Highway 19. We announced a project with reserved lanes and a place for active transportation. Seven years after Prime Minister Jean Charest&#39;s initial announcement, nothing has changed. This is unacceptable. The Liberals are using this strategy in several regions: they let their promises spoil without taking action. What are they waiting for? The next elections? In order to make promises again that they will not keep? », Raised Jean-François Lisée.
“The Minister of Transport had nevertheless committed, last spring, to submit the file to the Council of Ministers. Time has passed, and we are still waiting. But we don&#39;t forget; the people of the Coalition and the elected representatives of the region can count on us to keep up the pressure, ”assured Alain Therrien.
“Every day, on Highway 19, nearly 60,000 motorists find themselves trapped in a monster traffic jam. The citizens of Terrebonne, Bois-des-Filion, Blainville, Rosemère, Laval and Sainte-Thérèse waste a lot of time in their car instead of spending it with their family. We will continue to work for them, ”Mathieu Traversy pledged.
“The citizens of the North Shore have been waiting for the completion of Highway 19. In 2010, the Liberal government promised it for 2015. It is 2017. The citizens and elected officials of the North Shore have been patient enough. Now it is up to the minister to act. The citizens and elected representatives of the region are exasperated; we need a signal from the minister in the file! “, For his part concluded Marc Bourcier.
