Quebec - Quebec Premier Pauline Marois released the Report of the Committee on the Conditions of Employment of Senior Job Holders from Outside the Quebec Public Service, a few days after it was tabled. In accordance with the mandate entrusted to it, the committee, chaired by Mr. André Perrault, makes recommendations to the government in terms of attracting and retaining competent incumbents to senior positions.
“The government will study the recommendations forwarded by the committee chaired by Mr. Perrault. The objective of the Government of Quebec is to recruit from outside the public service and to retain competent incumbents in its employment, and to ensure that the integration of qualified personnel into the public service meets demanding ethical standards. . The recommendations open up a number of interesting avenues to this end, which the government will carefully analyze, ”said Ms. Marois.
The mandate of the committee, formed in December 2012, was to inform the reflections of the Government of Quebec in terms of attracting and retaining competent incumbents to senior positions.
The committee formulates a set of recommendations concerning recruitment, selection and integration into employment, job security, remuneration and other working conditions, issues related to contracts as well as ethics and the management framework. . In particular, the committee makes specific suggestions concerning the granting of job security for incumbents from outside, the renewal of an employment contract, the severance allowance, as well as the rules of ethics. to be observed during the term of office and after the term of office.
The committee&#39;s report also includes a comparative study on the employment conditions of incumbents from outside the public service, carried out on its initiative by the Observatory of Public Administration of the ÉNAP.
“By creating this committee, the government wanted to give itself the means to seek competent and qualified people outside the public service, while drawing inspiration from best ethical practices. The committee&#39;s work has identified a number of possibilities for this purpose. Basically, the government wants to ensure that the Quebec state can rely on a superior administration of very high quality, integrity and devoted to the public interest. The committee&#39;s report suggests several ways to ensure this, ”concluded the Premier.
To consult the Report of the Committee on the conditions of employment of holders of senior positions from outside the Quebec public service, go to http://www.mce.gouv.qc.ca/publications/ publications.htm.
