Québec, March 4, 2018 - Inspired by successful initiatives such as Teaching Kamouraska, the official opposition spokesperson for elementary and secondary education and school perseverance, Carole Poirier, and the spokesperson in matters of national identity, Pascal Bérubé, announced that a Parti Québécois government, through pilot projects, will offer 2nd and 3rd cycle elementary students activities of discovery, familiarization and attachment to their identity, their history and their reality.
IN BRIEF • By launching pilot projects, a Parti Québécois government intends to offer Quebec elementary cycle 2 and 3 students activities to discover, familiarize themselves with and become attached to their local and regional history. with the MRCs and local historical societies, will enroll in the current fields of “Social Universe” and “Science and Technology” or as part of the citizenship education course which will replace the Ethics and Religious Culture course. sum of $ 20 million will be allocated annually to cover the costs of educational projects, which must meet specific criteria • Ten half-days will be devoted to this over 3 years.
“The launch of these pilot projects aims to offer 2nd and 3rd cycle elementary students the opportunity to develop an attachment to their region. Learning about the local environment, including historical ones, as we propose it, will be part of the current fields &quot;Social universe&quot; and &quot;Science and technology&quot; or in the course of citizenship education that we want to set up. The schools will participate in the pilot projects on a voluntary basis first, then the activities will be gradually extended to the whole of Quebec. These activities will be determined according to the needs and realities of the communities. We believe that this proposal will have a very positive impact on the knowledge of the identity and the local and regional history of our young people ”, explained Carole Poirier.
“We live in Quebec, yes, but first of all, we live in a neighborhood, a village, a region. Knowing where we live, the territory we frequent on a daily basis, the contribution of the men and women who have shaped it are part of the local and national roots of each of us ”, explained Pascal Bérubé for his part. .
“We were inspired by the Teaching Kamouraska project; this lower laurentian initiative, developed by the Kamouraska MRC and offered for 4 years, aims to increase the knowledge and pride of young people in our territory. Our program, once fully implemented, will have a budget of $ 20 million, an amount that will be used to cover the costs of educational projects, ”the spokesperson concluded.
