Quebec - As consultations begin this morning on Bill 44, An Act to strengthen the fight against smoking, the member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services and youth protection , home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, recalls that every week, since the last revision of the law on tobacco, 10 years ago, 250 young people start to smoke; it is therefore urgent that the amendments aimed at strengthening it enter into force.
“We are asking the Minister for Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, to do what is necessary to ensure that Bill 44 is adopted as quickly as possible. We welcome the advances proposed to better protect the health of Quebecers, but nevertheless believe that additional measures remain relevant to allow us to reduce the smoking rate in Quebec to 10% within 10 years. We hope that these consultations will be an opportunity to exchange views with the groups and to work together for the benefit of all Quebecers, ”declared the Member for Rosemont.
The Parti Québécois, through amendments, intends to improve the proposed bill. “In particular, we are calling for plain packaging to become compulsory for tobacco products; this would prevent them from attracting young people. Countries like Ireland, France, the United Kingdom and Australia have already chosen to adopt such regulations. Then we will propose that a moratorium be imposed on each new tobacco product; that is, before marketing it, companies should obtain an authorization from the Ministry of Health. We are convinced that this way, we would curb the very great creativity of the industry, in addition to allowing the law to adapt to new products as and when they appear, ”continued Jean-François Lisée.
The official opposition therefore intends to actively participate in the consultations that are beginning. “Because as elected representatives, we have a responsibility to protect the health of thousands of people, we have no time to waste, but we also have a duty to carry out the work with rigor. We will hear from about thirty groups; they, like the minister, can expect our full cooperation when it comes to better protecting public health, ”the spokesperson concluded.
