Quebec - The Member for Taillon and spokesperson for the official opposition in matters of health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, and the Member for Rosemont and spokesperson for social services and youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, take advantage of the holding of the Week for a Tobacco-Free Quebec, from January 18 to 24, to denounce the inaction of the Liberal government, which has still not tabled any draft Law to update the Tobacco Act, the last revision of which was in 2005.
“To compensate for the Liberal government&#39;s inaction on this issue and put an end to the confusion, some schools and municipalities have come to adopt their own regulations to regulate the use of electronic cigarettes, for example. And what are we waiting for to ban the use of tobacco in vehicles with a child, or to tackle flavors and packaging appealing to young people? Every day, in Quebec, 34 adolescents, on average 12 years old, are introduced to smoking; that&#39;s more than 12,000 new smokers each year. The Minister for Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, had pledged to table a bill quickly, but she still has not done so. Today, she indicates that she intends to move forward during the next parliamentary session, but can we believe her? We ask her to formally make the commitment that she will make it a priority, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
Diane Lamarre recalls for her part that in 2003, the National Assembly voted unanimously to accede to the Framework Convention of the World Health Organization (WHO) on tobacco control. “The new version of the law must at a minimum follow the recommendations and standards of the WHO in terms of tobacco control. Quebec is very late in this matter; the current law is 10 years old and contains significant loopholes and loopholes that the tobacco industry was quick to exploit. While the other states act, Quebec risks a setback in the fight against smoking. Will we let our efforts of the past 20 years go up in smoke? We must protect all Quebeckers, but especially young people, who are introduced to smoking every day and its risks, which are now so well known. The Liberal government has certainly accustomed us to procrastination, but this time let it think about the consequences of its inaction on the health of Quebeckers, ”she insisted.
