Montreal - The Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, accompanied by the President of the Montreal = Families Expert Committee, Ms. Édith Cyr, made a presentation public the result of the work of the Committee, responsible for proposing measures to curb the exodus of families from the island of Montreal.
The report testifies to a strong consensus among the Committee&#39;s experts, not only on the many issues at stake, but above all on the need to take concrete action quickly, on several fronts. Remember that the Montreal = Families Committee brings together experts from government, municipal, financial, associative, community and university circles.
In her inaugural speech in October 2012, the Prime Minister, Mrs. Pauline Marois, had announced the priorities for the metropolitan region: one of these concerned the need to act to encourage more families with young children to go. establish or reside on the Island of Montreal. Minister Lisée then made a commitment to mobilize public and private actors for a concerted approach and created the Committee of Experts Montreal = Families.
A review of all dimensions of the issue, carried out by the Committee, has brought to light various worrying phenomena. First and foremost, there are difficulties in accessing housing for young households, given the high cost of properties on the Island of Montreal. The report includes various avenues of solutions to act as much on the accessibility of family housing as on the offer of adapted housing products and on the quality of life.
&quot;We share with the members of the Committee the conviction that it is necessary to act vigorously to reverse the trend and allow young families, who are the lifeblood of the metropolis, to remain on the island and to benefit from advantageous living conditions&quot; , said Minister Lisée.
The report was presented to the Ministerial Committee of the Metropolitan Region, as well as to the Council of Ministers. It has also been sent to the departments and agencies of the Government of Quebec concerned by this issue, so that they can carry out an adequate analysis and issue opinions and recommendations. The government will then assess the priorities among the proposed actions and will determine the budgets necessary to carry out targeted actions.
“I would like to thank and congratulate the members of the Committee, who have shown commitment and vision for the future of the metropolitan region. Translating such a complex issue and achieving consensus on concrete measures was no easy task. In this regard, they have done substantial and wise work, ”concluded Minister Lisée.
For more information: www.mce.gouv.qc.ca/srm/publications/.
The Secretariat advises the Government of Quebec on any question or measure having a significant impact on the Montreal metropolitan region and its development. It provides the secretariat for the Ministerial Committee of the metropolitan region, chaired by Minister Jean-François Lisée. The Secretariat acts in concert with its various partners in order to promote the coherence and convergence of all interventions, as well as the growth and dynamism of the metropolitan region.
