Montreal - The Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today launched the first National Policy to Combat Homelessness - Together, to Avoid and Get Out of the Street. This policy gives strong impetus to the many players in the fields concerned by the fight against homelessness to converge their efforts and unite them around an ambitious, global, coherent and sustainable vision in order to prevent and counter homelessness.
“Today we are sending a clear message: the one we can no longer tolerate the intolerable! Homelessness can no longer be considered inevitable. In this sense, the government wants to be the engine of a change that challenges us all: elected officials, public administrations and establishments, community organizations, police, judicial and citizens. The fight against homelessness must be made a collective national priority, ”said Minister Hivon.
So that each person can have a place, &quot;his place&quot;, we must bet on the fact that people experiencing homelessness are full citizens. We must also capitalize on their power to act, taking into account the complexity of the situations, the multiplicity of faces of homelessness, the diversity of routes and the absence of a single response to a phenomenon of this magnitude. It is also necessary to favor an individualized approach of accompaniment and support.
The Policy identifies five priority lines of action:
“We must work to increase the capacity of people to find housing and support them in their efforts, for example by making a greater diversity of types of housing and accommodation accessible. It is also fundamental to bring health and social services to people experiencing homelessness, adapting them to their reality and their specific needs. In terms of income, we must ensure greater financial security and better support for people to facilitate access to income. We must also show flexibility and flexibility in supporting the modulation of programs, among others with regard to social integration, socio-professional integration and employability, and promote alternative training programs. With regard to social cohabitation, we must fight prejudices, raise awareness, train and promote diversion as well as the presence of social workers in police intervention teams, ”added Ms. Hivon.
The Policy will serve as the basis for the 2014-2019 interministerial action plan, which will be unveiled in the coming months. The action plan will recommend targeted and concrete actions for all the priority axes defined in the Policy.
Already, thanks to the budget presented on February 20, certain key actions have been identified. Thus, 3,250 social housing units will be built, including 500 for people experiencing homelessness, which corresponds to double the number of social housing units currently reserved for them and represents an investment of $ 46 million.
It should also be remembered that the historic increase in funding for community organizations announced last fall by investing $ 120 million over three years to support the overall mission of community organizations in health and social services will make a significant difference in aid. brought to the people in the field.
“Often, homelessness issues go hand in hand with mental health and addiction issues. In this context, our government is also choosing to invest an additional $ 6 million for local services for people experiencing homelessness, mainly in mental health and community support. It is essential to act on the ground and this investment is also in line with the objectives we are pursuing with the next Mental Health Action Plan. We are convinced that this strong commitment will help reduce homelessness, ”added the Minister of Health and Social Services, Réjean Hébert.
This policy marks a turning point in Quebec&#39;s action on homelessness. It is the result of in-depth consultation, which was particularly consolidated within the framework of the Consultation Forum chaired by Minister Hivon last June, and which made it possible to create real synergy between the 140 or so participants from all spheres. and all regions of Quebec. It responds to a demand from the community in the fight against homelessness that has been repeated many times since 2006. The government is convinced that this policy will generate the support and mobilization necessary for its proper implementation, and that it will promote continued and effective action. coordinated to meet the complex and varied needs of people in this highly vulnerable situation.
“Homelessness has been particularly present in the news recently. The National Policy against Homelessness will help keep it at the forefront, but for a resolutely positive reason: that of the birth of an unprecedented solidarity movement that will blow a wind of change in the streets of Quebec. Because the message launched by this policy is one of hope, that of telling us that together, we can prevent and fight homelessness, that we can make a real difference in the lives of people experiencing homelessness who, like all the others, they simply aspire to a beautiful and dignified life, ”concluded Ms. Hivon.
To find out more about the National Homelessness Policy, visit http://msss.gouv.qc.ca/itinerance
