Rivière-du-Loup– The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announces the allocation of a $ 3M loan from Investissement Québec to the Lepage Millwork company of Rivière-du-Loup, for the expansion and modernization of its facilities. Lepage Millwork, which manufactures high-end wood windows and doors for prestigious residences and heritage renovation, plans to invest more than $ 10M in this project.
This financial support will allow the company to improve its production capacity and increase its export sales. More specifically, the project includes the expansion of the main building in order to install more efficient paint chambers, as well as a cafeteria for the employees. In addition, an expansion of the wood preparation section and the acquisition of a moulder are planned.
“Lepage Millwork is thinking big and we are very proud to support him. Thanks to the loan from the Government of Quebec, the company can devote itself to developing new markets. In addition to consolidating the 260 existing jobs, it plans to create 48 others in the coming years. This is excellent news for the region&#39;s economy and the Ecoconstruction niche, resulting from the ACCORD approach, ”said Minister Élaine Zakaïb.
Thanks to the abundant and diversified natural resources of the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, the Ecoconstruction niche of excellence aims to become a North American reference in the development, production and use of products with lower environmental impact for the sector. of habitat-construction. In the region, nearly 200 companies present an integrated offer of ecological products and services for residential construction. Lepage Millwork is a fine example of a company which, through its product offering, meets the orientations of the niche and contributes to its dynamism.
Founded in 1950, Lepage Millwork was acquired in 2001 by Guy Bonneville. In recent years, the company has invested heavily in its fixed assets. In addition, production has been oriented towards products with high added value and the company also pays special attention to the environment. Its products are mainly made from recyclable materials, such as wood, steel and glass. It represents a flagship of the regional economy.
“We are very happy to count on the financial participation of the Government of Quebec. For over a year, we have devoted many hours and significant sums of money to this project. This financial support will therefore enable us to achieve productivity gains while making our high-end product more and more known to a wider clientele ”, concluded Mr. Guy Bonneville, President of Lepage Millwork.
