Québec– The member for Jonquière and leader of the official opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, is proud to announce that his colleague, member for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, Diane Lamarre, is coming meet the citizens of the Jonquière district and many regional players in the health network, this Friday, September 16.
“Diane Lamarre has already visited several regions in order to speak with Quebecers about their health system and to meet the groups and organizations that work there, in order to take the pulse of the various regional situations. In Jonquière, many groups have responded to our call; we therefore have on the menu a series of very interesting meetings which will allow us to take stock, together, of the liberal reforms and their impacts here at home, ”declared Sylvain Gaudreault.
“Everywhere I went, I was able to observe a great centralization as well as a decrease in access to care and family doctors, despite all the promises of Minister Gaétan Barrette. In Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean, the minister refused to work with local authorities to allow Jonquière Medic - a solution implemented here, by and for the people of here - to continue its activities. Passageways have therefore had to be found for this essential service to continue, and we will continue to demand the necessary arrangements so that the population of Jonquière can keep it in the months and years to come. The &quot;wall to wall&quot; does not work and, what is clear is that the liberal cuts of nearly $ 40 million since 2014 in the health and social services network of Saguenay – Lac-Saint- Jean undermine access to healthcare. I am counting on these exchanges with many stakeholders in the region to target courses of action to improve access and mitigate the effects of the dismantling of the regions orchestrated by the Liberal government, ”added Diane Lamarre. .
Among the groups met by the Leader of the Official Opposition and the Member for Taillon, we should mention the Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean Assistance and Support Center for Complaints, the Jonquière Médic organization, the Users&#39; Committee of the Saguenay – Lac-Saint-Jean, the Union of health workers in northeastern Quebec and the Alliance of professional and technical personnel in health and social services.
