Quebec – On tour in Nunavik, the Premier, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet, and the Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, at La Francophonie Canada and Sovereignty Governance and Minister responsible for the Nord-du-Québec region, Alexandre Cloutier, yesterday confirmed the creation of the Nunavik Cooperative Development Fund. This fund includes an envelope of $ 15 million, the constitution of which will be spread over a period of 10 years.
Of this amount, $ 5 million, in the form of an interest-free loan, will come from the Government of Quebec through Investissement Quebec. The Fédération des coopératives du Nouveau-Québec is also contributing $ 5 million in funding. Payments will be in the order of $ 500,000 per year for 10 years. The Makivik Corporation, for its part, will invest $ 2.5 million when the Fund is created through the acquisition of preferred shares. Finally, the Kativik Regional Government (KRG), through 14 Nunavik cooperative associations, will also inject $ 2.5 million when the Fund is created.
The Nunavik Cooperative Development Fund will support structuring projects for the growth of the cooperative sector that will contribute to the development of Inuit communities. The sums paid will be used to carry out business projects in various sectors of activity.
The cooperative movement is firmly established in Nunavik. These cooperatives provide the vast majority of local services in Inuit communities, such as groceries, hardware, gasoline, Internet and cable television services, hotels and banking services, as well as maritime transportation. . In Nunavik, the 14 member cooperatives of the Fédération des coopératives du Nouveau-Québec play a decisive role in the economy by being the largest private employers from Nunavik. They operate general stores, hotels, and hunting and fishing camps. These 14 cooperatives now have a combined turnover of over $ 80 million.
&quot;Thanks to the establishment of this fund, the Government of Quebec and its partners will contribute to the collective effort of the Inuit communities of Nunavik,&quot; said Pauline Marois. This fund is expected to generate more than $ 60 million in investments over the next 10 years. This will result in the creation of 150 direct and indirect jobs, and the consolidation of more than 700 existing jobs. For more than a century, the cooperative movement has been a defining feature of Quebec society, our economy and our entrepreneurship. This movement stands out in North America and around the world for its dynamism as well as its capacity for innovation and mobilization. &quot;
&quot;This fund will make it possible to launch and continue economic initiatives and public services that will increase the quality of life of the various communities of Nunavik,&quot; added Yves-François Blanchet. In addition, the fund will generate significant socio-economic benefits in terms of jobs and local services for all the villages of Nunavik. The amounts constituting the Fund will go in particular to the financing of development projects, such as retail trade, accommodation, improvement of oil installations and other projects of a similar nature. &quot;
&quot;Our main objective is to improve access to long-term financing for the Nunavik cooperative network, in the form of loans with advantageous conditions,&quot; said Alexandre Cloutier. The Fund will also serve to intensify the presence of the cooperative entrepreneurship model in Nunavik. The cooperative movement has made an exceptional contribution to the economic and social growth of Quebec. This is a collective dynamism that must continue to be highlighted. &quot;
&quot;The Makivik Corporation is pleased to support the cooperative movement in Nunavik and to contribute to this project, which should strengthen economic activity and promote the creation of new jobs in our region,&quot; said Jobie Tukkiapik, president of the Corporation. Makivik.
“The KRG&#39;s $ 2.5 million investment in the 14 Nunavik cooperative associations demonstrates our long-term commitment to the cooperative sector as well as our enthusiastic support for the presence of strong and prosperous cooperatives in the region, ”said Maggie Emudluk, President of the Kativik Regional Government.
&quot;In many Inuit communities in Nunavik, cooperatives are the main and sometimes the only point of sale and distribution of goods,&quot; said the Director General of the Federation of New Quebec Cooperatives, Heng Kun. The partnership with the Government of Quebec sends a positive message for the years to come. The economic activity generated will offer a promising future for the young people of Nunavik and will therefore contribute to the development of the various communities. &quot;
