Louiseville– On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region, the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, confirmed the allocation of loans totaling $ 620,000 to Les Boiseries Leblanc inc. for a project estimated at $ 1,575,000 aimed at automating its production. The project will add 11 specialized jobs to the company&#39;s 20 current jobs.
Financial assistance includes the payment of a loan of $ 370,000 from the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund and a loan of $ 250,000 from Investissement Québec.
&quot;The manufacturing sector is one of the major spearheads of our economy,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “We are therefore proud to help a manufacturing company initiate the necessary shift towards automation, which is at the heart of Québec&#39;s industrial policy. Indeed, we want to give impetus to the manufacturing sector to make it more competitive on world markets, in particular by improving its productivity through innovation, modernization, automation and greening of its activities. &quot;
A family business founded in 1985, Les Boiseries Leblanc specializes in the manufacture and sale of kitchen and bathroom cabinets as well as wood components and furniture for the residential, commercial and institutional sectors. The company wishes to make this important investment in order to improve its productivity and competitiveness.
&quot;We are very happy to be able to benefit from the support of the Quebec government,&quot; explained François Leblanc, president of the company. “Thanks to this investment project, we will considerably increase our production capacity while reducing our costs. Our forecasts let us foresee an annual increase of 20% of our sales. Although our business is very diversified, we intend to maintain all of our range of activities, namely profiling, turning, furniture and cabinetry. &quot;
Created in fall 2012, the Center-du-Québec et de la Mauriciev economic diversification fund aims to attract private investment and encourage the creation of efficient and innovative businesses, thanks to a budget of 200 million dollars. dollars.
&quot;Once again, we have proof that businesses in Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie region are dynamic and innovative, and that they can contribute to the growth of the manufacturing industry in Quebec,&quot; added Élaine Zakaïb. . “Les Boiseries Leblanc is one of those that actively participate in the diversification and growth of the regional economy. &quot;
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers meet from February 3 to 7, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the MPs&#39; caucus and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. In less than a week, they will make more than 80 announcements of different kinds. These announcements bear witness to the government&#39;s contribution to the development and growth of the two regions concerned.
