Quebec – On tour in Nunavik, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, yesterday inaugurated Kuururjuaq National Park, located east of Ungava Bay, near the Inuit community of Kangiqsualujjuaq. Ms. Marois was accompanied by the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet, and the President of the Kativik Regional Government (KRG), Maggie Emudluk.
“This national park ensures the conservation and enhancement of the grandiose landscapes and exceptional natural ecosystems that characterize Nunavik. It is also the pride of the Inuit, who take responsibility for its management, in addition to offering quality jobs to young people, which, in my opinion, constitutes major assets for the sustainable development of the North ”, declared the first minister.
Covering an area of 4,461 km2, this national park offers some of the most spectacular landscapes, including the Torngat Mountains, which includes the highest peak in Quebec, Mont D&#39;Iberville, which rises to 1,646 meters above sea level. It is also in these mountains that the Koroc river takes its source. Parc national Kuururjuaq thus offers a high degree of protection to almost the entire watershed of this river.
“Kuururjuaq is a unique place in Quebec, an exceptional northern territory, we can see it today. I am particularly happy that this jewel of our natural and cultural heritage is protected while supporting the development of tourism in Nunavik. It is a very nice gift that we collectively give to ourselves and to the generations that will follow us, ”said the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Yves- Francois Blanchet.
“The creation of the park allows us to protect this territory that our elders have always occupied and we would like the young people to thank us one day for having protected it from development. Parc national Kuururjuaq will serve as a lever for the development of tourism in our community and in Nunavik, and will constitute a center of intercultural exchanges with those who will visit us, ”said the president of the Kativik Regional Government, Maggie Emudluk.
Parc national Kuururjuaq was established through close collaboration between the Government of Quebec, the Inuit community of Kangiqsualujjuaq, the Makivik Corporation, the Kativik Regional Government and the Qiniqtiq and Epigituk (Taqpangayuk) landholding corporations. As is the case for the other national parks of Quebec in Nunavik, the KRG assumes the management. It has set up the necessary equipment, namely a workshop in the village of Kangiqsualujjuaq and a reception pavilion including a permanent exhibition, as well as camps and infrastructure at some of the park&#39;s strategic locations.
The annual budget paid by the Government of Quebec for the operation of Parc national Kuururjuaq is $ 1.1 million. It offers seven permanent jobs and more than 13 people from the community of Kangiqsualujjuaq have been hired to carry out various works, which is significant for a community of approximately 1,000 inhabitants, of which a little more of the majority are under 25 years old. It should be noted that between January and June 2012, more than 750 people visited the reception pavilion.
