Saint-Narcisse-de-Rimouski– On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of members of the Government of Quebec in the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie region, the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Bank of economic development of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, and the Member for Rimouski, Mr. Irvin Pelletier, announced today, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, that funding of up to $ 450,000 is granted to the Municipality of Saint-Narcisse-de-Rimouski for the construction of its multifunctional center for culture and recreation.
“With this investment, the government is demonstrating its desire to offer the population of Bas-Saint-Laurent modern sports facilities. In the context where we want to encourage citizens to move and stay in shape, this project, which responds to an important need of the community, is undoubtedly an excellent way to achieve it, ”declared the Minister. Zakaïb.
The work to be carried out mainly consists of constructing a new service building near the various municipal sports fields, which will be equipped with lighting systems to ensure that users have more hours of use. In addition, the ice rink will be moved near the center and paved.
“I am delighted with the completion of this project which is particularly close to the heart of the Narcissist community. Thanks to the considerable efforts that have been made, young and old will soon benefit from new facilities to have fun, achieve and surpass themselves. This will have tangible effects on the health and quality of life of our community, ”said MP Pelletier.
This project, in which the Municipality participates financially, was selected within the framework of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance. equivalent to half of the eligible costs.
“Each of the projects that we financially support under this program is rigorously analyzed according to the eligibility criteria established in the rules and standards of the latter. The projects meet the needs of the population concerned and will allow greater accessibility to various clienteles, thus promoting the adoption of a physically active lifestyle by as many people as possible, ”said Minister Malavoy.
Recall that on August 28 and 29, members of the Parti Québécois and government ministers met in Carleton for the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers.
Through the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, the Government of Quebec wants to ensure that all regions benefit from modern and safe sports and recreational facilities. For more details on this fund, see www.mels.gouv.qc.ca.
