Bonaventure - On the occasion of her tour in several regions of Quebec, the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announces the construction of a multifunctional plant dedicated to refurbishment of railway vehicles in the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region. For this project, the Government of Quebec awards the company Rail GD inc. repayable financial support of $ 469,500, as well as a loan guarantee of $ 900,000 administered by Investissement Québec. A non-refundable contribution of $ 150,000 is also allocated by the Ministère des Ressources naturelles.
In addition, the Minister Delegate announces the renewal of the agreement on the region&#39;s Recreational Tourism niche of excellence, resulting from the ACCORD process. This agreement will make it possible to highlight the tourism specificities of the region, in particular with regard to nature products, adventure, culture and health tourism, as well as convention and cruise tourism.
Rail GD inc. is a new division of Gaspésie Diesel Inc., which has been in operation since 1983. The company performs maintenance and repair work on heavy road and marine transport vehicles and on mechanical installations. She also sees to the sale of components, such as engines, transmissions and differentials. In all, nearly $ 4 million is planned in investments for the construction of the new multifunctional plant, which will ultimately generate 25 new jobs.
“Thanks to this project, Rail GD inc. brings real economic diversification to the region by exploiting a whole new sector of activity which requires the use of advanced technologies. The company is positioning itself more than ever as a leading player in the development of the Gaspé. We are proud to support it in this strategic project which will ensure significant economic spinoffs in the region, ”said Minister Delegate Ms. Élaine Zakaïb.
“By providing financial assistance for this project, our government is clearly demonstrating its concerns with regard to the local economy. We want to create wealth from regional resources and promote sustainable development, ”said the MP for Bonaventure, Sylvain Roy.
“The financial support from the Government of Quebec will allow us to diversify our activities in the area of train car maintenance and promote our growth. Our team will first upgrade five cars for the Rio Tinto Alcan company, and we are currently working to respond to other calls for tenders that look like the most promising ”, mentioned the President and CEO of Rail. GD inc., Mr. Gilles Babin.
The signing of the Recreotourism niche of excellence agreement for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region will enable the niche partners to carry out their action plan for the years 2012 to 2017.
“The renewal of this agreement is an important step for the partners in the niche. Together, they will continue their efforts to make the region more distinctive thanks to an innovative and sustainable approach to the overall tourist offer. Through our support, we hope that the region will be recognized among the leaders in recreotourism in Canada and around the world and that it will become a four-season destination of international class ”, declared Ms. Zakaïb.
“Since its creation in 2006, this niche of excellence has enabled partners to multiply synergies and interventions in order to resize their region. Today, the renewal of this agreement makes it possible to position the region as a center of expertise in recreotourism and confirms the correctness of the interventions of the partners who have the success of their tourism sector at heart, ”said the Minister for Tourism. , Mr. Pascal Bérubé.
“The Gaspé and the Magdalen Islands are characterized by an exceptional environment. There are grandiose landscapes, warm and welcoming people, as well as major recreational and tourism developments and exceptional geological sites. The nature between sea and mountains offers visitors a variety of outdoor activities, a rich culture and recognized local products. Above all, what makes the strength of the region and its niche, it is the notoriety that the actors of the tourist world have acquired over the years and the great potential of development for the four seasons ”, underlined the Director of the Recreotourism niche of excellence, Mr. Jean-Sébastien Cloutier.
Remember that Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine is the starting point for a tour of several regions of Quebec during which Minister Zakaïb will meet with the various business communities, including local development centers (CLDs). , chambers of commerce and entrepreneurship tables. In addition, she plans to visit businesses and meet with elected municipal officials on issues specific to each region.
“The economic development of Quebec necessarily depends on the full development of the regions. My goal during this major tour is to meet entrepreneurs and stakeholders in the business community, as well as regional decision-makers, in order to present my vision of regional development to them and to take the pulse of the realities and issues facing them. are clean. I am confident that by working together in the service of each region, we will accomplish great achievements for Quebec and that these achievements will be lasting and profitable for all Quebecers, ”concluded Minister Delegate Élaine Zakaïb.
