Saint-Ferdinand– On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region, the Minister for Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint- Laurent, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, announced, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the payment of an interest-free loan of $ 51,000 to the Manoir du lac William for the construction of a new facility, a project valued at $ 263,500.
Coming from the Center-du-Québec et de la Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund, this support will allow the construction of four thermal pools as well as an outdoor sauna in a location highlighting the site and Lake William.
&quot;I am proud that our government is providing financial assistance to businesses in the Center-du-Québec region that stand out for their dynamism and determination,&quot; said Pascal Bérubé. “Our support for the Manoir project will contribute to the notoriety of Lake William as a four-season tourist destination, in addition to consolidating 91 jobs and creating 4 new ones. It is an initiative that allows us to take another step towards achieving the economic diversification objectives that we have set for the region. &quot;
It should be remembered that the Center-du-Québec et de la Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund has a budget of $ 200 million and that it aims to attract private investment and promote the creation of efficient and innovative businesses.
&quot;The decisions our government takes are always accompanied by concrete measures adapted to the reality of entrepreneurs,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “This is the case for the diversification fund and it is also the case for the Québec industrial policy. These are effective and accessible levers for businesses and they contribute to the economic development of the two regions concerned. I am happy to see that our entrepreneurs are seizing the opportunities offered by this winning approach. &quot;
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers meet from February 3 to 7, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the MPs&#39; caucus and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will make more than 80 announcements of different kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the two regions concerned.
Owned by the Lessard family since 1992, the Manoir du lac William is nestled in the picturesque village of Saint-Ferdinand. Over the years, the Manor has become a certified four-star hotel offering accommodation and catering services as well as a relaxation spa and several vacation packages.
&quot;The Manoir du lac William is experiencing unprecedented success, as evidenced by the silver prize it was awarded in 2013 at the gala of the Grands Prix du tourisme québécois&quot;, underlined the President and CEO of the Manoir du lac. William, M. Franco Lessard. “The acquisition of a relaxation spa ten years ago has enabled us to diversify our offer and, now, the addition of thermal pools and an outdoor sauna will maximize the benefits generated by the unique environment and very sought after which surrounds the Manor. &quot;
For more information on the fund, the table and the plan relating to the economic diversification of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie, as well as the projects supported, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
