G aspé - On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of members of the Government of Quebec in the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie regions, the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Mrs. Agnès Maltais, accompanied by the Minister for the Regions, Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Gaspé, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, announced financial support from the Government of Quebec to two businesses in Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine to promote the skills development of their workforce.
“At the end of this day, I can say that I met business people who have the development of their region at heart, as well as workers who are motivated and eager to increase their knowledge. I am delighted to see that the Gaspé is focusing on training so that it benefits everyone, ”said Minister Maltais.
Agnès Maltais, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women.
&quot;I note that the work accomplished by the personnel of Emploi-Québec is bearing fruit and that the use of the financial support granted to companies makes it possible to improve the skills of the workforce here,&quot; added the Minister. to the Regions, Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Gaspé, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre.
Gaétan Lelièvre, Minister for the Regions, Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Gaspé.
Minister Maltais began her tour of Grande-Vallée with the announcement of a subsidy granted to Multi-services Corporation for domiciliary assistance, a social economy organization aimed at promoting home support for people in need of care. Autonomy loss. She then went to Rivière-au-Renard to announce an investment in Pêcheries Marinard, one of the largest northern shrimp processing companies in Quebec.
The amounts announced today will support the two companies in the deployment and implementation of staff development projects. &quot;The government of Quebec is proud to support workers, and consequently to promote the prosperity of businesses in the Gaspé and in the Magdalen Islands,&quot; concluded Minister Maltais.
Recall that on August 28 and 29, Quebec Party deputies and government ministers met in Carleton for the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers.
