Saint-Adelphe– On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and of Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce the allocation of financial assistance of 19,316 $ to the Municipality of Saint-Adelphe for the redevelopment of certain premises of its community center. This sum comes from the conjunctural development fund (FCD).
The Saint-Adelphe community center is a key gathering place in the heart of the municipality. However, its premises, which are located in the town hall built over 50 years ago, are too small or ill-suited to carry out the activities of the organizations that occupy them. The three-part project will help remedy this situation.
Minister Pierre Duchesne with Luc Trudel, Member of Parliament for Saint-Maurice and Paul Labranche, Mayor of Saint-Adelphe. // (c) Joël Bouchard
The first component provides for the expansion of the library and the improvement of the services offered there. The project also aims to relocate the youth center, whose mission is to help young people aged 12 to 17 to make the transition to adulthood. Sanitary equipment, a kitchenette and televisions will also be added and current recreational activities will be grouped together in the new room. Finally, the third part concerns the relocation of the premises of the local historical society, the erection of structures and cabinets for the storage of documents belonging to the collective memory of the citizens of the municipality as well as the promoting archives, in particular through the creation of a documentation and preservation center.
“Our government&#39;s support for this structuring and unifying project once again bears witness to our commitment to ensuring the dynamism and vitality of municipalities while taking their realities into account. Ultimately, the citizens of Saint-Adelphe will be able to benefit from an adequate community center, which will truly meet their needs and which will encourage them to take an active part in the life of their community, ”said Minister Duchesne.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will meet on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They will take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of these regions.
“Several issues affect the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. I am happy to see that they have been at the heart of government thinking and that they will also be at the heart of its interventions. Local initiatives, such as the one announced today, contribute significantly to the development of our community, ”said Yves-François Blanchet, Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
