Sainte-Valère– On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and of Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, today announced, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, the allocation of financial assistance of $ 101,379 to the Municipality de Saint-Valère, for the construction of a new intergenerational pavilion.
“Here we can see the mark of a municipality that listens to its population and wishes to improve the quality of life in its territory. I congratulate the artisans of this project, in particular for the special attention they give to the elders. Thanks to this project, I am happy to see that exchanges and communication between the generations will be fostered, ”said Mr. Duchesne.
The planned work, the cost of which is estimated at more than $ 200,000, consists of building a pavilion divided into two distinct parts which will communicate from the inside. The first section will be used to maintain and shape seniors as well as their social activities. The second will be reserved for young people, who will be able to gather there and practice indoor sports activities.
This project was analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs.
Across Quebec, approximately 80 projects for the construction, renovation, development and upgrading of sports and recreational facilities are expected to materialize thanks to investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from a $ 50 million envelope allocated under the second component of the Sports and Recreational Facilities Support Program - Phase II of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. To this envelope is added additional assistance of $ 80 million to support the implementation of new projects now.
“For the past year, we have been stepping up actions to improve public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing massively in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible actions, ”Minister Malavoy said.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers met on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the MPs caucus and the Council of Ministers. They took advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
“Several issues affect the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. I am happy to see that they have been at the heart of government thinking and that they will also be at the heart of its interventions. Investments, such as the one announced today, contribute significantly to the development of our community, ”said Yves-François Blanchet, Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible. regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec.
