Saint-Hyacinthe– As part of the tour of Parti Québécois deputies in Montérégie, the deputy for Berthier and official opposition critic for agriculture, André Villeneuve, the deputy for Abitibi-Ouest, François Gendron , the MNA for Beauharnois and spokesperson for wildlife and parks, Guy Leclair, as well as the MNA for Gaspé and spokesperson for municipal affairs and regional development, Gaétan Lelièvre, met today. hui, the representatives of the UPA Montérégie and the Technopole agricole de Saint-Hyacinthe.
“Agriculture must be a stakeholder in Quebec&#39;s economic development. Agri-food is an important sector for job creation, but it will only remain so if it is given the means to do so. The Liberal government has already cut $ 130 million from La Financière agricole, the farmers&#39; woolen sock. Minister Pierre Paradis must listen to the agricultural community in order to integrate it into the economic development of Quebec, ”declared André Villeneuve.
“The food sector and that of agricultural production must be supported, particularly in the perspective of the Food Sovereignty Policy, which I had the honor to present when we were in government. All Quebecers will win if more and more local products are consumed here. As far as we are concerned, we are continuing our work so that all the necessary efforts are made in this direction, ”continued François Gendron.
Regional concerns
“The possible transfer of responsibilities, particularly in the area of dezoning, from the Commission for the protection of agricultural land in Quebec to the MRCs worries several local stakeholders, both within the agricultural community and in the municipal world. The government has still not closed the door to this possibility; we therefore invite him to be attentive to the opinions of people on the ground, ”added Gaétan Lelièvre.
“Here, in Montérégie, as in several regions in Quebec, the issue of the grabbing of agricultural land by private corporations is very worrying. The next generation of farmers, in particular, is rightly worried about the impacts. However, thanks to the work of my colleague André Villeneuve, a parliamentary committee will examine this situation, will hear stakeholders and will be able to make recommendations to the Minister, ”concluded Guy Leclair.
