Quebec - On the occasion of a tour of members of the Government of Quebec in Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, takes stock of the investments in culture that were announced in these regions since the coming to power of the Parti Québécois government.
“The investments announced in these regions of great cultural and heritage richness were eagerly awaited and well received. This support is the best guarantee of the commitment of the Government of Quebec to support, to the best of its budgetary capacities, artistic and cultural development as well as the protection of heritage in the regions of Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine and of Bas-Saint-Laurent, ”declared Minister Kotto, who was on his third visit to these regions since taking office.
&quot;I am convinced that the investments announced, particularly within the framework of the government intervention strategy for the development of the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, will inspire stakeholders in the Gaspé and Madelinot culture communities. . I am thinking in particular of the renovation of the Gaspé performance hall, a promising project that will not only improve access to culture for users but also the working and living conditions of artists and artisans in the region. And I still remember the visit made by my colleague Kotto during the closing evening of the Festival en chanson de Petite-Vallée last July, ”underlined Gaétan Lelièvre, Member of Parliament for Gaspé and Minister responsible for the Gaspé region. Magdalen Islands.
Reminder of the main investments announced
“The cultural projects supported here are representative of the great cultural and heritage richness of Bas-Saint-Laurent. Whether it is due to the renovation of a performance hall, the preservation of a heritage building or the renewal of cultural development agreements, we can say that this year has been remarkable. The heritage classification of the magnificent Jardins de Métis and the Villa Estevan, announced on site last June by Maka Kotto, is also a most eloquent example ”, argued Pascal Bérubé, Member of Parliament for Matane-Matapédia and Minister responsible for Bas-Saint-Laurent region.
Reminder of the main investments announced
Finally, on August 28 and 29, members of the Parti québécois and government ministers met in Carleton for the caucus of deputies and the council of ministers.
