Shawinigan - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister of Families, Ms. Nicole Léger, and the Member for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, are pleased to unveil the construction site for the expansion of the early childhood center Le Pipandor in Saint-Boniface.
“I am delighted to see expansion projects come to fruition. The Government of Quebec is participating for an amount of $ 514,840 out of a total project of $ 666,053 in this important project which will make it possible to meet the demand in this corner of the Mauricie. The other good news in this file is that this expansion is made possible thanks to the extraordinary commitment of the community, a model for childcare centers in the region and throughout Quebec, ”said Minister Nicole Léger.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will meet on February 5 and 6 in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They will take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie regions of Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will make several announcements of different kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of these regions.
Nicole Léger and Luc Trudel unveil the construction site for the expansion of the CPE Le Pipandor in Saint-Boniface. (c) Luc Trudel
“Several issues affect the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. I am happy to see that they have been at the heart of government thinking and that they will also be at the heart of its interventions. A project such as the expansion of the Le Pipandor childcare center is of particular importance for a region like ours and especially for the community of Saint-Boniface, which is still experiencing considerable development. Local initiatives such as the one unveiled today participate in the development of our community. The people here are taking charge and, with the support of the Government of Quebec, they are taking action to offer new places in addition to creating six jobs here, ”concluded the Member for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc. Trudel.
