Quebec– On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of members of the Government of Quebec in the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie region, the Minister for the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie — Îles-de -la-Madeleine, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that investments of the order of $ 3.3 million will be devoted to carrying out two projects on the road network in Sainte-Anne-des-Monts.
A first project consists of repairing the bridge spanning the Sainte-Anne river on route 132, between the intersections of rue du Souvenir and 11e Rue Ouest. This work, in the order of $ 1.7 million, will allow the bridge to be refurbished. They started at the end of July 2013 and will end next December.
The second project, in the order of $ 1.6 million, desired by the community, aims at a safer redevelopment of commercial accesses and an improvement of the visual corridor in the city center. The work is being carried out in two distinct sectors on Route 132: east and west of the Sainte-Anne River. This project has been underway since last May and will end in early September 2013. These investments will significantly optimize the safety of users of Route 132 and residents of these sectors.
“These interventions are in line with the announcement I made last spring; our government&#39;s investments must ensure the renewal and maintenance of the infrastructures in place. The emphasis here is therefore on road safety and asset maintenance, ”added Minister Gaudreault.
“This work will greatly improve the flow of traffic and the safety of road users. In addition, these investments are an additional contribution to the economy of the Haute-Gaspésie region, ”said Minister Lelièvre.
Recall that on August 28 and 29, members of the Parti Québécois and government ministers will meet in Carleton-sur-Mer for the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers.
