Trois-Rivières - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and of Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, and the Minister responsible for the Mauricie region, Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec region and Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, today announced two investments in the field of metallurgical research: one of $ 900,000 for the Consortium for research and innovation in metallic transformation in Quebec (CRITM) and one second for $ 205,426 at Cégep de Trois-Rivières.
They made these announcements at the time of the inauguration of the new premises of the Center de métallurgie du Québec (CMQ).
Announcement of two investments in metallurgical research: one of $ 900,000 for the Consortium for Research and Innovation in Metallic Transformation in Quebec (CRITM) and a second of $ 205,426 at Cégep de Trois -Rivers. (c) Joël Bouchard
&quot;The investment I am announcing today for the Consortium for Research and Innovation in Metallic Processing in Quebec is part of the National Research and Innovation Policy that I launched last October and which is part of the government&#39;s economic strategy Priority Employment. Companies in the field of metal processing face major challenges in terms of global competitiveness, productivity, energy and environmental footprint, and it is important to support them, ”said Minister Duchesne.
“The financial assistance we are providing will allow industrial research projects to be carried out, which will help improve the competitiveness of this sector. The Government of Quebec is therefore resolutely determined to strengthen the Quebec economy. This is excellent news for businesses and researchers in the region, but also for all of Quebec! &quot;, he added.
“An investment like the one we are announcing today for the Consortium is of particular importance, since the metal processing industry represents more than 125,000 direct jobs for the Quebec economy. Since collaboration and partnership are the keys to the development of research and innovation today, it is companies, universities, research centers and several other associations that benefit from the Consortium&#39;s initiatives. These therefore have significant repercussions for the region, ”added Minister Blanchet.
The Consortium for Research and Innovation in Metallic Processing in Quebec (CRITM) is a non-profit organization that funds collaborative research projects carried out in Quebec and in which two or more companies as well as public research establishments are associated. Concretely, the government&#39;s investment will allow industrial research projects to be carried out with a total value of $ 1.5 million. It will also promote the exchange of strategic information between companies and Quebec research centers in the field of metal processing.
“To perform well in global markets, we must continually invest in improving our products and processes. It is essential to the survival of our industry. Provincial government support for CRITM effectively equips local businesses in their efforts to improve their competitiveness and supports 125,000 Quebec workers in the face of international pressure, ”said CRITM President Louis Plante.
The ministers also announced the payment of financial assistance of $ 205,426 to the Cégep de Trois-Rivières for the rejuvenation of its furniture stock. Remember that last November, Minister Pierre Duchesne announced a $ 6.4 million increase in investments aimed at rejuvenating the furniture stock in 48 CEGEPs. The amounts allocated are used to replace equipment related to technical training, which requires the use of expensive equipment and devices that evolve rapidly. They also make it possible to renew the equipment of science laboratories.
“All the staff at Cégep de Trois-Rivières are happy that amounts have been allocated for the rejuvenation of its furniture stock. I am honored to inaugurate the new premises of the Quebec Metallurgy Center, an expansion made possible in particular by the support of the Government of Quebec and the City of Trois-Rivières. Thanks to these investments, the Center de métallurgie du Québec (CMQ) and its Center for Advanced Alloys Technologies are becoming even more important players in applied research, particularly within the Consortium for Research and Innovation in Metallic Processing of Quebec, whose he is a proud founding member. We will thus be able to continue to contribute to the implementation of the National Research and Innovation Policy, with a view to the economic development of the Mauricie ”, declared the Director General of the Cégep, Mr. Raymond-Robert Tremblay.
With its new premises and state-of-the-art equipment that is unique in Quebec, the Quebec Metallurgy Center (CMQ) will now be able to transfer its expertise to businesses. It should be noted that in May 2013, Minister Pierre Duchesne announced the payment of financial assistance of $ 2,524,000 to the Center for its expansion and the purchase of specialized equipment. The CMQ is one of the most efficient centers in the Network of Transfer Centers (Trans-Tech).
“I would like to thank the companies that place their trust in the Center de métallurgie du Québec. We provide services through our research and technological assistance to more than 150 companies in Quebec, including more than 40 of them located in Mauricie. I would also like to thank all the partners who supported the Center and other research establishments in the creation of the Consortium for research and innovation in metallic transformation in Quebec ”, concluded the Director General of the Center, Mr. Gheorghe Marin.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will meet on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the MPs caucus and the Council of Ministers. They will take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
