Saint-Narcisse - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Member of Parliament for Champlain and President of the Territorial Planning Commission, Ms. Noëlla Champagne, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and of the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, is pleased to announce the payment of financial assistance of $ 100,000 to the Parish of Saint-Narcisse, in the Mauricie region. This sum, which comes from the Quebec-Municipalities-Municipality friendly to seniors (PIQM-MADA) infrastructure program, will be used to install an elevator at the community center to improve access for seniors.
Thanks to the PIQM-MADA, the municipalities involved in the MADA process have access to funds intended to support them in carrying out small infrastructure projects that meet the needs of seniors.
“I am very happy with today&#39;s announcement, which supports the commitment made by the Parish of Saint-Narcisse to seniors. Thus, the assistance granted will be used to install an elevator at the community center to facilitate access for seniors and people with restricted mobility, which will encourage the participation of a greater number of these people in active community activities. This new equipment will also facilitate the work of the many volunteers within parish organizations in order to improve the quality of life and better serve the community, ”said MP Champagne.
&quot;I am proud of our government&#39;s commitment to seniors as part of the MADA process, this great initiative put forward a few years ago and in which the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the territory, for which I am responsible. Improving the living conditions of our seniors means contributing to their development as a person in the community. It means assuming together a responsibility that concerns us all in order to make Quebec a good place to age, ”Minister Gaudreault said.
“This project, like many others that are emerging in all regions of Quebec, confirms the priority that our government gives to the quality of life of seniors. I would like to salute the initiative of the Parish of Saint-Narcisse, which meets the needs of seniors, thus contributing to their safety and quality of life while allowing them to remain active as long as possible ”, added Minister Hébert.
Briefly, the Saint-Narcisse project involves the installation of an elevator and its equipment as well as various demolition and interior redevelopment work at the community center. This addition will allow the various organizations to function optimally by making the entire building accessible to everyone. Note that the majority of volunteers are seniors. For example, the Golden Age Club is very active in the community with more than 230 members and it alone organizes nearly 200 activities per year. The realization of this project, which is part of a concerted approach with the elderly, aims to improve their quality of life and promote active aging.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will meet on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They will take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of these regions.
“Several issues affect the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. I am happy to see that they have been at the heart of government thinking and that they will also be at the heart of its interventions. Local initiatives, such as the one announced today, contribute significantly to the development of our community, ”said Yves-François Blanchet, Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
Remember that the PIQM-MADA has an annual budget of $ 3M from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, reserved for the financing of infrastructure adapted to the needs of seniors. Since 2010, more than 130 projects have benefited from this envelope accessible to municipalities engaged in the MADA process. These investments are part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. The PIQM-MADA program is also an action included in the Aging and Living Together policy, at home, in one&#39;s community, in Quebec.
Today, with the support of 712 municipalities or MRCs, the MADA approach was implemented in Quebec by the Secrétariat aux abîmes in 2008 and continues under the responsibility of the minister responsible for seniors and the minister of health and social services. This approach is inspired by an approach developed by the World Health Organization (WHO), and the model it proposes was designed to allow citizens to age while remaining active in their communities. The collaboration of the entire community is one of the winning conditions of the process, but it could not be fully successful without the participation of the seniors themselves and that of the local organizations that represent them. Quebec is considered by the WHO as the most advanced society in the world in the application of this approach based on the adaptation of municipal policies and services to the aging of the population.
