G aspé - On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of members of the Government of Quebec in the Bas St-Laurent and Gaspé regions, the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, accompanied by the Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region and Member of Parliament for Gaspé, Gaétan Lelièvre, announced an investment of $ 6.2 million in the Mgr-Ross Accommodation Center, a facility of the Côte-de-Gaspé Health and Social Services Center. This investment will be used to thoroughly redevelop two of the living units of the accommodation center by 2015.
As Minister Hébert explained, “this center was built in 1948 to accommodate patients with tuberculosis. Its layout corresponded to the needs of the time, but it is no longer adapted to its current mission, that of providing long-term care to people with a great loss of autonomy. ”
This first stage of the renovation of the center covers units 200 and 250, located on the first floor of the building. The arrangements will respect the concept of a living environment for our residents and their families. The work will be used to fit out dining rooms and lounges for residents and families, as well as to renovate sanitary facilities, coatings and electromechanical systems.
Réjean Hébert and Gaétan Lelièvre announce a $ 6.2 million investment in the CHSLD Mgr-Ross.
The Minister responsible for the Gaspé region, Gaétan Lelièvre, for his part declared: “We are proud to give the green light today to this highly anticipated project in the region. This real estate initiative will significantly improve the quality of life of residents and provide a more functional work environment for team members, for even better quality services. ”
In terms of real estate, an area of 1,115 square meters will be redeveloped. The project also provides for the temporary installation of unit 500 to accommodate people accommodated during the works. The funding comes from the Department of Health and Social Services, which is investing an amount of $ 2.1 million, and a sum of $ 4.1 million drawn from the real estate envelopes already allocated to the region.
In addition, ministers Réjean Hébert and Gaétan Lelièvre confirmed the granting of additional budgets of $ 1,019,100 to improve home care and services offered to the elderly of Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine.
“Improving services for seniors with loss of autonomy is one of our government&#39;s top priorities, as our approach to autonomy insurance also confirms. Immediate improvement in home support will make it possible to serve more seniors, to help even more judiciously those who already receive services in addition to better supporting families, ”said Minister Hébert.
These new credits have three components:
$ 774,300 for the intensification of home services provided by social economy establishments and enterprises.
$ 109,600 for the consolidation of the institutions&#39; integrated service networks for the elderly, which promote the integration, coordination and continuity of services for the elderly. The addition of workers and case managers for personalized follow-up is an essential element in improving services for the elderly.
“As elsewhere in Quebec, we are making decisions in favor of keeping seniors in an environment that is familiar to them for as long as possible. This budgetary addition will not only benefit the elderly with loss of autonomy, but also natural caregivers, ”commented the Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Gaétan Lelièvre.
Recall that on August 28 and 29, Quebec Party MPs and government ministers met in Carleton for the Caucus of Deputies and the Council of Ministers.
