Kangiqsualujjuaq – On tour in Nunavik on September 12 and 13, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, said she was concerned and touched by the various social issues that Nunavik is experiencing. On this occasion, she announced the creation of the Saqijuq Nunavik-Québec Coordination Table, which will look at a new approach to social intervention. &quot;Our objective is to develop concrete, effective and sustainable measures&quot;, she assured.
The Coordination Table will oversee the deployment of the Saqijuq project (which means, in Inuktitut, change of wind direction). This is a common approach bringing together all the partners, and which aims to identify concrete solutions to the challenges identified by the region.
With this in mind, the Premier of Quebec announces that she is mandating the Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection and Minister responsible for the Lanaudière region, Véronique Hivon, as well as Minnie Gray, president of the Regional Partnership Committee. , to coordinate all the work.
“I welcome this project with great enthusiasm, which is initiated and supported by the Inuit community, and I intend to contribute to the success of this initiative. This approach will undoubtedly help to promote greater social cohesion. It is with commitment that I will set to work with the objective of giving better prospects for the future to hundreds of Nunavut youth, families and adults, ”said Minister Hivon.
“The Saqijuq Nunavik-Québec Coordination Table will allow all stakeholders to speak with one voice about the problems of Nunavik. For the partners, it is a step forward that we are taking today and we are eager to start the work, ”declared the Director General of the Nunavik Regional Board of Health and Social Services and Chair of the Partnership Committee. regional, Minnie Gray.
“Our region is grappling with serious social problems to which we must provide culturally appropriate solutions. The Saqijuq project will serve as a pillar for the reconstruction of the social fabric in Nunavik. The establishment of the Saqijuq Nunavik-Quebec Coordination Table is an important step towards the implementation of the project, and we salute Quebec&#39;s commitment to work with the organizations of Nunavik in this innovative approach which will surely be favorable at best. -being Inuit of Nunavik, ”added the president of the Makivik Corporation, Jobie Tukkiapik.
“Thanks to the mobilization of all resources, this new approach will improve the way in which families and workers from various public services and organizations work together. This is an innovative approach that will adapt to the realities of Nunavik, ”concluded the Premier.
