Princeville– On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region, the Minister for the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de -la-Madeleine, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, confirmed, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation of a grant of $ 102,558 to the Demtec company for the design and marketing of a new type of modular house, a project valued at nearly $ 490,000.
&quot;I am proud that our government is supporting the implementation of such innovative projects, which help diversify the economy of the Center-du-Québec region,&quot; said Gaétan Lelièvre. &quot;This project, funded under the Center-du-Québec et de la Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund, will increase Quebec&#39;s expertise in the manufactured home manufacturing sector, in addition to consolidating 35 quality jobs. in the region and create 12 new ones. &quot;
Remember that the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund has an envelope of $ 200 million. It aims to attract private investment and promote the creation of efficient and innovative companies.
&quot;Our government is making constant efforts to support and revitalize the economy of all regions,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “In this sense, the diversification fund is a valuable and specific tool in addition to other government programs, in particular the measures included in Québec&#39;s industrial policy. The Demtec project contributes to the region&#39;s economic development and its diversification. &quot;
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers meet from February 3 to 7, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the MPs&#39; caucus and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will make more than 80 announcements of different kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the two regions concerned.
Demtec is a company specializing in the design and factory manufacturing of houses, modules, walls and panel floors in a controlled atmosphere. The company has one of the only automated panel manufacturing lines in Quebec, and currently employs 35 people at its Princeville facilities.
&quot;Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we will be able to design and market a new kind of modular house, which will promote the optimization of light and space while displaying highly aesthetic features,&quot; said the president of Demtec, Mr. Philippe Picory. “The possibilities for this type of home are endless, and this new market is sure to strengthen our competitiveness in the manufactured home manufacturing industry. &quot;
For more information on the fund, the table and the plan relating to the economic diversification of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie, as well as the projects supported, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
