Drummondville - On the occasion of her tour in several regions of Quebec, the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announces, along with the Chief Government Whip and Head of the Regions from Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, the allocation of non-refundable financial support of $ 400,000 to the company Soucy International, for a project valued at $ 2,533,700 which will consolidate 280 jobs.
The company specializes in the development and manufacture of track systems for all-terrain, industrial, military and agricultural vehicles, as well as parts and accessories for recreational products. The project announced today consists of designing three models of traction systems.
“Soucy International is a company recognized for the quality of its products and its great capacity to innovate. Thanks to its cutting-edge expertise, it knows how to meet the specific needs of its customers by offering them exclusive products. Through its financial support for the promising Soucy International project, our government recognizes the importance of supporting the economic development of the regions, ”said Minister Delegate Élaine Zakaïb.
“To promote its prosperity, Center-du-Québec can count on the immense contribution of dynamic companies such as Soucy International, which is one of the strong links in the region&#39;s economy. By implementing its investment project, it once again demonstrates its proactive side and its desire to remain among the most competitive companies in its sector. It is with pride that we support it in the pursuit of its activities here in Center-du-Québec, ”said MP Yves-François Blanchet.
Soucy International is a division of the Soucy Holding group, a large group in the Center-du-Québec region. The latter, whose head office is located in Drummondville, employs more than 1,250 people in its eight factories across Quebec. These factories, complementary to each other, design and manufacture various components for the main manufacturers of recreational, industrial, agricultural and defense vehicles.
“Our company is a leader in its industry. With the support of the Government of Quebec, we aspire to position ourselves as the leading manufacturer offering reliable and efficient systems for high power tractors. Our technology is promising and it will allow us to stand out from the competition. Above all, we can count on highly qualified teams and state-of-the-art equipment, ”said André Todd, Managing Director, Track Systems, Parts and Accessories Division, Soucy International.
