Sainte-Anne-des-Monts– On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of members of the Government of Quebec in the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie region, the Minister of Higher Education and Research, of Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, accompanied by the Minister for the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, announces the award of a grant of $ 360,000 over a period of 5 years, at the Cégep de Matane for the establishment of a college training offer by distance learning at the continuing education center of Sainte-Anne-des-Monts.
“Over the past few months, I have repeatedly mentioned the importance of first generation graduates who open the door to subsequent generations. Thanks to new technologies, the people of Haute-Gaspésie will now have access to college education, which is very exciting news for me. I would like to mention that today&#39;s announcement is possible following an unprecedented mobilization from the community. This is an exemplary demonstration of fruitful collaboration between local stakeholders, ”said Minister Duchesne.
The Minister also pointed out that an allocation of $ 28,000 will be added, in 2013-2014, for educational applications related to information and communication technologies.
The offer of college training by distance learning meets a real need for accessibility for the population of La Haute-Gaspésie. Thus, the Cégep de Matane will simultaneously offer the same training to its students and to a group of students located in Sainte-Anne-des-Monts. In the event of an increase in the number of students, the courses could be given on site in Sainte-Anne-des-Monts by teachers from Cégep de Matane.
“Given the extent of the territory of the MRC de La Haute-Gaspésie and the size of its population pool, this distance education training offer is an appropriate solution. The programs offered will facilitate the retention of young people by allowing them to follow on-site training in sectors of activity that present manpower needs. This project is significant for people who want to live, work and thrive in our region. This action is part of one of the projects of the government intervention strategy for the development of the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, which aims to develop the offer of all levels of school training in the region, ”said Minister Lelièvre.
(c) Jérôme Tardif
The Cégep de Matane was able to count on the mobilization of the community to support these training activities. Several local partners collaborated on this project: the CRÉ de la Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine, the MRC de La Haute-Gaspésie, the Health and Social Services Agency of Gaspésie-Îles-de-la -Madeleine, the CSSS de La Haute-Gaspésie and the Commission scolaire des Chic-Chocs.
“I am extremely proud to announce that the population of La Haute-Gaspésie will have access to college education. Thus, thanks to the magic of distance learning, very small groups of students in class at Sainte-Anne-des-Monts will be able to walk with a group in class at Cégep de Matane. And this pride is all the greater since already, for the fall semester, eight students are benefiting from this new service and are taking Tremplin DEC and Nursing courses, a first DEC whose graduates are eagerly awaited by the CSSS. of La Haute-Gaspésie. I thank all our partners for their invaluable support. They helped make this project a reality, ”added Cégep de Matane General Manager Emery Béland.
Recall that on August 28 and 29, Quebec Party deputies and government ministers met in Carleton for the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers.
At the end of the Higher Education Summit held in February 2013, five work sites were set up, one of which focused on the college training offer. By June 2014, recommendations will be made on the establishment of the college training offer in Quebec, the definition of regional training niches and the optimization of the continuing education offer. For more information on the projects resulting from the Summit on Higher Education, see www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca/le-sommet/chantiers-de-travail.
