Rimouski– The MNA for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, accompanied by the MNA for Rimouski, Harold LeBel, the MNA for Vachon and spokesperson for maritime strategy, Martine Ouellet, the MNA de Joliette and spokesperson for higher education, Véronique Hivon, the deputy for Chicoutimi and spokesperson for the economy, Stéphane Bédard, the deputy for Gaspé and spokesperson for regional development, Gaétan Lelièvre , the deputy for Berthier and spokesperson for agriculture, fisheries and food, André Villeneuve, as well as the deputy for Bonaventure, Sylvain Roy, took advantage of his visit to the region to meet several stakeholders from the maritime world, economy and education in Rimouski.
“These visits are part of the dialogue we have started with Quebeckers. Democracy doesn&#39;t just mean a vote every four years; it is by listening to citizens that we do our work as elected representatives. Today, we met several people from the maritime world. The regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie – Îles-de-la-Madeleine should be at the heart of the Liberal government&#39;s maritime “marketing” strategy. But what I have seen for a week in these regions confirms to me that the maritime strategy is in fact only a mosaic of measures already planned. There is no real addition, no clear policy, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
The member for Vachon recalls that the bad news is piling up. “While the government is promoting its supposed maritime strategy, on the ground, the impacts of the cuts are serious and particularly affect our regions. The Interdisciplinary Center for the Development of Ocean Mapping as well as Innov &amp; Export PME lost their funding; two Rimouski organizations that stimulate employment and the blue economy in Quebec are now weakened. Where is the maritime strategy for Rimouski? Our regions do not need window dressing, but real government support to create jobs; it could start by committing not to abandon the National Research and Innovation Policy, established by our government, ”added Martine Ouellet.
“Rimouski and the Bas-Saint-Laurent are full of development possibilities. Projects abound there. The Liberal government must listen to the region. We have everything we need to make it a centerpiece of the economic and maritime development of our nation, including educational and research institutions, as well as transport infrastructure, not to mention the clear will of the people here Harold LeBel continued.
The maritime strategy, relevant only in a sovereign Quebec
The leader of the official opposition finally recalled that Quebec does not control all of its maritime infrastructure, including ports and docks, which are under federal jurisdiction. “What is a maritime strategy if we do not have control of our ports? These are federal infrastructures, neglected by Ottawa for several years. Do the Liberals plan to invest millions of dollars in federal ports that have not received the necessary investments to maintain them properly? », He concluded.
