Québec - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, and the member for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, are pleased to announce an investment of $ 68,504 in Collège Shawinigan for the rejuvenation of its furniture park.
“Thanks to the improvement announced today, students and staff at Collège Shawinigan will benefit from facilities and equipment that are conducive to learning. By having access to state-of-the-art equipment, students will be more inclined to pursue science studies while developing an interest in research. They will also be able to learn and exercise with equipment that will better match what is used in the field, ”said Minister Duchesne.
Remember that last November, the Minister announced a $ 6.4 million increase in investments aimed at rejuvenating infrastructure and equipment in 48 CEGEPs.
The amount allocated to Collège Shawinigan will be used in particular to replace equipment related to technical training, since the college offers programs that require the use of expensive equipment and devices that evolve rapidly. It will also make it possible to renew the equipment of science laboratories.
It should be noted that the MAOB model (furniture, equipment, tools and library), developed by the Ministry in collaboration with the college network, makes it possible to establish the needs related to the stock of furniture in the college network and to distribute among the CEGEPs the budget envelope for the renewal of this park.
“This new amount will make it possible to modernize the CEGEP&#39;s equipment and facilities so that it can better meet the needs of students. They will benefit from a more attractive and stimulating training environment, which will allow them to perfect their knowledge. This is great news for our region! », Said MP Trudel.
“Collège Shawinigan, in its 2011-2016 Strategic Plan, wants to ensure the continuous development of a dynamic, efficient and quality living environment. I am therefore delighted with this financial assistance which allows the College to remain at the crossroads of multiple development projects, ”added André Gingras, Director General of Collège Shawinigan.
It should be noted that the members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will meet on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the MPs&#39; caucus and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
“Several issues concern the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec region. I am happy to see that they have been at the heart of government thinking and that they will also be at the heart of its interventions. An investment like the one announced today is of particular importance for a region like ours, which faces major challenges in terms of training a skilled workforce. Investments like the one announced today are making a significant contribution to the development of our community, ”concluded the Minister responsible for the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet.
