Papineauville - On the occasion of her tour of several regions of Quebec, the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announces, in the presence of Ms. Lise Goulet, political advisor to the Minister of Public Security and Minister responsible for the Outaouais region, Stéphane Bergeron, the allocation of non-refundable financial support of $ 686,420 to Femmessor Outaouais, a non-profit economic development organization dedicated to female entrepreneurship In the region.
Recently created, Femmessor Outaouais&#39;s mission is to promote female entrepreneurship, foster networking and offer support, training and tailor-made financing to women entrepreneurs in the region. Femmessor Outaouais joins the twelve other Femmessor organizations present across Quebec and which were born out of the business community&#39;s desire to meet the specific needs of women in terms of entrepreneurship.
“For ten years, Femmessor organizations have made it possible to diversify the entrepreneurial base by increasing the number of women entrepreneurs in several regions of Quebec. For our government, the Femmessors are major allies in fostering the creation of businesses and ensuring the sustainability of those already in place. This is a winning initiative that takes into account the many realities to which women entrepreneurs are subject. To promote the development of a sustainable economy, we must count on the contribution of everyone in all regions of Quebec, ”said Minister Delegate Élaine Zakaïb.
In all, there are thirteen Femmessors in Quebec: in Abitibi-Témiscamingue, in Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, in Mauricie, on the North Shore, in the Bas-Saint-Laurent, in Gaspésie-Îles-de-la- Madeleine, in Estrie, in Montérégie, in Montreal, in the Center-du-Québec, in the Capitale-Nationale, in the Nord-du-Québec and in the Outaouais. Since their creation in 2002, Femmessor organizations have allocated more than $ 7.68 million in loans, generating investments of $ 45.49 million and creating or maintaining 1,600 jobs in Quebec.
“Like other Femmessor organizations, Femmessor Outaouais intervenes at all stages of the development of a business, whether it is during start-up, acquisition, expansion or consolidation. Our action is deployed in all sectors of activity and our services are offered to women of all ages. Women entrepreneurs in the region can thus have access to support and financing, in addition to being able to use their skills in management, negotiation, business development and networking ”, stated the president of the Board of Directors of Femmessor Outaouais, Mrs. Louise Cormier.
“By supporting local entrepreneurs in their business projects, Femmessor Outaouais contributes greatly to the region&#39;s economic growth. For our government, supporting the organization in carrying out its activities is of great importance. In fact, our support for Femmessor testifies to our desire to promote the economic development of the regions of Quebec, by relying on the undeniable contribution of women entrepreneurs, ”concluded the Minister Delegate.
The Minister Delegate undertook this tour of several regions of Quebec in order to present her orientations in terms of regional economic development, to explain the mandate of the Banque de développement économique du Québec and to outline the main lines of industrial policy and measures. aimed at increasing the productivity and competitiveness of Quebec businesses. She takes the opportunity to listen to what regional actors have to tell her about the strengths, challenges and needs of their own region in order to adjust the Bank&#39;s project accordingly.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the following RSS feed: www.mdeie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
