La Tuque - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region, the Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, announced, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation of a loan of $ 400,000 from Investissement Québec and financial assistance of $ 200,000 from the Ministère des Finances and the &#39;&#39; Savings to the company Transfobec Mauricie for the acquisition of specialized equipment aimed at diversifying its range of high added value products. The project, which also includes the acquisition and fitting-out of a new building, is estimated at $ 1.6 million.
&quot;The diversification of Quebec businesses is essential to maintaining a healthy and prosperous economy, particularly in the forestry sector,&quot; said Minister Martine Ouellet. “Transfobec Mauricie is a fine example of a growing company that has chosen to invest the necessary capital to modernize its offer. This project is proof that we have all the potential and adequate resources to boost the industrial base of the Quebec forest sector. &quot;
Transfobec Mauricie specializes in chipping round logs and selling wood residues for cogeneration plants. The project aims to allow the on-site processing of all woody material, thus maximizing the valuation of forest biomass while offering value-added by-products, such as garden mulch.
&quot;We are very proud to contribute to the development of a green company that responsibly and efficiently reuses the forest resources at our disposal,&quot; Minister Élaine Zakaïb said. “Transfobec Mauricie has taken up the challenge of diversification by combining innovation and economic development. It thus ensures its growth, in perfect cohesion with sustainable development. &quot;
Founded in 2004 and established at the Vallières site, on the territory of La Tuque, the company processes and resells wood by-products to large paper mills or other forestry companies, such as Cascades, Kruger, Chapais Énergie and RockTenn Packaging Canada.
For Mr. Nicolas Potvin, president of Transfobec Mauricie: “Our desire was to diversify our product offering to increase our performance. The production of mulch represents an interesting avenue, since it makes it possible to recover raw materials hitherto unused. We are pleased to count Investissement Québec among our financial partners. The Company has been at the forefront of our diversification strategy. &quot;
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will meet on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They will take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will make more than 80 announcements of different kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
For more information on the fund, the table and the plan relating to the economic diversification of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie, as well as the projects supported, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
