Trois-Rivières - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region, the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, the Dr. Réjean Hébert, accompanied by the MNA for Champlain, Ms. Noëlla Champagne announced today that the Trois-Rivières Health and Social Services Center (CSSS) has just been officially designated Affiliated Center for the Treatment of Lung Cancer .
“Our government has made a commitment to step up the fight against cancer and improve the quality and accessibility of care and related services. It is precisely with this objective that our approach to designate reference centers and affiliated centers for the treatment of lung and esophageal cancer falls. This recognition process will promote better patient care and help improve the quality of services by focusing in particular on the development of skills and the maintenance of activities in regional centers, ”declared Minister Hébert.
The Trois-Rivières CSSS is one of the 17 hospitals designated today as affiliated centers or reference centers for the treatment of lung and / or esophageal cancer. These establishments are spread over 13 regions of Quebec.
To be designated a reference center or an affiliated center, an establishment must meet a series of criteria which have been the subject of extensive consultation and which will be revised every two years for the sake of quality assurance. These criteria include the volume of patients treated, treatment times, participation in a cancer diagnosis and therapy committee, as well as contribution to basic, clinical or evaluative research protocols.
The reference centers are recognized for their cutting-edge expertise and annually treat a sufficient volume of patients to ensure the maintenance of the skills of their staff. They also have a supraregional team dedicated to the identified tumor site (lung or esophagus).
The affiliated centers also treat a significant volume of patients, but lower than that of the reference centers. They must establish a formal collaboration agreement with a reference center, in particular in order to participate in the cancer diagnosis and therapy committee, to use its investigation, treatment and follow-up algorithms, and to transfer cases to it. more complex, as needed. They have an interdisciplinary team designated to ensure complementarity and continuity in the care and services offered to cancer patients in their region.
“Encouraging collaboration between institutions while maximizing the complementarity of their expertise is undoubtedly an excellent way to optimize the fight against cancer on a regional and national scale. This is a great follow-up that our government is giving to the oncology action plan adopted last year, and I am delighted that the expertise of the CSSS de Trois-Rivières is thus recognized and put to good use, ”concluded Ms. Champagne. .
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers met on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the MPs caucus and the Council of Ministers. They took advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
