Rivière-Ouelle - On the occasion of the unprecedented tour of members of the Government of Quebec in the Bas Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie regions, the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Élaine Zakaïb, announced the signing of the implementation agreement for the 2013-2018 strategy and action plan for the Peat and Agroenvironment niche of excellence in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region. The announcement was made at the facilities of Tourbières Lambert inc. from Rivière-Ouelle.
The Minister was accompanied by the president of the ACCORD regional committee for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, Mr. Martin Beaulieu, the president of the Tourbe and Agroenvironnement niche, Mr. Claudin Berger, and the president of the Regional Conference of elected officials of the Bas-Saint-Laurent region. Saint-Laurent, Mr. Michel Lagacé.
“The niches of excellence resulting from the ACCORD approach implemented in 2002 aim to support the dynamism of our businesses in the regions. They thus contribute to the development of our full economic potential, ”declared Élaine Zakaïb. “It is therefore with pride that our government supports the implementation of the strategy and action plan of the Peat and Agroenvironment niche, the economic spinoffs of which will be significant for the Bas-Saint-Laurent and for all of Quebec. &quot;
The Peat and Agroenvironment niche of excellence in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region brings together 26 companies from the horticultural and agricultural products, environmental products and specialized equipment sectors.
This niche represents nearly 1,500 jobs in Bas-Saint-Laurent and 2,500 in Quebec, for annual sales of $ 500 million. Its objectives are to strengthen the industrial synergy of the peat sector in Quebec by setting up partnerships and fostering a business environment allowing business growth, the development of new products and the emergence of innovative technologies.
&quot;As part of the ACCORD process, the support of the Quebec government constitutes invaluable assistance for the growth of our businesses in the region&quot;, underlined the president of the ACCORD regional committee for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, Mr. Martin Beaulieu.
&quot;This agreement will consolidate the leadership position of this niche in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region within the entire Quebec peat industry and agri-environmental technologies,&quot; added Élaine Zakaïb. “Our government is also counting on collaboration and consultation between the various regions of Quebec, in order to ensure the success of the strategy and the action plan. &quot;
The 2013-2018 action plan aims to promote continuous improvement in companies, accelerate the development of new products and technologies and offer support for market development. The plan also aims to increase the attractiveness of jobs in the sector, in particular through training, and to help create conditions favorable to the development of businesses.
&quot;We are particularly happy with this renewal, because our members are actively involved in several promising projects for the industry, and the enthusiasm remains very present after five years&quot;, concluded the president of the niche, Mr. Claudin Berger. “This beautiful synergy within the group will therefore be able to continue through the many initiatives of our 2013-2018 action plan. &quot;
Recall that on August 28 and 29, Quebec Party MPs and government ministers met in Carleton for the Caucus of Deputies and the Council of Ministers.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
