Saint-Philippe-de-Néri– On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of members of the Government of Quebec in the regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, accompanied by the Minister of Natural Resources and Minister responsible for Northern Development, Ms. Martine Ouellet, as well as the Member for Repentigny and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Sustainable Development, from Environment, Wildlife and Parks (wildlife and parks component), Mr. Scott McKay, is pleased to announce that the municipalities of Sainte-Françoise and Saint-Philippe-de-Néri will share a total government assistance of 1 $ 564,880 for major water infrastructure work. This assistance is granted to these two municipalities under part 1.4 of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM).
“Our government wants to provide the population with quality infrastructure for all. This is why I am very happy with the financial assistance granted to the municipalities of Sainte-Françoise and Saint-Philippe-de-Néri for their water infrastructure work. Ultimately, these projects will enable these municipalities to guarantee essential services to citizens, who will be able to benefit from infrastructure networks that meet current standards, in addition to improving the quality of public services, ”declared Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
“These major investments in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region demonstrate our government&#39;s desire to improve public infrastructure and basic services to the population. While contributing to the well-being of citizens, this infrastructure work will help to preserve the environment from a sustainable development perspective, ”said the Minister for Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, Pascal Bérubé.
The Sainte-Françoise project includes the construction of an aerated pond-type treatment plant along Route 296, which will include air pressure and chemical dephosphatation systems for wastewater treatment. It also targets the replacement of the pumps and the redevelopment of the pumping station as well as the installation of a discharge line between the pumping station and the planned wastewater treatment plant. Ultimately, this project will benefit around 250 people.
All of this work requires a total eligible amount of $ 1,288,290. The Government of Quebec is contributing $ 1,095,047 for this project and the Municipality of Sainte-Françoise is participating for an amount of $ 193,243.
As for the project of the Municipality of Saint-Philippe-de-Néri, it aims to improve the quality of drinking water through the construction of a new supply well with connection to the current reservoir as well as to upgrading the existing well. It also provides for the construction of a new technical building housing a chlorination disinfection system and instrumentation and control equipment, as well as various related works. At the end of this project, 745 people will be served by these improved infrastructures.
Carrying out this work requires a total eligible amount of $ 939,666. The government of Quebec and the Municipality of Saint-Philippe-de-Néri are each contributing an amount of $ 469,833.
The Quebec government&#39;s support for these two projects is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of $ 8.1 billion for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year.
The PQI also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
Recall that on August 28 and 29, members of the Parti Québécois and government ministers met in Carleton for the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers.
