Rivière-du-Loup– On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of members of the Government of Quebec in the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie regions, the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, announced financial support totaling $ 112,098 to Campor Inc. and Campor Environnement, from Rivière-du-Loup. The assistance granted is complementary to investments of $ 95,719 by the company to deploy training plans for its personnel.
“With this funding, the Government of Quebec is supporting an organization that makes a major contribution to regional economic prosperity. Increased competition in international markets brings Campor inc. and Campor Environments to have to adapt and develop new business niches based on a greater range of services, increased efficiency and an increasingly versatile and specialized workforce. The training plans deployed in Campor&#39;s two divisions will allow workers to acquire new skills, which will allow the company to remain competitive, ”said Minister Maltais.
“I believe that it is through actions like these that we succeed in maintaining quality jobs, retaining our workforce and attracting new workers to our part of the country. I am proud to be able to say that thanks to the investments made by the Government of Quebec, Campor will be able to improve its performance and thus continue to contribute to the economic health of Bas-Saint-Laurent, ”added the Minister for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Matane-Matapédia, Mr. Pascal Bérubé.
// (c) Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity.
Campor Environnement is currently developing a new component in its service offering, namely industrial and commercial cleaning, which should allow it to annualize several seasonal positions. In addition to promoting the development of staff skills, the company&#39;s training plan will facilitate employee mobility and the transfer of specialized expertise. The training plans put in place in the Campor inc. will promote the transfer of skills between staff members.
“The versatility of our staff is now an essential quality at Campor. In addition to acquiring new technical and organizational knowledge, our employees will benefit from the training plan with a view to giving them increased responsibilities. Our concern is to make optimal use of the existing workforce in order to be able to continue to offer quality services while allowing our workers to evolve in a stimulating environment ”, explained the General Manager of Campor Environnement, Mr. Patrick Gagnon.
Founded in 1989, Campor provides a set of solutions for environmental management. The company has its own facilities and processing plants. In 2009, the company was split into two distinct business entities: Campor Environnement Inc., which provides environmental services in the field and in the plant, and Campor Inc., which provides administrative and management tasks for the first entity. Over the years, the organization has developed expertise in residual materials reclamation processes. These elements have enabled him to become a recognized leader in his field.
Recall that on August 28 and 29, Quebec Party deputies and government ministers met in Carleton for the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers.
