Shawinigan - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the Member for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the territory and Minister of Transport, Sylvain Gaudreault, are pleased to announce the allocation of financial assistance of $ 60,000 to La Tablée populaire Shawinigan inc. For the relocation of one of its points of service. This sum comes from two sources: $ 50,000 from the Fonds conjoncturel de développement (FCD) and $ 10,000 from MP Luc Trudel&#39;s discretionary.
For thirty years, La Tablée populaire Shawinigan inc. offers more than 100 healthy and balanced meals daily to needy people at three service points in the city of Shawinigan. However, the former Mère D&#39;Youville point of service was no longer suited to the needs of the organization and had to be relocated last December. The organization will also take advantage of this relocation to centralize some of its operations, which will allow it to transform food into meals in one place to supply the other two service points. This new way of doing things will promote better inventory control and limit food waste. In addition, the new location is even more accessible to people with reduced mobility.
(c) Luc Trudel
“Support services for the most vulnerable among us, this is an issue that particularly affects us in government, because it is directly linked to the commitment we have made to make solidarity one of the pillars that guide our action. . This is why we are proud to support this socially structuring project which will enable this flagship organization in the region to consolidate its food service offer to the underprivileged and to pursue its important social mission with the community ”, said Minister Maltais.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will meet on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They will take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of these regions.
“Our government has always been committed to providing essential services to all Quebecers, and particularly to those in vulnerable situations. This is why I am happy to confirm today this financial assistance which is eagerly awaited by the community. This support was increasingly necessary to ensure the survival of this organization, which contributes to improving the well-being of the most vulnerable people and to consolidating solidarity in Shawinigan, ”concluded MP Trudel.
