La Tuque– As part of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, announced today, on behalf of by the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs. Marie Malavoy, a major project aimed at renovating the municipal Coliseum of La Tuque.
The work, the cost of which is estimated at $ 2.4 million, consists of completely redeveloping the ground floor and basement of the Colosseum as well as its service block. The Government of Quebec is supporting the project with financial assistance of $ 1 million.
“It is essential that we encourage young people to play sports. The first thing to do in this regard is to provide them with quality, safe and attractive facilities near their homes. This is precisely what the investments I am announcing today will be used for, and I am very proud of it, ”said Minister Martine Ouellet.
This project was analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs.
Across Quebec, more than 80 construction, renovation and development projects for sports and recreational facilities have come to fruition thanks to investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from a $ 50 million envelope allocated under the second component of the Sports and Recreational Facilities Support Program - Phase II of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. To this envelope is added additional assistance of $ 80 million to support the implementation of new projects now.
“For the past year, we have been stepping up actions to improve public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing massively in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible actions, ”Minister Malavoy said.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers meet on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They will take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
