Drummondville– On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions, the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for these two regions, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced the payment of financial assistance totaling 2, $ 25 million to two companies in Drummondville, Technologies HumanWare and Les Planchers Mercier. These financial contributions are intended to materialize projects valued at more than $ 8.7 million.
This financial assistance comes from the Center-du-Québec et de la Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund, a fund with an envelope of $ 200 million intended to support structuring projects to stimulate the economy of the two regions in the wake of the decommissioning of the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant.
“Our government is keeping its commitments to energize businesses and workers in Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie region with a view to diversifying their economy and propelling them into areas of the future, and it is doing so. All the players in the regional economy have worked together to present stimulating projects that will create jobs and wealth. I am happy, as Minister responsible for these two regions, to participate in their economic development, ”declared Yves-François Blanchet.
&quot;All the projects that we support through this diversification fund will make it possible to make the transition to a more varied economy which will offer new possibilities for growth and development,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “Our government intends to continue to support local entrepreneurs in their efforts and in their future projects that will create jobs and advance our economy. &quot;
Technologies HumanWare is a world leader in the design and commercialization of technologies adapted to the needs of people living with visual impairments or learning disabilities. The company will receive a grant of $ 250,000 and an interest-free loan of $ 500,000 to support the realization of research and development projects for new products intended for the low vision market. Thanks to this investment, 135 jobs will be consolidated and 10 will be created.
&quot;Research is essential in order to be able to offer products at the cutting edge of technology that will ensure greater autonomy for our customers,&quot; said Mr. Boisjoli, Vice-President, Business Development, Technology HumanWare. “Government support will allow us to continue to develop innovative products. &quot;
Specialized in the manufacture of hardwood floors, Les Planchers Mercier wants to acquire equipment to improve its productivity. It intends to buy equipment to manufacture itself a product which is currently imported and for which demand is growing. These are composite wood flooring strips made of plywood topped with a thin sawn of hardwood. A loan of $ 500,000 from the diversification fund and another of $ 1 million from Investissement Québec are granted to the company for this project.
&quot;With these investments, we will be able to offer a product entirely made in Quebec and better manage supplies in order to reduce the risk of a shortage of imported products,&quot; said Danie Bouchard, financial director of Les Planchers Mercier. “This project allows us to consolidate the 115 current positions in our company and create 5 new jobs. &quot;
A loan of $ 500,000 from the diversification fund and another of $ 1 million from Investissement Québec are granted to Les Planchers Mercier. (c) Yves-François Blanchet
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers met on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements bear witness to the government&#39;s contribution to the development and growth of the two regions concerned.
“The challenges facing public finances and the economy of Quebec will be met thanks to a single solution: job creation and the match between supply and demand in terms of employment. Each job created or maintained is an additional income for a family, of course, an added value for the company, but also an additional income and a less expenditure for the State ”, argued in conclusion the Minister. Blanchet. &quot;From now on and until we get over it, you&#39;ll hear me say this over and over again.&quot; This is the way forward for Quebec, and Drummondville is a clear model. &quot;
For more information on the fund, the table and the plan relating to the economic diversification of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie, as well as the projects supported, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
