Victoriaville - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, today announced major investments for the Cégep de Victoriaville: one of $ 430,000 for the permanent implementation of the Specialized Education Techniques program, and another of $ 100 $ 011 for the rejuvenation of its furniture park.
“I am pleased to announce that the Specialized Education Techniques program at Cégep de Victoriaville will now be offered on a permanent basis. This will respond even better to the needs of skilled labor in this field in the Center-du-Québec region, by allowing about sixty young people to register there each year. This program also helps to increase the offer of college education in the region, while retaining more young people. This corresponds precisely to one of the objectives of the worksite on the college training offer, which stems from the Summit on Higher Education, ”said Minister Duchesne.
Since 2011, the Cégep has been able to offer this study program on a provisional basis to 60 new students each year. In order to allow the program to be implemented permanently, a sum of $ 55,000 has been allocated by the Department for the acquisition of activity and animation equipment, specialized software, furniture and computer equipment. An additional amount of $ 375,000 allowed the redevelopment of the premises, which cover an area of 430 square meters.
&quot;I am delighted with this significant support for the benefit of training activities in Specialized Education Techniques,&quot; said Vincent Guay, Director General of Cégep de Victoriaville.
Minister Duchesne also took advantage of his visit to Cégep de Victoriaville to announce an allocation of $ 100,011 for the rejuvenation of its furniture stock. It should be remembered that last November, the Minister announced a bonus of $ 6.4 million for the rejuvenation of infrastructure and equipment in 48 CEGEPs.
The amount allocated to the Cégep de Victoriaville will allow it to replace equipment related to technical training, since the Cégep offers programs that require the use of expensive equipment and devices that evolve quickly. It will also make it possible to renew the equipment of science laboratories.
“Thanks to this allowance, students at Cégep de Victoriaville will benefit from a more attractive and stimulating training environment. They will be able to perfect their knowledge by using modern equipment, which will be to their advantage when they enter the job market, ”added Minister Duchesne.
“The Cégep de Victoriaville has taken a major turn in technology in recent years. This support consolidates our efforts to enable us to offer the best training activities possible to our students, ”said Mr. Guay.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the ministers of the government met on February 5 and 6 in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of the deputies and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of these two regions.
“Several issues affect the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. I am happy to see that they have been at the heart of government thinking and that they will also be at the heart of its interventions. An investment like the one announced today is of great importance for our region, because it makes it possible to meet the needs for skilled labor, while allowing our young people to remain in the region, by offering them training. quality and focused on practice in the workplace, ”said Yves-François Blanchet, Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Mauricie and Central regions -of Quebec.
