Kingsey Falls - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for these same regions, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announced, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation of a grant of $ 230,000 to Papier Kingsey Falls, a division of Cascades Canada ULC, for a modernization project representing an investment of over $ 1 million.
This financial contribution comes from the Center-du-Québec et de la Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund, which has a budget of $ 200 million. This fund aims to attract private investment as well as to encourage the creation of efficient and innovative companies.
“When the fund was set up, we made a commitment that it would serve as a lever to develop the economy of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions in a sustainable manner. The project of the Papier Kingsey Falls company is part of our vision for the future for these two regions, which combine economic growth, maintenance of competitiveness and productivity, long-term recovery and quality jobs. You know the importance of Cascades for the economy of Quebec; imagine its importance to Kingsey Falls and the region, ”said Yves-François Blanchet.
This modernization project will allow the Quebec company to produce more rigid cardboard by modifying its equipment and adjusting its production line. This is an important innovation in this sector of activity. This will help support the company&#39;s competitiveness and maintain some 70 jobs.
&quot;One of the three pillars of our industrial policy aims to increase the competitiveness of the manufacturing sector by focusing on the modernization and greening of local businesses,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “The Kingsey Falls Paper Project is exactly the type of cases our government aims to support. In addition, long before sustainable development was a hot topic, the Lemaire family practiced it. I would therefore like to congratulate them for having considered these principles as the one and only way to follow, and I wish them the greatest success in this promising investment project. &quot;
Founded in 1972, the Kingsey Falls Paper division specializes in the manufacture of uncoated boards made from 100% recycled fibers. These uncoated cartons are used to produce coil ends, cores, partition boards and cartons for the packaging industry.
&quot;This project will allow us to produce stiffer and better quality cardboard,&quot; said Mario Plourde, President and CEO of Cascades. “This new process will encourage the creation of new products, allow us to better satisfy our current customers, give us access to new markets and consolidate existing jobs. &quot;
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers met on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They took advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. In less than a week, they made more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements bear witness to the government&#39;s contribution to the development and growth of the two regions concerned.
