Plessisville - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology and Member of Parliament for Borduas, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and of the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, is pleased to announce the payment of financial assistance of up to $ 59,277 to the Parish of Plessisville, in the Center-du-Québec region. This financial assistance, which comes from the Quebec-Municipalities-Age-friendly Municipality infrastructure program (PIQM-MADA), will be used to develop Kelly Park and the Somerset Estate.
Thanks to the PIQM-MADA, the municipalities involved in the MADA process have access to funds intended to support them in carrying out small infrastructure projects for seniors and their families.
“Today&#39;s announcement supports the commitment made by the Parish of Plessisville to seniors. Thus, the assistance granted will allow a greater number of citizens, including seniors and people with reduced mobility, to practice sport and physical activity by facilitating their accessibility to Kelly Park and the Somerset Estate. Thanks to this initiative resulting from a concerted approach, they will be able to take full advantage of the collective recreational services offered by the Parish. Promoting active aging in our communities is a winner! ”Said Minister Duchesne.
&quot;I am proud of our government&#39;s commitment to seniors as part of the MADA process, this great initiative put forward a few years ago and in which the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the territory. Improving the living conditions of our seniors means contributing to their development in the community. It means assuming together a responsibility that concerns us all in order to make Quebec a good place to age, ”said Minister Gaudreault.
“This project, like many others that are emerging in all regions of Quebec, confirms the priority that our government gives to the quality of life of seniors. I would like to salute the initiative of the Parish of Plessisville for the efforts devoted to the development of Kelly Park and the Somerset Estate, which meet the needs of seniors and people with restricted mobility in this community. Ultimately, this project will contribute to their safety and quality of life while allowing them to remain active as long as possible, ”added Minister Hébert.
Briefly, the project consists of improving the infrastructure of Kelly Park and the Somerset Estate, in particular by redeveloping the surroundings of these parks in order to facilitate their access to seniors and people with reduced mobility. The project also provides for the addition of street furniture and lighting as well as embellishment work.
Members of the Parti Québécois and government ministers met in Shawinigan on February 5 and 6, during the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of these regions.
“Several issues affect the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. I am happy to see that they have been at the heart of government thinking and that they will also be at the heart of its interventions. A project like the one we are announcing today is of particular importance for a region like ours since its spinoffs will be felt throughout the community, ”said Yves-François Blanchet, Minister of Sustainable Development and the Environment. , Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
