Joliette - On the occasion of her tour of the regions of Quebec, the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Bank for Economic Development of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announces a loan of $ 700,000 granted by Investissement Québec and financial support non-refundable amount of $ 247,300 from the Ministère des Finances et de l&#39;Économie to Groupe Stageline inc., for a project valued at $ 1,571,000. The company designs and manufactures mobile stages.
The project aims to manufacture a new outdoor performance stage for rental purposes. Unique in size and design, it will be adapted to the technical needs of large productions. The company will then be able to offer stage equipment that is wind resistant and meets the highest standards in the industry. This new concept will be based on stage technology developed by Stageline and will represent substantial savings for its customers.
“The Government of Quebec makes a point of supporting daring and creative entrepreneurs. Thus, the Stageline project represents a considerable technological breakthrough for this industry and, through its innovation and creativity, the company is an important economic player for Lanaudière. We would like to support businesses in all regions of Quebec and provide them with the tools necessary for their success in order to foster the development of a prosperous and sustainable society, ”declared Minister Delegate Élaine Zakaïb.
Established in 1987, Stageline designs, manufactures, sells and rents mobile stages for shows and special events. It is the first company to introduce the indoor mobile scene to the event market. In 2008, Stageline doubled its size and now has a fleet of 80 mobile stages serving North America. Since its creation, the group has made sales in more than 35 countries.
&quot;The financial assistance from the Government of Quebec will allow us to stand out from the competition and overcome a deficiency in the industry,&quot; said Mr. Yvan Miron, founder and CEO of Groupe Stageline inc. “We will therefore be more efficient and offer a product more suited to the needs of our customers. In addition, the commitment made today will add 15 jobs to the 92 we currently have. This project has come to fruition thanks to the collaboration of the regional teams from Investissement Québec and the Ministry of Finance and the Economy ”.
The Minister Delegate undertook this tour of several regions of Quebec in order to present her orientations in terms of regional economic development, to explain the mandate of the Banque de développement économique du Québec and to outline the main lines of industrial policy and measures. aimed at increasing the productivity and competitiveness of Quebec businesses. She takes the opportunity to listen to what regional actors have to tell her about the strengths, challenges and needs of their own region in order to adjust the Bank&#39;s project accordingly.
