Shawinigan - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region, the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, accompanied by the Member of Parliament for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, announced the award of grants totaling nearly $ 152,000 to two Shawinigan companies, Innovation Movex and Corporation Zedbed International, for their innovation projects.
From the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund, these government contributions will be used to carry out investment projects valued at $ 746,180 and aimed at product development and marketing. These will help consolidate around fifty jobs.
&quot;Our support for these companies will stimulate the growth of the manufacturing sector, a priority sector for our government, as confirmed by the Quebec industrial policy,&quot; declared Élaine Zakaïb. “In all regions of Quebec, we want this key sector of our economy to be able to fully play its role of creator of wealth and jobs. Companies in the manufacturing sector have no choice: to maintain their competitiveness and preserve jobs, they must modernize and offer innovative products. Innovation Movex and Corporation Zedbed International have understood this. &quot;
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers meet from February 3 to 7, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the MPs&#39; caucus and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will make more than 80 announcements of different kinds. These announcements bear witness to the government&#39;s contribution to the development and growth of the two regions concerned.
&quot;I am proud to note, once again, that our entrepreneurs are responding to the call by putting forward structuring and innovative initiatives, initiatives likely to give new impetus to the Mauritian economy by diversifying it&quot;, supported Luc Trudel. “The diversification fund thus gives dynamic and booming companies the chance to carry out their projects and create or maintain jobs. &quot;
The Movex Innovation project, which specializes in the design and manufacture of electric handling vehicles, including the Track-O remote-controlled vehicle, aims to develop a jib crane with a high load capacity that will be attached to the Track-O. The project, which represents an investment of $ 582,000, includes marketing activities for the vehicle in the United States. He received financial assistance of $ 111,800.
&quot;The Track-O is an innovative product that meets the multiple needs of our customers, who operate in various sectors of activity, such as mining, petrochemicals or even hydroelectricity&quot;, underlined the president of Innovation. Movex, Mr. Fabien Lavoie. “Our vehicle has the particular advantage of giving access to all types of terrain and to confined spaces. It can even climb stairs and receive several specialized tools. It therefore has strong marketing potential. &quot;
As for Corporation Zedbed International, specializing in the manufacture of mattresses, it wants to develop and market a hybrid mattress equipped with both springs and memory foam. The project, which includes product development and marketing, represents a total investment of $ 163,430 and benefits from financial support of $ 40,112.
“For twenty years, our company has been manufacturing high quality products that have made our reputation,” said Zedbed International Corporation vice-president, Mr. David Gélinas. “In order to position our new hybrid mattress well, we must adopt the right brand image, one that will ensure us a unique placement in the markets. &quot;
Remember that the Center-du-Québec et de la Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund has a budget of $ 200 million. It aims to attract private investment and promote the creation of efficient and innovative companies. In the Mauricie region, it has supported a dozen projects to date.
To consult the Québec Industrial Policy 2013-2017, visit www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
For information on the Center-du-Québec et de la Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
