Gatineau - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, and the Minister for Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, announce the payment a financial contribution of $ 37,500 to the organization Destination Gatineau to enable it to upgrade its business plan, develop a communication plan and assess the needs relating to the creation and implementation of an office.
&quot;By showcasing the banks of the Ottawa River, the Destination Gatineau organization is showing that it shares our vision of the sustainable development of the tourist offer for Quebec,&quot; declared Élaine Zakaïb. “Our government is proud to support it in carrying out its project, which will provide the local population, families and tourists with a gathering place and a fun urban space for the presentation of regional and international events. &quot;
“Destination Gatineau is an eloquent demonstration of the dynamism of the Quebec tourism industry,” added Pascal Bérubé. &quot;We are very happy to be associated with this organization engaged in structuring projects for the city of Gatineau and the Outaouais region - projects that showcase our regional heritage while generating economic spinoffs for all of Quebec. . &quot;
Destination Gatineau is a non-profit organization whose mission is to manage, plan and control tourist, social, sports, cultural and community activities on the sites entrusted to it. The organization is proposing a redevelopment of the banks of the Ottawa River, from Chaudières Falls to the Lady-Aberdeen Bridge, over a distance of 6 kilometers. This project also targets the establishment in Gatineau of the Canada Science and Technology Museum and the development of a promenade des civilizations. It will ensure an activity, ten months a year, in the heart of the city of Gatineau, while highlighting the natural beauty of the site.
&quot;I thank the government of Quebec for its support for the Destination Gatineau project,&quot; said the mayor of Gatineau, Mr. Marc Bureau. “Little by little, this visionary project is taking shape. I would also like to salute the commitment of the many partners and organizations that officially support this project, which will make Gatineau an internationally renowned tourist destination. &quot;
&quot;Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, our project will be able to materialize more easily,&quot; said the general manager of Destination Gatineau, Mr. Claude Hamelin. “With a new business plan, a communication plan and a regional office, the Destination Gatineau team has all the tools to deliver an exceptional project that meets expectations. &quot;
