Quebec - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, accompanied by the chairman of the management committee of the Center-du-Québec Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement (EPRT), Mr. Yves Zahra, is pleased to announce the projects that will receive financial assistance totaling $ 180,000 under this agreement. The projects selected will generate tourism investments of more than $ 32.5 million in Center-du-Québec.
“I am very proud to announce the financial support granted to these projects. This is excellent news that will enhance the tourist offer linked to vacation stays, winter tourism, golf and business tourism in this region which is very active in entrepreneurship. This announcement is made for the benefit of the population in addition to contributing to the development of the region. This is news that I am sure will delight the whole community in addition to benefiting all of Quebec. I would also like to salute the initiatives of the promoters who have already submitted projects and invite others to do the same in the coming months, ”said Minister Bérubé.
“We are always proud to support projects aimed at improving the quality of our tourism businesses, and thus improving the visitor experience. For the entire region, it is essential that our promoters and EPRT partners believe in the tourism success of Center-du-Québec, an important engine for our economy ”, underlined the Chairman of the EPRT Management Committee. of Center-du-Québec and General Manager of Tourisme Center-du-Québec, Mr. Yves Zahra.
These initiatives stem from the Center-du-Québec EPRT signed in May 2012. This aims, among other things, to increase and renew the tourist offer in the Center-du-Québec region, to promote the maintenance or job creation, to increase the complementarity and sustainability of tourism products, services and infrastructure, while encouraging management practices favoring sustainable and responsible tourism. The partners who signed the agreement are Tourisme Québec, Tourisme Center-du-Québec, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, the Regional Conference of Elected Officials of Center-du-Québec and the Regional Association for the economic development of Center-du-Québec.
Tourisme Center-du-Québec receives project submissions on an ongoing basis. Interested tourism stakeholders can obtain information and submit a request by contacting Tourisme Center-du-Québec by email at the following address: accord@tourismecentreduquebec.com.
This announcement takes place as part of an exceptional tour on the sidelines of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers to be held on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the regions of these two regions.
