Quebec – On tour in the Nunavik region, Quebec Premier Pauline Marois announced yesterday an investment of $ 1,050,000 over three years to support the region&#39;s tourism development. A sum of $ 300,000 per year will be paid to the Kativik Regional Government (KRG) as part of the Québec Tourism Strategy North of the 49th Parallel. To this amount is added financial assistance of $ 50,000 per year for the implementation of niche of excellence development strategies stemming from the support program for the development of strategic sectors and niches of excellence of the Ministry of Finance. and Economy.
The Québec Tourism Strategy north of the 49th parallel as well as that of the Northern Tourism niche of excellence rely on the great outdoors and Inuit culture to develop tourism. The granting of this financial assistance meets the objectives set in the Québec Tourism Industry Development Plan, which aims to develop northern tourism potential to make it a destination of international caliber.
“The Nunavik region is distinguished by natural attractions that are both spectacular and unique. The sums invested bear witness to the desire of the Government of Quebec to make northern tourism an important economic lever. The assistance will allow, among other things, the hiring of human resources who will ensure the development of tourist attractions in the North, which, consequently, will promote the development of regional expertise. I am therefore very happy that our government is joining forces with those of the Kativik Regional Government to invest in the development of a territory with exceptional tourist potential, ”said the Premier.
This financial assistance will allow the KRG, which exercises a leadership role in Nunavik, to assume new responsibilities relating to the development of the tourist offer and the implementation of the niche action plan.
“We are proud of our region, our culture and our language, and we take the opportunity to share them with those who visit us. This agreement with the Government of Quebec will allow us to develop, together, the tourism potential of Nunavik, while respecting our values and traditions ”, underlined the president of the KRG, Maggie Emudluk.
The granting of the subsidy to the KRG aims, in terms of development of the offer, the following objectives:
In terms of planning, regional cooperation, tourist reception and information, the Kativik Regional Government will work closely with the Nunavik Tourism Association.
Remember that in 2012, the Nunavik region targeted tourism as a niche of excellence as part of the ACCORD process. A committee made up of all the partners has drawn up an action plan, under the theme Northern tourism, cultural diversity in adventure tourism, which ties in with the Québec Tourism Strategy north of the 49th parallel.
