Trois-Rivières - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region, the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec , Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, accompanied by the MP for Champlain, Ms. Noëlla Champagne, announced the allocation, within the framework of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund, of financial assistance totaling more than 1, $ 3 million for two expansion projects.
The first project, valued at $ 365,000, concerns the expansion of the Aéro-Maintenance NC company. Financial assistance includes the payment of loans totaling $ 185,000, or $ 100,000 allocated by Investissement Québec and $ 85,000 from the economic diversification fund. The second project, at a total cost of $ 4.2 million, consists of the construction, by Innovation and Economic Development (IDE) Trois-Rivières, of a building that will house an incubator for technology companies. A grant of $ 1,135,000 is awarded to the organization.
&quot;By promoting the economic diversification of the regions, we are ensuring the growth and prosperity of Quebec,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “It is therefore with pride that we support these two projects. The expansion of the Aéro-Maintenance NC company will strengthen our expertise in the aeronautics sector, and the creation of an innovation space by IDE Trois-Rivières will promote the creation of companies in the aviation technologies sector. information and communications. These two projects will undoubtedly contribute to the dynamism and economic vitality of the Mauricie region. &quot;
(c) Office of Minister Élaine Zakaïb
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers meet from February 3 to 7, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the MPs&#39; caucus and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will make more than 80 announcements of different kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the two regions concerned.
&quot;In the Mauricie region, we have a qualified workforce, which uses its know-how in aircraft inspection, maintenance and servicing as well as assistance services. business start-ups, to the benefit of the aeronautics and information and communications technology sectors, ”added Noëlla Champagne. &quot;The Aero-Maintenance NC and Innovation and Economic Development Trois-Rivières projects will therefore consolidate our reputation for excellence in these sectors, in addition to creating 5 new jobs and, above all, consolidating more than 35 quality jobs in our region. &quot;
“Thanks to the support of the Quebec government and Investissement Quebec, we will be able to increase our productivity and offer our services to more commercial clients,” said one of the founders and partners of Aéro-Maintenance NC, Mr. André Nadeau. “This project will also allow us to distinguish ourselves and ensure our competitiveness by exploiting new niches, such as avionics, and by performing specialized maintenance work for aviation that is not offered in the region. &quot;
&quot;With the invaluable help of the Center-du-Québec et de la Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund, we will be able to create an innovation space that will welcome start-up companies, private research centers and companies wishing to periodically use our facilities. specialized, ”said the Director General of Innovation and Economic Development Trois-Rivières, Mr. Yves Marchand. “Our project will thus promote the creation of new businesses and the implementation of innovative projects. &quot;
For more information on the fund, the table and the plan relating to the economic diversification of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie, as well as the projects supported, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
