La Prairie - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, and the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Mr. Jean -François Lisée, met the socio-economic actors of the metropolitan region during the consultation tour concerning the economic development of the highway 30 corridor. Representatives of the Montérégie sectors of agriculture and tourism were also present.
The objective of this consultation process is to gather the opinions of the various stakeholders on projects related to the economic growth potential of Autoroute 30, in order to develop a strategy that will enable the entire Montérégie region and the metropolitan area to make the most of the new infrastructure.
“In addition to providing the metropolitan region with a bypass through the south of the island of Montreal, Autoroute 30 must become a profitable growth tool for all of the affected territories,” declared Élaine Zakaïb. “This consultation tour will allow us to better understand the existing assets and to mobilize the actors concerned by this large-scale project. &quot;
Minister Lisée reiterated the importance of the bypass for the metropolis. “This route will position the metropolis as an international freight transport hub,” he commented. “This is a major project that will promote the region and all of Quebec and promote the growth of our economy. An overall vision, which takes into account the challenges of the territories concerned, is therefore essential to the realization of this future project of prime importance for our region. &quot;
From left to right, ministers Élaine Zakaïb, Jean-François Lisée and Marie Malavoy with representatives from the greater Montreal region. (CNW Group / Office of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Bank for Economic Development of Quebec. // (c) Office of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Bank for Economic Development of Quebec
It should be remembered that in May 2013, an interministerial sub-committee made up of eight ministers was created to develop a government strategic vision relating to the highway 30 corridor going from Sorel-Tracy to Vaudreuil-Soulanges as well as a related development. This subcommittee, co-chaired by Élaine Zakaïb and the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, reports to the Ministerial Committee of the metropolitan region.
&quot;We must therefore favor a common vision, which will respect the vocation of bypassing Highway 30, and take into account the economic potential and aspirations of the regions concerned while respecting government guidelines, particularly in terms of development and sustainable development of the territory, ”added Marie Malavoy.
