Plessisville - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region, the Minister for Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, announced, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation of an interest-free loan of $ 382,500 to the manufacturing company EPP Métal for the modernization of its installations. This assistance, granted under the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund, will create 4 new jobs, in addition to consolidating the 28 existing jobs.
&quot;I am very proud to announce our support for the EPP Métal project, which will help diversify the manufacturing and metallurgical sectors in the Center-du-Québec region,&quot; said Pascal Bérubé. “The Center-du-Québec et de la Mauricie Economic Diversification Fund is an effective tool that enables projects that generate significant economic benefits for these two regions and for Quebec as a whole. &quot;
Minister Zakaïb wished to recall the importance of the manufacturing sector for the regions and the need to promote the modernization of businesses. &quot;The 2013-2017 Quebec industrial policy aims precisely to support manufacturing companies that want to improve their productivity and expand their offer in order to better position themselves on world markets,&quot; she said. “Investments such as the one announced today make it possible to maintain the competitiveness of manufacturing companies, in addition to consolidating and creating quality jobs. &quot;
Minister Pascal Bérubé confirms financial support for the modernization project of the EPP Métal company. The project aims to expand the plant as well as acquire technological equipment. This announcement consolidates 28 jobs and will create 4 new ones. (c) Valérie Létourneau-Noël
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers meet from February 3 to 7, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the MPs&#39; caucus and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will make more than 80 announcements of different kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the two regions concerned.
EPP Métal has been specializing, for more than thirty years, in the mass production of metal products with high added value which require successive transformation processes. The project, valued at $ 1.53 million, involves the expansion of part of the company&#39;s plant located in Plessisville as well as the acquisition of technological equipment, such as a plate rolling machine and a laser cutter.
&quot;Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we have acquired new equipment at the cutting edge of technology, with the help of which we will be able to broaden our service offering to our customers,&quot; said the director of operations. EPP Métal company, Ms. Karine Gouin. “At the same time, the expansion of our plant will allow us to increase our production and intensify our diversification, in addition to ensuring our competitiveness in the metallurgy sector. &quot;
Minister Pascal Bérubé in front of the new machine obtained serious with the investment. In the photo, to the minister&#39;s right, the founders of EPP Métal, Mr. and Mrs. Paul and Céline Piché with some workers from the plant. (c) Valérie Létourneau-Noël
To find out more about Québec&#39;s industrial policy 2013-2017, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueindustrielle.
For more information on the fund, the table and the plan relating to the economic diversification of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie, as well as the projects supported, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
