Plessisville - On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology and Member of Parliament for Borduas, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce financial assistance of 51 $ 132 to the Corporation de développement communautaire de l&#39;Érable (CDCÉ) for the exterior renovation of the Chanoine A. Boulet community square in Plessisville. This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship Infrastructure Program (PIEC).
Among the main works planned, we should mention the adequate insulation of the building, the replacement of the exterior cladding, the repair of the roof and the installation of an automatic door at the entrance. These interventions will help optimize the energy savings of this collective infrastructure essential to the pursuit of the activities of the CDCÉ and the eight other tenant community organizations.
“The Chanoine A. Boulet Community Place makes it possible to offer local services that contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territory of the MRC de L&#39;Érable and the assistance granted is one way for our government to recognize this. I am proud of the investment announced today for the exterior renovation of the building of the Corporation de développement communautaire de l&#39;Érable. Once renovated, this infrastructure will allow several organizations to access better adapted workplaces. This support will thus enable them to pursue their mission by offering a range of socio-community services to the population in addition to the fight against poverty and social exclusion ”, declared Minister Duchesne.
The total eligible cost of this project is $ 118,267. In addition to the contribution of the Government of Quebec, within the framework of the CEIP, other partners are participating in the project, in particular the Local Development Center (CLD) of L&#39;Érable.
Recognized as a social economy enterprise in the collective real estate sector for its commercial component, the CDCÉ is a non-profit organization. Its mission is to bring together and ensure the active participation of all community organizations in the socio-economic development of the territory of the RCM of L&#39;Érable. In 1992, the Corporation acquired the Place communautaire Chanoine A. Boulet in order to provide local organizations with lower-cost rents while promoting their development and consolidation. La Place also houses a service point of the Société l&#39;assurance automobile du Québec, which contributes to improving the quality of life of citizens by giving them access to an important local service.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers met on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of these regions.
“Several issues affect the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. I am happy to see that they have been at the heart of government thinking and that they will also be at the heart of its interventions. A project like the one we are announcing today is of particular importance for a region like ours, since its spinoffs will be felt throughout the community, ”said Yves-François Blanchet, Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
Remember that the CEIP has a budget of $ 10 million. It aims to support social economy enterprises in the implementation of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition projects for commercial or industrial infrastructure. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, to contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories as well as to promote the preservation and enhancement of the environment.
