BELŒIL– As part of the tour of the members of the Parti Québécois in Montérégie, the member for Jonquière and official opposition spokesperson for the environment and sustainable development, Sylvain Gaudreault, the member for Marie-Victorin and - speech on energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, the deputy for Bonaventure and spokesperson for forests, Sylvain Roy, as well as the former member of the Parti Québécois in Borduas, Pierre Duchesne, met the representatives of several environmental organizations located in Montérégie and in the riding of Borduas, including those of the Cowboys Fringants Foundation, the Richelieu River watershed consultation and enhancement committee and the Moratoire Alternatives Vigilance Intervention Collective.
“The Liberal government is acting only in an economic logic of austerity. He suffers from a flagrant lack of ecological vision. For its part, the Parti Québécois is determined to promote Quebec&#39;s environmental sovereignty. In this sense, let us remember the tabling of Bill 390, affirming the primacy of Quebec&#39;s environmental jurisdiction. It is essential to send a strong signal to the federal government, to let it know that Quebec, together with its citizens, defends its environment and intends to keep the last word on all projects that concern it in this matter, ”declared Sylvain Gaudreault.
&quot;The BAPE report on the future of shale gas is categorical: the projects would not be economically profitable, they would have significant environmental impacts, especially on water, and, in any case, society does not want them. . In 2015, the Liberal government must correct its mistake in favoring shale gas in Quebec, by guaranteeing citizens who live near abandoned wells that their water supply will not be affected in the long term, ”added Bernard Drainville.
“The issue of water is capital, not only for the environment, but also in a perspective of sustainable development of the territory. Watershed organizations are committed to bringing together all water users towards integrated management of this resource. We must support these pillars, revise and implement the National Water Policy, and align water protection with land use planning, ”continued Sylvain Roy.
“These meetings, held in the riding of Borduas, made it possible to shine the spotlight on central issues for the promotion of sustainable development in Quebec. At a time when the Liberals have the duty to update the Government Sustainable Development Strategy 2015-2020 and the Energy Policy 2016-2025, in particular, the Parti Québécois is showing that it is listening to the awakening of environmental awareness and that &#39;he is determined to act to make Quebec a green and blue country, ”concluded Pierre Duchesne.
