Rimouski - On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of members of the Quebec government in the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie regions, the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible of the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, accompanied by the Member for Rimouski, Mr. Irvin Pelletier, announced the award of grants totaling $ 197,196 to the companies Groupe SYGIF and SYGIF International for the development of a training program that will allow sister companies to keep and create jobs. These grants are part of the Business Support Program for the Boosting of Employment (AERE) funded by the Commission of Labor Market Partners.
“I am pleased to be in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region to announce financial support to companies wishing to increase their competitiveness by focusing on the development of staff know-how. Increasing the skills of the workforce is one of our government&#39;s priority actions. I am happy to see that it is also the case for these companies, ”said Minister Maltais.
“In SYGIF&#39;s business sector, technology is evolving rapidly and it is leading to changes in the way things are done. Workers, as well as the company, must be able to adapt. In this context, the implementation of a training plan for employees is essential because it is essential that they can continue to perform. In the end, the entire regional economy will benefit, ”added the Minister for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Matane-Matapédia, Mr. Pascal Bérubé.
// (c) Roland Thériault.
“The expertise developed in recent years by SYGIF companies enables them to shine on international markets. The organization can count on a team of highly qualified workers. In order to continue to grow and prosper, it is essential to be able to maintain current jobs and create new ones. The Government of Quebec is proud to support this industry, which contributes greatly to regional economic diversity, ”said the Member for Rimouski, Mr. Irvin Pelletier.
This grant is part of SYGIF&#39;s desire to adapt to global industry trends in information and communication technologies. The two entities, Groupe SYGIF and SYGIF International, wish to develop the use of Web technology in order to maintain a competitive service offering. To do this, a training program for staff must be put in place.
“The financial support announced today by the Quebec government will allow us to optimize our working methods in order to seek new clienteles. For us, improving the productivity of a company undeniably goes through the development of staff skills. It is encouraging to note that we have the support of the government ”, explained the Managing Director of Groupe SYGIF, Mr. Daniel Landry.
Founded in 1996, the SYGIF company specializes in geomatics and the development of software specialized in the management of private lots. In 2008, the company set up an international division called SYGIF International.
Recall that on August 28 and 29, Quebec Party deputies and government ministers met in Carleton for the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers.
