Quebec, April 3, 2017 - As part of the Priorité PME tour, the leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, will be visiting the MRC de Roussillon today to meet the entrepreneurs. Alain Therrien, Member of Parliament for Sanguinet and spokesperson for the tour, will be at his side.
“I have the pleasure of being in the MRC de Roussillon today, along with my colleague, to meet the members of the Royal Roussillon Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Together, we will discuss the issues that affect them and the measures of economic nationalism that we want to put forward. Since the beginning of the year, I have met several entrepreneurs, businesswomen and men, in several regions, and I presented to them our vision of economic development. Currently, Quebec is at an historic peak: never have there been so many young people who want to start their business. We must take advantage, give them air, support them, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
“Today, we held constructive meetings with dynamic entrepreneurs from Roussillon. It was also essential to go to the Regional Chamber of Commerce, especially given its recent project to create an entrepreneurship center. We were more than happy to respond to his invitation, ”continued Alain Therrien.
All entrepreneurs, the deputies who make up the Priorité PME team - Alain Therrien, Mireille Jean (Chicoutimi) and Martin Ouellet (René-Lévesque) - have been given the mandate to go, over the coming months, to meet the people of &#39;business to identify irritants and propose solutions, as well as to determine red tape reduction best practices in cities and government agencies.
Among other things, the team will suggest measures to reduce the regulatory burden imposed by ministries, agencies, organizations and municipalities, the latter to be particularly called upon. The tour should also provide a lean regulatory framework that would be applied during the first five years of a new business. “Basically, we want to allow entrepreneurs to work by freeing them from the current administrative maze,” said Mr. Therrien.
“SMEs are the backbone of our economy. Starting a business is a daring act that requires enormous effort. That this effort is complicated, hampered, blocked by an excessive regulatory burden is an insult to common sense and sound economic policy. Our intention is clear: the Parti Québécois government that I will lead will stop seeing SMEs as serving the bureaucracy; on the contrary, it will ensure that the bureaucracy supports SMEs in their efforts to respect the rules, while creating jobs and wealth, ”added Jean François Lisée.
Tuesday, the member of Sanguinet will continue the tour in Roussillon; he will meet entrepreneurs from La Prairie and Sanguinet who have succeeded in their respective fields by showing determination and, above all, innovation. “Starting a business will never be easy. On the other hand, we are convinced that the Government of Quebec can do more to lighten the burden of those who embark on the adventure and it is on the strength of the experience of established entrepreneurs that we will target the obstacles they face. have encountered in the development of their business, ”concluded Alain Therrien.
