Saint-Hubert– As part of the tour of the members of the Parti Québécois in Montérégie, the member for Terrebonne and official opposition spokesperson in family matters, Mathieu Traversy, as well as the member for Saint-Jean and president of the Montérégie regional caucus, Dave Turcotte, today met with representatives of the Regroupement des CPE de la Montérégie, to discuss their reality and the impacts of the measures put forward by the Liberal government.
Mathieu Traversy took the opportunity to discuss the decline of the Minister of Families, Francine Charbonneau, regarding the sanctions she planned to impose on parents through Bill 27. “Since the bill was tabled in November, we are telling the minister that she is on the wrong track and that fining parents is wrong. I&#39;m glad she finally found out and decided to back down, ”he said.
On the other hand, continued the member, Bill 27 does not provide any solution to the real problems of the childcare network, namely the scarcity of places and the lack of flexibility in the service offer. “The minister seems undecided as to the next steps… it&#39;s simple, she must withdraw her bill and propose a new one that will really meet the needs of parents in Quebec. We also ask him to set up a follow-up committee for the Worksite on the quality and sustainability of childcare services and on the optimization of their funding. As far as we are concerned, as we have been doing for several months, we will continue to mobilize and support families in Quebec. &quot;
“Here, in Montérégie, as everywhere in Quebec, childcare centers are very concerned about the liberal brake applied to the development of childcare spaces. Parents are waiting for these places, and the daycare services were ready to begin their implementation and development. However, the government stopped everything because of an ideological accounting exercise. For us, child care is not an expense; it is a sustainable investment for our society and its socioeconomic development, ”concluded Dave Turcotte.
