News - On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of members of the Government of Quebec in the Gaspésie and Bas-Saint-Laurent regions, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, accompanied by the Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Wildlife and Parks component and Member of Parliament de Bonaventure, Sylvain Roy, officially inaugurated the Coopérative d&#39;habitation intergénérationnelle l&#39;Habit&#39;âges, in Nouvelle, in the Gaspé.
Located in the heart of the municipality, this building of 12 affordable units, where families and seniors with a slight loss of autonomy come together, offers a meal service and common spaces including a community garden on the roof. This innovative project, carried out thanks to the SHQ&#39;s AccèsLogis Québec program, required an investment of more than $ 2.2 million from the government of Quebec and its partners in the community.
“Last May, Premier Pauline Marois unveiled the Government intervention strategy for the development of the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, one of the objectives of which is to maintain the exceptional quality of life that prevails over the territory. In addition to contributing to the achievement of this objective, a project such as this promotes intergenerational solidarity which is so important to the enrichment of our society, ”declared Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
The government of Quebec, through the SHQ, granted a subsidy of a little over $ 955,000 for the creation of the Habit&#39;âges. In addition, the SHQ guarantees the mortgage loan taken out by the Avignon Solidarity Cooperative to complete the financing of the project. The community&#39;s total contribution amounts to more than $ 417,000, of which some $ 259,000 comes from the Municipality of Nouvelle. It should also be noted that the project received a grant of more than $ 177,000 thanks to the Rénovation Québec program of the SHQ.
“A project like the one inaugurated today is of particular importance for a region like ours, which faces major challenges in terms of land use and sustainable development. Local initiatives such as the Coopérative d&#39;habitation l&#39;Habit&#39;âges contribute to developing a safe and enriching living environment for the elderly and families who share the same living space, but also for future generations who will be able to benefit from this beautiful infrastructure, ”said MP Sylvain Roy.
“L&#39;Habit&#39;âges is an innovative project for our region and a life project for seniors and families which is at the heart of our community. Thank you for helping us build a bridge between generations, ”said Valérie Thériault, general manager of the Avignon Solidarity Cooperative.
It should be noted that additional financial assistance of just over $ 103,000, spread over five years and assumed 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the Municipality of Nouvelle, offers the possibility to 6 households of the Habit &#39; ages to benefit from the Rent Supplement Program. Thus, these low-income households pay a rent similar to that of a low-rental housing, or 25% of their income.
Among the contributions from the community, it should be noted that the project received a grant of some $ 25,000 from the Office of Energy Efficiency and Innovation of the Ministry of Natural Resources to ensure that it meets the standards of the Novoclimat program, which ensures tenants a significant saving on the costs of heating their accommodation.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Each year, the SHQ helps improve the quality of life of 230,000 households. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
Finally, on August 28 and 29, members of the Parti québécois and government ministers held a caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers in Carleton.
