Rivière-du-Loup - On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of members of the Government of Quebec in the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie region, on the sidelines of the presessional caucus of the parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois in Carleton, the Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Wildlife and Parks Component, Mr. Scott McKay, announced on behalf of Minister Blanchet that the Priority Intervention Zone committee ( ZIP) of the Sud-de-l&#39;Estuaire will coordinate the work of the regional concertation table of the region of the south of the middle estuary. Accompanied by the Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, and the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, Mr. McKay also announced that this mandate, granted in as part of the implementation of integrated management of the St. Lawrence, will be accompanied by financial support totaling $ 625,000 for the next five years.
“The St. Lawrence River is a living symbol of our history and our culture. As much as we are, we must ensure that we preserve all the wealth of this national treasure. Today&#39;s announcement fits in perfectly with this vast conservation initiative. Regional cooperation is the first step towards more responsible management of the St. Lawrence, ”said Mr. McKay.
It is on the unanimous recommendation of the regional county municipalities of Montmagny, L&#39;Islet, Kamouraska and Rivière-du-Loup that the Ministère du Développement durable, de l&#39;Environnement, de la Faune et des Parcs (MDDEFP) entrusted this mandate to the Sud-de-l&#39;Estuaire ZIP committee. This regional consultation meets several objectives of the Law affirming the collective character of water resources and aimed at strengthening their protection with regard to the implementation of water governance based on integrated and concerted management. This approach is also part of the Canada-Quebec Agreement on the St.Lawrence 2011-2026, which aims in particular to promote the pooling of the expertise and efforts of the two governments in the development of the Saint Laurent.
LaGISL is a permanent process based on the consultation of all decision-makers and users for planning and better harmonization of measures to protect and use the resources of the St. Lawrence River. This process is materialized by the holding of the Saint-Laurent Forum, which brings together all the players affected by these issues every year.
The GISL also plans to gradually set up 12 regional concertation tables (TCRs) covering the entire course of the St. Lawrence. By accepting the proposed mandate, the Sud-de-l&#39;Estuaire ZIP committee becomes responsible for coordinating the creation of the TCR and developing a regional integrated management plan (PGIR) representative of the concerns and priorities. local action. The PGIR will propose actions to be carried out, particularly in terms of the conservation and enhancement of water, riparian environments and aquatic ecosystems in this area of the St. Lawrence.
According to the financial contribution agreement signed with the MDDEFP, the TCRs will have a maximum of five years to develop their regional integrated management plan. As coordinator, the Sud-de-l&#39;Estuaire ZIP committee must ensure a balanced representation of the various users and communities interested in the work of the TCR. The territory of this new TCR is between the municipalities of L&#39;Isle-Verte and Berthier-sur-Mer.
“To allow future generations to enjoy the St. Lawrence River as we do today, we must act collectively and locally to ensure its preservation. The creation of regional consultation tables is a necessary step in the implementation of effective integrated management of this exceptional ecosystem. These tables will help mobilize communities around decisive issues and implement strategies to restore all the richness of the St.Lawrence in a perspective of sustainable development. Our government is proud to be able to support these local initiatives which will have positive effects on a large scale, ”concluded Mr. McKay.
