Saint-Norbert-d&#39;Arthabaska– On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du Québec regions, the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, announced today, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Mrs. Marie Malavoy, the construction of a soccer field in Saint-Norbert-d&#39;Arthabaska. Financial assistance of up to $ 28,737.20 will also be granted for this purpose. The new facility, the costs of which are estimated at more than $ 58,000, will allow the Municipality to increase its sports offer and thus better meet the needs of the population.
“The announcement I am making today demonstrates the importance our government places on the health and quality of life of citizens in all regions. I therefore hope that the Norbertian families will be there to take advantage of this sports ground ”, declared Mr. Bérubé.
This project was analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the Support Program for Sports and Recreational Facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs.
Minister Pascal Bérubé with Mrs. Linda Trottier, CEO of the city of St-Norbert-d&#39;Arthabaska, as well as the mayor of the city, Mr. Alain Tourigny to confirm an investment from MELS for the construction of a land of soccer. A gesture much awaited by the municipality to stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being of the population. (c) Valérie Létourneau-Noël
Across Quebec, approximately 80 projects for the construction, renovation, development and upgrading of sports and recreational facilities are expected to materialize thanks to investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from a $ 50 million envelope allocated under the second component of the Sports and Recreational Facilities Support Program - Phase II of the Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. To this envelope is added additional assistance of $ 80 million to support the implementation of new projects now.
“For the past year, we have been stepping up actions to improve public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing massively in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible actions, ”Minister Malavoy said.
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will meet on February 5 and 6, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions. In less than a week, they will be making more than 80 announcements of various kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions.
