Saint-Étienne-des-Grès– On the occasion of an exceptional tour of members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region, the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announced, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation of an $ 840,000 loan to Les Serres du Saint-Laurent, which produces the Savoura tomato, for a $ 1.4 million modernization project at its Saint-Étienne plant -des-Grès.
&quot;This support, from the $ 200 million economic diversification fund intended for the two regions concerned, will give this company the opportunity to contribute to the economic vitality of the Mauricie&quot;, declared Yves-François Blanchet. “Our government is committed to providing all the necessary tools to the two regions so that they can accelerate the economic diversification of their territory. I am proud to be able to demonstrate that we are keeping our commitments. &quot;
Minister Blanchet supports the modernization of the Saint-Étienne-des-Grès plant of the company Les Serres du Saint-Laurent. (c) MDDEP
“Improving productivity is crucial to ensure the competitiveness of manufacturing companies. This is the raison d&#39;être of our industrial policy. With the fund, as with the Quebec industrial policy, we are proving that we can do things differently by providing better targeted assistance in carrying out promising projects, ”said Élaine Zakaïb. “It is therefore important for us to support projects like the Savoura one, which is also part of our food sovereignty policy. &quot;
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers meet from February 3 to 7, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the MPs&#39; caucus and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine ridings of the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will make more than 80 announcements of different kinds. These announcements will contribute to the development and growth of the two regions concerned.
Les Serres du Saint-Laurent is the largest greenhouse company in Quebec. Over the years, it has introduced new specialty products intended for the Quebec market, but also for export markets such as Ontario and the northeastern United States. The planned changes will help reduce distribution costs as well as improve productivity at the production and packaging stages.
&quot;We are very pleased to be able to benefit from the support of the Government of Quebec for this project,&quot; said Marie Gosselin, President and CEO of Les Serres du Saint-Laurent. “Based on a preliminary analysis, we estimate that all the investments that will be made in Saint-Étienne-des-Grès will allow us to achieve annual cost savings of approximately $ 950,000. &quot;
For more information on the fund, the table and the plan relating to the economic diversification of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie, as well as the projects supported, see www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
