Quebec - &quot;I am proud that on this last day of the 12 days of action against violence against women, the National Assembly speaks with one voice on human trafficking,&quot; said the First Vice-President. of the National Assembly and Member of Parliament for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier.
This motion, resulting from the will of the Circle of Women Parliamentarians, a non-partisan think tank and work group that involves all 41 women elected to parliament, read as follows:
&quot;That the National Assembly recognize that human trafficking, which is characterized by the fact of recruiting, transporting, receiving, detaining, hiding or harboring a person or of exercising control, direction or influence on a person&#39;s movements to exploit or facilitate exploitation, particularly affects women and adolescent girls.
That the National Assembly ask the government to put in place measures to combat human trafficking and to start thinking about the return of sex education classes to schools.
That the National Assembly ask the government to submit in 2014 its action plan on sexual exploitation, an action plan resulting from the interministerial committee which will have to propose actions to counter sexual exploitation, which includes the hypersexualization, prostitution as well as the trafficking of women inside and outside the country, and to help women who want to leave the world of prostitution ”.
“Human trafficking feeds the worst slavery. That the National Assembly vigorously denounces it and undertakes to act to eliminate it makes me very proud, ”continued Carole Poirier.
&quot;Whether it is through the fight against hypersexualization, sex education classes or awareness campaigns, we must act upstream, without ever losing sight of the fact that we must fight for the girls and women who are currently in an exploitative situation, ”said Suzanne Proulx, Member of Parliament for Sainte-Rose and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister responsible for the Status of Women, for the Parti Québécois.
“Human trafficking has no place in Quebec, or anywhere else in the world. Faced with the social scourge of sexual exploitation, we have important societal choices to make. Beyond all partisanship, we must go further than what is currently being done to ensure the protection of these women and children, ”said Maryse Gaudreault, Member of Parliament for Hull, for the Quebec Liberal Party.
“We are very proud to see this motion adopted, it reflects our concern about modern forms of exploitation and the need to protect women and adolescent girls from such violence. It is also time that we reinstated sex education courses in the school curriculum of young people in Quebec in order to instill in them equality between men and women ”, declared Michelyne St-Laurent, Member of Parliament for Montmorency, for the Coalition futur Quebec.
“It is important not to imagine that this is a problem that only exists elsewhere. Contrary to popular belief, victims of trafficking in Quebec are not only young women from abroad, but very often Quebeckers, forced to work in the sex trade, under duress and violence. I just learned that there are 28 massage parlors in my riding. I fully intend to act on this front ”promised Françoise David, Member of Parliament for Gouin, for Québec solidaire.
