Montreal - The Parti Québécois estimates that the mess of the train de l&#39;Est, with cost overruns of half a billion dollars, requires an investigation by the Auditor General of Quebec. “Announced in 2006 by Jean Charest for an amount of $ 300 million, the East train project will ultimately cost $ 800 million. This is almost three times more than the initial sum. The reasons given are doubtful; Only the Auditor General could clear up this mystery, ”declared the member for Gouin and official opposition critic for transport, Nicolas Girard.
For the Parti Québécois, this project has been managed like a haystack and the explanations provided to date by the Liberal government, particularly the President of the Treasury Board, Michelle Courchesne, are far from satisfactory. “Minister Courchesne&#39;s credibility is irreparably tarnished after the Auditor General discovered her leading role in the child care scandal. There is no doubt that he will once again be able to shed light on Quebecers who, at the end of the day, will still have to pay for the liberal maneuvers, ”continued Nicolas Girard.
The member for Gouin underlined in passing that this bill could increase further, depending on the decisions taken by the authorities concerning the safety of the Mont-Royal tunnel. &quot;The Minister of Transport, Pierre Moreau, who plays the hiding place on the safety of users, will have to stop procrastinating and tell us the truth,&quot; said Nicolas Girard, recalling that four ministers had gone to the Ministry of Transport during this period and have all closed their eyes to the explosion in costs. Ministerial responsibility does not exist in the Charest government. No one is responsible for anything ”.
For her part, the MP for Pointe-aux-Trembles, Nicole Léger, is sorry for the impact of this Liberal mismanagement on the citizens of East Montreal. “When the 2006 announcement was made, the new train line was expected to come into service in 2008. It is February 2012 and available estimates indicate that train cars will not start running until at least 2014. C &#39;is six years late, six lost years in which our citizens are deprived of an important means of public transport and which is targeted as a priority by the community of East Montreal in order to achieve its economic development objectives ”, lambasted Nicole Léger.
For his part, the deputy for L&#39;Assomption, Scott McKay, is particularly angry with the project managers who, for inexplicable reasons, have unilaterally decided not to build the station planned for Charlemagne. “Not only will the project cost more, but it will also be cut. The taxpayers of L&#39;Assomption riding are doubly victims; they will have to mop up the project&#39;s $ 500 million cost overrun while being deprived of a train station in their neighborhood. It is simply outrageous! », Declared Scott McKay, who denounces the choice to have merged the two train lines initially planned into one.
For the Parti Québécois, it is a political decision improvised and disguised under the guise of rationalization. The Parti Québécois fears that this decision was taken to avoid harming the profitability of the PPP of the 25 bridge.
“While the East Train project is lagging behind, the citizens of southern Lanaudière continue to spend hours and hours in traffic jams morning and evening. Every day, they pass very close to the construction site, wondering how soon will it be completed and how much money will the Liberal government come and draw from their pockets to make up for its incompetence. The sooner this project will get back on track, the sooner it will satisfy citizens, benefit the environment and the less expensive it will cost, ”added the deputy for Terrebonne, Mathieu Traversy.
For his part, the member for Masson, Guillaume Tremblay, recalls that the candidates of the Liberal Party of Quebec in the constituency, during the last three elections, promised the realization of the train de l&#39;Est. “The more the years go on, the more this promise is repeated. Why? Because this project was mismanaged from the start. For years, the citizens of Mascouche have dreamed of having access, by rail, to the island of Montreal. It is time for that to happen, ”concluded Guillaume Tremblay.
