Quebec - During the 2014-2015 Budget Speech, the Quebec government announced that it intends to invest $ 4 million annually for the implementation of an assistance program that will make it possible to assume the major part of the costs of training of volunteer and part-time firefighters. This program will be set up and managed by the Ministry of Public Security.
“The establishment of a program by the Ministère de la Sécurité publique will make it possible to finance the major part of the training costs which were assumed until now by some 1,100 municipalities in Quebec. This is very good news for those municipalities which have recourse to volunteer or part-time firefighters, ”declared the Minister of Public Security, Stéphane Bergeron.
It should be remembered that with the exception of the nine large urban agglomerations, the municipalities almost exclusively use volunteer or part-time firefighters. The latter represent 77% of all firefighters in Quebec, or approximately 17,800 firefighters out of some 23,000 firefighters found throughout the territory.
This program, the terms and operation of which remain to be specified, will provide for the reimbursement of certain costs assumed by the municipalities, in particular those for the hiring of instructors and monitors, the costs of using vocational qualification centers, as well as those intended for support documents and other publications necessary for the various training courses.
“We were all shocked by the tragic events that occurred in Lac-Mégantic in July and in L&#39;Isle-Verte more recently. We have a thought for the people who have been victims of these disasters, but also for the work of the first responders, the vast majority of whom are volunteer and part-time firefighters. Today&#39;s announcement is a long-awaited decision and I have asked my ministry to prioritize the modalities and operation of this program in order to be able to implement it as quickly as possible ”, concluded the Minister. Minister Bergeron.
To know everything about the Quebec budget
Consult all the following press releases
Masters and prosperous with us
Successful expenditure control and good management of public finances
Ensuring the prosperity of the regions
More than 280 million dollars to strengthen solidarity
Patient-Focused Funding in Health Care: Expert Panel Report Welcomed by Government
Culture: both a reflection of our identity and an economic driver
See also the document &quot;The Budget at a Glance&quot;
Visit the website of the Ministère des Finances atbudget.finances.gouv.qc.ca
