Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu –In light of the impact study commissioned by the Société des Ponts Fédières, the MNA for Iberville, Marie Bouillé, and the MNA for Saint-Jean, Dave Turcotte, accompanied by the porter- official opposition spokesperson on transport and Gouin MNA Nicolas Girard urges Transport Minister Pierre Moreau to move forward now with the commuter train project linking Iberville, Saint-Jean and Montreal.
“The report highlights the urgency that an announcement be made in favor of new construction to replace the Champlain Bridge. He also recalls the importance of devising an alternative plan for public transport to save the city&#39;s economy. We need concrete solutions: the commuter train between Iberville, Saint-Jean and Montreal is one of them, ”said MPs Marie Bouillé and Dave Turcotte.
In collaboration with MNAs Bouillé and Turcotte, the Éco-Train Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu organization is launching a promotional campaign under the theme voiedavenir.com. The population is invited to notify the authorities of their support for the Iberville - Saint-Jean - Montreal commuter train project through the website or Facebook page created specifically for this campaign, Moi, je sais mon train. Other promotional measures will be put forward, in particular stickers and digital advertising along Highway 10 near the Chevrier / Brossard park-and-ride.
The MNA for Gouin, Nicolas Girard, points out that, with a view to possible work on the Champlain Bridge, more than 200,000 motorists and 50,000 bus transport users who, on a daily basis in Montérégie, will have to review their use of means of transport. This is not to mention the astronomical economic losses caused by road congestion, losses estimated at $ 600 million annually in the manufacturing sector of the metropolis, according to a recent study by the Federal Bridge Corporation.
“The life of the current Champlain Bridge is over. Undeniably, it needs to be replaced, but more needs to be done. All measures to make life easier for motorists must be considered. The commuter train connecting Iberville, Saint-Jean and Montreal is an efficient, inexpensive and ecological measure. Minister Moreau must take this path, ”declared Nicolas Girard.
The Parti Québécois spokesperson for transport recalls that the government has set itself ambitious objectives to increase the supply and use of public transport. In 2006, the government hoped to increase supply by 16% by 2012. “It is one to midnight and the problem is even more glaring today. Clearly, we must focus on public transport to improve the quality of life of families in the suburbs. All that&#39;s missing is the political will, ”concluded Nicolas Girard.
