Boston - La Prairie MP François Rebello received new support today for establishing an efficient rail link, particularly between Montreal and New York. This morning, he met in Holyoke, Massachusetts, Congressman John W. Olver, a member of the influential and strategic Committee on Approval, which is responsible, among other things, for voting on train budgets in the United States.
&quot;After presenting the projects for night trains between Montreal and New York and between Montreal and Boston, Mr. Olver and I agreed to continue our discussions in order to move these projects forward as quickly as possible,&quot; said the member for La Prairie as he continued his promotional work among elected officials in the United States.
The committee that Mr. Olver sits on determines all spending by the US government. Its members hold the purse strings. “I made Mr. Olver, a fervent supporter of the rail network, aware of the night train project between Montreal and New York so that he could support it with the American authorities. He is really the person to meet to move this file forward, ”said François Rebello.
“The congressional representative is particularly concerned with Amtrak and strongly believes in investing in the rail system. In addition, I believe it is important to make Mr. Olver, who is also a member of the sub-committee responsible for borders and customs, aware of the implementation of pre-clearance at Montreal Central Station, an important element for the development of new efficient rail links between Quebec and the United States, ”said the deputy.
While in Massachusetts, the MP for La Prairie will also meet with Mr. Marc R. Pacheco, Senator from Massachusetts, as well as Mr. Thomas M. McGee, Chairman of the State Transportation Commission.
This mission of the member for La Prairie follows a first series of meetings he had last July in Washington, DC. He then met with several representatives in the United States Congress, the authorities of the Amtrak company as well as organizations in favor of railway development in the United States.
