Quebec, December 12, 2019 - The MNA for Matane-Matapédia and parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois, Pascal Bérubé, as well as the MNA for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and transport spokesperson, Joël Arseneau, support the demands of the Deux-Montagnes Train Users&#39; Committee and demand the postponement of the service shutdown of this important commuter train line, planned to allow construction of the Metropolitan Express Network (REM).
IN SHORT
The Parti Québécois supports the Deux-Montagnes Train Users Committee, which is leading an important fight to defend the rights of citizens of the Basses-Laurentides. Indeed, if nothing is done, they will be deprived of a practically essential service: their train line to Montreal. Five stations will be closed from the beginning of January 2020 and, in mid-2021, the entire line will be taken out of service. As a result, thousands of people will take twice as long to get to Montreal for years to come.
“The management of the REM project is as catastrophic under the Caquists as under the Liberals. Already, in May 2018, we questioned the Liberal government about the problems and disruptions awaiting the citizens of the Basses ‑ Laurentides; it is absolutely unacceptable for them to be taken hostage in this way! We ask the government to postpone the planned shutdown until real mitigation measures are put in place. Otherwise, many people will choose to take their car, which risks aggravating road congestion, which is already present, ”argued Pascal Bérubé.
“The necessary work will take years; Meanwhile, the citizens of the Lower Laurentians must be able to count on a reliable and efficient shuttle bus service on reserved lanes. What they are currently being offered is to double their travel time and increase the number of connections. The postponement of the stoppage of service would also benefit employers, just as jostled; thus, we would give them time to put in place adequate teleworking measures or to open satellite offices on the North Shore. Finally, a postponement would make it possible to complete certain projects, thereby reducing the number of road obstacles. It is therefore a proposal with advantages for everyone, ”concluded Joël Arseneau.
