Quebec– Stéphane Bergeron, MP for Jonquière and Leader of the Official Opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, MP for Verchères and Parti Québécois spokesperson for Quebec-Canada relations, and MP for Taillon and spokesperson for Quebec health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, deplore the attitude of Prime Minister Philippe Couillard, who still refuses to take concrete action against the decision of his Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau to reduce health transfers.
“The reform of health transfers, which will halve the increase in federal funding, will soon materialize if Justin Trudeau persists in not meeting his commitments. With Stephen Harper, we knew that health funding would be cut by the federal government. With Justin Trudeau, in addition to keeping the same cuts, we add conditions; It&#39;s worse! And, in the face of that, the Prime Minister does nothing, ”declared Sylvain Gaudreault.
“The Minister of Health Gaétan Barrette announces to us that he will refuse any sum of money granted under conditions by the federal government. The result of this dialogue of the deaf between federalists is that Quebec patients are taken hostage. No agreement, no money, and too bad for the sick! &quot;Call your federal deputy&quot;: is that the latest discovery from the Minister of Health? Does the Prime Minister agree with this strategy? “, For his part asked Stéphane Bergeron.
“One way to establish a real balance of power with Ottawa would be to set aside an equivalent amount, from our GST payments, that we can use if the federal government does not lift its conditions on health funding. This is how to defend the interests of Quebec without penalizing patients, ”proposed the leader of the official opposition.
“The Minister of Health is agitated a lot, but does not obtain more results. Looks like he was clearly smarter negotiating for doctors and for himself than now, when negotiating for Quebeckers. The Prime Minister liquefies in front of Justin Trudeau, as usual, and he lets his Minister of Health make threats that he cannot carry out without risking access to care. What concrete action does the Prime Minister intend to take? », Concluded Diane Lamarre.
