S ainte-Thérèse-de-Gaspé– The Minister for the Regions, Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region and Member of Parliament for Gaspé, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, and the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, announces the allocation of total government assistance of $ 602,084 for the implementation of three projects geared towards the diversification and collective marketing of marine products from the Gaspé.
“To achieve success, companies rely on the diversification of their production and on a better positioning of their products in the markets, which will strengthen their competitive capacity. The initiatives that the government supports today are also in line with the objectives described in the Food Sovereignty Policy and the priorities of the Ministry&#39;s action plan relating to the commercial fishing and aquaculture industry. We want to develop a strong industry and diversify the markets for Quebec marine products, ”said François Gendron.
The companies Lelièvre, Lelièvre and Lemoignan ltée and Poisson salé gaspésien ltée respectively obtained $ 190,500 and $ 106,222 from the Government of Quebec for the acquisition of equipment used for processing lobster, which they imported in particular from the Maritime provinces. This acquisition will not only allow them to increase the range of products they distribute in markets here and elsewhere, but also to extend their periods of activity.
As for the Arrivages de Gaspé corporation, it receives financial assistance of 305,362 dollars to carry out the second stage of its collective marketing project. It is made up of three shareholder companies, namely Gaspé Cured enr., Les Pêcheries Marinard ltée and E. Gagnon et fils ltée, which group together six processing plants. The Gaspé group has just completed its three-year project to market marine products on the Quebec market and wishes to expand its activities in other Canadian provinces. It targets Ontario, particularly the greater Toronto area, whose population is around 5.8 million people and where eating habits are similar to those of Quebecers.
“Our financial contribution is part of the Accord Marine Resources, Sciences and Technologies niche of excellence, which supports the creation, growth and dynamism of companies that are at work in the capture and processing sectors. , aquaculture, marine technologies and marine biotechnologies, ”said Ms. Zakaïb.
“These projects are examples of the cooperation that exists between fish and seafood processors in the region and of the spirit of innovation that drives them. Their implementation will increase the notoriety of Gaspé products outside Quebec, while boosting the local economy, ”concluded Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre.
For more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can consult the blog dedicated to it (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA). You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
