QUÉBEC, May 13, 2020 / CNW Telbec / - The MP for Matane-Matapédia, parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois and spokesperson for the metropolis, Pascal Bérubé, wants the government to show leadership in order to protect the citizens of Montreal and of its suburbs, more affected than average by the pandemic: wearing a mask must become mandatory in public transport and public places in Montreal.
IN SHORT
It is obvious, it is too early to deconfin Montreal. The Parti Québécois is, however, of the opinion that maintaining health measures must be accompanied by the wearing of compulsory masks in suburban trains, subways and buses, as well as in public places, to mitigate the long-term negative effects. , on a social, economic and financial level. “Several boroughs of Montreal - including Montreal-Nord, Rivière-des-Prairies-Pointe-aux-Trembles, Ahuntsic-Cartierville, Mercier-Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and Villeray-Saint-Michel-Parc-Extension - and certain suburban towns, notably Laval, must be the subject of special attention, ”claimed Pascal Bérubé.
He also insists on the fact that the metropolis has covered several expenses related to the purchase and distribution of protective equipment, for example, while its sources of income are drying up. “The City wants to buy masks to distribute them to citizens, which is quite commendable and appropriate, given the urban density. But the income column is in the red: we perceive less money in transfer taxes, tickets, access rights to various tourist attractions ... not to mention that the STM&#39;s income has fallen by 85% ”, a he illustrated. “It is therefore time to cash in for our metropolis. Let us give the City of Montreal the means to buy the masks that are required to protect Montrealers. &quot;
“One thing is certain, you can&#39;t shovel everything forward. We therefore need help from Quebec, and quickly! I invite the Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Chantal Rouleau, to show leadership and mobilize the resources of the Government of Quebec in the service of Montrealers who are currently severely tested, ”concluded Pascal Bérubé.
