Quebec - The member for Berthier and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in agriculture, food, SMEs, entrepreneurship and innovation, André Villeneuve, denounces the important concessions made by the federal government on the management of offer to join the Trans-Pacific Partnership. The agreement, announced this morning, represents a loss of 3.25% in economic activity for Quebec dairy producers. It will also lead to a decline of around 2% for the other sectors governed by supply management.
“Once again, despite a few advantages that the federal government will highlight, Quebec has emerged globally weakened from these negotiations, which will, in large part, favor other agricultural sectors in Canada. In particular, Quebec&#39;s family farms will be the big losers in the negotiations. With the concessions made by Ottawa, other countries will be able to benefit from the stability of our market, while their governments subsidize their industries with billions of dollars. It is our 7,200 farms in sectors under supply management that will suffer the consequences. This is what happens when another nation negotiates trade deals for us. In addition, we are concerned about financial compensation. How will their payments be guaranteed? We will have to wait for the details of the agreement on this and do a thorough analysis. An independent Quebec could itself have dictated its priorities during these negotiations, ”declared André Villeneuve.
Given Quebec&#39;s absence at the negotiating table, the government had to content itself with sending, at the last minute, the ministers of agriculture and the economy, Pierre Paradis and Jacques Daoust.
“If defending our producers was so important to the Liberal government, why did you wait for the final round of negotiations to get there? In previous rounds, let us remember, Minister Paradis considered that it was good enough to send letters to Ottawa. We can see the result of his inaction today. Significant concessions have been made at the expense of our farmers. Moreover, Ministers Paradis and Daoust had not even read the agreement before entering the Council of Ministers to discuss it. So not only did their trip to Atlanta not prevent the federal government from making significant concessions, but they came back without any information on the content of the agreement, ”concluded the deputy.
