Victoriaville - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, today announced the granting of a $ 16.5 million loan by Investissement Québec to Sural Québec, a subsidiary of Groupe Sural, in order to ensure the construction of a new modern plant dedicated to the manufacture of aluminum alloy rods. The start-up project, which requires investments of more than $ 45 million, will consolidate the Quebec aluminum sector and create more than 50 direct jobs when the plant is fully commissioned.
“The establishment of Sural Quebec is perfectly aligned with the launch of the new aluminum industrial cluster in Quebec, which aims to double the transformation of aluminum in Quebec over a period of 10 years. Quebec expertise and the availability of raw materials have largely contributed to making Quebec a suitable place of investment for the start-up of this new plant. I am convinced that this project will help attract other companies specializing in aluminum processing in Quebec, ”said Minister Nicolas Marceau.
With over 35 years of experience in the field, Sural Group, headquartered in Caracas, Venezuela, is a leader in the manufacturing of value-added aluminum-based products. The company manages two subsidiaries in Quebec, namely Intral, which specializes in the manufacture of aluminum wires and products, and Sural Quebec, which is in the process of being established in the industrial park of Victoriaville.
&quot;The significant collaboration of Investissement Québec has enabled us to carry out our implementation project,&quot; said Dr. Alfredo Riviere, President of the Sural Group. Our new plant, scheduled to open in 2015, will be equipped with new state-of-the-art equipment that will allow us to achieve a production capacity of 45,000 metric tons per year, which should increase our competitiveness on the market. the market. We are very proud to count on solid financial partners such as Investissement Québec, which believed in our start-up project and supported us throughout the financial package. &quot;
Investissement Québec&#39;s mission is to promote the growth of investment in Québec, thereby contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The company provides businesses with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity investment, to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, she is responsible for administering tax measures and prospecting for investments abroad.
