Quebec - In the wake of the filing today of the CNESST report on the accident that caused the death of a truck driver on Highway 40 in August 2016, the official opposition spokesperson for of transport, Alain Therrien, maintains that a much broader reflection must be held on the transport of hazardous materials.
IN SHORT
“After the accident which cost the life of Mr. Gilbert Prince, the Minister of Transport at the time, Jacques Daoust, had promised to review the regulations. His successor, Laurent Lessard, has been in office for nearly a year, but we are still awaiting his proposals to improve the safety of the transport of hazardous materials. However, I remind him that last year, his own department admitted that it did not have all the necessary information concerning the transport of hazardous materials; Does he think all is well and that he can sleep soundly? Asks the member for Sanguinet.
It should be noted that the Parti Québécois government had set up a working committee to reflect on the regulation of the transport of hazardous materials in Quebec. The Liberal government, however, put an end to it as soon as it was elected, preferring to rely on the federal government. Today, Quebeckers are therefore entitled to ask whether security is one of Minister Lessard&#39;s priorities.
“We believe that the filing of the CNESST report amply justifies putting the matter back on the agenda. A parliamentary commission must be held to continue the abortive work of the committee, to draw up a complete portrait of the transport of hazardous materials and to study possible solutions to better supervise it, ”added the deputy.
“Since taking office, the Minister of Transport has put a number of important projects on hold. First, he ruled out the reform of governance at the MTQ, while the work of the Auditor General and the Charbonneau commission demonstrated the urgency. Then, he put aside the reform of the Highway Safety Code, while his predecessor said he was ready to move forward as early as last fall. And in the file which concerns us today, once again, the parliamentarians will have to do the work in place of Laurent Lessard in parliamentary committee ”, concluded Alain Therrien.
