Louiseville– The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, today announced the allocation of a loan guarantee of $ 400,000 and a guarantee of $ 100,000 the line of credit to Aliments Prémont to support the relaunch of a food processing plant located in Sainte-Angèle-de-Prémont.
“We are proud to contribute to the relaunch of this plant, which should generate great benefits for the Mauricie region, including the creation of around 30 jobs,” declared Élaine Zakaïb. “The determination of the stakeholders made this project a reality, which is excellent news for this municipality of 700 inhabitants. Our government considers it essential to support such initiatives, which promote the economic development of regions and localities. &quot;
The project, which represents investments of $ 2 million, involves the acquisition of the former Montpak plant in Sainte-Angèle-de-Prémont by Aliments Prémont. The processing of veal will be replaced by that of pork. The new company, created in November 2012, intends to offer a wide range of pork cuts as well as ready-to-serve foods. The leaders want to take advantage of the strong demand in Asia to open the markets of South Korea and Japan, in addition to the American market.
&quot;We are also pleased that this project is part of a niche considered a priority by the MRC and our government, that of the agrifood industry,&quot; said Minister Delegate Zakaïb. &quot;We have just tabled a food sovereignty policy which, in addition to encouraging Quebecers to eat local products, fresh or processed, aims to promote the development of the agri-food industry, particularly with regard to the second and the third transformation. &quot;
&quot;The support from the Quebec government has finally enabled us to move forward with our start-up project,&quot; said the president of the company, Mr. François Bisson. “We had been looking for a processing plant for over a year to start our activities. Fortunately, the Sainte-Angèle-de-Prémont plant turned out to be an ideal and strategic location to ensure their success. I would like to underline the support of Investissement Québec in the realization of this ambitious project. &quot;
