Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Jean-François Lisée, presented improvement measures to Turcot and announced the upcoming launch of the call for proposals process for the award of the design-build contract, during a press conference held in Montreal.
&quot;The concerns expressed with regard to better taking into account public transport will have made it possible, with the help of the players concerned, to add $ 100 million in bonuses, including $ 40 million in public transport and $ 60 million in development. of the territory, announced Ms. Marois. Other measures will also be added depending on the progress of the site and the key moments of the project. &quot;
The Premier underlined the strategic importance of Turcot as a hub of the economy. “It is a major commercial crossroads and its reconstruction will generate significant benefits for the economy of the metropolis and all of Quebec. Turcot, the largest road project in Quebec, will generate economic spinoffs in the order of $ 2 billion to $ 3 billion and it will create or maintain approximately 13,000 direct jobs and 8,000 indirect jobs. &quot;
&quot;Turcot will comply with the laws and rules adopted by this government to ensure integrity in the awarding of public contracts,&quot; said the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the territory, Sylvain Gaudreault. “Quebeckers have the right to demand that all those involved in the project demonstrate integrity and transparency and that the work be carried out in accordance with strict ethical rules. All companies invited to work on the project must obtain authorization from the Autorité des marchés financiers before signing any contract over $ 40 million. This project will be closely scrutinized and no deviation will be allowed, ”insisted Mr. Gaudreault.
In 2013-2014, the pace of work in traditional mode is accelerating with, in particular, the demolition and reconstruction of the overpass on rue Saint-Jacques, the construction of boulevard Pullman and rue Saint-Rémi and rue Saint-Jacques. Jacques, and the construction of the overpass over the future rail corridor that connects the A-15 South to the A-20 West. $ 235 million will be invested this year.
Qualified candidates will be known in the coming days and the call for proposals for the design-build contract will be launched by Infrastructure Quebec shortly. In order to ensure cost control, the production budget will be limited. &quot;A budget cap will be imposed on the consortium, after an independent review of estimates which are currently in the order of $ 3.7 billion, which will require tight management of both the budget and the schedule, one necessarily influencing the other, ”said Minister Gaudreault.
The Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Jean-François Lisée, testified to the positive repercussions that the project will have on the municipal level. &quot;Turcot represents a great opportunity to rethink a set of elements of the urban fabric, both to improve the quality of life of residents and to beautify the city and preserve its environment,&quot; he said. Respecting the environment, Turcot encompasses key elements of the sector&#39;s development by promoting local travel and paying special attention to pedestrians and cyclists. The Minister added that beyond infrastructure, Turcot is designed for those who use it, but also for the citizens who live in its neighborhood.
The Premier reiterated her government&#39;s commitment to rigorous contract management. “The Turcot project will be carried out with all the financial rigor required. My government has made the fight against collusion and corruption a top priority. Thus, Turcot will be rebuilt in accordance with the laws and rules to ensure the sustainability of infrastructure and transport systems, ”concluded Ms. Marois.
Turcot is used daily by 300,000 vehicles, including no less than 30,000 trucks. Major infrastructure work will begin in 2015 and will continue until 2020. The full schedule, project maps and public transport measures are available on the Internetwww.turcot.gouv.qc.ca site.
Follow the Turcot Interchange Project Twitter account.
