Quebec - The MP for Duplessis, Ms. Lorraine Richard, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, the award to three companies of the North Shore in financial assistance totaling nearly $ 200,000.
“It is essential to support our companies in their innovation and modernization efforts so that they can succeed in increasingly competitive markets. Today&#39;s announcement is excellent news for the Côte-Nord, whose economy relies in large part on the dynamism and creativity of its fishermen and seafood processors, ”said Ms. Lorraine Richard.
La Poissonnerie du Havre inc., Located in Havre-Saint-Pierre, is granted financial assistance of $ 134,382 for its project to install a production line for raw snow crab. Such an initiative should enable the company to penetrate new markets in Asia.
For its part, I &amp; S Seafoods is receiving financial support of $ 49,875 which will be used to cover part of the costs related to the acquisition of an unloading pump and other equipment for processing pelagic fish. By modernizing its factory in this way, the Bonne-Espérance company, located on the Lower North Shore, intends to increase its production, which will benefit in particular its workers and the fishermen who supply it.
Finally, the Coopérative communautaire de fruits de mer de la Basse-Côte-Nord receives $ 14,437 for the acquisition of equipment for processing value-added products. This equipment will enable the Harrington Harbor company to carry out its project to add a range of secondary and tertiary processing products to its primary production of snow crab, lobster and Greenland halibut.
“The 2013-2018 Action Plan. Developing our commercial fishing and aquaculture industry, which I have just announced, aims to support initiatives such as these, which contribute, in particular, to the development, competitiveness and sustainability of the sector. At the dawn of the tabling of the first Quebec food sovereignty policy, we must ensure that everything will be done to ensure that the fisheries and aquaculture sector plays a significant role in the economic development of the maritime regions of Quebec ”, specified the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron.
Those wishing to know more about the 2013-2018 action plan targeting the commercial fishing and aquaculture industry in Quebec are invited to consult its content at www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/pechesaquaculturea as well as at view the Minister&#39;s presentation at http://youtu.be/88bKnIc6DTY.
