Quebec - The Parti Québécois is calling for transparency on the part of the Minister of Natural Resources, Nathalie Normandeau, so that she makes public the agreement reached with TransCanada Energy. The initial request was made to the National Assembly on May 4, 2010. Minister Normandeau had taken note and undertook to respond to this request. Later, she relied on commercial information to avoid transparency.
“It&#39;s always the same story: we invoke trade secrets to avoid transparency. However, this power station, built since 2004, costs more than it brings in Quebecers. Nathalie Normandeau has the obligation to reveal the details of the agreement between her government and the company. It must assess the possibility of terminating this contract altogether, which costs Quebecers $ 200 million per year, without any benefit, ”declared the member for Jonquière and official opposition spokesperson for energy, Sylvain Gaudreault. .
On several occasions since 2008, the member for Jonquière has intervened to obtain clarifications from the Liberal government concerning this gas plant in Bécancour, a real white elephant, but to no avail.
The failure of the liberal energy strategy
For the Parti Québécois, the gas plant in Bécancour perfectly illustrates the failure of the Liberal government&#39;s energy strategy and the poor planning of Hydro-Quebec and Thierry Vandal. &quot;When you have to compensate a company for an amount of $ 200 million a year because you don&#39;t need its energy and at the same time you are juggling the idea of restoring a nuclear power plant located next door for a a minimum cost of $ 2 billion is a blatant sign of a government improvising, ”denounced Mr. Gaudreault.
“Quebec&#39;s current energy strategy is a major obstacle to ensuring that Quebecers are masters of their resources. The Liberal government must be transparent, but it must also return to its drawing board to rewrite an energy strategy that will better meet the aspirations and the will of Quebecers, ”concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
