Quebec - The MP for Vachon and official opposition critic for mines and shale gas, Martine Ouellet, is shocked to see that the Minister for Natural Resources and Wildlife, Serge Simard, has rejected amendments that the Parti Québécois wanted to make to Bill 14, amendments which nevertheless responded to the wishes of the members of the Liberal Party of Quebec!
In fact, in the thematic document for its convention which will take place at the end of the week, the Liberal Party of Quebec is seeking to have a proposal adopted to the effect
However, yesterday, during the detailed study of Bill 14, the Parti Québécois tried to pass amendments to promote the transformation of mineral resources in Quebec. Without success.
“Minister Serge Simard is in complete contradiction with the will of his party. He refused to incorporate measures into the law to promote the processing of metals here in Quebec. Either he opposes his party&#39;s proposal or else this proposal is there only to impress the gallery. He must explain himself, ”said Martine Ouellet.
She points out that Quebec has everything to gain by ensuring that there is more transformation on its territory. There is some evidence that processing creates up to four times more jobs than extraction alone. “With our energy and our infrastructure, we have an extraordinary balance of power to negotiate with companies that want to extract our mineral resources. For that, we need political will, Minister Simard does not have any, ”said the Member for Vachon.
In addition, during the study of the mining bill in parliamentary committee yesterday, the Parti Québécois presented amendments to improve the royalty system and so that Quebeckers obtain more for the ore extracted. The Liberal government refused the collaboration offered to it by the Parti Québécois.
Worse, the Liberal government is continuing its campaign of fear by suggesting that the mining companies could flee Quebec if the royalty regime were changed in favor of Quebeckers.
“This is such a false argument! Mining cannot be relocated like other types of businesses since the ore is here. Moreover, as long as there is ore, the mining companies will have an interest. The Liberal Party of Quebec wants to continue the regime of squandering our natural resources. The Liberal Party prefers an exploitation of our mineral worthy of colonialism. It is time for that to change and we, in the Parti Québécois, have a vision that respects the desire of Quebeckers to withdraw more from our mineral resources, ”concluded Martine Ouellet.
