Montreal - Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by her parliamentary assistant for the electrification of transport, Daniel Breton, the president and chief executive officer of the Volvo Group, Olof Persson, and the president of the board of directors of the Société de transport de Montréal, Michel Labrecque, today announced financial assistance of nearly $ 12 million for an innovative pilot project that will provide the Quebec metropolis with fully electric buses, using a state-of-the-art charging method. technology and manufactured in Quebec by Nova Bus. The buses will circulate in the streets of Montreal from 2015 for three years.
“Montreal will be the first city in North America to carry out a Cité Mobilité project using buses equipped with rapid conduction charging technology. Our metropolis is today becoming a leading international city for the deployment of technological solutions and for the development of clean, renewable and relatively inexpensive energies. Cité Mobilité is a project that fits perfectly into the Quebec government&#39;s transportation electrification strategy, ”said Pauline Marois.
From the Green Fund, government financial assistance will be paid to the Société de transport de Montréal (STM) for the acquisition of three buses and the infrastructure needed to recharge them. This is a project worth nearly $ 23 million, which will be carried out as part of a partnership with the Volvo Group, through its Nova Bus division, and the STM. The next step will determine the optimal route as well as the most strategic locations for the installation of terminals, the main thing being to minimize recharging time and ensure smooth service.
Montreal is thus becoming a “city of electromobility”, like other large cities in Sweden and Germany. Overall, the Cité Mobilité program consists of establishing strategic alliances with key players in urban mobility to promote both the electrification of transport, the design of projects with strong international influence, the creation and promotion of collaborative know-how and green jobs, as well as reducing the consumption of fossil fuels and greenhouse gas emissions.
With this project, Quebec is part of a strategic partnership with the Volvo Group. For the Société de transport de Montréal, this is an opportunity to test new technologies in real operating conditions and to assess their effects on planning, operations, maintenance and, above all, improved customer service.
“This project is promising and structuring for the future. Cité Mobilité could eventually be used to plan a system that, in the long term, will electrify all public service vehicles, including public transit and City utility vehicles, such as waste collection trucks and recycling, ”said Daniel Breton.
