Quebec– Sylvain Gaudreault, MP for Jonquière and official opposition spokesperson for sustainable development and the environment, and Bernard for Marie-Victorin and spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, ask the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment and the Fight against Climate Change, David Heurtel, to finally assume his responsibilities and enforce Quebec&#39;s environmental laws.
The Parti Québécois emphasizes in particular that the holding of a complete environmental procedure on the TransCanada Energy East pipeline project takes precedence over the granting of any certificate of authorization for carrying out drilling work in the St. Lawrence. “Is there a Minister of the Environment in the Liberal government? The role of Minister Heurtel is to make a decision based on the best scientific information available. He doesn&#39;t. However, the principle of elementary precaution requires first and foremost to protect wildlife and its critical habitat, given the threat to the recovery of the beluga population, ”said the Member for Jonquière.
It should be remembered that TransCanada has not yet sent Minister Heurtel the environmental impact studies required to document the effects of the construction of the oil port in Cacouna on the beluga population. “In short, the Minister does not have enough information to grant a certificate of authorization,” added Sylvain Gaudreault.
The Parti Québécois notes that the TransCanada project envisages making Quebec a passageway for the export of oil from the tar sands. “If we rely on the information available, we can see a disproportion between the minimal economic benefits and the disproportionate environmental and safety risks for Quebec. This story looks more and more like a game in which Quebec is invariably a loser, ”concluded Bernard Drainville.
The deputies for Jonquière and Marie-Victorin urge the minister to reverse his decision and maintain the suspension of geotechnical drilling, to immediately publish all scientific opinions, to require TransCanada to carry out impact studies as quickly as possible. environment, and to urgently convene a full BAPE on the Energy East project.
