Boucherville - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Bank of Economic Development of Quebec, Élaine Zakaïb, announced the payment of an interest-free loan of $ 5 million to the company Danone inc. for the realization of a 40 M $ investment project.
The project aims to purchase specialized equipment at Danone&#39;s manufacturing plant located in Boucherville, in order to increase the annual production of Greek yogurt.
&quot;By supporting Danone&#39;s project, we are encouraging the food processing sector and the production of local products, which contribute to the influence of the Quebec agri-food industry,&quot; said Pauline Marois. It is essential for my government to support such investments, which are perfectly in line with the objectives of the Food Sovereignty Policy tabled last spring. By favoring the development of our resources, while taking advantage of the potential of exports for the development of our economy, the Policy constitutes an important lever for the future of Québec. &quot;
“Thanks to Danone&#39;s investment project, Quebec is consolidating its leadership position in the production of yogurt in Canada,” added Élaine Zakaïb. This large-scale project contributes to the economic vitality of the Montérégie region and all of Quebec, by creating wealth and specialized jobs in the agrifood sector. &quot;
Danone Inc. specializes in the production of yogurt. It employs 550 people in Canada, including 500 in Quebec. Its only manufacturing site as well as its head office are located in Boucherville, in the Montérégie region. Danone manufactures and distributes the Activia, OIKOS, DanActive, Danino, Coolision, Silhouette and Danone Crémeux brands.
&quot;This investment project allows us to increase in Quebec the production of a flagship product, Greek yogurt OIKOS, and generates additional income in the agri-food sector,&quot; said Nick Krzyzaniak, President and CEO of Danone in Canada. . The announcement reaffirms more than ever the importance of Quebec in Danone&#39;s development in Canada. And, today, these innovations, these technological advances and these economic benefits make us proud, especially since at the end of the day, one yogurt a day is to bring health to each of us ”, he added.
