Quebec City, March 12, 2021 - Member of Parliament for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and Parti Québécois transport spokesperson, Joël Arseneau, returns to the issue of regional air transport; he demands that the Minister of Transport, François Bonnardel, submit his intervention plan as quickly as possible, in order to ensure the stability and sustainability of regional air services.
IN SHORT
- The intervention group on the relaunch of regional air services has completed its work four months now, and the conclusions are still awaited - The model must be thoroughly reviewed to ensure the sustainability of this essential service - The program emergency support expires in less than three weeks; it is time for the minister to answer questions and calm concerns.
The deputy recalls that the transpartisan group, set up by the minister in July 2020, completed its work last November. During these, several proposals were put forward with the aim of defining a better model to ensure reliable and sustainable air service in the region. “We were all waiting for the report of the HEC Montréal expert associated with the case, Jacques Roy, and his recommendations in January, as suggested by the minister, after a first postponement. But since then it has been radio silence, ”notes Joël Arseneau.
This situation is all the more worrying given that in the regions, many stakeholders are questioning the government&#39;s real desire to thoroughly review the air service model, nine months after Air Canada abandoned regional services. “If the CAQ does not act, is it because it does not really intend to review the model of this essential service? However, several mentioned this during the work: the solution does not lie in simple short-term support for regional players already in place, ”continued the deputy.
He also recalls that the emergency program to support essential carriers, set up on April 1, 2020, expires on March 31, in less than three weeks. “The elected officials, the industry, the population, everyone is in the most total uncertainty. The minister must come out of his silence and confirm that the consultations of the last few months have not been conducted in vain! He has everything he needs to act, to support a robust air service network, both in the short term and in the long term, for the benefit of the regions of Quebec and the people who live there, ”concluded Joël. Arseneau.
– 30 –
SOURCE :
Laura Chouinard-Thuly
Press Officer
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois
514 880-9594
Laura.Chouinard-Thuly@assnat.qc.ca
