Quebec– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, once again corrects certain information published following the conference entitled “Lac-Mégantic: consequences and risks of contamination by the oil spill ”presented by Mr. Daniel Green at the Maison du développement durable on February 20.
The Department confirms that it received an access to information request in November from Mr. Green by which it wishes to obtain the results of the 600 samples taken from the Chaudière River. However, Mr. Green omits to mention that he received a response to his request informing him on the one hand that certain information was already available on the MDDEFP site and, on the other hand, that certain other information would be available in a period not exceeding six months. In fact, the data collected must first be the subject of a rigorous scientific evaluation before being disseminated, in order to provide accurate and verified information to the population. This approach is not only responsible, but it is also the only one that can meet the requirement of rigor and transparency expected by experts and environmental groups. Thus, the Ministry will make the documents public, as it has always undertaken to do, no later than May, in accordance with the provisions of the Access Act. Note that analysis results and other data on the Chaudière River are already available on the Department&#39;s website. &quot;It is precisely methodological shortcuts and analyzes that are too short that have caused Mr. Green&#39;s claims to have been abused by the experts, deplores the minister, and I still do not understand this relentlessness against devoted servants of the public interest that are the people of the Department of the Environment. Our people will continue to take the time to do it right. There will be no shortcuts to be made at the risk of the health and safety of citizens. &quot;
Since the start of the tragedy, the Department has taken all the measures required to guarantee a safe environment and transmit all validated information to the entire population, both on the situation in Lac-Mégantic and on the contamination of the Chaudière River. . Moreover, on January 28, the Minister participated in an information evening for the citizens of Lac-Mégantic. The objective was to take stock of the situation, to publicize the steps to come, but also to answer their questions. During this information evening, the scientific approach was clearly exposed to the citizens of Lac-Mégantic, always for the sake of transparency, and no one said they were dissatisfied.
Since last summer, hundreds of samples of sediment, surface water, and benthic macroinvertebrate communities and fish have been collected for analysis. The firms mandated to carry out these surface water and sediment samples should submit their final report respectively in February and March 2014 to the Ministry. On the basis of all the results obtained and the reports produced, a committee of experts will assess the impacts of this incident and will submit in spring 2014 a management plan for the residual contamination of the Chaudière River. The final documents, including the reports and analyzes, will then be made public.
With regard to contaminated buildings, the Department commissioned a firm of experts to characterize all the buildings in the city center that were not destroyed during the rail accident. In collaboration with the City of Lac-Mégantic and other government partners, it is also currently holding individual meetings with building owners in this sector. Regardless of the downtown reconstruction scenario that will be retained, the Department will not make any compromise regarding the decontamination of buildings and private land in Lac-Mégantic.
