Quebec - The Member of Parliament for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, asked Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard what demands he will make of the federal government so that the Government of Quebec approves the Trans-Pacific Partnership, particularly in this regard. which relates to full compensation for affected agricultural producers.
“Unfortunately, the fears of our agricultural producers have materialized. Additional imports were made in our supply managed sectors, mainly dairy products, but also eggs and poultry. Concern is palpable on the side of producers affected by these changes. In Quebec, we are talking about 14,000 workers and entrepreneurs who are waiting to see what the concrete effects of these breaches in our agricultural model will be. Could we have done otherwise, to diversify our export markets, than to allow subsidized producers in the United States to come and compete with our entrepreneurs? We will never know because we are confined to the role of spectators, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
The leader of the official opposition adds that Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard must maintain a balance of power to ensure that Quebec comes out on top of this agreement. “When an agreement in principle was announced with Europe, the Parti Québécois government indicated that our final approval was conditional on a satisfactory compensation mechanism for the affected farmers. We are in favor of free trade, but can the Prime Minister give the same assurance to our producers, and indicate that he will not approve the agreement until we are sure that the compensation mechanism is suitable? for Quebec and its agricultural producers? », He continued.
Quebec standards must be respected
Pierre Karl Péladeau also recalled that several questions remain, including that of quality standards that will be applied to imports. &quot;Can the Prime Minister tell us whether, in order to sell dairy products in Quebec, American producers will have to respect all the standards that we impose on our own producers and which serve to guarantee the quality of our products to Quebecers?&quot; Will customs control be applied more strictly? We have no control over it. Will the compensation promised by the federal government be adapted to the reality of our producers? At this time, the Prime Minister is unable to answer these questions. It must therefore commit to providing satisfactory answers to Quebecers, before endorsing the Trans-Pacific Partnership, ”he concluded.
