Quebec– This morning, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, Minister for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Matane-Matapédia on behalf of Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, accompanied by Mr. Georges Farrah, President and CEO of the Société des traversiers du Québec (STQ), inaugurated the completely renovated premises of the station as part of the infrastructure changes project. from the Matane terminal with a view to their adaptation for the future ship of the Matane-Baie-Comeau-Godbout ferry.
First of all, Mr. Bérubé underlined that: “The modernization of the Matane river station demonstrates the attention that the Société des traversiers du Québec pays to improving the customer experience. Completed by the end of November 2013, the new pedestrian bridge will serve as an extension to the waiting room by fitting out some 60 additional seats. Undeniably, this redeveloped station and walkway will enhance Matane&#39;s maritime panorama and will charm passengers with their user-friendliness and their functional aspect. &quot;
He added: “The F.-A.-Gauthier, a new vessel scheduled for delivery at the end of 2014, will look great in the vicinity of this modernized terminal. &quot;
For his part, Mr. Farrah recalled the content of the other modifications made to the land infrastructure of the Matane terminal:
Mr. Farrah underlined: “Despite the constraints inherent in this major work, all scheduled departures were completed. I would like to mention that the Matane team was able to maintain all of its daily activities in temporary facilities on this site. ”
“In the vast network of the Société des traversiers du Québec, our experienced staff is committed to providing quality and safe maritime transport service. The excellent provision of our services also requires better adapted and more attractive infrastructures. And the train station and the Matane terminal walkway perfectly reflect this new era of enhanced customer experience. He clarified in conclusion.
Remember that the Matane-Baie-Comeau-Godbout ferry employs 115 people and makes 1,600 crossings annually carrying around 200,000 passengers and more than 92,000 vehicles.
