Quebec, February 20, 2020 - Several members of the Parti Québécois, including the health spokesperson, Joël Arseneau (Îles-de-la-Madeleine), as well as Sylvain Roy (Bonaventure), Méganne Perry Mélançon (Gaspé), Lorraine Richard (Duplessis) and Martin Ouellet (René-Lévesque), all from the regions, demanded that the allowances received by patients - and their companions - having to travel outside their region of origin to receive specialized care be improved. .
IN SHORT
&quot;Currently, the allowances offered to people having to travel to receive specialized care are derisory,&quot; said Lorraine Richard. For example, they are only $ 0.13 per km, $ 12.75 per day for meals, and $ 75 per night. Obviously, these amounts do not cover all of the expenses incurred, far from it. &quot;
“In comparison, civil servants who have to travel for their work receive $ 0.47 per km and doctors, $ 0.86. For meals, we are talking about $ 46.25 per day for public servants. That&#39;s three times more! Why this double standard? », Asked Méganne Perry Mélançon.
Sylvain Roy, for his part, argued that the current situation created, in addition to a manifest inequity between regions and large centers, unfortunate situations. “To receive care, people have to make heartbreaking choices. Give up taking a vacation. Eat their pension fund. Yet they pay their taxes, just like everyone else. &quot;
Moreover, in its current form, the program which manages these allowances draws its budgets from those of the regional centers (CISSS and CIUSSS). “This way of proceeding is counterproductive. Compensation should have its own envelope. Consequently, in addition to the increase in compensation, we are asking the government to create a program entirely devoted to these compensation, with its own budget, ”for his part insisted Joël Arseneau.
“Either we make specialized care available in all regions, or we adequately compensate the people who have to travel to receive it. No one should have to pay for treatment. In Quebec, it could not be otherwise, ”concluded Martin Ouellet.
