Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation, Bernard Drainville, wish to pay tribute to Pierre-F. Côté, a man who has always served and defended Quebec democracy. He left us yesterday.
“Quebecers will remember Pierre-F. Côté as a great builder of modern Quebec, ”said Ms. Marois. &quot;He leaves his mark both as an architect of the Quiet Revolution and as the first major arbiter of our electoral system,&quot; added Minister Drainville.
Mr. Côté has made a significant contribution to the development of Quebec at significant moments in its recent history. He first distinguished himself during the Quiet Revolution, as chief of staff to the then Minister of Natural Resources, René Lévesque. As such, he was notably a leading player when the nationalization of electricity in Quebec took shape.
After he held the post of Clerk of the City of Quebec for ten years, the National Assembly unanimously appointed him Chief Electoral Officer of Quebec in 1978. During his tenure mandate, Mr. Côté has established the reputation of impartiality necessary for the legitimacy of such an institution. Whether in matters of electoral representation, the organization of elections, the development of reliable electoral lists or the financing of political parties and candidates, its influence on our electoral practices is undeniable.
Mr. Côté&#39;s career has led him to put his vast experience to work to help develop many communities. From Nunavik to Mauritius, via Haiti, he participated in several missions to support the establishment of credible democratic processes and the training of electoral staff. He thus advanced democracy all over the world. This rich background has earned him many honors, including being appointed to the rank of officer of the National Order of Quebec in 1998.
&quot;It is with gratitude that I convey, on behalf of the government, my most sincere condolences to the family and loved ones of Mr. Côté,&quot; concluded the Premier.
