Quebec - The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, announces that the Outaouais region is one of the regions chosen to host one of the three new local justice centers which will see the day in Quebec.
These centers will offer free legal information and guidance services to the population starting in the spring of 2014. They will be added to the three other centers already operating in Montreal, Quebec City and Rimouski.
The choice of candidates was made following a call for projects launched last autumn. It follows the desire of the Government of Quebec to deploy local justice centers throughout Quebec, in the wake of its commitments to increase access to justice.
“The call for projects called for applications for two new local justice centers. However, the quality of the three files received convinced me to follow up on the requests presented and to announce today not two, but three new centers. I salute the contribution of all those associated with these initiatives which will be beneficial for their community. Thanks to your commitment, your fellow citizens will be able to benefit from the unique, personalized and confidential approach which has made the excellent reputation of local justice centers, ”declared Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud.
The annual cost of the three new centers is estimated at just under $ 1 million and comes from the Access Justice Fund. Established at the Quebec Ministry of Justice in 2012, this fund is used in particular to finance projects aimed at bringing justice closer to citizens.
The Quebec Department of Justice and the various provisional committees will be hard at work to begin work leading to the opening of these new centers over the next year. The official dates for the start of their respective activities remain to be confirmed.
Local justice centers are non-profit organizations. Their mission is to promote access to justice by promoting citizen participation, through information, support and guidance services offered in complementarity with existing resources.
To date, the centers have responded to more than 40,000 requests for legal information, whether in individual meetings or by telephone, in addition to organizing information sessions to popularize legal issues. Since April 1, 2013, local justice centers have benefited from permanent funding from the Access Justice Fund.
