Quebec - The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, today presented the members and mandate of the Priorité PME team: Mireille Jean (Chicoutimi), Alain Therrien (Sanguinet) and Martin Ouellet (René -Lévesque).
“Mireille, Alain and Martin each started businesses before becoming members of Parliament and acquired valuable skills in entrepreneurship, innovation and business in the field. They are the people designated to develop the ambitious SME Priority policy, which we will put in place as a government in 2018. Their mandate: to meet with SMEs to identify irritants and propose solutions, determine best practices for reducing waste. paperwork in cities and government agencies, and make proposals over the next few months, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
Among other things, the team will identify measures to reduce the regulatory burden in departments and agencies, organizations and municipalities. The Parti Québécois team, for example, responds favorably to the call of the Canadian Federation of Independent Business (CFIB) and commits to tabling a bill to enshrine the one-for-one rule, which provides that for each new law or regulation imposed on businesses, an equivalent burden will be removed. Priorité PME must also mobilize municipalities, since a considerable part of the administrative burden that SMEs must assume is generated by the municipal level. It must also propose a lean regulatory framework that would be applied during the first five years of a new business.
“The Priorité PME team will go into the field to meet entrepreneurs and identify the best means and solutions to stimulate our economy and create prosperity. In all regions of Quebec, we must promote entrepreneurship and innovation. It is by talking to entrepreneurs - also to young people - as well as to the organizations that support them that we will find the most promising practices, ”added Alain Therrien.
A team that listens to entrepreneurs Alain Therrien has the experience of having created and managed SMEs. He is a lecturer at HEC Montreal and UQAM, where he teaches economics. He becomes head of the Priorité PME team. He will also be responsible for SMEs-entrepreneurship as well as Revenu Québec and regulatory relief.
Mireille Jean has launched a company, Trioniq, specializing in the design and manufacture of electronic and computer systems. She was also president of the Réseau Photonique du Québec, representing more than fifty research companies and scientific professionals. She has significant expertise in the promotion of intellectual property. His years in business have allowed him to master the development of technological products, industrialization, manufacturing, marketing, export, after-sales service, not to mention the management and financing of an SME. She is entrusted with the SME-innovation, productivity and exports file.
Martin Ouellet bought a ready-to-wear business with his wife and was for 8 years the general manager of the Society for the Development of the Community (SADC) Manicouagan. Its task was to support the start-up and development of SMEs in the region. In the Priorité PME team, he inherits the SME-regional economic development mandate, which is added to his mandate as spokesperson for municipal affairs.
Government of SMEs “SMEs are the backbone of our economy. I come from a family of entrepreneurs, I grew up in an entrepreneurial environment and I have always been close to this universe. Starting a business is a daring act that requires enormous effort. That this effort is complicated, hampered, blocked by an excessive regulatory burden is an insult to common sense and sound economic policy. Our intention is clear: the Parti Québécois government that I will lead will stop seeing SMEs as serving the bureaucracy; on the contrary, it will ensure that the bureaucracy supports SMEs in their efforts to respect the rules, while creating jobs and wealth, ”summed up the leader of the official opposition.
To follow the activities of the Priorité PME tour, please consult the Facebook page of MP Alain Therrien or write to us at prioritepme@pq.org.
