Quebec - Thanks to the combined efforts of the governments of Canada, Quebec, the City of Quebec and their partners in the field, people living with mental health problems and men and women in difficulty now have access to 77 affordable housing units .
The Sherpa housing complex, whose construction required an investment totaling more than $ 15.4 million, was inaugurated today in the presence of Senator Suzanne Fortin-Duplessis, on behalf of the Honorable Candice Bergen, Minister of State (Social Development), the Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions, Ms. Agnès Maltais, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs , Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the mayor of Quebec, Mr. Régis Labeaume.
The Government of Canada, through Canada&#39;s Economic Action Plan, and the Government of Quebec, under the SHQ&#39;s AccèsLogis Québec program, have jointly invested more than $ 6.2 million for this project. innovative. In addition, the SHQ guarantees the mortgage loan contracted by the Pech organization to complete the financing of the project. For its part, the City of Quebec has invested an amount of nearly $ 2.4 million for the construction of this building. Finally, it should be noted that a contribution of nearly $ 116,000 was granted by Employment and Social Development Canada as part of the Homelessness Partnering Strategy.
“Our government is working to help those in need, which is why we are proud to have invested in this housing project located in Quebec City. These new homes are more than just a safe and affordable place to live. They are the key to a better life for those who find a home there. We continue to focus on four priorities, as articulated by the Prime Minister, that matter most to Canadians: their families, the safety of our streets and our communities, their pride in being citizens of this country and, of course. , their personal financial security, ”said Senator Fortin-Duplessis.
“One of the government&#39;s main commitments in the Capitale-Nationale region, Sherpa offers tenants the opportunity to live in quality housing at a lower cost, while benefiting from the support of professionals from the Pech organization. With its modern architectural elements and lively colors, this construction does not lack character and helps to project a positive image of social housing in Quebec. The social mix that reigns in this project is a reflection of that which makes the charm of the Saint-Roch district, ”declared Minister Agnès Maltais.
Located in the Saint-Roch district of Quebec, the Sherpa building has 9 floors in its portion of Charest Boulevard and 6 floors in its portion of Notre-Dame-des-Anges Street. The premises of the organization Pech, which helps people living with a mental health problem, as well as a recovery center occupy the ground floor of the building. The tenants of the 77 units located on the upper floors can therefore benefit from the services and support of the organization. The colorful building with modern architecture also includes community spaces, including a rooftop terrace.
“Sherpa offers a mix of social housing that is unique in Canada by focusing on the relationship of individuals experiencing exclusion and isolation with emerging artists from the city center. Sherpa joins two groups whose sensibilities are linked in more than one way, while allowing them to experience a cohabitation that gives Saint-Roch and downtown Quebec a color and quality of life so special that we are all proud of. I would like to acknowledge the work of our government partners, and that following discussions, the federal government has shown openness regarding the eligibility of organizations for the Homelessness Partnering Strategy (HPS) ”, underlined Mayor Régis Labeaume.
“The objective of the Sherpa project is to find adequate housing and above all to live together in order to become citizens and share with others a journey of emancipation or quite simply a little humanity. Thank you to our partners, and in particular to the SHQ, the City of Quebec and Action-Habitation de Quebec, who made this magnificent project possible, ”said Benoît Côté, General Manager of Pech.
It should be noted that additional financial assistance of more than $ 1.3 million, spread over five years and assumed 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the City of Quebec, allows all Sherpa tenants to benefit from the rent supplement, which ensures that they do not spend more than 25% of their income on housing.
This year, through CMHC, the Government of Canada will invest approximately $ 2 billion in housing. Of this amount, $ 1.7 billion will be devoted to supporting nearly 594,000 households living in social housing. In Quebec, this represents some 127,150 households. These investments improve the quality of life of low-income Canadians and households living in social housing, including the homeless and those at risk of becoming homeless, seniors, people with disabilities, recent immigrants and Indigenous people.
To learn more about how CMHC supports building strong homes and thriving communities for all Canadians, contact CMHC at 1-800-668-2642 or visit www.cmhc-schl.gc.ca.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec contributes to improving quality. life of 230,000 households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec. This is why the Government of Quebec announced, in its most recent budget, a budget envelope of $ 231 million for the construction of 3,000 affordable housing units over the next few years.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
