Montreal - On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the MNA for Champlain, Noëlla Champagne, participated today in the inauguration of the libraries of Saint-Wenceslas, Saint-Léonard-d&#39;Aston and Saint-Célestin, as well as the announcement of a fourth cultural development agreement between the Ministry of Culture and Communications, the MRC de Nicolet-Yamaska and the City of Nicolet. These events took place in the presence of the mayors of the various municipalities and the prefect of the MRC.
“These are three municipalities that will be able to offer their population improved library services and an improved literary offer. Libraries are places of learning and learning to read and, like the new agreement announced today, they play an essential role in the cultural development of their community, ”said Minister Kotto.
“In the life of a community, a library is a real crossroads conducive to discovery, exploration, renewal and intellectual development. It is also free access to the information media and to books that invite people to learn, travel, dream, escape, awaken interests and form their opinions. I now hope that citizens take ownership of their new libraries and take advantage of everything they have to offer, ”said MP Champagne.
The inauguration of the municipal libraries made it possible to unveil the works of art produced within the framework of the Policy for the integration of the arts into the architecture and the environment of government and public buildings and sites. Artists Denis Charland, Richard Purdy and Dominique Laquerre were present to talk about their works designed for the libraries of Saint-Célestin, Saint-Léonard-D&#39;Aston and Saint-Wenceslas respectively. The Ministry of Culture and Communications has granted financial assistance of $ 1,041,600 to bring libraries up to standard. Each municipality has participated in the creation of its library by contributing financially and by calling on various partners.
The City of Nicolet is also part of the new cultural agreement concluded between the Ministry of Culture and Communications and the MRC de Nicolet-Yamaska. This agreement will provide increased visibility for artists and cultural organizations in the region. Also, a dynamic library animation concept has been developed and will ultimately enable 16 libraries in the municipalities of the MRC to benefit from it. This project will increase attendance by young people and families and is a first step towards bringing libraries up to standard. The financial contribution from the Ministry of Culture and Communications is $ 90,000. A total amount of $ 180,000 is thus invested in culture by the three partners of the agreement over a period of three years.
