Montreal - On the eve of International Women&#39;s Day, the Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, announces that three exceptional women are joining the Parti Québécois team: Yasmina Chouakri, candidate in Anjou – Louis -Riel, Leila Mahiout, candidate in Bourassa-Sauvé, and Évelyne Abitbol, candidate in Acadie.
“Yasmina, Leila and Évelyne are women of great competence, involved at the professional and civic levels, in fields as varied as communications, education, immigration and the status of women. They have all chosen to live in Quebec, where equality between women and men as well as the secularism of the State constitute fundamental values, ”declared Pauline Marois.
Yasmina Chouakri is a political scientist, currently responsible for the women&#39;s component at the Table de concertation des organizations serving refugees and immigrants. She is also president of the Action Network for the Equality of Immigrant and Racialized Women in Quebec, and associate researcher at the Research Chair on Immigration, Ethnicity and Citizenship at UQÀM. She was also president of the Canadian Institute for Research on Women.
With more than 20 years of experience as a management consultant in the field of information systems and having a university degree in computer engineering, Leila Mahiout also acts as director of public relations at the Festival du Monde Arabe de Montréal. .
Évelyne Abitbol was director of government relations and public affairs at Concordia University from 1997 to 2009. Currently vice-president of strategies and public affairs at the firm Saga, she has participated in several committees and citizen forums focused on relations. international cultural events. Moreover, Ms. Abitbol is the recipient of the Arab Women Trophy for her exceptional contribution to Quebec society.
“We have proposed a clear vision of secularism. The draft charter makes it possible to affirm the common rules that we want to give ourselves in order to live diversity in harmony. In Quebec, the equality of all citizens, including that between women and men, the separation of Church and State, these are fundamental values. We have affirmed them, and they will be the source of better understanding, harmony and cohesion for all Quebecers ”, affirmed Pauline Marois.
Pauline Marois said she was excited by the arrival of many candidates who come to strengthen the Parti Québécois team and believes that Quebecers will too. “Yasmina Chouakri, Leila Mahiout and Évelyne Abitbol join a team of dynamic women who bring a breath of fresh air to our political life. The team that we are putting together is remarkable, not only for the quality of the people who make it up, but also for their unwavering attachment to Quebec. &quot;
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
