Quebec, January 18, 2018 - Official opposition spokesperson for seniors, Harold LeBel, and spokesperson for social services, Dave Turcotte, denounce the Liberal government&#39;s negligence on the sprinkler issue in private residences for seniors. In fact, the amounts announced should have been announced three years ago; the Parti Québécois has called for them on numerous occasions. But the Liberal Party, out of opportunism, preferred to wait for the election year to move forward.
IN SHORT
“Last May, the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, told us that the government was allocating enough money to allow the installation of sprinklers in private seniors&#39; residences, even though we had shown him that several of them simply could not afford this expense, or even risked closing. Today, surprise! The minister takes another rabbit out of his hat, ”illustrated Dave Turcotte.
It has become obvious: for the Liberal Party, governing means cutting or underfunding until the next election year. At that moment, miraculously, the money reappears. “What this government ignores is that on the ground, its decisions have a real impact on citizens. Why have you waited until today to invest these sums, when we could have - even should have - done so three years ago? When it comes to such an important issue, and after the tragedy we experienced in L&#39;Isle ‑ Verte, it is sad to see the government act in this way, ”continued the spokesperson.
“As soon as the program was announced in February 2015, my colleague Carole Poirier and I asked the government to increase funding and act more quickly. The 5-year period given to owners to provide their homes with sprinklers was obviously much too long, leading us to December 2020. For three years, the government has ignored the messages sent to it. He did nothing, although he knew that the complexity of the program would slow the installation of the sprinklers. Considering the incompetence of this government, it will be very difficult to achieve the objectives, even by December 2020, ”concluded Harold LeBel.
