The Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today announced that the region will benefit from an additional budget of $ 1,356,600 annually to improve services to young adults aged 21 and over having a pervasive developmental disorder (PDD), such as autism, intellectual disability or physical disability. This additional recurring funding stems from a new global envelope of $ 10 million that the Minister confirmed on April 8. She was accompanied for the occasion by the Minister of Health and Social Services, Mr. Réjean Hébert, and the Minister of Public Security and Minister responsible for the Outaouais region, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron.
&quot;This is essentially a short-term improvement of the offer of socio-professional activities and residential services adapted to 21 years and over, major issues for young adults with PDD or a disability,&quot; explained Ms. Hivon. This budgetary increase is in addition to that of $ 2,322,492 already announced for the Outaouais, which targets more general objectives related in particular to the improvement of assessment and early intervention services, specialized services offered by the centers. rehabilitation and family support. The region will benefit from more than 3.6 million additional dollars in 2013-2014 to meet the needs of these people.
“The new amounts announced today will allow people with PDD or disability to offer meaningful daytime activities, linked to their interests and adapted to their specific situation. They can be used to set up initiatives based on innovative approaches or to improve and consolidate existing projects, conducive to maintaining knowledge and which can then serve as models. They will also make it possible to set up new residential formulas with support suitable for young adults with a disability who are in search of autonomy, ”explained Ms. Hivon.
The Minister of Public Security and Minister responsible for the Outaouais region welcomed the taking into account of the challenges and the particularly difficult situation experienced by the region, due to the significant funding gap that characterizes it. for these programs. “I am pleased to see that the Minister has fully understood the issues that characterize our region. Today, it is making a strong gesture for people who have to deal every day with the challenge of being different, who will directly benefit from this new investment, ”declared Mr. Bergeron.
Ms. Hivon also recalled the establishment of a working group to focus particularly on the organization of socio-professional activities offered to people 21 years of age or over with a PDD or disability.
“During the meetings that I held with the various associations active in this field, accessibility, quality, organization and coordination of services appeared to be important issues, which deserve in-depth reflection. To respond to these concerns, it is necessary to seat the various partners around the same table. This is why I wanted to set up a working group bringing together actors from the health and social services network, as well as representatives from other ministries concerned by the subject, from the Office des personnes handicapped du Québec and , of course, people from associations, the latter being able to reflect the very concrete pitfalls experienced in the field. We will thus be able to take stock of the current situation and problems and above all find avenues for improvement that are at the same time adapted, original and effective to ensure services that really meet the needs of the people concerned, ”she added.
“Today&#39;s announcements constitute concrete actions to improve services, both in the short term with the addition of more than 3.6 million in the Outaouais region, and in the medium term with the creation of a working group. I am convinced that the health and social services network, the community sector and all their partners will be able to work together to help these individuals and their families even more effectively, ”concluded Minister Véronique Hivon.
