Longueuil - The Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today announced the creation of a working group on the organization of socio-professional services for people aged 21 and over with a disability. pervasive developmental disorder (PDD), such as autism, intellectual disability, or physical disability. The Minister also announced a recurring investment of $ 10 million, specifically targeting young adults, in addition to the $ 35 million injected for the overall improvement of the services offered. She was accompanied for the occasion by the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports and Minister responsible for the Montérégie region, Mrs. Marie Malavoy.
“Since taking up my post, the issue of organizing socio-professional activities offered to people with PDDs or disabilities aged 21 and over has been brought to my attention constantly and I quickly concluded that it was necessary give it priority attention, ”explained Ms. Hivon.
During the meetings held by the Minister with various associations representing people with PDDs or disabilities and their families, accessibility, quality, organization and coordination of services emerged as important issues, which deserve attention. careful thought.
“To respond to these concerns, it is necessary to seat the various partners around the same table. This is why I am setting up a working group that will bring together stakeholders from the health and social services network as well as from other ministries concerned by the subject, as well as representatives from the Office des personnes handicapped du Québec and many of course, people from associations, who will know how to translate the very concrete pitfalls experienced in the field. We will thus be able to take stock of the current situation and problems and above all find avenues for improvement that are at the same time adapted, original and effective to ensure services that really meet the needs of the people concerned, ”she added.
In addition, Minister Hivon announced the addition of a recurring budget envelope of $ 10 million, on an annual basis, in order to improve in the short term the offer of socio-professional activities and residential services adapted to 21-year-olds. and more, another major issue for young adults with disabilities. This investment is in addition to the $ 35 million injected for PDD, intellectual and physical disability services, sums aimed at more general objectives, such as improving assessment and diagnostic services as well as the specialized services offered. through rehabilitation centers, or even the improvement of family support.
“The new sums announced today will make it possible to offer people meaningful daytime activities, linked to their interests and adapted to their specific situation. The sums can be used to set up initiatives putting forward innovative approaches or to improve and consolidate existing projects, conducive to maintaining knowledge and which can then serve as models. They will also make it possible to put in place alternatives to accommodation in an institutional establishment, by promoting new residential formulas with support suitable for young adults in search of autonomy, ”explained Ms. Hivon.
The presence of Minister Hivon in Montérégie was not fortuitous, she having shown that she was well aware of the particularly difficult situation experienced by the region, due to the significant funding gap that characterizes it for physical, intellectual and PDD programs, as is the case for the Laurentians, Outaouais, Lanaudière and Laval regions. This situation has of course an effect on the services offered to people aged 21 and over: “Also, for the sake of fairness, I decided that following investments of $ 35 million that benefit the whole regions, it was necessary to provide targeted assistance to the populations of these five regions with the additional investment announced today, from which they will directly benefit, ”explained Minister Hivon.
“As Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, I salute the significant investment that my colleague has just announced, as well as her setting up of a working group on activities socio-professional offered to 21 years and over. Today, our government is taking action so that these young people, who need to continue to learn throughout their lives, can reach the end of their abilities, in environments adapted to their needs. In addition, as Minister responsible for the Montérégie, I am delighted with the investment to support the region, where the needs are glaring, especially since the PDD prevalence rate is among the highest there ”, for her part, argues Mrs. Marie Malavoy.
“Today&#39;s announcement is a concrete gesture for improving services, both in the short term with the addition of $ 10 million, and in the medium term with the creation of a working group. I am convinced that the health and social services network, the community sector and all their partners will be able to work together to help these individuals and their families even more effectively, ”concluded Minister Hivon.
