Quebec - The member for Saint-Jean and official opposition critic for employment, vocational training, literacy and youth, Dave Turcotte, and the member for Rimouski and critic for wrestling to poverty, solidarity and social economy, Harold LeBel, denounce the lack of vision of the government and of the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, François Blais, regarding employment assistance measures, the fight against poverty and social assistance.
“The Liberal Party promised the creation of 250,000 jobs during its mandate. How can this promise be credible, when Minister Blais confirmed yesterday his choice to cut $ 17 million in employment assistance measures? The only employment support measure it offers are cuts! In all regions, organizations support many people in order to integrate them into the labor market; however, the Minister is minimizing their efforts by further cutting their budgets, ”said Dave Turcotte.
Fight against poverty: Minister Blais still vague In addition, the study of budget appropriations confirmed that Minister François Blais remains vague about his intentions with regard to the results and the renewal of the Act to fight poverty and social exclusion.
“More than 10 years after the adoption of this law by a government of the Parti Québécois, it is necessary to bring together the partners and the experts in order to draw up an assessment and to project oneself into the future. The Minister has not made a commitment in this direction, despite the need for this work. He prefers to drop the mandate on the shoulders of the commission chaired by Lucienne Robillard, without however asking it to take into consideration the impact of its future recommendations on poverty in Quebec, ”continued Harold LeBel.
Regarding the addition of inspectors to social assistance, as announced by the Minister of Finance in the last budget, Minister Blais confirmed that they will be able to take into consideration the denunciation and attempt to corroborate the information thus collected from the neighborhood of social assistance recipients. By insisting on this measure, we add to the many prejudices concerning the beneficiaries instead of genuinely supporting them in a process that would lead them out of precariousness.
“The more the study of the estimates progresses, the more we see that the government is abandoning the most vulnerable people. Its choices will reduce the assistance necessary for integration into employment, the fight against poverty and support for social assistance recipients. Liberal austerity visibly represents the increase in the precariousness and difficulties of our most fragile citizens, ”concluded the deputies.
