Quebec - The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of regional development, for the Conseil du trésor, Gaétan Lelièvre, as well as the spokesperson for exports, entrepreneurship, social economy and SMEs, Martin Ouellet, participated in the study of the appropriations of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Land Occupation (MAMOT), regional development component.
“The government demonstrated once again this morning that it has no vision for the development of our regions. During the study of the appropriations, we noted that this responsibility no longer belongs to any minister in this government, that no one has a specific mandate to defend the regions in the Council of Ministers. Minister Coiteux may make a list of the regions he visited, he only succeeded in demonstrating once again that there are no resources, direction or programs specific to the regions within MAMOT. So how can this ministry claim to defend regional development? Moreover, let us remember that the term &quot;region&quot; has been removed from the name of the ministry: MAMROT has become MAMOT. In short, the dismantling of the development tools that the Liberal government has been operating for two years is starting to resemble a strategy aimed at dividing communities in order to better reign in Quebec, ”declared Gaétan Lelièvre.
“During the study of the estimates, I asked three different ministers to answer a few simple questions: how much money is reserved, in the 2016-2017 budget, for local economic development? What resources, and how many people, are dedicated to Quebec&#39;s economic development? When the Parti Québécois was in power, more than $ 72 million was devoted to projects aimed at boosting the economy of our regions, through local development centers. Now the government has transferred this responsibility to the RCMs, with a fraction of the budget. Worse yet, he is not even able to tell us how much is left for regional economic development. This is very worrying for the future of our regions, ”concluded Martin Ouellet.
