Quebec - MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and Parti Québécois housing spokesperson, Carole Poirier, deplored the Liberal government&#39;s decision to cut housing assistance for the most vulnerable Quebecers. “The figures available to us thanks to the study of the estimates show very clearly that the Housing component has suffered a cut of $ 406 million in its overall budget since the election of the Liberals. It is major! She said.
It is the home improvement aid that bears the brunt of this unfortunate decision. Since the election of Philippe Couillard&#39;s government, the appropriations allocated to these programs have fallen from $ 76 million in 2013-2014 to less than $ 4 million for 2016-2017, a decrease of nearly 95%. “RénoRégion, the improvement of shelters, Rénovation Québec, Adapted housing for independent seniors: all these essential programs for the regions, the seniors and the most disadvantaged are quite simply abolished. Only the Home Adaptation Program, mainly intended for people with disabilities, is maintained, but it has been dramatically reduced, to the point that one wonders whether it will be able to finance more than the projects already underway. How can the government justify such a disengagement, when it is the most vulnerable people in our society who will suffer? “Asked the MP.
“In terms of social housing, the picture is unfortunately not brighter. In recent years, the government has increased the financial burden on project promoters, consequently organizing the accumulation of delivery delays. Now, he uses these delays to justify his cuts, which is a shame all the same! Not only is the construction of new housing units virtually at a standstill, but, in addition, the sums from the Rent Supplement program, which normally make it possible to immediately help the most deprived families, have not been distributed. By granting only 68 aid out of the 1000 planned last year, the government has simply made savings on the backs of citizens. And what is the minister doing in the face of the social emergency? He responds with bureaucratic mechanics, ”concludes Carole Poirier.
