Quebec - On the occasion of the study of the budget appropriations of the Ministère des Forêts, de la Faune et des Parcs, and thanks to repeated pressure for two years, the member for Bonaventure and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on forests , Wildlife and Parks, Sylvain Roy, obtained two commitments from Minister Laurent Lessard that will help forest producers.
First, the Minister has undertaken to adjust the single rate grid for silvicultural work, so that it is better adapted to the realities of regions which, like the Gaspé and Bas-Saint-Laurent, cannot fully benefit from of the Property Tax Reimbursement Program. Following Sylvain Roy&#39;s intervention, Minister Lessard promised to make the changes this summer. The minister also pledged that wood deliveries from private forests will increase from 4.1 to 6.4 million cubic meters.
“We will monitor very closely the follow-up that the Minister will carry out on his commitments to help private forests. The request to vary the rates for silvicultural work is an essential condition for effective silviculture in the Gaspé. Forest stakeholders in the region have long been asking that the regime be adapted to meet their specific needs, ”said Sylvain Roy.
&quot;After making major cuts in budgets last year, the Minister finally understood, following our constant pressure, that the good health of the forest economy of the villages depends on a public forest and a private forest. who play complementary roles. Thus, we will also ensure that the Minister follows up on his commitment to increasing the delivery of timber from private forests, ”added the spokesperson.
Local forests
&quot;I am sorry, however, to see that no local forests will be created this year in Quebec, when the Liberals made that commitment in 2009 and the concept is mentioned 18 times in the Sustainable Forest Management Act.&quot; . Municipalities will still have to wait, even if the Liberal government reiterated its promise in the last election campaign, ”the Bonaventure MP concluded.
