Quebec - This morning, during the study of the budget appropriations of the Ministry of Transport, the Agence métropolitaine de transport confirmed that a light rail system (SLR) on the new Champlain Bridge would make it possible to carry three times more passengers than the current rapid bus system (SRB), and twice as much as an improved SRB (SRB +). These figures come from a study by the firm AECOM on the choice of public transport mode on the new Champlain Bridge, a study that the Minister of Transport, Robert Poëti, has refused to make public since taking office.
“On the one hand, the minister refuses to unveil the AECOM study on SLR which answers all his questions and, on the other hand, he orders new studies. The SLR is a key infrastructure for the South Shore and Montreal. If the Liberal Party government is as transparent as it claims to be, why does the minister refuse to release a study paid for by Quebec taxpayers? », Asked the MP for Vachon and official opposition spokesperson for transport, transport electrification and maritime strategy, Martine Ouellet.
Recall that in April 2013, supported by all stakeholders from the South Shore and Montreal, the Minister of Transport of the Parti Québécois government, Sylvain Gaudreault, confirmed Quebec&#39;s choice to move forward with a SLR on the new Champlain Bridge and created a project office to coordinate its realization.
Although the minister prides himself on following very strictly the Directive on the management of major public infrastructure projects put in place by the Parti Québécois government, he nevertheless confirmed that he did not follow it systematically. Indeed, for several projects listed in the “under study” section of the 2014-2024 PQI, no pre-project sheet had been approved by the Council of Ministers, as indicated in point 9 of the page 8 of the Directive.
“The main objective of this directive, adopted by the Parti Québécois government, is to prevent fiascos like the one at the MUHC from happening again. Minister Poëti confirmed this morning that several projects registered with the PQI have not followed the process. How will he ensure that their management will be rigorous? », Continued Martine Ouellet.
The Directive aims to ensure rigorous management of major public infrastructure projects. It clearly establishes the stages of project approval and guarantees adequate monitoring of major projects by the Treasury Board and the Council of Ministers.
