Quebec - During the study of the budget appropriations in health, the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, presented to the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, a portrait of the access to mental health services obtained through access to information, and the findings are worrying.
“More than one in four people who had access to services this year had to wait more than 30 days, a target that the Minister himself set in his 2015-2020 action plan. In some regions, the figures are even more disturbing: in Montérégie, 29% of people waited more than a month for a first service. In the Laurentians, the proportion rises to 43%, ”said the member.
&quot;While the Minister announced with great fanfare an action plan in mental health and $ 70 million in investments over 5 years, we had confirmation that no dollar will actually be invested before 2018, not a penny before the next elections to improve access for patients. It&#39;s extremely disappointing, ”continued Diane Lamarre.
“The Minister was not even able to name a single concrete action to be taken to address this problem. We proposed to him, as a solution, to bet on future psychologists who complete their seventh and last year of internship: by remunerating them and by encouraging them to practice in the public network, there is a real possibility, here, of improve access and ensure that patients are cared for before their condition deteriorates. We could thus avoid creating a cascade of other problems that cost the health network even more. In addition, several other professionals are paid during their last year of training, such as doctors, pharmacists, etc. This is a concrete solution that would have an immediate effect for patients, ”added the spokesperson.
&quot;The choices the Minister is making are indecent: he is investing billions for doctors, but nothing for patients with mental health problems or for future psychologists that Quebecers so badly need,&quot; concluded Diane Lamarre.
