Québec - On the occasion of the study of the 2016-2017 budget appropriations of the Conseil du trésor and the Government Administration, Capitale-Nationale component, the leader of the official opposition and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois for the region of the Capitale-Nationale, Pierre Karl Péladeau, as well as Agnès Maltais, Member of Parliament for Taschereau and deputy parliamentary leader of the official opposition, tried, in vain, to obtain answers from the minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale region , François Blais, on the Liberals&#39; ambitions for Quebec and its region. They also demonstrated the effects of liberal austerity on its economic vitality.
“There was a loss of 6,500 jobs last March in the Quebec City metropolitan area. It is enormous! Currently, there are fewer jobs in this area than in 2014. In addition, following the closure of the CRÉ, we noted a cut of $ 355,000 in the budgets dedicated to attraction, reception, integration and settlement of immigrants. This situation is deplorable, especially since the minister responsible for the region, François Blais, does not know his files, despite two years in the Council of Ministers and his title of deputy for Charlesbourg ”, declared Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“Several other sectors, such as culture, are also having to contend with alarming cuts. We have also observed a lack of transparency in Minister Blais&#39; refusal to table the vision set out by the National Capital Commission for New Barracks, ”added Agnès Maltais.
“Our questions remained unanswered. Despite several hours spent in committee, I still do not see what this government&#39;s vision for economic development is for the Capitale-Nationale. On the contrary, it abolishes development tools, which leads to declining employment figures. All this, added to the hasty replacement of the minister responsible for the National Capital, creates a paralysis which will in no way improve the situation for the region, ”concluded the leader of the official opposition.
