Québec, December 6, 2016 - The date of December 6, 1989 remains etched in the memory of all Quebecers, including that of the leader of the official opposition, Jean François Lisée, and the Parti Québécois spokesperson on the status of women , Mireille Jean, who underline that we must never forget the tragedy of Polytechnique if we wish to move forward as a society.
“More than 25 years after this tragic event, the memory of these 14 talented young women, future engineers, is still very much alive. Painful, too. Because if the career choice of these young women marked one more step on the road to equality, it was also the reason why someone wanted to destroy all their dreams ”, reacted first Jean François Lisée.
“It is to pay tribute to the victims that we must continue to fight against discrimination and violence that affect women. Quebec has made great progress, it even serves as a model throughout the world, but the achievements are fragile; we must ensure that we maintain them, be attentive to what threatens them. As legislators, we bear the responsibility of taking actions that strongly reaffirm our desire to make equality between women and men a reality for all women, ”added Mireille Jean.
In this regard, the member mentions that the plight of aboriginal women is of particular concern. “Despite the progress we can be proud of, the Aboriginal example illustrates how much further we still have to go. The recent events at Laval University, when several students were assaulted in the residences, also show this very well. It is a challenge for all of our society, for all communities. The advancement of women and the evolution of Quebec are intimately linked; when one more step is taken towards equality, all of Quebec society progresses, ”she continued.
The leader of the official opposition recalled, in closing, two recent proposals from the Parti Québécois aimed at reducing violence against women. “We called for the setting up of an awareness campaign for the general public to explain the concept of consent, as well as a sexuality education course in all schools, from elementary school onwards. These actions, all in all quite simple to carry out, would have a lot of positive effects, ”he concluded.
