G aspé - On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of members of the Government of Quebec in the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie regions, the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, and the Minister for the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, confirmed the government&#39;s support for the wind energy sector in the region, with the payment non-repayable financial assistance totaling $ 1.27 million to two organizations that are members of the Wind energy niche of excellence, resulting from the ACCORD approach: the Wind TechnoCentre and the B &amp; B brake pads start-up company.
“Sustainable development is no longer a choice, but a political, economic, social and moral obligation,” said Élaine Zakaïb. “By encouraging the development of a green and sustainable economy, we are ensuring that Québec is one of the most innovative and competitive societies in the world. It is in this spirit that we are supporting the growth of sectors of the future such as wind power, in particular by supporting dynamic businesses and organizations here in Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine. &quot;
&quot;The wind energy sector occupies a preponderant place in the economy of the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, and the partners of the Wind energy niche of excellence have been mobilizing for several years to promote its prosperity&quot;, underlined Gaétan Lelièvre for his part. “The Government of Quebec has also recognized the development of the wind energy sector as a priority in its Government intervention strategy for the development of the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region. The partners in the niche aspire to make it a center of expertise in research and development and a pillar of the supply chain of the wind industry. They are therefore committed to the creation of business partnerships and unique synergies between players in the field. &quot;
© Jérôme Tardif
Created in 2000, the Wind TechnoCentre is a collegial technology transfer center mandated by the Cégep de la Gaspésie et des Îles. As such, it participates in the development of Quebec know-how in wind energy, particularly with regard to the northern nature and complexity of our territory.
Government assistance allocated to the organization amounts to $ 975,383, of which $ 677,383 comes from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy and $ 298,000 from the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and of Technology. It will enable the completion of seven projects totaling more than $ 1.17 million, including the administration of the Wind Power niche of excellence.
For its part, the B &amp; B brake pads company manufactures brake pads made from metallurgical powders for high power wind turbines. The project announced today is valued at $ 594,840 and aims to adapt the company&#39;s production, processes and technology so that it can market its products on a larger scale. Government support is $ 295,798, of which $ 206,798 comes from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy and $ 89,000 from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy.
“Our innovative and promising technology allows us to produce quality brake pads. The support of the Government of Quebec is an important step in making us known to major international manufacturers and North American companies in the wind energy sector, ”said the president of B &amp; B brake pads, Mr. Christian Babin.
“Our economic vision is forward-looking and we need the invaluable contribution of stakeholders in the business community, including entrepreneurs, the real creators of wealth and jobs. It is with great pride that we support the TechnoCentre Aeolien et Plaquettes de brake B&amp;B in carrying out their promising projects, both for their region and for Quebec as a whole, ”concluded Élaine Zakaïb.
Recall that on August 28 and 29, Quebec Party deputies and government ministers met in Carleton for the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers.
To find out more about the ACCORD approach and the niches of excellence, consult the page www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/ACCORD.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
