Québec, December 12, 2014 - The member for Terrebonne and official opposition critic for family matters, Mathieu Traversy, takes advantage of the end of the Broken Promises Tour, organized by the Association québécoise des CPE, to reaffirm the support of the Parti Québécois for families, family policy and the network of childcare services in Quebec.
“The Liberal government deliberately broke promises made to families in Quebec. While he promised during the election campaign not to raise the prices of childcare services beyond inflation, he imposes a significant price shock on families. In addition, the development of places is slowed down everywhere in Quebec. These austerity measures will have important consequences. Quebeckers did not vote for that; the government intentionally severed the bond of trust, ”said Mathieu Traversy.
“Liberal MPs had the opportunity to bring the voice of families from their constituencies to the National Assembly. Having preferred to endorse Philippe Couillard&#39;s broken promises, we invite them, during the holiday season, to go talk to families and explain to them why they broke their promises, ”added the member for Terrebonne.
CPE projects compromised by the reform of the Minister of Families The deputy is also worried about the delays and the cancellation of several CPE projects, especially in underprivileged areas, due to changes in the infrastructure funding program . From now on, the childcare centers will have to provide 50% of the sums necessary for the realization of new projects, which greatly compromises the development of places.
“How much time, money and energy will have been spent in vain because of Minister Francine Charbonneau? The childcare community says the majority of projects are compromised. Through her reform, the minister pushes projects into the hands of the private network, undermining the public network. I invite him to make new resolutions for 2015, to reconnect with the network and to act in the interest of families in Quebec, ”concluded Mathieu Traversy.
