G aspé - On the occasion of the unprecedented tour of members of the Government of Quebec in the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie regions, the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, and the Minister for the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, announced the payment of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 400,000 to the company Éocycle Technologies inc. of Gaspé.
The Éocycle Technologies project consists of the approval and marketing of a 25 kW wind turbine, with a patented permanent magnet alternator, designed and manufactured by the company, for decentralized energy production. The financial assistance will be used to develop and implement a marketing plan that will allow the company to enter new markets, such as the United Kingdom and the United States.
“It is thanks to dynamic and innovative companies like Éocycle Technologies that Quebec can consolidate its leadership position in a booming wind industry,” declared Élaine Zakaïb. “Our government is proud to support this promising company in the commercialization of clean technology that is part of the path of sustainable development and renewable energies chosen by Quebec. &quot;
“Éocycle Technologies contributes to the promotion of the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine wind power niche of excellence. Wind power is a key sector for the economic growth of our region, ”added Gaétan Lelièvre. “The Government of Quebec has also recognized the development of the wind energy sector as a priority in its Government intervention strategy for the development of the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region. Éocycle Technologies&#39; sense of innovation and competitiveness make it a valuable player in the niche and help strengthen its expertise. &quot;
Éocycle Technologies is the only Quebec company with its own wind turbine technology. The company also specializes in the manufacture of alternators using innovative technology. In terms of performance and competitiveness, this technology offers significant advantages thanks to an increase in annual productivity and considerable reductions in weight, volume and costs.
&quot;Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we will be able to speed up the procedures related to our marketing plan, which aims to develop new markets, in particular that of the United Kingdom, one of the most dynamic in the world,&quot; said the president and chief. from the management of Éocycle Technologies, Mr. Richard Legault. “The certification of our 25 kW wind turbine, more than 75% manufactured in Quebec, will also allow our company to stand out here and internationally. &quot;
Recall that on August 28 and 29, Quebec Party deputies and government ministers met in Carleton for the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers.
To receive press releases from the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in real time, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
