New Richmond– On tour in the Gaspésie and Bas-Saint-Laurent region, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, accompanied by the deputy for Bonaventure, Sylvain Roy, announced the results of the call for projects in diffusion of author&#39;s cinema. A sum of $ 500,000 will be distributed among 52 non-profit organizations, film clubs and cultural centers which strive to broadcast and make arthouse films accessible throughout Quebec.
&quot;This support from the Government of Quebec will allow our organizations to play a fundamental role throughout the territory, in the dissemination of arthouse films, in stimulating the imagination of our cinephiles and in the creativity of our artisans. . Authors&#39; works occupy a special place in the cinematographic heritage and inspire those who are sensitive to the diversity of expression of culture ”, declared Minister Kotto.
“I am delighted at the announcement of this financial assistance which will allow organizations in the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region to continue their mission of broadcasting auteur cinema. Men and women work with conviction to make cinema accessible to the population, and I congratulate them for the excellent work they are doing, ”added Bonaventure MNA Sylvain Roy.
The financial assistance paid by the Ministry of Culture and Communications will be used to increase the number of auteur films presented throughout Quebec and to increase attendance at theaters which, in addition to their vocation as presenters, offer activities animation and promotion around auteur cinema.
Among the organizations supported, five of them, Ciné Bobine, CINÉTOILE, Le Cinélune de Gaspé inc., Productions de la Salle Comble and Sofilm Cinéma Parallèle, are located in the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region. , and the total aid for these is $ 48,000. This sum will not only allow the dissemination of auteur cinema both in Quebec and abroad, but also access to cinema in all its forms.
All the information on the call for projects for the release of auteur cinema is available on the website of the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications, at www..mcc.gouv.qc.ca.
Recall that on August 28 and 29, members of the Parti québécois and government ministers met in Carleton for the caucus of deputies and the council of ministers.
