Quebec - On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of members of the Government of Quebec in the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie regions, the Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, together with the Minister for Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, is pleased to grant financial assistance totaling more than $ 125,000 to three companies of the region.
“I am proud to support initiatives that require the commitment and collaboration of stakeholders and agricultural producers in the region. This testifies to the creativity, the sense of innovation and the dynamism of the people here. I take my hat off to them! », Underlined Mr. Pascal Bérubé.
Thus, financial assistance of $ 61,812 has been granted to Fromagerie La Tête sur le bio, to support the start-up of this young business, under the Diversification and short-circuit marketing program in the regions and the Support program for the development of agriculture and agrifood in the regions, which are implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (MAPAQ). La Tête sur le bio sells its products directly at the counter of its establishment and also relies on public markets to promote them.
In addition, the Témiscouata Soil Management Club is awarded $ 20,000 to support an innovative initiative that will allow the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspé regions to pool their strengths. with a view to establishing two new organic crops, namely buckwheat and bare oats. This assistance comes from MAPAQ&#39;s Innovbio program.
Finally, in order to promote the development of a value chain in the beef sector, financial assistance will be allocated to the Natur&#39;Bœuf cooperative, under the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, resulting from the Canada-Quebec agreement. regarding AgriFlexibility. Details of this assistance will be revealed in the coming weeks. Natur&#39;Bœuf is based on a business partnership uniting producers, processors and distributors who have set themselves the goal of marketing beef from Quebec farms and meeting specific specifications.
Ministers François Gendron and Pascal Bérubé with representatives of the Natur&#39;Bœuf cooperative // (c) Valérie Noël-Létourneau.
&quot;I always take great pleasure in meeting the men and women who are at the origin of projects which have tangible consequences for the development of their region and, above all, the people who are committed to promoting the products. from us by giving them a real identity by increasing their added value. It is thanks to all these constructive initiatives that we will create a profitable biofood sector, generator of jobs, which respects the environment and which contributes to the dynamic occupation of the territory. The projects of the three companies that we are supporting today are therefore perfectly in line with the objectives pursued by the Food Sovereignty Policy, ”added François Gendron.
To learn more about the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can consult the blog (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or the Internetwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA) website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and of Food. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
Remember that the caucus of members of the Parti Québécois and the Council of Ministers are holding a meeting in Carleton on August 28 and 29.
