G aspé - On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of members of the Government of Quebec in the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie regions, the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, accompanied by the Minister for the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, confirmed the renewal of the five-year agreement for the implementation of the niche of excellence in Marine resources, sciences and technologies in the Bas-Saint-Laurent, Côte-Nord and Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine regions.
&quot;The Gulf of St. Lawrence and its river form an immense basin of cold water, unique in the world, which is full of resources,&quot; said Minister Delegate Élaine Zakaïb. “For more than ten years, the partners in the Marine Resources, Sciences and Technologies niche of excellence have focused on the exploration, exploitation and development of these resources in order to ensure the prosperity of their region. This niche is part of the ACCORD process, implemented by the government in 2002 to take advantage of regional strengths for the benefit of Québec&#39;s economic growth and its international influence. &quot;
The Marine Resources, Sciences and Technologies niche of excellence is made up of four major sectors: aquaculture, marine biotechnologies, capture and processing, and marine technologies. It represents more than a thousand companies in total. This niche is based on the strengths of each of the three maritime regions as well as on a dynamic environment made up of research and development centers, training institutions and networking and support organizations.
“The ACCORD approach and the niches of excellence are strategic tools for ensuring the long-term economic development of regions and for creating wealth and jobs throughout Quebec,” said Minister Delegate Gaétan Lelièvre. “The objective of this initiative is to position the regions of Quebec as places of industrial competence recognized throughout the world. To achieve this objective, niche members rely on the mobilization and dynamism of the business community, entrepreneurs and partners, as evidenced by the Marine Resources, Science and Technology niche of excellence. &quot;
© Jérôme Tardif
&quot;The resources of the sea and navigation activities have always been at the center of the economy of our region and of maritime Quebec,&quot; recalled the Member of Parliament for Îles-de-la-Madeleine and parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Agriculture. , Fisheries and Food (fisheries section), Ms. Jeannine Richard. “In addition to having a large number of fishing and processing companies, this niche of excellence is characterized by a very active scientific and technical base which makes us proud and allows us to distinguish ourselves on the international scene. &quot;
For each of the four sectors of the Marine Resources, Sciences and Technologies niche of excellence, an action plan has been developed around seven main axes defined according to the strengths and weaknesses of the niche, the needs of the companies and the objectives targeted by the ACCORD approach. The development of new products and markets, innovation and technology transfer, as well as sustainable development and the environment are among the areas favored by the niche.
Since the implementation of the first niche action plan in 2006, more than 200 projects and activities have been carried out, thus generating investments of more than $ 70 million in the three regions and four sectors of the niche.
On behalf of the chairmen of the ACCORD regional committees and those of the niche committees of Marine Resources, Sciences and Technologies of the three maritime regions, the chairman of the niche committee for Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine, Mr. Robert Langlois, underlined: “We are particularly proud of the work that has been accomplished by the three regions associated with this niche, and the agreement announced today reinforces this beautiful interregional dynamic. &quot;
Recall that on August 28 and 29, Quebec Party deputies and government ministers met in Carleton for the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers.
To find out more about the ACCORD approach and the niches of excellence, consult the page www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/ACCORD/.
