Grand-Métis - On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of members of the Government of Quebec in the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie regions, the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec , Élaine Zakaïb, accompanied by the Minister for Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, Pascal Bérubé, announced loans totaling $ 823,450 to the non-profit organization Les Amis des Jardins de Métis. This intervention will contribute to the realization of a project estimated at more than $ 2.1 million to modernize Villa Estevan, a heritage building located in the heart of the Gardens.
&quot;Tourism is a vital sector for stimulating the economic dynamism of regions such as Bas-Saint-Laurent,&quot; said Minister Zakaïb. This is why my government is very happy to deploy all the necessary means to preserve this heritage jewel of ancestral character at the heart of a unique work of horticultural art and which constitutes a tourist destination of choice. &quot;
// (c) Valérie Noël-Létourneau.
The project, funded by Investissement Québec, aims to modernize Villa Estevan, which serves as a museum and restaurant. With an area of over 4,000 square feet and comprising 35 rooms, this villa is a remarkable example of the architecture of the fishing camps of eastern Quebec. The project provides for the protection of the Villa against fires to secure this heritage listed building as well as its collections. It also includes the renovation of the building and the installation of a ventilation system on the second floor of the museum, which will ensure the comfort of visitors and the protection of the collections on display. In a second phase, the project aims to restore the Guardian&#39;s House, which currently serves as the administrative center of the Jardins de Métis.
“Internationally recognized, the Jardins de Métis and Villa Estevan constitute an exceptional historical and cultural attraction,” said Minister Bérubé. Considered the eleventh wonder of Quebec and classified as a heritage site, they represent one of the main products of tourist appeal in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region. They ensure that it enjoys significant influence in Quebec and elsewhere in the world. &quot;
“The realization of this project is part of the celebrations of the 125 years of Villa Estevan. These modernization works will thus make it possible to preserve the authentic character of the place for the next generations of visitors, in addition to offering a safe and pleasant environment for our entire team ”, specified the general manager of the company, Mr. Alexander. Reford.
Recall that on August 28 and 29, members of the Parti Québécois and government ministers met in Carleton for the caucus of deputies and the council of ministers.
