Rivière-du-Loup– On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of members of the Government of Quebec in the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie regions, the Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, accompanied by the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as by the Member for Repentigny and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks , Mr. Scott Mckay, on behalf of Minister Yves-François Blanchet, announced that the Fleuve-et-des-Lacs School Board will receive financial assistance of $ 500,000.
“We are proud to support the Trois-Pistoles high school project which, by converting its equipment, will reduce its consumption of light fuel oil. These adaptations will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by more than 380 tonnes of CO2 equivalent per year, which is equivalent to removing nearly 110 vehicles from the road network, ”said Martine Ouellet.
Trois-Pistoles secondary school has 480 students and 29 teachers. The school belongs to the Commission scolaire du Fleuve-et-des-Lacs.
More specifically, the financial assistance granted will allow the installation of a residual forest biomass boiler system with a capacity of 1000 kW. The construction of a forest biomass reserve will allow four days of autonomy during periods of high demand. In addition, the implementation of the proposed measure will reduce the annual operating costs of the Trois-Pistoles secondary school for water production. In addition to being an energy efficiency project, this measure contributes to the development of forest biomass in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region. It should be noted that the Trois-Pistoles high school previously used a thermal power station running on light fuel oil for its heating.
“The Fleuve-et-des-Lacs School Board shows that it is keen to rigorously manage its energy expenses. We must support solutions that optimize the energy efficiency of public, industrial and residential infrastructure. This is an essential question to prepare for Quebec&#39;s energy future, ”added Martine Ouellet.
Recall that on August 28 and 29, members of the Parti Québécois and government ministers met in Carleton for the caucus of deputies and the council of ministers.
The assistance program for the use of forest biomass for heating offers financial support in the form of a non-refundable contribution for the implementation of measures allowing a measurable and sustainable reduction in the consumption of fossil fuels and, as a result, greenhouse gas emissions.
