Listuguj - On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of members of the Government of Quebec in the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie regions, the Minister for Native Affairs, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, accompanied by the MP for Bonaventure, Mr. Sylvain Roy, announced the allocation of financial assistance of $ 320,000 to the Mi&#39;gmawei Mawiomi (SMM) Secretariat, so that the Mi&#39;kmaq communities of Listuguj, Gespeg and Gesgapegiag can participate in important consultations initiated by the government of Quebec.
“This assistance will provide the three communities with the expertise, knowledge and resources to adequately respond to consultations that have significant implications for Aboriginals and the development of Quebec. They will have access to credible, reliable and rigorous data, which will promote the full and complete involvement of the Mi&#39;kmaq in the development of the region, ”declared Minister Larouche.
The consultations held by the Ministry of Natural Resources will focus on mines, energy, land and forests. Those held by the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks will relate, in particular, to water policy, environmental assessment and ecological heritage. The Department of Transportation will consult with the Mi&#39;kmaq regarding the rehabilitation of Route 132 in Gesgapegiag. Thanks to these funds, representatives of the SMM sit on the Commission des ressources naturelles et du territoire (CRNT), on the integrated resource and land management tables as well as on other concertation tables within the framework of the CRÉ of Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine.
“The ability to consolidate harmonious ties with the various communities that occupy this large territory is essential to the development and emancipation of all the citizens who live there. For these reasons, it is essential that the Mi&#39;kmaq communities have in hand the consultation tools that will guide the consolidation of harmonious relationships and agreements that will be a source of prosperity for all. ”, Said the MP for Bonaventure, Mr. Sylvain Roy.
The Mi&#39;gmawei Mawiomi Secretariat is the political and administrative unit that represents the three communities of the Mi&#39;kmaq Nation. “Funding provided by the Native Affairs Secretariat (SAA) over the past four years has enabled the Mi&#39;kmaq to build relationships between representatives of various ministries and the leadership of the Mi&#39;gmawei Mawiomi. The financial contributions facilitated the consultation process between the Government of Quebec and the Mi&#39;kmaq, in addition to establishing good working relations between the two nations ”, declared the head of Gespeg and president of the Secretariat Mi&#39;gmawei Mawiomi , Mr. Claude Jeannotte.
Minister Larouche took advantage of her visit to the Gaspé to meet the Mi&#39;kmaq chiefs and visit the Secretariat located in Listuguj. Remember that on August 28 and 29, members of the Parti Québécois and government ministers will meet in Carleton for the caucus of members and the council of ministers.
This financial assistance comes from the Native Initiatives Fund II (AIF II) of the Secrétariat aux affaires autochtones, consultation support component. This fund provides funding for the participation of Indigenous nations or communities in the consultation processes initiated by the Government of Quebec, to the tune of $ 20 million over five years. The objective of this envelope is to facilitate the application of the constitutional obligation, which is incumbent on the Government of Quebec, to consult the Aboriginal communities.
