S aint-André– On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of members of the Government of Quebec in the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie region, on the sidelines of the presessional caucus of the parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois in Carleton , the parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (wildlife and parks component), Mr. Scott McKay, announced on behalf of Minister Blanchet the creation of the proposed biodiversity reserve of Île-aux-Lièvres under the Natural Heritage Conservation Act. Accompanied by the Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, and the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, Mr. McKay also announced that the management of this area protected would be ensured by the Duvetnor Company, which has more than 30 years of experience in the field of conservation.
From left to right: Sylvain Gaudreault, Scott McKay and Martine Ouellet.
This announcement follows the acquisition of Île aux Lièvres by the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks last January. Société Duvetnor Ltée keeps a parcel of land where it will pursue its activities of conservation, enhancement of natural environments, ecotourism and education while respecting the status of protected area and its regime of activities. The partnership with Société Duvetnor Ltée also consolidates an important ecotourism product for the economy of the Bas-Saint-Laurent region.
“With the creation of this new proposed biodiversity reserve, our government is confirming its intentions in terms of conserving the biodiversity of the marine St. Lawrence. We are now taking an additional step in order to achieve the targeted target of protecting 10% of the estuarine and marine environment of the St. Lawrence by 2020, in accordance with international objectives in this area, ”stated Mr. McKay.
The proposed Île-aux-Lièvres biodiversity reserve will allow the conservation of representative habitats of the upper St. Lawrence estuary and the protection of colonies of coastal and sea birds. This designation will also help strengthen the protection of the Saguenay-St. Lawrence Marine Park, within which Île aux Lièvres is located.
