Carleton-sur-Mer - On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of members of the Government of Quebec in the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie region, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, accompanied by the MNA for Bonaventure, Mr. Sylvain Roy, announced the allocation of $ 1,498,000 to the Center for initiation to research and development assistance sustainable (CIRADD). This is a college center for technology transfer (CCTT) affiliated with the Carleton-sur-Mer campus of the Cégep de la Gaspésie et des Îles.
The Minister took advantage of this announcement to confirm the renewal and recognition of the CCTT for the next five years. For the current fiscal year, the funding granted is $ 298,000 and $ 1.2M for the four subsequent years.
“I am very proud to announce the renewal of the CCTT for the next five years. This is very good news, which was eagerly awaited here. This announcement is made to the greatest benefit of students in addition to contributing to the socioeconomic development of the Gaspé. News which, I am sure, will delight the whole community. These investments will allow CIRADD to continue its mission by offering scientific research services and contributing to the development of rural areas, ”said Minister Duchesne.
The aid granted aims to finance part of the activities of applied research, technical assistance, training and dissemination of information as well as part of the operating and management costs of the center.
“The Cégep de la Gaspésie et des Îles is a leading figure in Quebec with its applied research centers and the establishment of a research and innovation service. Through their actions, they participate in the creation of wealth and significant economic benefits for the region, but also for all of Quebec. Moreover, innovation has become an essential issue from the perspective of regional development and the competitiveness of our businesses, ”said MP Roy.
The CIRADD offers a scientific research support and accompaniment service to organizations, businesses and communities in the Gaspé, and it contributes to the training of students enrolled in human sciences and natural sciences at Cégep de la Gaspésie and Islands. Among the projects underway at CIRADD, let us mention the establishment of community gardens, the socio-economic analysis of the development model of the petroleum sector in the Gaspé and the development of entrepreneurial qualities among young people.
“The Government Intervention Strategy for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, announced last May, contained a project dedicated to the development of adequate expertise in research and innovation. Today&#39;s announcement is part of this project and gives CIRADD the means to increase its knowledge in the field of territorial development, ”said Minister Duchesne.
“The Cégep de la Gaspésie et des Îles is very pleased to see that its students will be able to benefit for several more years from a unique learning environment, which is another element of attraction for the recruitment of Cégep clients. In addition, the CIRADD has become, through its achievements, an important player in the community and a proud partner in the implementation of regional projects, ”said the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Cégep, Mr. Léon Després.
“CIRADD&#39;s activities help establish a culture of innovation within its community. This culture is synonymous with wealth for generations to come, as the creation of new businesses greatly contributes to regional economic development. Quebec relies on an industrial and social research network that stands out, and CIRADD is a good example. Supporting excellence in research and innovation is essential for our government, ”concluded Minister Duchesne.
Recall that on August 28 and 29, Quebec Party deputies and government ministers met in Carleton for the caucus of deputies and the Council of Ministers.
For more information on the Department&#39;s programs and services, visit www.mesrst.gouv.qc.ca.
