Listuguj - On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of members of the Government of Quebec in the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie regions, the Minister for Native Affairs, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, accompanied by the MP for Bonaventure, Mr. Sylvain Roy, announced the allocation of a grant of $ 430,394 to the Listuguj Mi&#39;gmaq Nation Council, to support commercial fishing activities.
“Annual sales of fish products are in the millions of dollars. For this community, it is a vital and profitable industry, which employs a large number of Aboriginal workers, ”declared Minister Larouche.
During peak season, the Listuguj Mi&#39;gmaq Nation Council&#39;s fleet employs over 70 people, 90% of whom are Aboriginal people. In addition, the projects targeted by the financial assistance will indirectly consolidate some 150 seasonal jobs in the processing plants in Matane, Gaspé and Sainte-Thérèse.
“Supporting the fishing industry for the Listuguj Mi&#39;gmaq Nation also has an aspect of historical recognition, because the Mi&#39;gmaq are a people of the sea and have known, for thousands of years, to derive great benefit from it. part of their livelihood. They will know how to use the resources of our marine environment efficiently and with experience, ”said Sylvain Roy, Member of Parliament for Bonaventure.
Élizabeth Larouche, Minister responsible for Native Affairs. // © Antonine Yaccarini
Of this financial assistance of $ 430,394, an amount of nearly $ 63,000 will be devoted to the maintenance of the Council&#39;s fishing boats, thus promoting their profitability and sustainability. With financial assistance of $ 352,000, the Council will also acquire a crabeater, which will enable it to capture the entire snow crab quota granted by federal law. Quotas are currently not met, due to the very short fishing season. Finally, a sum of $ 15,000 will be devoted to hiring a specialist in business strategy and solutions, who will carry out a market study on the community&#39;s potential in terms of processing and marketing fish and fish. seafood. If the research proves conclusive, the increase in quotas and the creation of a packing plant would have the potential to create some 20 jobs in the community.
“The financial assistance granted by the Government of Quebec to date is greatly appreciated, and we hope to maintain fruitful relations in the future. The financial support announced today allows us to take another step towards realizing our full fishing potential, ”said Listuguj chief, Mr. Dean Vicaire.
Dean Vicaire, leader of Listuguj. // © Antonine Yaccarini
Recall that on August 28 and 29, Quebec Party MPs and government ministers will meet in Carleton for the Caucus of Deputies and the Council of Ministers.
Financial assistance comes from the Native Initiatives Fund II (AIF II) of the Secrétariat aux affaires autochtones, economic development component. The main objective of this fund is to support projects that could have significant spinoffs on the development of Aboriginal communities in Quebec, whether on the economic, social or community level.
