Chandler - On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of members of the Government of Quebec in the Bas St-Laurent and Gaspésie region, the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert today announced a project to build an outpatient outpatient geriatrics unit on the grounds of the Rocher-Percé Health and Social Services Center (CSSS) in Chandler. He was accompanied for the occasion by the Minister for the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Gaétan Lelièvre, and the Member of Parliament for Bonaventure, Sylvain Roy. The Department&#39;s investment for this project amounts to $ 4.5 million.
“This project, expected in the region, corresponds to our government&#39;s orientations in terms of autonomy for the elderly. The service offered by this new unit will allow a greater number of seniors to live at home longer, as most of them wish, ”said Minister Hébert.
This unit, which will provide the CSSS with a total area of 1,418 square meters, will accommodate around 30 offices, activity rooms, support areas, and traffic and service areas. Many rooms will be dedicated to seniors, including a physiotherapy rehabilitation room that can hold seven stretchers. In addition, a kitchen, a dining room, a laundry room and a bathroom will be fitted out for the benefit of the clientele, and will also be used for training purposes.
Gaétan Lelièvre for his part declared: “It is a gain for the people of the region and for the CSSS. This clinic will facilitate access to specialized second and third-line services for the elderly, which will have the effect, among other things, of reducing waiting times in the emergency room and optimizing the use of beds in long-term accommodation. duration. &quot;
The contribution of the Ministry of Health and Social Services to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will ultimately result in investments of nearly $ 19.4 billion for the Health and Social Services component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to prospectively assess the needs, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
In addition, Mr. Hébert, Mr. Lelièvre and Mr. Roy also indicated that the Villa Pabos accommodation center will receive an allocation of $ 131,000 for a functional renovation which consists of adding a dehumidification system to its current ventilation system.
“It is essential for us to ensure that people housed in residential and long-term care centers can live in a most pleasant environment. Their well-being is important to us, as is the quality of the services offered to them and that of the living environments dedicated to them, ”said Minister Hébert.
In fact, this new refrigerant dehumidification system will help prevent any problem that may arise from high humidity, thereby ensuring residents a drier and more comfortable air.
&quot;These investments in our riding show that our government is sensitive to the development of remote regions and that the needs of the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region are also at the heart of its concerns,&quot; concluded the Member for Bonaventure. , Sylvain Roy.
Recall that on August 28 and 29, Quebec Party MPs and government ministers met in Carleton for a caucus of MPs and the Cabinet.
