Saint-Hubert– On Friday January 15, Martine Ouellet, Member of Parliament for Vachon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of transport, Amir Khadir, Member of Parliament for Mercier, and about thirty representatives of the taxi industry held a meeting joint press release to denounce UberX and the inaction of Minister Poëti.
Abandoned families
Martine Ouellet underlined the impact of liberal negligence on taxi-owner drivers and their families. “In Montreal alone, we are talking about more than 10,000 taxi drivers who have been losing an average of $ 50 per day for about 18 months. The value of their taxi license has declined by around 20% since UberX arrived, but drivers still need to pay their mortgage on the purchase value! The Couillard government&#39;s inaction has serious consequences for taxi drivers and their families. Let him stop procrastinating and take action! », She demanded.
Uber: an illegal multinational
“The Liberals tolerate illegality, they tolerate the unacceptable. I&#39;ve never seen that, a mobilization for the government to apply the laws, it&#39;s surreal. The taxi-owner drivers only ask Minister Poëti one thing: that he apply the law immediately. We don&#39;t see that often, illegal companies, which pay no tax, no tax and which act outside the law; why does UberX benefit from this preferential treatment from Minister Poëti and Prime Minister Couillard? The government is causing harm to taxi drivers and their families by choosing not to act. It is unacceptable, ”continued Martine Ouellet.
A decisive meeting
“This is the first time that stakeholders from the entire taxi industry have gathered around the same table since the arrival of UberX in Quebec. Moreover, there was a clear consensus on the urgency to act as well as on the lack of will of the Couillard government and Minister Poëti to enforce the law. Taxi drivers are desperate and the government must wait no longer. Certain actions have been launched, in particular by Juripop; proceedings are underway for a class action lawsuit against UberX over the monster New Year&#39;s fare scandal. Taxi drivers have also filed denunciations against illegal drivers before the Commission des transports du Québec. Finally, a petition to defend the taxi industry is online on the website of the National Assembly. In any case, it makes no sense that taxi drivers and their families, cheated customers and taxpayers bear the brunt of the Liberal government&#39;s inaction on the illegal taxi file, ”concluded Martine Ouellet.
