Quebec - The MNA for Taillon and official opposition critic for higher education and loans and bursaries, Marie Malavoy, and the MNA for Terrebonne and official opposition spokesperson for youth, Mathieu Traversy , went today to the camp organized by the Federation of Collegiate Students of Quebec (FECQ) and the Federation of University Students of Quebec (FEUQ) in front of the offices of the Ministry of Education in Montreal to signify the support of the Parti Québécois to their fight against rising tuition fees.
The Member for Taillon recalls that it was after a sham consultation last December that the government of Jean Charest announced a $ 1,625 increase in tuition fees over the next five years. “The Liberal government has made the unacceptable decision to make the current generation pay for the non-indexation of tuition fees for decades. In addition, instead of reinvesting in universities, it will gradually withdraw from their funding, leaving the burden of reinvestment on the students, ”denounced Marie Malavoy.
For his part, the member for Terrebonne deplores the fact that the Liberal government’s youth affairs officer, the Prime Minister himself, has accepted such a drastic increase in tuition fees. “Jean Charest took on the Youth files in 2003 supposedly to make it a priority and faced with this inconsiderate increase in tuition fees, we are entitled to ask ourselves if there is really someone who cares about the youth in this government. The increase in tuition fees will have an impact on accessibility to studies. While Quebec needs all its relief, it is a very risky bet that Jean Charest is taking, ”denounced Mathieu Traversy.
The deputies wished to recall that in its program adopted last April, the Parti Québécois proposes to hold a summit on higher education in which the university community, employers and civil society will participate. This summit will focus on the quality of teaching, the management of universities, the adequacy between training and the needs of the economy, general quality training as well as the financing of the network of Quebec universities.
