Quebec– Pierre Karl Péladeau, MP for Saint-Jean and spokesperson for the economy, entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports, MP for Saint-Jean and spokesperson for jobs, vocational training, literacy and youth, Dave Turcotte, as well as the member for Rousseau and critic for finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, find that there has been less jobs in Quebec than in Canada during the month of March, and that since the arrival of the Liberals, full-time employment has stagnated.
“After a year of Liberal government, no full-time jobs have been created. The Plan Nord has collapsed in half and brings no employment in the short term, and the maritime strategy will remain a project on paper for several years to come. In addition, the last budget contained no policies to stimulate the economy, only austerity measures that hurt it. We have repeatedly demanded, for a year, a real policy of economic development, but in vain; all we can measure today are the consequences of austerity, and they are felt every day, ”said Pierre Karl Péladeau.
“While 28,700 jobs have been created in Canada, only 5,300 have been created in Quebec. In the short term, we are seeing employment stagnation, in addition to seeing an increase in the number of families struggling with a decrease in their income. In the regions, in particular, where several development and consultation tools have been shattered, the effects of liberal austerity are being felt hard, ”added Dave Turcotte.
“All the measures in the last budget contribute only 0.1% of economic growth, but the compression measures will reduce this growth by 1%; that&#39;s 10 times more! Moreover, the last budget reported another decline in Quebec&#39;s economic performance in 2014, confirming that growth will be limited to 1.3%, or half that of Canada. What will finally make this government move? His stubbornness in not presenting a real economic development policy leads us to believe that he has absolutely no vision in this area for Quebec, ”Nicolas Marceau concluded.
