Quebec - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today underlines the success of the 2013-2014 call for projects of the program to support the Municipality friendly to seniors approach (MADA ). At the same time, he announces that the 54 new projects accepted will share a total amount of $ 1,422,547.
“This call for projects once again shows the seriousness of our commitment to support communities that care about the social inclusion of seniors. The municipalities and RCMs of Quebec responded in large numbers to the call, which demonstrates the vast interest expressed in MADA projects and confirms our position as a world leader in innovation to face aging. of the population, ”said Minister Hébert.
Municipalities and RCMs that subscribe to the MADA program undertake to promote the participation of seniors in the community by adapting services and infrastructures to their needs and by allowing them to take an active part in society, with the support of any population. With the 54 new projects admitted, which bring together 128 municipalities and MRCs, Quebec now has 704 participating municipalities and MRCs. It should be noted that there are 159 to date to have completed their process and to be recognized as age-friendly municipalities.
“The addition of these new projects brings us much closer to our objective of reaching in 2017 the number of 860 municipalities and RCMs involved in the ADM process. It should be noted that this approach goes hand in hand with our home support and autonomy insurance projects and that it aims to include seniors in the future of our society, an objective which is one of our priorities, ”added Minister Hébert.
The Minister also took the opportunity to underline the great success of the 2nd International Conference of Age-Friendly Cities (VADA), organized by the Ministry of Health and Social Services (Secretariat for Seniors) and sponsored by the World Health Organization, which took place in Quebec City from September 9 to 11, 2013. &quot;The avenues for reflection provided by this pooling of experiences carried out in nearly 50 countries will enrich our way of doing things in Quebec,&quot; he said. he concluded.
