Québec, October 24, 2014 - Following the announcement of the creation of the Institut nordique du Québec, the member for Marie-Victorin and official opposition critic for energy, natural resources and of northern development, Bernard Drainville, and the member for Gaspé and spokesperson for regional development, Gaétan Lelièvre, questioned the Liberal government&#39;s real desire to include the regions in version 2.0 of the Plan Nord.
“Once again, Prime Minister Philippe Couillard demonstrates the little interest he has for the regions of Quebec. After Bill 10 from Minister Barrette, which aims to restructure the health care network by shifting jobs and decision-making powers to large centers, the government announces that it is creating the Institut nordique du Québec, without include or even consult the University of Quebec in Abitibi-Témiscamingue and the University of Quebec in Chicoutimi. However, these teaching and research institutions have considerable expertise in areas related to the northern territory and the mining sector, ”said Bernard Drainville.
“The planned abolition of regional conferences of elected officials, cuts in funding for local development centers, the abolition of the youth-employment carrefours model and the 20% reduction in tax credits for resource regions are not just a few examples which show that no minister stands up in this government to defend the regions. The lack of consultation with regional universities for the creation of the Institut nordique du Québec is part of the same logic, ”added Gaétan Lelièvre.
If the Liberal government wants to launch a new Plan Nord, it has a duty to consult the northern communities, in particular the aboriginal nations, to obtain their support. The Plan Nord must indeed be defined in consultation with these communities, in order to respond to the challenges they face.
“The Liberal government will have to take into account the aspirations of all Quebecers this time around. Several organizations and municipalities would like to get involved in the planning or governance of the Plan Nord; unfortunately, they have not yet been invited. However, they would have many possible solutions to propose. The government must correct the situation and listen to the communities, municipalities and organizations directly concerned by northern development. It&#39;s a question of respect, ”concluded the member for Marie-Victorin.
