Québec, December 8, 2016 –The leader of the official opposition, Jean? François Lisée, the parliamentary leader, Pascal Bérubé, as well as the deputy leader and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of energy and natural resources, Sylvain Rochon, can not believe that the government has decided to impose the gag order to pass the bill containing the controversial chapter on hydrocarbons, which does not pass the bar of social acceptability.
“It would have been so easy for the government to accept our offer to split the bill. We could have ended the session by adopting, perhaps unanimously, the portion on energy transition. But no. The Liberals are stubbornly stubbornly making hydrocarbons a priority, while so many other important issues have to wait. What is in the rush? By forcing the adoption of a bill that allows expropriation, the government is working for the oil companies, purely and simply, ”says Jean-François Lisée.
“It&#39;s odious. The government, by imposing the gag order, is proving that it is completely indifferent and insensitive to what Quebeckers say to it, even though Monday&#39;s results sent it a clear message that it must be more careful. &#39;listen. At the Parti Québécois, we are listening. We oppose this bill and we make it a matter of principle. Even as we move towards a vote that will leave a bitter taste, we will continue to make constructive proposals that reflect the thinking of citizens and take into account their concerns; that&#39;s what they expect, ”said Pascal Bérubé.
Sylvain Rochon talks about a slap in the face to democracy and Quebecers. “The government is already hiding the scope of Chapter 4 of the bill in regulations that cannot be consulted. They concern fracking, a highly criticized practice, at the root of the shale gas crisis. Then, as if that were not enough, now he is forcing us to pass, pedal to the bottom, this bill. This practice has a name: a denial of democracy. And it is far from being glorious. The minister tells us that patience has its limits. To whose patience does it refer? To that of oil and gas? Let him think instead of Quebeckers impatient to see him ban fracking and expropriation, ”he insisted.
