Quebec - In reaction to the tabling of the Quebec government budget, Parti Québécois finance and revenue spokesperson Nicolas Marceau indicated that a balanced budget is the great liberal diversion to hide economic stagnation and austerity still present, as families, students and patients lose and get nothing more.
Deterioration of public finances and the economy
“The report of a Minister of Finance is measured by the state of the economy, by job creation, and by the state of public finances, by the debt / GDP ratio. Overall, the state of public finances is deteriorating. While the weight of debt in our economy was supposed to be 54% as of March 31, 2016, the budget tells us that it is actually 55%. A direct consequence of the Liberal government&#39;s budget cuts, which have undermined economic growth. Since June 2014, it is truly the &quot;limbo of forecasts&quot;: they go lower and lower. The liberal effect is to predict a 2% increase in GDP for 2015 and ultimately only reach half: 1.1%. For 2016-2017, the liberal effect will cut a billion in own-source revenue from what was forecast in the budget last year. Two years of austerity, that gave a debt / GDP ratio which is constantly increasing, ”declared Nicolas Marceau.
“In terms of wealth, Quebec fell back compared to Ontario in 2014 and 2015, whereas there was rather a catch-up since 2000. Many economic projects are canceled, Quebec is losing ground. The regions have lost their development tools, Quebec has lost jobs and head offices, and Quebecers have lost confidence in the government, ”continued the spokesperson.
The promise of 250,000 jobs missing, private investment at 0%
“The promise, which has become a target, then a myth, to create 250,000 jobs is now missing. No job has been created since the start of the year and, for the whole of 2016, less than 30,000 jobs are planned, ”added the deputy.
“Business investment is down 4.7% in 2015, and stands at 0% in 2016. The government does not foresee any increase in business investment and nothing to change the situation. It cannot be invented: 245 pages of measures generating 0% business investment. The Liberals are proposing some economic measures, but they themselves do not believe it. I insist: in 2016, 0% investment and the creation of less than 30,000 jobs. The work as a whole does not hold up, ”said Nicolas Marceau.
“The few economic measures proposed represent only half of what the Parti Québécois&#39; economic plan provided for. As usual, the Liberal government is doing things halfway and recycling. For the manufacturing sector, economic policy has been shoveled in the court of Hydro-Quebec. Not only is the majority of the sums planned for 2019 and 2020 but, in addition, two-thirds of the sums dedicated to helping the manufacturing sector come from Hydro-Québec, for lower electricity rates, ”he added. he also clarified.
Education: clearly insufficient
“Quebecers should not be fooled. Of the 164 million new measures invested in academic success, 80 had already been announced. The first amount of 80 million was already insignificant; the new is just as much. That&#39;s 0.5% of the education budget! The 3% increase expected this year is lower than the average for the 10 years preceding the Couillard government. However, the needs to support school perseverance and students in difficulty, in particular, are still present. Over the past two years, the Liberal government has cut hundreds of millions of dollars from our schools, CEGEPs and universities. If the historical average spending had only been maintained for the past two years, we would have, for 2016-2017, a billion more in the network. The minimal efforts made by the government are clearly insufficient, ”said Nicolas Marceau.
Health is the big loser of the budget
“In health, we are talking about a 2% increase in consolidated spending, unprecedented. It is the smallest investment in health for 15 years. The cuts in the health sector will continue, the network and the patients are the biggest losers in this budget. The Minister of Health is embarking on structural reforms, without improving patient and elder care. The President of the Conseil du trésor says it himself: the growth in spending is mainly attributable to the impact of salary adjustments. What is left for the patients? The planned level of spending shows that austerity is continuing and will continue over the next few years, ”added the Member for Rousseau.
Nothing more for families
“Once again, the Liberal government admits its mistake, but only halfway and only for a portion of the families. The &quot;CPE debt&quot;, or the family tax, will always be applied. The government of Quebec succeeds in balancing its budget on the backs of citizens, while families do not manage to balance theirs. The reduction in the tax burden for this year is $ 130 million, or $ 60 per family. To summarize, let&#39;s just say that for the past two years, the Liberal effect has cost every Quebec family $ 1,500 annually, without calculating the incidental costs of the Minister of Health and the recent increases in electricity rates. To be even clearer, families will have absolutely nothing more in their pockets this year. This is a very incomplete reimbursement: $ 1,500 less $ 60 gives an increase in the tax burden of $ 1,440 after the 2016-2017 budget, ”concluded the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois.
