Quebec, March 27, 2018 - The official opposition finance critic, Nicolas Marceau, denounces the electoral and desperate budget tabled by the Liberal government: “Quebecers now know the Liberal recipe: three years of cuts, a year of candy then elections. Faced with this nefarious cycle, they have two options: the CAQ, which promises to do worse, or the Parti Québécois, which is committed to breaking it, ”he declared.
IN SHORT
An electoral budget
“This budget is electoral not only because of the sweets found there, but also because the Liberals did not hesitate to plunge Quebec back into a situation of deficits, then austerity! They promise us the resumption of the liberal cycle, but with weakened services from the start. Such a budget could never be tabled next year. It is an electoral budget, and the Auditor General will confirm that it is not sustainable in the long term. It is a desperate move by the Liberals to retain power. We understand better why Philippe Couillard went to dip into the Generations Fund: it is to hide the deficits in which he chose to plunge Quebec. Only the Parti Québécois is committed to breaking this devastating cycle, ”insisted the spokesperson.
Return to austerity
“The population is not fooled; she knows that a Liberal re-election next October would mean another round of austerity and higher taxes, followed by a few cuts and giveaways for the pre-election period. As for the CAQ, it must answer us: how would it do things differently? The liberal recipe - cut and then lower taxes - will have to be even more salty if it is served by the CAQ! The Liberals are bequeathing a financial deadlock for the next few years and the CAQ, by promising irresponsible and unrealistic additional tax cuts, is hiding from voters the darkest days for health and education. For four years, we have known all the evil, all the suffering, and all the impoverishment that has been caused. The Parti Québécois is committed to responsibly reinvesting in public services, ”continued the member for Rousseau.
Several unresolved issues
“In health and education, $ 6.4 billion and $ 3.4 billion are missing respectively from what the Liberals promised in 2014. Contrary to what the Prime Minister told us, the budget confirms that for 2019-2020, almost a quarter of all new health care dollars will go towards increasing physician salaries. The Parti Québécois is proposing to freeze doctors&#39; salaries and reinvest the funds directly in services for patients. As far as electronic commerce is concerned, the biggest problem, that of non-taxation of tangible goods, will not be resolved. 60% of tax losses will remain. In addition, business investment is still lower today than before the Liberals came to power, and the good year 2017 did not allow a recovery. As a result, economic growth will decline in the coming years. Finally, with regard to regional air transport, rather than breaking Air Canada&#39;s monopoly, the government is announcing that it will subsidize the cost of overpriced tickets; in other words, it will subsidize the company, albeit indirectly, ”concluded Nicolas Marceau.
