Quebec - “The Liberal government has done enough damage. It has cut, harmed services to students, health care for our patients and our seniors, the development of our regions, the exports of our businesses. That&#39;s enough. It is time to breathe life into families, to support our SMEs and our regions, and to repair the Liberal mess in the health and education networks, ”insisted the leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, presenting the pre-budget expectations of the Parti Québécois, accompanied by the Parti Québécois spokesperson for finances, Nicolas Marceau, the spokesperson for education, Alexandre Cloutier, and the spokesperson for the family , Claude Cousineau.
On average, $ 1,125 for each family in Quebec
“Since his arrival, Philippe Couillard has increased rates by more than $ 1,100 per household. If the Parti Québécois prepared the budget for next week, we would help families in Quebec. The money is available by freezing the remuneration of physicians starting this year and ending their incorporation. This would free up $ 625 million from doctors, who have experienced a dizzying increase in their income, for families in Quebec, victims of the Liberals, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
With these $ 625 million, the Parti Québécois is proposing three measures:
“The shock caused by the increase in child care fees has affected many middle-class families. We must correct this Liberal mistake. Restoring the tariff is also a way of enhancing our public childcare services, which work every day to educate our little ones in a safe environment, ”said Claude Cousineau.
“Our students have suffered the effects of the liberal cuts in education; we must reinvest in a sustainable way, beyond liberal promises and accounting tricks. We must get out of this mess, while the needs are exploding in the network, the number of students in difficulty is increasing and several schools are falling into ruin, ”said Alexandre Cloutier.
Repair liberal damage
The Parti Québécois spokesperson for finances, Nicolas Marceau, for his part indicated that the budget surplus, achieved on the backs of Quebeckers, should be fully reinvested in services to citizens, mainly in education, health, in youth protection and social housing. “And, let&#39;s be clear, this will only make up for part of all the missing funds in the health and education networks. The quality of life of seniors, services to students, better access to care, at home and in mental health, there should be the priorities, ”he listed.
He recalls that the budget surpluses have been achieved at the expense of the essential missions of the State, by cuts in the financing of health, education, assistance to the elderly and other public services. Last year (2015-2016), funding for missions was practically zero (0.4%), while maintaining the basket of services required covering inflation of 3%. The cut was worth $ 1.7 billion. For the current year (2016-2017), the funding of missions is up by only 1.7%, whereas we were promised a reinvestment of 4%. This year, the cut is $ 1.5 billion. The real effect of liberal austerity is therefore $ 3.2 billion for the last two years.
Investing for our SMEs and for our regions
“Last year, Quebec&#39;s exports to the United States fell 4%. Philippe Couillard&#39;s plan is not working! We must send a strong message to businesses and support them in opening up new markets. For businesses with fewer than 250 employees or less than $ 50 million in sales, each additional $ 1 million income bracket generated in exports would be tax-free, ”added Nicolas Marceau.
“We have incredible wealth right now in Quebec: a high proportion of young Quebecers want to start a business. And, in addition, a majority wish to do so in their region of origin. We must support the establishment of businesses in all regions of Quebec. One of the keys to success is a high speed Internet and cell phone network. We suggest that the Quebec government take 10% of the amount allocated this year to the Generations Fund, i.e. $ 250 million, and invest this amount in the deployment of such a network, to cover all regions of the country as quickly as possible. Quebec ”, also specified the leader of the official opposition.
“After years of austerity, cuts and now austerity 2.0, we are asking the Liberal government to finally help families in Quebec. The Parti Québécois is proposing concrete, targeted measures to support our students, our seniors, our patients, our SMEs and our regions. Because it is time, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
