Longueuil– The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Minister responsible for the Montérégie region, Minister responsible for Culture and Communications for files concerning Ville de Longueuil and Member of Parliament for Taillon, Marie Malavoy, accompanied by the Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation and Member of Parliament for Marie-Victorin, Bernard Drainville, and Minister of Natural Resources and Member of Parliament for Vachon, Martine Ouellet, is pleased to announce that an agreement in principle of $ 20 million is given to the Théâtre de la Ville, for the construction of the cultural complex that it will share with the Théâtre Motus, Plein Sud and the Orchester symphonique de Longueuil.
“Long-awaited, this cultural complex bringing together four cultural organizations will give Longueuil a decisive advantage in continuing to stimulate development on its territory. The Théâtre de la Ville, a broadcaster already well established, can only deploy its mission and serve the population and contribute to quality social and cultural life. The contribution of the Government of Quebec is part of a desire to promote the performing arts for the benefit of all, ”said Minister Marie Malavoy.
“This is another demonstration that, when we all work in the same direction, with the same objectives and for the same cause, we can achieve great things. The people of Longueuil will now have a performance hall worthy of their city and we owe it to the extraordinary collaboration of all the partners: the City of Longueuil, the cultural community and our government. We believed in it and today, we are giving our theater! », Underlined Bernard Drainville, Member of Parliament for Marie-Victorin.
“This cultural complex will meet the real needs of our community and the four organizations it will house. These needs have also achieved a broad consensus among political, economic and cultural stakeholders in Longueuil in recent years. This complex will allow the citizens of Longueuil and the surrounding areas to benefit from a diversified cultural offer, music, theater and spectacle for the greatest pleasure of all, ”added Minister Martine Ouellet.
The cost of the project is estimated at $ 53 million, excluding the value of the land which is ceded by the City of Longueuil. The City has also set aside the same amount as the Government of Quebec, namely $ 20 million, for the construction of the cultural complex. Another part of the funding will be assumed by the Théâtre de la Ville, which will conduct a major fundraiser.
Financial assistance from the Ministry of Culture and Communications will come from the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan released in April and which will ultimately result in investments of $ 2 billion for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a shift in the way we invest and manage public infrastructure. This new approach will make it possible to prospectively assess the need, based on the priorities of Quebecers, to properly measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices.
