Quebec - A week after having made known Quebec&#39;s expectations for the Speech from the Throne, the Quebec government notes that the federal government is not correcting the issues on which there is consensus against it.
As part of the Speech from the Throne delivered yesterday, the federal government, far from having met Quebec&#39;s expectations, persists in its desire to impose on Quebeckers decisions that harm their economy. &quot;We asked the federal government to correct the situation, it is clear that with this speech, it misses the target for Quebec,&quot; said Minister Alexandre Cloutier.
Workforce training, securities and labor-sponsored funds are issues that bear witness to the specific economic nature of Quebec and that generate broad consensus. However, in the Speech from the Throne, the Conservative government continued to ignore Quebeckers&#39; call to stop attacking what is working well in Quebec.
“The federal government is in full contradiction. In his speech, he said he wanted to respect Quebec&#39;s jurisdictions, but he continued to encroach with both feet in workforce training and in the field of securities. Our government will stand up to defend the economic interests of Quebeckers and will hound this government so that it respects our jurisdiction and our economy, ”Minister Cloutier indicated.
With regard to the tightening of the rules concerning the safety of the transport of hazardous materials, Quebec expects the federal government to act quickly to respond concretely to the resolution adopted under the leadership of the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, at the last First Ministers&#39; Conference. Moreover, Quebec made its specific expectations known to the federal government at the last meeting of transport ministers in Winnipeg.
“The federal government had greatly neglected its responsibility for the transportation of hazardous materials. In this speech, he gave no specific indication and gave himself no timetable for proposing new rules. It is not just up to the transport companies to ensure the safety of their convoys. Quebeckers expect Ottawa to assume its responsibilities now. It is the economic vitality and security of our communities that depend on it, ”said Minister Cloutier.
The Marois government is also dissatisfied with the silence of the federal government regarding the issue of the toll on the Champlain Bridge. “It is nonsense to establish a toll on the most important trade route in Quebec. The Harper government must respect the advice of Quebec, the 82 cities of the Montreal Metropolitan Community and the Partners&#39; Office and must quickly indicate that it is abandoning the idea of further taxing people in the greater Montreal area, ”indicates Minister Cloutier.
While hundreds of citizens and groups of workers and employers from across Quebec have reported, at hearings of the National Review Commission, the negative effects of the reform of the federal government&#39;s Employment Insurance, the Speech from the Throne made no mention of any desire on the part of the latter to back down on the reform that he unilaterally implemented last January. &quot;By turning its back on the problems it itself created, the federal government is determined to work against the Quebec economy,&quot; said Minister Cloutier.
The Quebec government denounces the direction that the Conservative government wants to give to homelessness assistance policies with the “Housing First” approach and asks it instead to renew the Homelessness Partnership Strategy (HPS) ) as it was, or by respecting Québec guidelines. “There is a strong consensus among community groups and stakeholders in the fight against homelessness in Quebec that the current program works well and gives excellent results. In this area, there is no single recipe and the federal government&#39;s approach, which is solely focused on housing, does not correspond to Quebec&#39;s needs, ”Minister Cloutier reminded us.
The government also wishes to remind the federal government of the worrying problems experienced by the Aboriginals and Inuit of Nord-du-Québec. &quot;We want the assurance that the indications given about housing assistance in northern Canada will be fair to Quebec and that our northern communities will receive their fair share,&quot; said Alexandre Cloutier, who is also the minister responsible for the North. of Quebec.
As part of the announced opening of construction contracts for Coast Guard vessels, the Government of Quebec will remain vigilant to ensure that Chantier Davie obtains its fair share of federal contracts. “Quebec was completely ignored when it awarded $ 33 billion in contracts for the construction of the last military ships. There is no way that this will happen again for the construction of civilian boats, ”said Minister Cloutier.
“By announcing that it will return to budget surpluses after 2015 while maintaining its intention to reduce Health Transfers by nearly 8.6 billion over the next ten years, the Harper government will accentuate the fiscal imbalance. Once again, Ottawa is going to cut its transfers to create surpluses on the backs of Quebecers, ”said Minister Alexandre Cloutier.
“What this Speech from the Throne shows us is that the federal government is making decisions that weaken Quebec&#39;s economic structure. If Quebecers no longer want to react to the economic decisions of the federal government, they will have to realize that it is only through the sovereignty of Quebec that they can be masters of their decisions, ”concluded the Minister for Governance. sovereignist, Alexandre Cloutier.
