Longueuil - On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, “I am pleased, as Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports and Minister responsible for the Montérégie region, to announce the allocation of financial assistance of $ 3,763,600 intended for independent public libraries in 46 municipalities in the Montérégie region. This contribution will enable libraries to acquire books, periodicals and multimedia documents which will enrich their collections, ”said Marie Malavoy. This aid is paid within the framework of the call for projects for the development of the collections of autonomous public libraries.
For the year 2013-2014, a total of $ 18,798,300 is allocated to autonomous public libraries in 169 municipalities in Quebec. Assistance of $ 14,298,300 is paid within the framework of the call for projects for the development of the collections of independent public libraries, to which is added a sum of $ 4.5 million paid within the framework of the Development Agreement. cultural with the City of Montreal.
“Places of knowledge, knowledge, exchange and discovery, libraries are of particular importance in our society. It is with great pride that the Government of Quebec supports in a tangible way the updating of the collections of these establishments. This involvement will allow libraries in particular to increase their potential as a space for disseminating knowledge to citizens of all ages, ”Minister Kotto said.
The call for projects for the development of the collections of autonomous public libraries is aimed at municipalities with at least 5,000 inhabitants offering a public library service to the population. The terms and conditions for the allocation of financial assistance were established in such a way as to promote free basic services and to encourage the purchase of books and periodicals published in Quebec.
All the information concerning the call for projects to develop the collections of independent public libraries is available on the website of the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications, at www..mcc.gouv.qc.ca.
