Montreal - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, today presented the Quebec Quality Grand Prix to two organizations that have stood out for the quality of their management and their overall performance. Thus, Boa-Franc senc and Fordia have received the highest distinctions awarded by the Government of Quebec to companies and organizations that successfully apply best business practices.
“Today, we are paying tribute to organizations that very well represent the strengths of the Quebec economy. These companies stand out, innovate and establish themselves through the quality of their products and services as well as their management, here and abroad. The winning companies are models of excellence for all organizations wishing to prosper, ”said the Premier.
The award ceremony took place in front of 1,000 business leaders and economic stakeholders gathered at the Palais des congrès de Montréal, on the occasion of the 2012 Quality Event. The Premier was accompanied by the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Mouvement québécois of quality, Roch L. Dubé, and of the president of the selection jury for the Grands Prix québécois de la qualité and director of HEC Montreal, Michel Patry.
In addition to the two Grand Prize winning organizations, five other companies or organizations were honored. Thus, Xstrata Copper - Affinerie CCR obtained a Grande Mention, while Mentions were awarded to SBI - International stove manufacturer inc., To Industrial Alliance, Auto and home insurance, to Valacta, center of expertise in dairy production, and the Laboratory of Forensic Sciences and Forensic Medicine.
&quot;The competition that exists, both on local and foreign markets, represents a major challenge for our companies,&quot; Pauline Marois also underlined. The implementation of more efficient management and production processes and the appropriation of innovation represent powerful instruments for increasing the competitiveness and profitability of our organizations. &quot;
Boa-Franc senc is established in Saint-Georges de Beauce where it employs 260 people. Over the years, it has become a leader in the manufacture and marketing of superior quality prefinished floors. It sets itself apart from its competitors by the attention it pays to the satisfaction of its employees and customers, by its innovative strength, its unique know-how and a very efficient sales network. The senior management of Boa-Franc senc demonstrates leadership in all areas of the organization. It has a recognition program that has mobilized employees. Day after day, Kaizen activities are carried out in the various departments in order to constantly improve the performance and results of the company.
Fordia is headquartered in Dollard-des-Ormeaux, in Montreal, and has some 300 employees in Quebec and abroad. It offers a full line of diamond tools, equipment and accessories, particularly to drilling companies and mining companies. It distributes its products in 34 countries. Fordia has experienced tremendous growth despite a slowing economy in the United States and Europe. Thanks to visionary leadership, the company has been able to adapt in a highly competitive market. For ten years, she has carried out a rigorous strategic planning exercise deployed throughout the organization. Thanks to the attention it pays to its employees and customers, and the culture of quality and innovation that it has developed, Fordia has all the characteristics of a world-class company.
Xstrata Copper - CCR Affinerie is located in Montreal East where it employs 550 people who work in the responsible and profitable development of mineral resources. This division of Xstrata Copper Canada refines copper by electrolysis, the final phase of its transformation before it is marketed. Thanks to its leadership and an innovative approach, CCR has been able to differentiate itself from competitors by relying on new working methods to which employees have adhered. The company has revised its business model in order to focus on more specialized and profitable production. CCR&#39;s risk management model is industry leading. In addition, the Six Sigma approach helps to increase the performance of the company.
It should be remembered that four organizations received a Mention during the 2012 edition of the Grands Prix québécois de la qualité. They are SBI - Manufacturer of International Stoves Inc., Industrial Alliance, Auto and Home Insurance, Valacta, a center of expertise in dairy production, and the Laboratory of Forensic Sciences and Forensic Medicine.
Information sheets and photographs of the winners of the 2012 Quebec Quality Awards are available at the following address: www.qualite.qc.ca/grands-prix/les-laureats.
The Grands Prix québécois de la qualité (GPQQ) are the highest distinctions awarded by the Government of Quebec to the most efficient companies and organizations. Established in 1998, the GPQQ compare, by their rigor, to internationally renowned awards such as the Deming Prize (Japan), the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award (United States) or the European Quality Award. The GPQQs are administered jointly by the Ministry of Finance and the Economy and the Mouvement québécois de la qualité.
The Mouvement québécois de la qualité is a non-profit organization whose primary role is to help organizations explore, share and implement best management practices so that they become the most efficient in the world in their sectors. respective activity.
