Bonaventure - The Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (wildlife and parks component) and Member of Parliament for Bonaventure, Mr. Sylvain Roy, on behalf of the Minister for the Regions and Minister responsible for region of Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, announces, within the framework of the Regional Initiatives Fund, additional financial assistance of $ 150,000 to the Bioparc de la Gaspésie to support the advancement of development of the second phase of their project.
Remember that the Bioparc was created in 1998 on the site of the former Bonaventure zoo, is an educational and ecological animal park whose mission is to present and protect the flora and fauna of the Gaspé. In 2009, the realization of a first phase of development, which saw the construction of rental chalets and new animal habitats, made it possible to enhance the regional tourist offer. The project therefore aims to support the completion of a second phase of work in order to improve the profitability of the organization and increase the duration of visits and stays, which would thereby help stimulate the local economy. and regional. More concretely, this work would make it possible to strengthen the animal center, expand and consolidate the existing service infrastructures and enhance the Bonaventure barachois.
“The assistance granted today demonstrates the desire of the Government of Quebec to support the economic, tourist and social development of the Gaspé by consolidating and creating jobs as well as by optimizing infrastructure. It is essential to support institutions like the Bioparc which not only promote the exploitation of our resources, but also their knowledge and respect, ”declared MP Sylvain Roy.
The Regional Initiatives Assistance Fund is part of the support for the government intervention strategy for the development of the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region and is a major lever to promote, in particular, the achievement of projects stemming from the region&#39;s development priorities. A maximum annual envelope of $ 6 million is provided for this fund for a period of five years. The program is in effect until March 31, 2018.
