Témiscouata-sur-le-Lac– The Minister for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Member of Parliament for Matane-Matapédia, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the territory and Minister of Transport, Sylvain Gaudreault, announces financial assistance of $ 137,012 to the Association of people with disabilities Entre-Amis du Témiscouata for the acquisition and renovation of a building in order to improve the services offered to citizens. Assistance of $ 93,527 comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship Infrastructure Program (PIEC), to which is added a contribution of $ 43,485 from the Fonds conjoncturel de développement (FCD).
Founded in 1978, the Association of Disabled People Entre-Amis du Témiscouata&#39;s mission is to support, train, inform, promote and defend the rights of disabled people as well as the development of leisure activities for them. This non-profit organization, which is also agent of the offices of the Société de l&#39;assurance automobile du Québec (SAAQ), covers all 19 municipalities of the Regional County Municipality (MRC) of Témiscouata. Currently, it operates out of two leased locations, which are 11 km from each other. The project therefore aims to acquire and renovate a building in order to bring together all the services offered under one roof.
“It is with great pride that our government supports this flagship organization of the MRC de Témiscouata, which provides essential support to the most disadvantaged among us while promoting their integration. Ultimately, the realization of this project will help consolidate and develop the activities offered to disabled people in Témiscouata, ”Minister Bérubé declared.
With an investment envelope of $ 10 million, the CEIP aims to support social economy enterprises in the implementation of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition projects for commercial infrastructures. or industrial. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, to contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories and to promote the preservation and enhancement of the quality of the environment.
It should be noted that the FCD aims to support initiatives which contribute in particular to economic, social, cultural, tourist, environmental and technological development and which could not be achieved without its contribution.
