Sainte-Anne-des-Monts– The Minister for the Regions, Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region and Member for the riding of Gaspé, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, announces a two-year extension of the financial assistance to the Haute-Gaspésie Avalanche Center to enable it to find a longer-term financing solution. Thus, $ 70,000 per year for the next two years will be paid to the organization under the Regional Initiatives Assistance Fund to maintain expertise in avalanche prevention in the Chic-Chocs. This amount is in addition to the amount of $ 70,000 already authorized for the current year.
Founded in 1999, the non-profit organization&#39;s mission is to improve safety in the face of avalanche risks by offering specialized services and activities aimed at raising awareness, informing and educating the general public.
“The financial assistance announced today will help ensure the survival of the Haute-Gaspésie Avalanche Center and maintain expertise in the Gaspé region that is essential to the development of winter tourism in the region. This confirmation of financial assistance for the next two years from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy will allow the Avalanche Center to count on predictable support from the Government of Quebec for the next two years. In addition to the financial assistance granted, I gave the mandate to the regional directorate of the ministry to sit at the same table various partners so that all the financial package necessary for the operation of the organization can be ensured through term ”, declared Minister Lelièvre.
The Regional Initiatives Assistance Fund is part of the support for the government intervention strategy for the development of the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region and is a major lever to promote, in particular, the achievement of projects stemming from the region&#39;s development priorities. A maximum annual envelope of $ 6 million is provided for this fund for a period of five years. The program is in effect until March 31, 2018.
