Salaberry-de-Valleyfield– The MNA for Beauharnois, Mr. Guy Leclair, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announces financial assistance of $ 40,000 to Antichambre 12-17, Youth Accommodation in Suroît to carry out renovations and purchase furniture for its new accommodation. This sum comes from the conjunctural development fund (FCD).
To ensure its mission, the organization wishes to offer temporary accommodation to young people aged 12 to 17. In the &quot;Auberge du cœur&quot; style, this establishment will offer, in addition to a safe place to spend the night, a psychosocial intervention adapted to the reality of young people on the street or at high risk of being. Last October, the organization purchased a house. However, work is necessary to make the building safe and suitable for young people and to purchase furniture. The total cost of the work and acquisitions is $ 80,000.
L&#39;Antichambre 12-17, Youth Accommodation in Suroît, was created in 2012. It offers young people in Suroît community support for social integration, which can be broken down in terms of accommodation, guidance, information. , support, social or professional learning, empowerment with regard to their social, emotional, family, economic, political and cultural environment.
“It is with great pride that the Government of Quebec supports this project. It will help strengthen solidarity in our region by offering young people all the support they need to take an active part in our community. Support for the most vulnerable among us is an issue that particularly affects us, because it is directly linked to the commitment we have made to make solidarity one of the pillars that guide our action ”, mentioned the deputy Leclair.
It should be noted that the FCD aims to support initiatives which contribute in particular to economic, social, cultural, tourist, environmental and technological development and which could not be achieved without its contribution.
