Quebec - The deputies of the Committee on Health and Social Services of the National Assembly of Quebec today begin public hearings as part of a mandate of initiative on the living conditions of adults living in centers. accommodation and long-term care. These hearings will allow parliamentarians to hear from around 40 organizations, health and social services agencies, accommodation centers, associations and federations as well as professional orders affected by the situation of people lodged in CHSLD.
The members of the Commission unanimously adopted this mandate of initiative on May 14, 2013. They want their work to promote the sharing of innovative solutions to improve the services and care provided to people staying in CHSLDs. Members will make recommendations in this regard.
&quot;We intend to take advantage of the discussions that are beginning to support the Ministry of Health and Social Services, organizations, agencies, establishments, CHSLD staff and all those interested in their efforts to improve the conditions of life of adults living in CHSLDs, ”declared the President of the Committee on Health and Social Services, Mr. Lawrence S. Bergman.
“The living conditions of people accommodated in CHSLDs constitute a vast subject. The work of the Commission will therefore target some of the challenges that arise in this environment. This concerns in particular the accessibility of CHSLDs, their funding, their physical organization, the particular groups they host and family caregivers. The Commission will also examine the quality of care and services provided, the organization of work and staff training, ”added Commission Vice-President Suzanne Proulx.
In addition to the public hearings, all citizens can participate in the proceedings from today by means of an online consultation. Their responses will feed into the reflection of parliamentarians on the subject. In addition, in order to better study the living conditions of residents, the members of the Commission will visit CHSLDs in some regions of Quebec in March.
Remember that the Committee on Health and Social Services is one of the eleven standing parliamentary committees of the National Assembly of Quebec. It has jurisdiction in health as well as social and community services. The Commission may, by virtue of its power of initiative, study any matter of public interest in its field. The names of its members are attached.
Note that the online questionnaire, the hearing schedule and the consultation document are available on the National Assembly website at: www.assnat.qc.ca/CHSLD
