Lamarche - The Minister responsible for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Minister responsible for the Nord-du-Québec region and Member of Parliament for Lac-Saint-Jean, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, on behalf of the Minister of Affairs Municipalities, Regions and Land Occupancy and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announces the granting of financial assistance of $ 185,250 for the Municipality of Lamarche to ensure the protection of the population in matters of fire safety.
Thanks to the financial assistance granted, the Municipality of Lamarche will be equipped with a new self-pumping fire truck to ensure its fire safety service. As the useful life of the old truck has been reached, the Municipality of Lamarche will be able to ensure adequate protection on its territory. This project, which requires investments of $ 195,000, complies with the MRC&#39;s fire safety risk coverage plan.
“I am very happy to announce this acquisition for the Municipality of Lamarche. The contribution of the Government of Quebec will allow citizens to benefit from a quality fire protection service in accordance with the risk coverage plan of the MRC of Lac-Saint-Jean-Est, ”indicated Minister Cloutier.
The Government of Quebec has the future of the regions and the people who live there at heart, and that is why it has made the dynamic occupation of the territories a priority. By ensuring the safety of the population of the Municipality of Lamarche, it reiterates its desire to support rural municipalities and to offer essential services to all Quebecers.
Financial assistance comes from the [Support Fund for Territories in Difficulty- (http://www.mamrot.gouv.qc.ca/developpement-regional-et-rural/programmes/fonds-de-soutien-aux-territoires- en-difficile-fstd /) which is part of the government action plan for municipalities. This fund has five components, one of which is intended to finance the purchase of equipment enabling municipalities to comply with government standards, particularly in terms of the environment and fire safety.
