Saint-Félicien– The Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance and Member of Parliament for Lac-Saint-Jean, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Bank of economic development of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced, as part of the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise, the allocation of loan guarantees totaling more than $ 2 million to the Coopérative Forestière de Petit-Paris to support it in the pursuit of its diversification.
This financial support will allow the purchase of equipment, including a mobile forestry camp. The new equipment will give the Cooperative additional leeway, in particular to exploit lots put up for auction. Originally, the Coopérative Forestière de Petit-Paris, founded in 1968, devoted itself exclusively to logging. Over the years, it has gradually diversified its activities to add reforestation, clearing of tree stands, land preparation, supply as well as the transformation and use of resources, for example forest biomass, for energy purposes. The Cooperative provides employment for 350 workers, of which 170 are members.
“I am proud to announce the financial support of more than $ 2 million to the Coopérative Forestière de Petit-Paris, an avant-garde company which recently distinguished itself by obtaining an award at the Gala de la Chambre de commerce and of industry Lac-Saint-Jean-Est, ”said Alexandre Cloutier. “By diversifying in 1987, it was able to take advantage of new business opportunities. Thus, since 2012, it has produced heating from biomass, which allows it to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase its profitability and maximize local benefits. It is a dynamic company that has managed its resources in a responsible and sustainable manner. &quot;
From left to right: Denis Trottier, Member of Parliament for Roberval and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (forestry section) Alain Paradis, Director General of the Coopérative Forestière de Petit-Paris, Martine Ouellet, Minister of Natural Resources and Alexandre Cloutier, Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance and Minister responsible for the Nord-du-Québec region. // (c) Jean Briand
&quot;If there is one sector where diversification is crucial, it is the forest industry,&quot; said Élaine Zakaïb. “We must salute the determination of this workers&#39; cooperative which has successfully achieved its diversification strategy. &quot;
“The investment announced today will allow the Cooperative to modernize its equipment and increase its productivity, two elements favored by the industrial policy recently made public. This is indeed the only way for manufacturing companies to increase their competitiveness and better position themselves in the face of new market realities. &quot;
&quot;Thanks to the participation of Investissement Québec, we will be able to complete our financial package and make this project a reality,&quot; said Alain Paradis, general manager of the Coopérative Forestière de Petit-Paris. “This new equipment will also allow us to react quickly if opportunities arise and thus ensure the sustainability of the Cooperative&#39;s activities and work for our members. &quot;
Investissement Québec&#39;s mission is to promote the growth of investment in Québec, thereby contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The Company provides businesses with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity investments, to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, she is responsible for administering tax measures and prospecting for investments abroad.
