Dolbeau-Mistassini– The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, and her parliamentary assistant for forestry issues, Denis Trottier, today announced the holding, at Saint-Félicien, on November 21 and 22, at the Rendez-vous de la forêt québécoise.
“The main players in the wood industry who care about the forest, its industry and its workers will be invited to the Rendez-vous de la forêt québécoise. This meeting will make it possible to reflect on the timber industry as the engine of a new green economy and to agree on a forestry action plan which will be spread over three years. In this regard, we can say that this Rendez-vous is an integral part of the future economic policy of the Government of Quebec, ”announced the Premier.
The Rendezvous will be opened by the Premier, in the presence of the Minister of Natural Resources and members of the region, including the Member of Parliament for Roberval and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources for Forests, who is entrusted with the mandate. to prepare for the event.
“To oversee the preparation of the Rendez-vous, we are fortunate to have a passionate defender of the forest, a person who has been committed to the cause for years. I asked Denis Trottier to devote all his energy, over the next few weeks, to organizing this summit meeting. With the Minister of Natural Resources and her team, he will be responsible for preparing the Rendez-vous de la forêt québécoise. He will ensure that, in collaboration with stakeholders in the forestry sector, we do not lose sight of the essential: giving new impetus to the forestry sector, ”added the Prime Minister.
The Rendez-vous de la forêt québécoise will bring together representatives of national associations in the forest management sector, forest industry, regions and municipalities, the research and education sector, financial institutions, unions. , forest professionals and practitioners, associations representing private forests, First Nations and socio-economic groups. The various themes will be: silviculture and the development of Quebec&#39;s forests, optimal use of a precious resource, the future of the industry and job creation.
“Forests are an important, if not essential, economic engine for many regions of Quebec. They offer very interesting prospects for economic development, for the benefit of all Quebecers. This vision, shared by many of our partners, will be at the heart of the Rendez-vous de la forêt québécoise, ”said Roberval MNA Denis Trottier.
“Wood is the ecological material par excellence. An important part of the Rendez-vous discussions will be devoted to silviculture and forest development. We also want to ensure that the entire timber industry can rely on a qualified workforce to meet the challenges it faces. We want to ensure that the forest is an asset in all regions, that it allows us to create jobs and that it once again becomes a source of pride. We want to build a broad consensus aimed at stimulating the competitiveness of the forestry sector, encouraging innovation and the development of new value-added products, and reducing our production of greenhouse gases, ”concluded Minister Martine Ouellet.
For all information about the Rendezvous de la forêt québécoise, visit www.rendezvousdelaforet.gouv.qc.ca.
Consult the press releases issued during the Rendez-vous national de la forêt québécoise
Also visit the Parti Québécois blog to read the Premier&#39;s post &quot;A big step towards the future for Quebec&#39;s forests.&quot; &quot;
