QUÉBEC, April 14, 2020 / CNW Telbec / - Following the recent and upsetting events that have occurred, in particular, in a CHSLD in Dorval, the member for Rimouski and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois pour les Seniors, Harold LeBel, reiterates a proposal repeatedly put forward by its political party and having been the subject of the tabling of a bill: once the crisis has passed, Quebec will have to appoint a protector of the elderly.
IN SHORT
The multiplication of outbreaks, as well as the too many deaths that have occurred in recent weeks in seniors&#39; residences, public and private, are food for thought. “The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the consequences of the state&#39;s disengagement from elder care, and the limitations of previous health policies. It&#39;s simple, the human being has lost his place. That must change, ”said the member for Rimouski at the outset.
On several occasions last year, notably through a bill, the Parti Québécois called for the creation of a function similar to that of the Québec Ombudsman, but specifically dedicated to seniors. “I have said it over and over again: caring for seniors must become a national priority. Every week we hear a new horror story and lately the situation is exacerbated by the pandemic. But the shortage of personnel, the lack of equipment or their obsolescence, deficient care, it does not date from yesterday ”, continued Harold LeBel.
The member also points out that a protector of seniors would ensure the safety and respect for the rights of all seniors in Quebec. “About 85% of seniors live at home. They often benefit from the support of relatives, or even home care. However, they too can find themselves in a vulnerable situation. Not only do we have to make sure that they have access to all the services they may need, but we also have to prevent mistreatment and all forms of abuse, ”he explained.
The Quebec Seniors Ombudsman, completely independent from the Department of Health, would be appointed to the Commission des droits de la personne et des droits de la jeunesse. It could be alerted by the elders themselves, or by anyone suspecting abuse. “We have seen it often, and even more so in recent weeks: seniors have the right to better, to much better. For now, we obviously have to deal with the crisis. Then, in the interest of the elderly and for their good, the State must create an independent body which will ensure, first of all, respect and promotion of their rights. But more than that, it will ensure that seniors can live in dignity. I ask the government to take this gesture that will honor us all, ”concluded Harold LeBel.
