Quebec - “The tabling of the 2012-2013 Public Accounts confirms that our government has respected its spending targets and has succeeded in establishing rigorous control. This is good news for Quebec taxpayers, who expect us to lead by example by ensuring exemplary management of public finances. We can say that this is mission accomplished for the 2012-2013 financial year ”, announced today the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, on the occasion of the publication of the financial statements of the government for the 2012-2013 fiscal year.
In fact, the budget deficit for the year ended March 31, 2013 stands at $ 1.6 billion, or $ 146 million less than that announced when the preliminary monthly report was published last June.
“At 0.4% of our gross domestic product (GDP), Quebec&#39;s deficit compares favorably with those of other jurisdictions. As an indication, Ontario recorded a deficit of $ 9.2 billion for the same year, or 1.4% of its GDP. The federal government, for its part, posted a deficit of $ 18.9 billion, or 1.0% of Canadian GDP, ”noted the Minister.
The budget deficit of $ 1.6 billion is $ 100 million higher than what was forecast in the economic and financial update of March 2013 and in the budget tabled on November 20, 2012.
The government has achieved the best performance of the last 15 years in terms of controlling program spending. In fact, program spending was $ 395 million lower than the level of spending forecast in the 2012-2013 budget tabled in March 2012 and in Update on Québec&#39;s economic and financial situation in March 2013. Their growth was contained at 1.2% in 2012-2013, a much smaller increase than that of 2011-2012, which was 2.5%.
“As soon as we took office in the fall of 2012, we had to resolve a budget impasse of $ 1.6 billion. Had it not been for our action, the deficit would have reached $ 3.1 billion. This was done by re-establishing rigor in the management of public expenditure, while protecting services to the population. The rigorous control of spending has also made it possible to offset the decrease in income linked in particular to less vigorous growth than expected in household consumption and to lower inflation than expected at the end of the government&#39;s financial year ”, he added. indicated the minister.
In addition, the public accounts show that the gross debt as at March 31, 2013 is $ 1.9 billion lower than the forecast published last March in Update on Quebec&#39;s economic and financial situation. This difference is explained by lower borrowings than expected for investments in fixed assets and by the favorable variation in accounting items such as accounts payable and receivable.
As of March 31, the gross debt-to-GDP ratio stood at 53.3%, while it was estimated at 54.2% in the economic and financial update last March.
Last June, the National Assembly adopted a law specifying that no transfer made by a ministry may be entered in the accounts of the government other than in accordance with the prior authorization of the Parliament of Quebec.
This clarification confirmed a practice in effect for more than thirty years in the Government of Quebec. Indeed, according to this practice:
The government of Quebec finances a share of the investments in fixed assets of municipalities, such as sewers, water and public transport, as well as fixed assets of universities by granting annual grants for the repayment of capital and interest on the loans that these municipalities and universities have contracted to finance these fixed assets.
The Auditor General has confirmed that the government&#39;s financial statements comply with the law.
Since 2011, the Ministry of Finance and the Economy has maintained that the revised standard on transfer payments allows the government to maintain its current practice with respect to grants awarded annually to repay principal and interest on long-term financing. term of fixed assets. Indeed, when the Public Sector Accounting Board - the body responsible for accounting standardization in Canada for the public sector - adopted this revised standard, it did not believe that it introduced substantive changes by compared to old standards.
The position of the Quebec Ministry of Finance and the Economy is confirmed by the independent opinions produced by four internationally renowned accounting firms consulted on this subject, namely KPMG, Ernst &amp; Young, PricewaterhouseCoopers and Samson Bélair / Deloitte &amp; Touch.
To this end, the Department submitted to the Public Sector Accounting Council a legal opinion supporting its interpretation that the enabling power to authorize the expenditure, within the meaning of the revised accounting standard, rests with the Parliament of Quebec and not only to government. The transfer standard continues to be reviewed by this body.
“The government&#39;s consolidated financial statements, tabled today in the National Assembly, adequately reflect the financial situation. The current accounting practice used by the government for its transfer spending reflects the powers of the National Assembly and allows for sound management of our infrastructure spending. Following the publication of the revised standard on transfers, which has been in effect for more than two years, the Ministry of Finance and the Economy argues that the government complies with the Canadian public sector accounting standard for transfers. The Public Sector Accounting Council will have to take into account the position defended by Quebec and supported by four major international accountancy firms, ”said the Minister of Finance and the Economy.
The consolidated financial statements of the Government of Quebec are available on the website of the Ministère des Finances et de l&#39;Économie at the following address: www.finances.gouv.qc.ca.
