Quebec - Awaited for over two years now, the Liberal government has just announced on the sly that it is postponing the tabling and adoption of a law on hydrocarbons within three to five years. An aberration according to the Parti Québécois.
“The anarchic and archaic development of the gas industry in Quebec can no longer continue. A minimum of supervision is needed to reassure Quebeckers. It is out of the question to wait for the results of the strategic environmental assessment (SEA) before improving the supervision of hydrocarbons. There is a way to limit the damage and put an end to the policy of headlonging forward, ”said the MP for Vachon and official opposition spokesperson for mines and shale gas, Martine Ouellet.
The member recalls that while waiting for the law on hydrocarbons, promised by the Liberal government in the spring of 2009, it is the Mining Act that applies. However, Bill 14 currently under study does not provide for any new framework for the gas sector.
PQ wants amendments to Bill 14 amending the Mining Act
Pending the adoption of a law on hydrocarbons, now postponed indefinitely, the Parti Québécois intends to submit amendments during the detailed study of Bill 14.
“We must ban hydraulic fracturing for shale gas in the St. Lawrence Lowlands, the territory defined in Minister Bachand&#39;s last budget, until we know the conclusions of the SEA on the issue. We must also plan a study by the BAPE before any drilling for gas and oil so that the debate can take place before the appearance of environmental impacts, ”continued the Member for Vachon.
The Parti Québécois intends to table amendments to review the royalty regime so that at least 50% of the wealth created by hydrocarbons returns to Quebecers and to establish an auction mechanism for the allocation of exploration permits. “It is amazing how the government limits itself to maximum royalties of 17% and tolerates it costing as little as 10 cents per hectare to do exploration. We want the government to stop giving our resources. We want to be masters at home, ”continued, for his part, the member for Marie-Victorin and energy spokesperson, Bernard Drainville.
&quot;Since these parameters are absent from Bill 14, we must integrate them so as not to further squander our resources and respond to the legitimate concerns of the population,&quot; concluded Martine Ouellet and Bernard Drainville.
