** Trois-Rivières- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Réjean Hébert, accompanied by the MNA for Champlain, Noëlla Champagne, is proud to announce that the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec are see new annual budgets of $ 7,011,800 confirmed to improve home care and services for seniors in the two regions. In addition, an injection of additional appropriations of $ 5,209,600 is granted to cover the increase in development costs for this territory. The allocation of these sums thus improves equity between the regions in the allocation of resources.
As part of the government&#39;s commitment to add $ 110 million in home care, the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec have been confirmed new annual budgets of $ 7,011,800 to improve home care and services. offered to the elderly in their territory.
“I am proud of the effort we are making this year to strengthen the home care offer, as it is today, in Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. Improving services for seniors with loss of autonomy is one of our government&#39;s top priorities, as will also be confirmed by our approach to autonomy insurance, which will be unveiled shortly. Immediate improvement in home support will make it possible to serve more seniors, to help those who already receive services even more judiciously and to better support families, ”said Minister Hébert.
These new credits have three components:
For Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, an envelope of $ 5,209,600 has been allocated to support the region&#39;s development costs. &quot;The addition of these credits will make it possible in particular to increase front-line health services and better meet the needs of the population, at the local and regional level, in addition to helping to improve interregional equity in financing&quot; , added Minister Réjean Hébert.
“People with a loss of autonomy in Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, as well as members of their entourage, will see a marked improvement in the offer of home care. The two regions are also benefiting from a significant budgetary injection to correct a certain historical underfunding, ”declared the deputy for Champlain, Noëlla Champagne, for her part.
In fact, the injection of these sums announced today will help improve the equity of health financing between the regions, including those of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. This method consists of distributing the available budgetary envelopes, taking better account of regional characteristics and the needs of the population, in particular from the point of view of demographic development.
