Sherbrooke– Seniors and families in Sherbrooke now have access to 56 new housing units built thanks to the AccèsLogis Québec program of the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ). La Diligence, a housing solidarity cooperative, was inaugurated today by the Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Seniors, Minister responsible for the Estrie region and Member of Parliament for Saint-François, Mr. Réjean Hébert , in the presence of many community partners.
This housing cooperative has two buildings, one with 40 housing units for seniors and the other with 16 housing units for families. More than $ 6.2 million was invested for this project, of which some $ 3.1 million was granted by the government of Quebec, through the SHQ.
“Thanks to this project, seniors and families evolve in the same environment, of quality and adapted to the needs of each one. This proximity promotes exchanges, mutual aid and the sharing of knowledge between the different generations. This intergenerational solidarity contributes to the enrichment of our society and that is why our government is very proud to be associated with this great local initiative, ”declared Minister Réjean Hébert, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and of Land Occupation, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault.
In addition to the SHQ subsidy, the City of Sherbrooke invested nearly $ 895,000 for this project. It should also be noted that a grant of over $ 124,000 was awarded by the Office of Energy Efficiency and Innovation of the Ministry of Natural Resources so that the project meets the standards of the Novoclimat program. Finally, the SHQ guarantees the mortgage loan taken out by the organization La Diligence, a housing solidarity cooperative, which makes it possible to complete the financing of the project.
“Thanks to the Diligence, our community can now keep its young families and its seniors, even attract new ones, which will contribute in the near future, to slow down the exodus of our citizens. Our entire community is delighted, ”said Denis Bouliane, Chairman of the Board of Directors of La Diligence, a housing solidarity cooperative.
It should be noted that additional financial assistance of nearly $ 482,000, spread over five years and assumed 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the City, will allow 28 tenants of this complex to benefit from the Rent Supplement program. Thus, these low-income households will pay a rent similar to that of a low-rental housing, or 25% of their income.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether it is by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000 people. households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
