Quebec - Along with the Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions, Ms. Agnès Maltais, Minister of the Family, Ms. Nicole Léger, today unveiled the projects selected following the recommendations of the advisory committee of the Capitale-Nationale region. These projects will allow the creation of 1,364 reduced-contribution places in daycare services in the region, which will be added to existing places or places under construction. This announcement is part of the call for projects for the creation of 15,000 additional places launched on February 7, 2013 by the Minister of Families.
“Families are at the heart of the government&#39;s commitments and of the vision of solidarity that we place at the center of our actions. For Quebec families, that means One child, one place! Today&#39;s announcement is the realization and it shows our determination to continue our efforts in this direction. In the coming weeks, other projects will be made public throughout Quebec to meet the needs of families in all regions, ”said Minister Nicole Léger.
“The addition of 1,364 new places, mainly in childcare centers in the region, will help create 240 new jobs, while consolidating those of educators already in place. In addition to respecting its commitment to Quebec families, our government promotes job creation, ”added Minister Nicole Léger.
“Today&#39;s announcement is very good news for families in the Capitale-Nationale. With the creation of these additional places, several families in the region will be able to benefit from accessible and high-quality childcare services, ”said Minister Agnès Maltais.
The implementation of these projects will begin in 2014 and will continue gradually until 2016. Since November 2012, 28,000 places have been announced by the Government of Quebec. All the projects selected were the subject of recommendations by the advisory committees on the allocation of places. These advisory committees are responsible for analyzing the eligible projects submitted by applicants and making recommendations to the Minister of Families on the projects to be retained.
The creation of the 28,000 new places is in line with the government guidelines on which the “solidarity” pillar is based, one of the four pillars of government action, along with integrity, prosperity and identity. These guidelines, made public on October 30 by the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, will guide the government&#39;s action in the implementation of measures aimed at improving the well-being of the most vulnerable individuals and families. The government thus wants to give new impetus to solidarity, a value inseparable from collective wealth.
