Saint-Jérôme– The Minister for Social Services and Youth Protection, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today announced a new stage in the renovation project of the Center jeunesse des Laurentides, that of the development of the presentation file strategic. This is a first step towards carrying out the project, which will be fully funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services, under the Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI).
“With the renovation project of the Center jeunesse des Laurentides, young people in the region experiencing difficulties and their families will benefit from new modern facilities. These will allow young people to evolve in places of life and activities adapted to their needs and to today&#39;s reality ”, declared Minister Hivon.
According to the preferred scenario, the project will result in the construction of a new 122-seat facility in the Saint-Jérôme sector, bringing together the units of Saint-Jérôme, Sainte-Sophie and Sainte-Agathe within a single campus. -des-Monts. The new campus will have 10 living units with 110 places and one overflow unit with 12 places, and 4 living units with a total of 44 places will be maintained at the Huberdeau campus, located in the north of the Laurentians region.
“The consolidation of several units in Saint-Jérôme will make it possible to offer services to young people in difficulty in an environment more conducive to meeting their clinical needs as well as access to varied and adapted services and socio-recreational activities. Links with vocational training and the labor market will also be encouraged. We also want to continue the work being done in the north of the region with the maintenance of forty-four places at the Huberdeau campus, which will ensure access to services to all young people in the region and their families, whether they live in the north or in the south, ”added Minister Hivon.
The member for Labelle and responsible for the Laurentides region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, is delighted with this announcement: “This is a highly anticipated project, in an essential field of activity for the well-being of young people in difficulty. of our region and for which we have listened to our local and regional partners. With the maintenance of four living units on the Huberdeau campus, the reintegration of young people will certainly be promoted, in their natural living environment and with the best possible conditions ”.
The Minister also confirmed the availability of an envelope to finance this step, which could result in an investment of up to $ 2.7 million from the Ministry of Health and Social Services. The project, the costs of which are preliminarily estimated at approximately $ 60 million, is therefore a first step towards the reorganization of the fourteen living units of the Center jeunesse des Laurentides.
