Val-d&#39;Or– On behalf of the Minister of Families, Ms. Nicole Léger, the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Minister responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region and Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Ouest, Mr. François Gendron, accompanied by the Minister for Indigenous Affairs and Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Est, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, as well as the Member for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue and Chairman of the Caucus of Members of Abitibi-Témiscamingue, Mr. Gilles Chapadeau, today unveiled the projects selected following the recommendations of the advisory committee for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region. These projects will create 259 additional subsidized child care spaces in the region. They are part of the call for projects for the creation of 15,000 additional places launched on February 7, 2013 by the Minister of Families.
“Today&#39;s announcement is very good news for families in Abitibi-Témiscamingue. With the creation of these additional spaces, many families will be able to benefit from accessible and high-quality childcare services. The addition of 259 places, mainly in childcare centers in the region, will help create 45 new jobs, while consolidating those of educators already in place. In addition to respecting its commitment to Quebec families, our government promotes job creation, ”said Minister François Gendron.
“Families are at the heart of the government&#39;s commitments and of the vision of solidarity that we place at the center of our actions. For Quebec families, that means Un enfant, une place! Today&#39;s announcement is the realization of this and demonstrates our determination to continue our efforts in this direction. In recent weeks, several projects have been made public across Quebec in order to meet the needs of families in all regions, ”said Minister Nicole Léger.
The implementation of these projects will begin in 2014 and will continue gradually until 2016. Since November 2012, 28,000 places have been announced by the Government of Quebec. All the projects selected were the subject of recommendations by the advisory committees on the allocation of places. These advisory committees are responsible for analyzing the eligible projects submitted by applicants and making recommendations to the Minister of Families on the projects to be retained.
The creation of the 28,000 new places is in line with the government guidelines on which the “solidarity” pillar is based, one of the four pillars of government action, along with integrity, prosperity and identity. These guidelines, made public on October 30 by the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, will guide the government&#39;s action in the implementation of measures aimed at improving the well-being of the most vulnerable individuals and families. The government thus wants to give new impetus to solidarity, a value inseparable from collective wealth.
Source: Ministry of the Family, January 9, 2014.
