Laval - In the company of the Member for Sainte-Rose, Ms. Suzanne Proulx, and the Member for Laval-des-Rapides, Mr. Léo Bureau-Blouin, the Minister of Families and Minister responsible for the Laval region, Ms. Nicole Léger , today unveiled the projects selected following the recommendations of the Laval region advisory committee. These projects will allow the creation of 601 reduced-contribution places in childcare services in the region, which will be added to existing places or places under construction. This announcement is part of the call for projects for 15,000 additional places launched on February 7, 2013 by the Minister of Families.
“Families are at the heart of the government&#39;s commitments and of the vision of solidarity that we place at the center of our actions. For Quebec families, that means Un enfant, une place! Today&#39;s announcement is the realization of this and demonstrates our determination to continue our efforts in this direction. In the coming weeks, other projects will be made public throughout Quebec to meet the needs of families in all regions, ”said Minister Nicole Léger.
“I would like to underline the work of the Laval advisory committee, which has spared no efforts in recent months to recommend the best projects. The creation of these new places in the Laval region will help attract new families in search of quality childcare services adapted to their needs, ”indicated MNA Suzanne Proulx.
“Today&#39;s announcement is great news for families in Laval. With the creation of these additional spaces, many families will be able to benefit from accessible and high-quality childcare services, ”said MP Léo Bureau-Blouin.
The implementation of these projects will begin in 2014 and will continue gradually until 2016. Since November 2012, 28,000 places have been announced by the Government of Quebec. All the projects selected were the subject of recommendations by the advisory committees on the allocation of places. These advisory committees are responsible for analyzing the eligible projects submitted by applicants and making recommendations to the Minister of Families on the projects to be retained.
The creation of the 28,000 new places is in line with the government guidelines on which the “solidarity” pillar is based, one of the four pillars of government action, along with integrity, prosperity and identity. These guidelines, made public on October 30 by the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, will guide the government&#39;s action in the implementation of measures aimed at improving the well-being of the most vulnerable individuals and families. The government thus wants to give new impetus to solidarity, a value inseparable from collective wealth.
