Mont-Joli– On behalf of the Minister of Families, Ms. Nicole Léger, the Minister for Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, accompanied by the Member for Rimouski, Mr. Irvin Pelletier , today unveiled the projects selected following the recommendations of the Bas-Saint-Laurent region advisory committee. These projects will create 395 new $ 7 child care spaces in the region. They are part of the call for projects for 15,000 additional places launched on February 7 by the Minister of Families.
“It is essential for me that the new subsidized child care spaces truly meet the needs of families in the region. Today&#39;s announcement is great news for families in Bas-Saint-Laurent. With the creation of these new places, several families will be able to benefit from accessible and high-quality childcare services, ”declared Minister Pascal Bérubé.
“The addition of 395 places in childcare centers [early childhood centers] in Bas-Saint-Laurent will help create 70 new jobs in our region, while consolidating those of educators already in place. In addition to respecting its commitment to Quebec families, our government promotes job creation, ”said the Member for Rimouski, Mr. Irvin Pelletier.
“Families are at the heart of the government&#39;s commitments and of the vision of solidarity that we place at the center of our actions. For Quebec families, that means Un enfant, une place! Today&#39;s announcement is the realization of this and demonstrates our determination to continue our efforts in this direction. In the coming weeks, other projects will be made public throughout Quebec in order to meet the needs of families in all regions, ”said Minister Nicole Léger.
The implementation of these projects will begin in 2014 and will continue gradually until 2016. Since November 2012, 28,000 places have been announced by the Government of Quebec. All the projects selected were the subject of recommendations by the advisory committees on the allocation of places. These advisory committees are responsible for analyzing the eligible projects submitted by applicants and making recommendations to the Minister of Families on the projects to be retained.
The creation of the 28,000 new places is in line with the government guidelines on which the “solidarity” pillar is based, one of the four pillars of government action, along with integrity, prosperity and identity. These guidelines, made public on October 30 by the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, will guide the government&#39;s action in the implementation of measures aimed at improving the well-being of the most vulnerable individuals and families. The government thus wants to give new impetus to solidarity, a value inseparable from collective wealth.
