Quebec - In the company of the Chief Government Whip and responsible for the Côte-Nord region, Mr. Marjolain Dufour, the MP for Ungava, Mr. Luc Ferland, and the MP for Duplessis, Ms. Lorraine Richard, the Minister de la Famille, Ms. Nicole Léger, today unveiled the first projects selected following the recommendations of the Analysis Committee for Projects Related to Northern Development and the Advisory Committees of the North Shore and North Shore regions. of Quebec. These projects will allow the creation of 363 new child care spaces at $ 7 in these regions. These projects are part of the call for projects for 15,000 additional places launched on February 7 by the Minister of Families.
“Families are at the heart of the government&#39;s commitments and of the vision of solidarity that we place at the center of our actions. For Quebec families, that means One child, one place! Today&#39;s announcement is the realization of this and demonstrates our determination to continue our efforts in this direction. In the coming weeks, other projects will be made public throughout Quebec to meet the needs of families in all regions, ”said Minister Nicole Léger.
The implementation of these projects will begin in 2014 and will continue gradually until 2016. Since November 2012, 28,000 places have been announced by the Government of Quebec. All the projects selected were the subject of recommendations by the advisory committees on the allocation of places. These advisory committees are responsible for analyzing the projects submitted by applicants and making recommendations to the Minister of Families on the projects to be retained.
In the Côte-Nord region, 180 new places at $ 7 will be added to existing places or those in the process of being implemented. For the Nord-du-Québec region, 13 new places will soon be created.
“It is essential for me that the new subsidized child care spaces truly meet the needs of families. Today&#39;s announcement is great news for families in the Nord-du-Québec region. With the creation of these new places, many families will be able to benefit from accessible and high-quality childcare services, ”indicated Minister Alexandre Cloutier, Minister responsible for Nord-du-Québec.
During the call for projects of February 2013, 200 places were announced to facilitate the arrival of young workers in regions experiencing a boom in the context of northern development, namely the territories located north of the 49th parallel. Three regions were targeted: Nord-du-Québec, Côte-Nord and part of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean. All the projects submitted come from the Côte-Nord region.
Following the recommendations of the Northern Development Project Analysis Committee, 170 additional places at $ 7 will be created there.
“I would like to underline the work of the advisory committees concerned who have spared no effort in recent months to recommend the best projects. The creation of these new places in the Côte-Nord region will help attract new workers in search of quality childcare services adapted to their needs, ”said Mr. Marjolain Dufour.
The creation of the 28,000 new places is in line with the government guidelines on which the “solidarity” pillar is based, one of the four pillars of government action, along with integrity, prosperity and identity. These orientations, made public on October 30 by the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, will guide the government&#39;s action in the implementation of measures aimed at improving the well-being of the most vulnerable individuals and families. The government thus wants to give new impetus to solidarity, a value inseparable from collective wealth.
