Trois-Rivières - In the company of the MP for Champlain, Ms. Noëlla Champagne, and the MP for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, the Minister of Families, Ms. Nicole Léger, today unveiled the projects selected as a result recommendations from the Mauricie region advisory committee. These projects will allow the creation of 429 new child care spaces at $ 7 in the region, which will be added to existing spaces or those under construction. This announcement is part of the call for 15,000 additional places launched on February 7 by the Minister of Families.
“Families are at the heart of the government&#39;s commitments and of the vision of solidarity that we place at the center of our actions. For Quebec families, that means Un enfant, une place! Today&#39;s announcement is the realization of this and demonstrates our determination to continue our efforts in this direction. In the coming weeks, other projects will be made public throughout Quebec to meet the needs of families in all regions, ”said Minister Nicole Léger.
“It is essential for me that the new subsidized child care spaces truly meet the needs of families. Today&#39;s announcement is very good news for families in the Mauricie region. With the creation of these new places, several families in my region will be able to benefit from accessible and high-quality childcare services, ”said Minister Yves-François Blanchet, Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Mauricie region.
The implementation of these projects will begin in 2014 and continue gradually until 2016. Since November 2012, 28,000 places have been announced by the Government of Quebec. All the projects selected were the subject of recommendations by the advisory committees on the allocation of places. These advisory committees are responsible for analyzing the projects submitted by the promoters and making recommendations to the Minister of Families on the projects to be retained.
The creation of the 28,000 new places is in line with the government guidelines on which the “solidarity” pillar is based, one of the four pillars of government action, along with integrity, prosperity and identity. These orientations, made public on October 30 by the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, will guide the government&#39;s action in the implementation of measures aimed at improving the well-being of the most vulnerable individuals and families. The government thus wants to give new impetus to solidarity, a value inseparable from collective wealth.
