Quebec - The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, today announced that the highway 19 completion project has just taken an important step with the submission of the environmental impact study to the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP).
“The filing of the environmental impact study demonstrates the importance the government attaches to the completion project. This essential step is part of a rigorous and transparent analysis process, ”said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault.
The Minister heard the expectations expressed by the community and confirmed the government&#39;s commitment to complete Autoroute 19 in the form of a significantly improved project, namely a four-lane motorway (two lanes in each direction) with the establishment a lane reserved for public transport in each direction, rather than a lane reserved on the shoulder, and several new developments and works intended to make it a major public transport infrastructure in line with a sustainable mobility approach.
The Minister of Transport is presenting a series of improvements that will bring substantial improvements to the public transport project, in particular:
“The project that we are submitting to the MDDEFP will allow the establishment of a high-level bus service. On an axis where there are currently very few public transport users, we plan to reach 2,200 users during peak periods by 2031, with a departure every 3 minutes. Of this number, we project that nearly half would be former motorists who would change their mode of transport, ”summarized Minister Gaudreault.
“It&#39;s a beautiful day for the citizens of the Laurentians. Our government is responding &quot;present&quot; to our region, whose population has grown the fastest in Quebec for 20 years. These demographic changes are putting increasing pressure on the infrastructure in place. My fellow MPs from the Laurentians region, Denise Beaudoin (Mirabel), Claude Cousineau (Bertrand), Daniel Goyer (Deux-Montagnes) and Roland Richer (Argenteuil) and I are delighted with this step which has been taken today. It is significant and testifies to our firm desire to complete this project, ”said Sylvain Pagé, Member of Parliament for Labelle and responsible for the Laurentides region.
“This is great news for our region! By including it in the budget of the [Plan québécois des infrastructures] (Plan québécois des infrastructures), our government confirms its commitment to this infrastructure, which is so important for Terrebonne and defended by the Coalition for the completion of highway 19. In addition, with the changes announced, the project enters into a perspective of sustainable development where public transport plays an important role. Once again, our government moved the file forward more quickly in eight months than the Liberals had done for the past three years, ”added Mathieu Traversy, Member of Parliament for Terrebonne.
Following the analysis of the documents submitted, the Ministère du Développement durable, de l&#39;Environnement, de la Faune et des Parcs usually requests clarifications on certain aspects of the study. Once the data has been provided by the project promoter, the MDDEFP will assess the impact study in accordance with the directive it issued for the project (justification and variants, impacts, mitigation measures during the works , etc.) and then issue a notice of admissibility. After these steps, the Minister of MDDEFP can then mandate the Environmental Public Hearings Office to make the impact study public. This is when a public hearing can be requested.
