Quebec - The Minister of Families, Ms. Nicole Léger, accompanied by Ms. Agnès Maltais, Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the regions of the Capitale-Nationale and de la Chaudière-Appalaches, today kicked off the call for projects for the creation of 15,000 additional reduced-contribution spaces in the network of educational childcare services in Quebec.
The realization of these places will begin in 2014 and will continue until December 31, 2016. In order to respect the preferences of the parents, these 15,000 places will be created in installation, that is to say 85% in centers of the small childhood (CPE) and 15% in subsidized daycare centers.
“By launching this call for projects today, I am particularly proud to offer a place at a reduced contribution to all Quebec children whose families so desire. In accordance with its commitment, our government will make available within 4 years, 250,000 reduced-contribution places to meet the needs of Quebec families, in all regions of Quebec, ”said Minister Léger.
“For families in the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions, 2,235 spaces will be added to those that already exist or are in the process of being created. This is great news for parents. We must not forget that the creation of childcare spaces is an important lever to facilitate participation in the labor market. As Minister responsible for the Status of Women, I am doubly sensitive to the announcement made today, ”said Ms. Maltais.
In order to reach all Quebecers, the Ministère de la Famille has set up 22 advisory committees, representative of the different regions of Quebec, in accordance with the Act respecting educational childcare services. Thus, the projects selected will be the subject of recommendations from these committees.
“The advisory committees are made up of experienced people who are committed to the development of childcare services and who know their environment very well. They are important allies that allow us to ensure that we offer quality places adapted to the needs of parents, ”said Ms. Léger.
In December and January, these committees were consulted on the needs and priorities for reduced-contribution childcare services. At the end of these consultations, the main priorities for the allocation of 15,000 new places were established, namely: reducing the deficit of places to $ 7 and increasing the service offer for children from disadvantaged backgrounds.
Thus, 2,000 of the 15,000 places will be reserved for underprivileged areas, while 300 places will be intended for exceptional projects, in particular those linked to the improvement of educational practices for early childhood, for example in the case of associations with the research or teaching community. A call for projects for the creation of 300 places for indigenous communities will also be launched shortly.
“The advisory committees are made up of people who have the development of childcare services at heart and who also know their environment very well. This is what I was able to observe, because they had the task of advising me on the priorities to be considered for the distribution of the new places in their respective region. Consultation with the community and the work of the advisory committees are therefore essential to offer parents in Quebec quality places adapted to their needs, ”said Ms. Léger.
Projects must be submitted to the Ministère de la Famille by June 14, 2013. Those wishing to submit a project can download the appropriate form and guide as well as the relevant documents from the website of the Ministère de la Famille, atwww .mfa.gouv.qc.ca, starting February 14. An information telephone line reserved for this call for projects, at 1 888 264-7683, is available to people who wish to obtain information.
