Pont-Rouge– The Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale region and the Chaudière-Appalaches region, Ms. Agnès Maltais , announces, on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, investments of $ 61,668,920 for the period 2013-2015 in the Portneuf region and the surroundings.
“These investments for the next two years in the road network demonstrate the government&#39;s desire to ensure rigorous prioritization of public infrastructure projects. Thus, I am delighted that these projects aim not only to improve the mobility of people and goods but also road safety as well as the maintenance of our assets ”, specified Minister Maltais.
Among the 47 projects that will take place in 2013-2015 in the Portneuf region and the surrounding area, we should mention:
Road investments for all of Quebec for the 2013-2015 period are estimated at $ 5.6 billion, including a contribution from partners of $ 435 million. In total, more than 2,000 projects will start or continue, which will help create or maintain more than 42,600 jobs. The unveiling of the work schedule covers a two-year horizon, which is a first. This new way of doing things will allow for better planning in order to determine the priorities in terms of road infrastructure.
The 2013-2015 road works program testifies to the government&#39;s desire to better manage infrastructure and pay the fair cost for public investments. The objectives of this approach are clear: ensure better transparency in the choices and planning of projects, respect the ability to pay of all Quebecers, and regain control of the costs of road works.
To develop this program, the Ministry of Transport carried out an in-depth reassessment of the projects by prioritizing road safety and the maintenance of the road network, while being concerned that all the announced projects be completed, in compliance with the deadlines and budgets.
All the details relating to this announcement, including the list of the main projects, are available in the press room of the website of the Ministère des Transports du Québec at: http: //www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca/ portal / page / portal / home / salle_presse / conference_presse_2013 # investments.
