Trois-Rivières– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces, on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, investments of $ 90,455,000 for the 2013-2015 period in the Mauricie territory.
“These investments for the next two years in the road network demonstrate the government&#39;s desire to ensure rigorous prioritization of public infrastructure projects. The work planned in Mauricie will allow the completion of crucial projects, in particular the second phase of the redevelopment of the intersection of Route 348 and Route Gérin, in Sainte-Ursule, as well as the repair of a bridge spanning the Shawinigan River, on Highway 55 ”, specified Minister Blanchet.
Among the 85 projects that will take place in 2013-2015 in the Mauricie region, we should mention:
Road investments for all of Quebec for the 2013-2015 period are estimated at $ 5.6 billion, including a contribution from partners of $ 435 million. In total, more than 2,000 projects will start or continue, which will help create or maintain more than 42,600 jobs. The unveiling of the work schedule covers a two-year horizon, which is a first. This new way of doing things will allow for better planning in order to determine the priorities in terms of road infrastructure.
The 2013-2015 road works program testifies to the government&#39;s desire to better manage infrastructure and pay the fair cost for public investments. &quot;The objectives of this approach are clear: to ensure better transparency in the choices and in the planning of projects, to respect the ability to pay of all Quebecers, and to regain control of the costs of road works&quot;, added the Minister. Gaudreault.
To develop this program, the Ministry of Transport carried out an in-depth reassessment of the projects, prioritizing road safety and maintaining the road network. The Minister reiterated his concern that all announced projects will be completed on time and on budget. “Gone are the days when road projects were added and announced without being budgeted. From now on, the government&#39;s leitmotif is as follows: we say what we do and we do what we say, ”concluded Mr. Gaudreault.
All the details relating to this announcement, including the list of the main projects, are available in the press room of the website of the Ministère des Transports du Québec at: http: //www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca/ portal / page / portal / home / salle_presse / conference_presse_2013 # investments.
