Chibougamau - The Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance and Minister responsible for the Nord-du-Québec region, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, as well as the Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Nordic affairs section) and MP for Ungava, Mr. Luc Ferland, announce, on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, investments of more than $ 150 million for the 2013-2015 period in the Nord-du-Québec territory.
“These investments for the next two years in the road network demonstrate the government&#39;s desire to ensure rigorous prioritization of public infrastructure projects. These choices were guided by its desire to maintain the safety of road users. The redevelopment of the intersection of the access road to the community of Eastmain and the James Bay road as well as the repair of route 113, near Chapais, are eloquent examples ”, specifies Minister Cloutier.
Among the 31 projects that will take place in 2013-2015 in the Nord-du-Québec region, we should mention:
“Several of these projects are aimed at maintaining infrastructure. As the Member of Parliament for Ungava, I am satisfied that the government is taking the necessary steps on the roads, culverts and bridges of Nord-du-Québec to ensure the safety of users, ”declared the Member of Parliament for Ungava, Mr. Luc Ferland.
In addition, over the next year, the Ministère des Transports will finalize the project to extend Route 167 over a distance of 143 kilometers, north of Chibougamau.
Road investments for all of Quebec for the 2013-2015 period are estimated at $ 5.6 billion, including a contribution from partners of $ 435 million. In total, more than 2,000 projects will start or continue, which will help create or maintain more than 42,600 jobs. The unveiling of the work schedule covers a two-year horizon, which is a first. This new way of doing things will allow for better planning in order to determine the priorities in terms of road infrastructure.
The 2013-2015 road works program testifies to the government&#39;s desire to better manage infrastructure and pay the fair cost for public investments. &quot;The objectives of this approach are clear: to ensure better transparency in the choices and in the planning of projects, to respect the ability to pay of all Quebecers, and to regain control of the costs of road works&quot;, adds Minister Gaudreault. .
To develop this program, the Ministry of Transport carried out an in-depth reassessment of the projects, prioritizing road safety and maintaining the road network. The Minister reiterated his concern that all announced projects will be completed on time and on budget. “Gone are the days when road projects were added and announced without being budgeted. From now on, the government&#39;s leitmotif is as follows: we say what we do and we do what we say, ”concludes Mr. Gaudreault.
All the details relating to this announcement, including the list of the main projects, are available in the press room of the website of the Ministère des Transports du Québec, at: http: //www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca / portal / page / portal / home / pressroom.
