Quebec - The Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Mrs. Agnès Maltais, announces the adoption of a regulation on the preventive management of asbestos in establishments where the &#39;there are workers. This regulation will be published in the Gazette officielle du Québec in two weeks and will come into force at the beginning of June. From now on, employers will have to comply with new safety standards to ensure the health and physical integrity of workers likely to be exposed to asbestos dust.
“Asbestos is dangerous for health and we can no longer tolerate workers running risks when exposed to it. In 2002, the Parti Québécois government began work by creating a CSST committee to develop a draft regulation. On our return, having noticed the lack of results, we finished the work. As Minister of Labor, the adoption of this regulation was a priority. Today I can say: mission accomplished, ”said Minister Agnès Maltais.
Once in force, the by-law will finally allow safe management of asbestos-containing materials in establishments. Employers will be given a period of up to two years after the regulation comes into force to comply with some of the requirements. In particular, they must carry out a visual inspection of each of the buildings they occupy in order to locate and verify the condition of the flocking and heat insulating materials (insulating materials). They will have to repeat the inspection every two years and each time record the information collected in a register. Checks must also be carried out during work on interior coverings likely to contain asbestos (plaster, plaster, acoustic tiles, etc.).
This register will ensure the safety of workers, especially those who are more likely to be exposed to asbestos fibers, such as workers in the maintenance and upkeep of buildings. Adequate preventive measures can thus be taken to ensure that the work is carried out safely.
It should be remembered that asbestos fibers and dust can be detached from certain materials or products in poor condition or when they are the subject of work, thus causing a danger to workers.
“This new regulation represents an important step forward. It specifies the responsibilities of employers and the means they must take to protect the health and ensure the safety and physical integrity of their most precious resource: their workers. It is all Quebecers who are the winners, ”concluded the Minister of Labor.
To learn more about the new regulation, visit the CSST website: www.csst.qc.ca/amiante.
