Quebec - The Minister of Public Security and Minister responsible for the Outaouais region, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, announces, on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, investments of $ 195,256,000 for the 2013-2015 period in the Outaouais region.
“These investments for the next two years in the road network demonstrate the government&#39;s desire to ensure rigorous prioritization of public infrastructure projects. In addition to the extension of Autoroute 5, projects such as the repair of various bridges on Autoroute 50, in Gatineau, and the correction of the curve of Route 148, near Montée Saint-François, in Plaisance , testify to the government&#39;s intention to ensure the completion of projects deemed essential, ”Minister Bergeron specified.
Among the 91 projects that will take place in 2013-2015 in the Outaouais region, we should mention:
Road investments for all of Quebec for the 2013-2015 period are estimated at $ 5.6 billion, including a contribution from partners of $ 435 million. In total, more than 2,000 projects will start or continue, which will help create or maintain more than 42,600 jobs. The unveiling of the work schedule covers a two-year horizon, which is a first. This new way of doing things will allow for better planning in order to determine the priorities in terms of road infrastructure.
The 2013-2015 road works program testifies to the government&#39;s desire to better manage infrastructure and pay the fair cost for public investments. &quot;The objectives of this approach are clear: to ensure better transparency in the choices and in the planning of projects, to respect the ability to pay of all Quebecers, and to regain control of the costs of road works&quot;, added the Minister. Gaudreault.
To develop this program, the Ministry of Transport carried out an in-depth reassessment of the projects, prioritizing road safety and maintaining the road network. The Minister reiterated his concern that all announced projects will be completed on time and on budget. “Gone are the days when road projects were added and announced without being budgeted. From now on, the government&#39;s leitmotif is as follows: we say what we do and we do what we say, ”concluded Mr. Gaudreault.
All the details relating to this announcement, including the list of the main projects, are available in the press room of the website of the Ministère des Transports du Québec at: http: //www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca/ portal / page / portal / home / salle_presse / conference_presse_2013 # investments.
