Rouyn-Noranda– The Deputy Premier, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Minister responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region and Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Ouest, Mr. François Gendron, accompanied by the Minister for Native Affairs and Member of Parliament for Abitibi-Est, Ms. Élizabeth Larouche, and the Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Labor and Member of Parliament for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue, Mr. Gilles Chapadeau, announce, on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, investments of $ 221,267,000 for the period 2013-2015 in the territory of Abitibi-Témiscamingue.
“These investments for the next two years in the road network demonstrate the government&#39;s desire to ensure rigorous prioritization of public infrastructure projects. The Abitibi-Témiscamingue region is doing well since it maintains very significant investments in its road network, in part thanks to the investments that will be made on the strategic road axis that constitutes Route 117 ” , said the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. François Gendron.
Among the 82 projects that will take place in 2013-2015 in the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, we should mention:
“Among the 25 major projects that are announced today, 6 will be carried out on the main road axis of the region, namely Route 117. These investments meet a demand expressed by the community,” declared the Member of Parliament for Abitibi. West Ms. Elizabeth Larouche.
“The Rouyn-Noranda bypass project is a large-scale project of great importance for the people of Abitibi-Témiscamingue and in particular for the people of Rouyn-Noranda. I am proud to participate in the announcement of this major investment, which has been desired for several years, ”added the MNA for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue, Mr. Gilles Chapadeau.
Road investments for all of Quebec for the 2013-2015 period are estimated at $ 5.6 billion, including a contribution from partners of $ 435 million. In total, more than 2,000 projects will start or continue, which will help create or maintain more than 42,600 jobs. The unveiling of the work schedule covers a two-year horizon, which is a first. This new way of doing things will allow for better planning in order to determine the priorities in terms of road infrastructure.
The 2013-2015 road works program testifies to the government&#39;s desire to better manage infrastructure and pay the fair cost for public investments. &quot;The objectives of this approach are clear: to ensure better transparency in the choices and in the planning of projects, to respect the ability to pay of all Quebecers, and to regain control of the costs of road works&quot;, added the Minister. Gaudreault.
To develop this program, the Ministry of Transport carried out an in-depth reassessment of the projects, prioritizing road safety and maintaining the road network. The Minister reiterated his concern that all announced projects will be completed on time and on budget. “Gone are the days when road projects were added and announced without being budgeted. From now on, the government&#39;s leitmotif is as follows: we say what we do and we do what we say, ”concluded Mr. Gaudreault.
All the details relating to this announcement, including the list of the main projects, are available in the press room of the website of the Ministère des Transports du Québec at: http: //www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca/ portal / page / portal / home / salle_presse / conference_presse_2013 # investments.
