New York - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée, gives a positive assessment of her first mission to the American economic and financial capital.
“I am very happy to have been able to take part in such enriching exchanges with our New York partners. The Quebec - New York State axis has all the assets to continue to be one of the most prosperous and innovative places in the Americas and in the world. Together, we will continue our efforts to build profitable economic relations to ensure a flourishing future for future generations, ”said the Premier.
The Government of Quebec has made the intensification of its relations with the United States a priority of its international action. In order to promote and defend the interests of Quebec, considerable efforts have been made to strengthen political, institutional and economic ties with the United States, both with the States, the federal administration and the Congress. as regional forums.
&quot;The United States knows it can count on a neighbor and friend who will have the development of trade exchanges at heart, who will be welcoming to foreign investment and who will be an ally in ensuring job creation and prosperity for both. sides of the border, ”added Minister Lisée.
During her last day of mission, the Prime Minister held meetings with private investors and environmental groups. She also took part in discussions with experts on the post-election political and economic context in the United States. In addition, as part of her mission, the Prime Minister met with major American news agencies including the Wall Street Journal, the Associated Press and Bloomberg.
Let us recall that yesterday, the Prime Minister delivered a speech in front of an audience of business people at the invitation of the prestigious Foreign Policy Association. She also took advantage of her visit to inaugurate the first offices of Expansion Quebec, a Quebec network of incubators allowing exporting companies to be supported during the establishment of business locations abroad, a step often essential to their growth and which also promotes the success of their internationalization project.
