Montreal - The member for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Martin Lemay, said he was very proud to participate, today, in the commemoration of the centenary of the arrival in Montreal of Louis Hémon, author of the famous novel Maria Chapdelaine . A commemorative plaque in his honor has been installed on the walls of the Maison Saint-Jacques, located at 1629 rue Saint-Hubert.
In the presence of the Consul General of France, Mr. Bruno Clerc, who is the Honorary President, and Mr. Jean-Charles Déziel, President of the Historical Society of Montreal, Martin Lemay declared that the passage of Louis Hémon in Quebec land will have forever marked the history of Quebec. “Today we mark the hundredth anniversary of the arrival of Louis Hémon in Montreal. After his time with us, nothing was ever the same. For those who still doubt the power and importance of literature in our lives, here is a story that will prove them wrong, ”said Martin Lemay.
“It is thanks to the pen of a writer that we appeared in the world and not by the force of the bayonet. I do not judge, to each people its destiny. It&#39;s thanks to a novel… Maria Chapdelaine is much more than a great novel. It is a birth certificate. From then on, several eyes turned to this people of survivors: These people who are of a race that does not know how to die… ”, he continued.
For his part, the deputy for Roberval, Denis Trottier, who could not be present, contributed to this event by facilitating the delivery of the granite plaque on which was engraved the message of gratitude to Louis Hémon. He also sent a note indicating the main reasons which led him to support this commemoration. “There are several reasons that make me happy to join you for this ceremony. Among other things, the fact that I held the position of mayor of Péribonka and because it was my great-grandfather who was the founder and the first mayor. It is also because it is on his boat Le Nord that Louis Hémon made his first crossing of Lac-Saint-Jean, ”illustrated Denis Trottier.
Both Mr. Trottier and Mr. Lemay wished to underline the tireless work of Mr. Gilbert Lévesque, the instigator and the organizer of this tribute paid to the author of one of the greatest novels of Quebec society. For the two deputies, this activity must be seen as a duty of remembrance vis-à-vis one of Quebec&#39;s greatest friends abroad, the writer Louis Hémon, and Mr. Lévesque&#39;s perseverance in marking this event will forever have a place dedicated to the memory of the author of Maria Chapdelaine. It should be noted that Mr. Lévesque also worked on the creation of the Louis-Hémon Museum in Péribonka, inaugurated in 1986.
