Quebec - The Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, announces the publication in the Gazette officielle du Québec of significant changes to the Regulation respecting the Guarantee Plan for New Residential Buildings . This project responds to the three principles it had indicated, namely to ensure the sustainability of the plan through better capitalization, to have uniform and fair treatment for all beneficiaries and to eliminate any real or apparent conflict of interest between the administrator of the warranty plan and contractors.
“Buying a home is the investment of a lifetime. For our government, it was necessary to review several terms of the plan to ensure that people can be well protected. The changes proposed in this draft regulation will improve the current regulation with the essential objective of better protecting consumers, ”assured Minister Maltais.
The draft regulation provides for many improvements, among which, among the most important, the composition of the board of directors (CA) of a non-profit organization (NPO) that could be accredited by the Régie du bâtiment du Québec (RBQ) for act as administrator of the guarantee plan. Indeed, the board of directors of such an NPO will be composed of thirteen people, three of whom will be identified with associations of construction contractors and three with consumer associations.
Also, the initial contribution that a director will have to pay has been significantly increased, from $ 1.5 million to $ 8.5 million, in order to ensure the sustainability of the guarantee plan. It is also planned to strengthen the monitoring requirements for an administrator and to impose sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the law, regulations and supervision policies.
The Regulation respecting the guarantee plan for new residential buildings was adopted under the Building Act in 1998 and came into force on January 1, 1999. It has already been amended in 2001 and 2006.
In 2010, the RBQ evaluated the Guarantee Plan for new residential buildings, in particular through consultations, but also by analyzing the problematic situations observed in current practice.
In addition, the presence of pyrrhotite in several hundred houses built in the Trois-Rivières region during the 2000s gave rise to claims of such importance that the most important administrator of the guarantee plan saw his solvency compromised. This situation also highlighted the need to review certain parameters of the compulsory guarantee plan in order to ensure its sustainability.
The draft regulation is published on the Gazette officielle du Québec on December 4. Organizations will have 45 days to submit their comments. The entry into force of the regulation is scheduled for fall 2014.
