G aspé– The Minister for the Regions, Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region and Member of Parliament for Gaspé, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and of Food, Mr. François Gendron, announces the payment of a sum of $ 500,000 to the City of Gaspé by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food in support of the process of municipalization of the industrial park of Rivière-au-Renard, property of the Department.
This amount corresponds to the annual indemnities provided between 2003 and 2012 for the maintenance and management of the land and the infrastructures of the industrial park. Its payment is intended to facilitate the transfer of the industrial park to the City of Gaspé.
Municipalization is a demanding exercise punctuated by many stages, particularly with regard to the transfers of various property titles, which present various legal aspects. &quot;We are confident that the commitment we have made to the City to upgrade infrastructure over the next five years will allow us to complete the process very soon,&quot; said Mr. Gendron.
Remember that the park, located on the territory of the city of Gaspé, is the property of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. For more than 20 years, the Department has entrusted its management to the City of Gaspé, which has shown in recent years its interest in acquiring it.
“I am particularly proud of the recent evolution of the negotiations on this file. This is excellent news for the Rivière-au-Renard industry, which will be able to benefit from the upgrading of services offered in the industrial park, ”said Minister Lelièvre.
“We are pleased that the Government of Quebec is respecting its commitments by giving us the sums provided for since 2003 for the management of the Rivière-au-Renard industrial park. For us, this is a concrete gesture allowing the resumption of discussions with a view to a possible transfer of ownership of the MAPAQ industrial park to the City of Gaspé, ”said the mayor of Gaspé, Daniel Côté.
