Quebec - “The Minister of Health and Social Services places the CSSS Champlain under the pretext that there are problems with the organization of care and services and supposed deficiencies in management. However, last February, the Quebec Council of Accreditation granted certification guaranteeing the quality of care and services offered to the population as well as exemplary financial management by the CSSS Champlain. This is proof that the Minister is imposing this supervision only to force a merger with the Charles LeMoyne Hospital ”, declared, at the outset, the MNA for Taschereau and official opposition spokesperson for health, Agnès. Maltese.
The Member for Taschereau is also demanding that the Minister of Health and Social Services and the Montérégie Health and Social Services Agency make public without delay all the documents proving the allegations of deficiencies in terms of organization and management at the CSSS Champlain that led to the decision to impose a tutorship.
Remember that since 2004, at least twice, the leaders of the CSSS Champlain, the Regional Agency and even the Charles LeMoyne Hospital have rejected the merger. The last rejection of this idea dates from April 2009 when, after a meeting between the management of the Regional Agency, representatives of Charles LeMoyne Hospital and those of the CSSS Champlain, they concluded that the merger between the CSSS Champlain and the Charles LeMoyne Hospital was an unsuccessful scenario. However, the Minister of Health and Social Services is urging the management of the CSSS Champlain to merge with the Charles LeMoyne Hospital.
“The idea of merger has already been studied more than once and rejected on each occasion. Yet the minister persists. It is the minister who must prove that the merger will have positive impacts for citizens. I ask the minister to make public all the studies showing that this merger would be beneficial for the population. He bears the burden of proof, ”concluded Agnès Maltais.
“This is an unjustifiable decision on the part of the minister. It is the abuse of power to sully the reputation of the board of directors and managers of the CSSS de Champlain, honest, dedicated, involved people who have established good financial management and a good working climate. . The minister should come out of his ivory tower and listen to grassroots stakeholders who have concrete solutions to improve health care. Merging a specialized and ultra-specialized university hospital with primary care is counterproductive and risks ultimately deteriorating the quality of primary care, ”concluded Martine Ouellet, Member of Parliament for Vachon.
