Québec– Carole Poirier, MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and Parti Québécois spokesperson on the status of women, is very proud of the adoption of an amendment to Bill 83, An Act to amend various legislative provisions in municipal matters concerning especially political financing. This will allow any elected municipal official to be absent from council meetings for a maximum period of 18 consecutive weeks, if this absence is attributable to her pregnancy, the birth or the adoption of her child, without that his mandate comes to an end.
The member recalls that this was one of the 10 commitments made by the Parti Québécois at the Women&#39;s Summit last March. &quot;I would like to underline the determination of several elected municipal officials who fought to change mentalities,&quot; she said.
Carole Poirier also welcomes the collaboration of the Minister responsible for the Status of Women and the Minister of Municipal Affairs for the adoption of this legislative amendment. “I am delighted that the text of Bill 594, which I presented last February, has been adopted in full. Women will thus be able to take more of their place in politics. In this area, the issue of work-family reconciliation is particularly sensitive. However, it is fundamental for the achievement of equality between men and women, ”she added.
“Achieving true equality between women and men is a social project that requires work, openness, respect, sometimes daring, and certainly constancy and vigilance. One thing is certain, the future of Quebec, our collective future as a nation, must necessarily go through this. We will continue, as a parliamentary group and as a political party, to commit ourselves in this direction, ”continued Carole Poirier.
Finally, the spokesperson invites the government to take inspiration from the other proposals of the Parti Québécois, which have as their objective the achievement of real gender parity in politics. &quot;It is time to dust off the rules governing the lives of elected officials,&quot; she concluded.
