Quebec - The Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, announces the publication of the book Construction of 5 or 6 storey wooden dwellings - Directives and guide explanatory. The result of collaboration between the Régie du bâtiment du Québec (RBQ) and the FPInnovations research institute, this publication is part of the Wood Charter recently adopted by the Government of Quebec.
“With the adoption of the Wood Charter, our government is committed to implementing strategies to increase the use of wood in construction in Quebec. The publication of this guide constitutes a concrete gesture which illustrates this firm desire to upgrade this material with undeniable ecological qualities. The guidelines issued by the RBQ and the design guide drawn up by FPInnovations will make it easier to consider this natural resource when building 5 or 6 storey dwellings, ”declared Minister Agnès Maltais.
The Construction Code currently in force limits the use of wood to buildings of 4 floors and less than a certain area. Designers wishing to erect larger wooden buildings must submit a request for equivalent measures to the RBQ. The demonstrations to be done as part of this process can be relatively long and complex to perform, deterring designers from using wood in their projects.
“It became necessary to simplify the work of designers and builders who wish to build in wood. Changes to the Quebec Construction Code were needed. Our government called on the RBQ to develop guidelines for the construction of wooden buildings of more than 4 floors. These guidelines come into effect today. They will remain so until changes to the Construction Code are made permanently, ”added Minister Maltais.
“We need to build more with wood, in the interest of all Quebecers. This resource has shaped part of our history and continues to be at the heart of the economic development of our regions, ”added Denis Trottier, Member of Parliament for Roberval and Parliamentary Assistant for Forests.
&quot;With the Wood Charter and this guide, we want wood to be considered fairly, for the construction of 5 or 6 storey dwellings, compared to other materials&quot;, concluded Minister Agnès Maltais.
Thus, under certain conditions and without having to submit a request for equivalent measures to the RBQ, the construction of wooden dwellings of 5 or 6 floors is henceforth permitted. These conditions, set out in the form of guidelines and presented in the first section of the book published today, indicate the essential elements to be taken into account when erecting 5 or 6 storey wooden residential buildings.
“It was imperative that the construction of wooden houses of 5 or 6 floors meet the main objectives of the Building Code. If the guidelines are respected, these constructions will have a quality equivalent to that sought by the standards in force, ”declared the President and CEO of the RBQ, Stéphane Labrie, for his part.
In order to help designers in the development of their projects, the design guide, presented in section 2 of this new publication, describes the principles to be taken into account when constructing 5 or 6 storey wooden dwellings. . These principles relate in particular to the type of wood to be used, fire resistance, structural calculations, anchoring details, etc.
&quot;Designers and builders must be familiar with the characteristics and behavior of wood,&quot; added Mr. Labrie.
The design guide, written by FPInnovations experts, is available on the RBQ website at www.rbq.gouv.qc.ca / bois.
