Montreal - The Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Bourget, Maka Kotto, pledges that the Parti Québécois take all the means at its disposal to block the purchase of Astral by Bell Canada. &quot;We are going to wage a constant battle that could go as far as going to court or tabling legislation to prevent this takeover of our means of broadcasting through Toronto,&quot; he said. .
“For decades, all the governments of Quebec have fought for our nation to have control of its cultural levers and distribution channels. Under Robert Bourassa, the ministers of culture fought for Quebec to have control of its telecommunications. It is indeed essential for a nation to control the channels of diffusion of its own culture ”, he added.
For Maka Kotto, there must be an alliance between all political parties on this issue. The silence of the Liberal government is unacceptable. “The government of Jean Charest only defends lip service what is essential for our future. Quebec is currently facing a serious threat. The purchase of Astral would make Bell Canada a dominant player in telecommunications and content delivery. If this project materializes, Quebec will lose a new head office, it will lose control of a large part of the channels for disseminating its culture, which will be in the hands of a giant headed from Toronto. Do we really want fundamental decisions about our culture to be made in Toronto without regard to the interests and values of Quebec? For the Parti Québécois, the answer is no! &quot;
Maka Kotto asks François Legault to remove any ambiguity concerning the position of the CAQ. “The one he presents as his future Minister of Culture, Claire Samson, signed and filed a brief before the CRTC two days ago which approves the purchase of Astral by Bell. François Legault opposes the purchase of Astral by Bell while its candidate endorses the transaction. What is the exact position of the CAQ? He asked.
In closing, Maka Kotto underlined that a Parti Québécois government will open negotiations with Ottawa to repatriate powers and budgets in culture and telecommunications. The other political parties have a duty to speak out on this fundamental question for the cultural future of our nation.
