Montreal - “A government of the Parti Québécois will broaden Quebec&#39;s international influence as much as possible. This is the commitment made today by the Leader of the Official Opposition and Member of Parliament for Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, when she presented the intentions of the Parti Québécois in terms of international relations to the guests of the Council of International Relations from Montreal.
The foreign policy of a Parti Québécois government will revolve around three main axes: openness to international trade, culture as an international showcase for Quebec and the Francophonie as a privileged area, as well as international cooperation.
Quebec is and always has been a trading society and would appear among the 10 countries with the most open economy in the world. The Parti Québécois has always been in favor of free trade. We intend to remain so and even increase our openness by diversifying our markets, while working to develop our trade relations with the United States, our main economic partner. Our goal is to reduce and then turn our deficit into a trade surplus. To do this, we suggest that Quebec take the turn of energy independence.
“With energy independence, Quebec will be a very attractive place for international investors and it will be able to export its expertise around the world. We are pursuing a threefold objective. We want to reduce our oil imports and suddenly reduce our huge trade deficit. We will work to increase our exports in the clean technology sector, particularly in transportation, until a balance is reached, or better yet, a trade surplus. We also want to make Quebec a North American leader in the fight against climate change, ”explained Pauline Marois, ensuring that energy independence will be the largest economic project since that of James Bay.
Culture and La Francophonie constitute a major development axis of the Parti Québécois&#39; foreign policy. It is the best showcase for Quebec in the world.
“Our creators and artists contribute strongly to our brand image. Culture is a real economic engine both here and internationally, whether as a tourist attraction or as an export sector, ”added Pauline Marois, adding that the French language, the foundation of Quebec&#39;s identity , requires us to be vigilant on our territory, but also to be very active on the international scene.
The Parti Québécois will also strengthen our capacities abroad. We are thinking of a model that can only be fully deployed with the financial means of a sovereign country. This model is that of Espace Québec. Quebec personnel abroad will be gathered in these places, and spaces will be made available to our entrepreneurs and artists.
“We have to make sure we make ourselves better known, to forge links, to allow Quebecers to showcase our know-how in countries where we have privileged relationships. This will be an opportunity for Quebec to dare and innovate as we know how to do so well, ”she explained.
We have a great tradition here, a lot of expertise and many international cooperation organizations. Quebec has always been very active in international aid and cooperation and we intend to remain so. The changes in the allocation of funding by the Agency for Economic Cooperation and Development (CIDA) in July 2010, however, hit the Quebec organizations head-on.
“If the Parti Québécois is brought to power, we propose to repatriate the Quebec share of the CIDA budget from the federal government. We will work with the Quebec international cooperation community to lay the foundations for a future Quebec Agency for Development Assistance, ”assured Pauline Marois, adding that it is not only a question of implementing our solidarity, but also to forge cultural, technical and business links.
“We want Quebec to become a full player in the international community. We want Quebec to be able to speak with its own voice in the world. Quebec&#39;s ability to act freely in the world has always been lacking. This is even more true in our time, as international issues take on increasing importance in our lives. In this context, international relations are a question of the first order for our political formation, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
