Trois-Rivières– Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the candidate in Trois-Rivières, Alexis Deschênes, by the candidate in Rousseau and Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, by the candidate in Saint -Jérôme, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the candidate in Montarville, Simon Prévost, announced that a Parti Québécois government will implement concrete measures to promote exports and create jobs.
“Our goal is to get 1000 new companies to export within 5 years. In addition, we want Quebec exports to exceed 55% of GDP. Currently, exports account for around 46% of GDP and contribute to one in five jobs. Encouraging exports means supporting job creation. Since taking office, our one and top economic priority has been jobs. The Parti Québécois is proposing the best plan to create quality jobs throughout the territory, ”declared the leader of the Parti Québécois.
“The Liberal government allowed Quebec&#39;s trade balance to deteriorate. From 2002 to today, Quebec has gone from a positive trade balance to a deficit of $ 24 billion. More than $ 65 million a day goes abroad rather than creating jobs here. In addition, Quebec exports have not returned to their pre-2008 crisis level, ”added Pauline Marois.
The Parti Québécois has a credible and detailed plan for the development of foreign trade, unlike Philippe Couillard&#39;s Liberal Party, which relies on an unrealistic financial framework, which is criticized by several financial analysts.
With the Economic Policy Priority Employment, the Parti Québécois government has made a concerted effort by the ministries and stakeholders concerned to give businesses access to export markets. These efforts take four forms:
“It was time to put resources and energy into this very important part of our economy. The actions of the Parti Québécois government will allow us to further support our businesses and entrepreneurs in their development, ”said Pauline Marois.
“At the Parti Québécois, we offer an export policy that meets the needs of companies that want to export or that want to break into new markets. We offer a credible financial framework. We are already seeing results, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
We have a plan and the team to make Quebec more prosperous. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
