Montreal - A Parti Québécois government would put the City of Mascouche under trusteeship if the paralysis of the municipal council were to continue. This is the commitment made by the Parti Québécois candidates in the ridings of Verchères and Masson, Stéphane Bergeron and Diane Hamelin.
“Monday&#39;s city council meeting once again crossed the line. The constant tension and deep divisions make the board very difficult to function. In order to allow citizens to receive the services to which they are entitled, a Parti Québécois government would adopt a decree to subject the City of Mascouche to the control of the Commission municipale du Québec and would ask it to shed light on the administration. municipal council and the functioning of the council, ”said Stéphane Bergeron.
Last month, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupation released a report verifying the process followed by the City of Mascouche for the awarding of contracts. This report concluded that: &quot;the City of Mascouche has shortcomings in terms of compliance with the legislative provisions [...] for the awarding of contracts&quot;. The Parti Québécois considers that it is necessary to go beyond a simple verification and to take the next step: supervision.
“The citizens of Mascouche have had enough of what is happening at city council. It is high time that a responsible government took matters into its own hands and that all light was shed on the administration of Mascouche. The government of Jean Charest has been lax in wanting to protect the mayor, who was a liberal candidate in the 2003 elections, ”lamented Stéphane Bergeron.
Remember that the Parti Québécois tabled a motion in the National Assembly on May 16. This motion called on the government to intervene so that the mayor of Mascouche withdraws from the municipal council immediately, following accusations of breach of trust by a public official, acts of corruption in municipal affairs, fraud against the government and conspiracy filed against him. Unfortunately, the Liberals and Caquists voted against the motion.
“A Parti Québécois government will act responsibly and with the objective of restoring the public&#39;s confidence in its institutions. If the paralysis of the municipal council were to persist, we will take the necessary actions during the course of the procedures involving the mayor of the city, ”concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
