The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the candidates Carole Poirier (Hochelaga ‑ Maisonneuve), Diane Lamarre (Taillon), Catherine Fournier (Marie-Victorin) and Daniel Breton (Saint ‑ Hyacinthe), presented the third part of the Grand Déblocage, the ambitious mobility plan of the Parti Québécois. Since the start of the electoral campaign, the Parti Québécois has increased its commitments to fight traffic congestion and give families more time; he announced today that a Lisée government will reduce public transport costs by 60% for trips made outside of rush hour, for all citizens.
IN SHORT
“The Parti Québécois presents a global vision of mobility, both in urban centers and in the regions. Components 1 and 2 of the Grand Unblocking, by themselves, will allow hundreds of thousands of cars to be taken off the road every day. We are continuing on this path today, with a bold new proposal that promises to be effective: the government that I will lead will offer public transport companies to reduce public transport fares by 60% for all journeys made. off peak hours, ”announced Jean-François Lisée.
“What we are proposing is a complete change in our transport habits, continued Daniel Breton. The metro-work-sleep cycle is hellish for many. Our road and public transport infrastructures are struggling to accommodate the hundreds of thousands of Quebecers who, every day, make the return trip between their work and their homes. We have to do something. So we want to encourage citizens to plan their transport differently, to favor off-peak periods, when possible. Hence the 60% discount we are offering today for train, metro and bus services. &quot;
The Parti Québécois estimates that this measure will promote a modal shift from the car to public and active transport, and will allow 800,000 users to save up to $ 190 per year. “In addition, over time, some 126,000 cars will be removed from our roads, thanks to this measure alone. In all, the three components of the Grand Déblocage should remove 533,000 vehicles from traffic in Quebec, every day of the week, ”continued Carole Poirier.
For her part, Catherine Fournier reiterated that the Parti Québécois is the only one to propose a concrete and credible plan to counter the climate crisis. “The Grand Unblocking consists of simple solutions, known technologies, on existing routes. We have a global vision, and the measures we propose can be implemented immediately. Unblocking our transport is the best way to improve our carbon footprint in the short term. The Parti Québécois has heard from citizens who are calling for a progressive and green government, a government that is not lacking in ambition for the environment, ”she said.
“And this government will be ours,” continued Diane Lamarre. If we can at the same time pay less to travel more efficiently, fight against the climate crisis and spend more quality time with family or friends, what more could you ask for? &quot;
