Lévis - The Espace Saint-Louis housing cooperative project has officially started! While in Lévis, the Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches regions, Mrs. Agnès Maltais, today shoveled land commemorating the start of construction of 47 affordable housing units for families and individuals.
More than $ 9.4M has been invested by the Government of Quebec and its partners in the community for the construction of this cooperative, which will see the light of day thanks to the AccèsLogis Québec program of the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ).
“This housing cooperative project is part of the development plan for a site which also includes condominiums and commercial spaces. This mix of vocation will undoubtedly promote the dynamism of Vieux-Lévis, a unique sector, not only because of its heritage and historical value, but also because of its strategic location. But above all, the Espace Saint-Louis housing cooperative will help fill a significant need for affordable housing in Lévis, ”said Minister Agnès Maltais, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation. of the territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault.
The government of Quebec, through the SHQ, has granted nearly $ 3.6 million for the construction of this building, in addition to guaranteeing the mortgage loan contracted by the Coopérative de solidarité en habitation Les Nouveaux Espaces. The City of Lévis, for its part, has invested more than $ 1.4 million in this project. It should also be noted that the Office of Energy Efficiency and Innovation of the Ministry of Natural Resources granted a subsidy of some $ 130,000 to ensure that the building meets the standards of the Novoclimat program.
“It&#39;s a great day for the members of our cooperative. We can&#39;t wait to see this innovative housing project take shape. The cooperative model on which it is based will allow its members to participate in decisions that affect them and to take an active part in the development of their living environment and their neighborhood, ”said Nathalie Plante, Chairman of the Board of Directors. of the Housing Solidarity Cooperative Les Nouveaux Espaces.
Note that 24 tenants of this housing complex will be able to benefit from the Rent Supplement program, which will allow them to pay only 25% of their income for housing. This additional assistance of more than $ 413,000, spread over five years, is assumed 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the City.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Whether it is by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000 people. households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
