Fermont– Twelve affordable housing units for families will soon be created in Fermont. The construction work for the third phase of Habitat Fermont was kicked off today by Ms. Lorraine Richard, Member of Parliament for Duplessis, in the presence of the Mayor of Fermont, Ms. Lise Pelletier, and partners from the community. The construction of this new building will bring the number of housing units for the entire Habitat Fermont project to 24.
Carried out thanks to the AccèsLogis Québec program of the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), this project will result in an investment of nearly $ 3.6 million from the government of Quebec and its partners.
“In the context of the housing shortage that currently prevails in Fermont, it is difficult for families to find housing, and it is even more difficult to find affordable housing. These 12 new housing units will enrich the rental market in this mining town where a large number of housing units belong to private companies. This is therefore excellent news for our community, ”said MP Lorraine Richard, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault.
The SHQ granted a subsidy of nearly $ 1.9 million for the construction of this housing complex, in addition to guaranteeing the mortgage loan taken out by the organization. The community&#39;s total contribution amounts to more than $ 1.2 million, of which nearly $ 596,000 is invested by the City of Fermont. The regional authorities as well as many private companies have also generously contributed to the realization of this third phase of Habitat Fermont.
“Thank you to our partners, the SHQ, the City of Fermont, the MRC of Caniapiscau, the Center local de développement de Caniapiscau, Cliffs Naturel Ressources, the Coopérative des consommateurs de Fermont and other donors. Thanks to your support, we are all helping to meet the housing needs of our families, ”emphasized Jacynthe Deschênes, manager of the Habitat de Fermont organization.
It should be noted that additional financial assistance of more than $ 103,000 spread over five years and assumed 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the City of Fermont will allow 6 tenants to benefit from the Rent Supplement Program. Thus, these low-income households will pay a rent similar to that of a low-rental housing, or 25% of their income.
