Montreal - The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, inaugurate today &#39; hui the Research Center of the Center hospitalier de l&#39;Université de Montréal (CRCHUM). Carried out by the Accès Recherche Montréal group, this modernization project was completed on schedule and within the financial framework, for a total cost of $ 469.5 million (present value). This amount includes the design and construction of the project as well as the financing costs and the costs related to the upkeep and maintenance of the assets for the next 30 years.
“The CHUM&#39;s scientific expertise in medical research, previously dispersed over six locations, is now brought together for the greater good of our health network, which will now benefit from a research center of international caliber. It is also one of the 10 largest biomedical research centers in the country, ”declared Minister Hébert.
Ministers Pierre Duchesne and Réjean Hébert, accompanied by the Member of Parliament for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Daniel Breton, inaugurate the Research Center of the Center hospitalier de l&#39;Université de Montréal (CRCHUM). // (c) Ariane Lareau
The CRCHUM is made up of two completely new buildings, the Viger wing and the Saint-Antoine wing, which total an area of 68,800 square meters. Much of the Centre&#39;s premises will be dedicated to basic and clinical research. There are plans to install some 150 research teams there, bringing together a total of 1,600 people, of whom there are 350 researchers. These teams will work on several scientific priorities, including cancer, global health and neuroscience. The CRCHUM will continue its teaching vocation thanks to the many classrooms, clinical training, self-training and skills assessment rooms there. Practical learning will also be reinforced by the use of numerous simulation laboratories containing virtual simulators and computerized mannequins. The other premises are devoted to administration.
“This state-of-the-art research center will allow us to remain at the forefront in several research sectors, including biomedical engineering, cell imaging and genetic diseases. In addition, we can be delighted by the fact that many students and trainees in the health field will be able to rub shoulders with great researchers, and thus be aware of the very latest discoveries, for the benefit of the population ”, affirmed the Minister Pierre Duchesne.
