Montreal - Jean-François Lisée, Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, inaugurates the new Benny Farm Local Community Services Center (CLSC), a facility at the Health Center and social services (CSSS) Cavendish. He made this announcement on behalf of the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Minister Réjean Hébert.
“The inauguration of the CLSC Benny Farm is excellent news for Montrealers and for the health professionals who work there. The creation of this new center makes it possible to offer essential front-line services, to increase their accessibility and, by the same token, to better meet the current needs of the community, ”said Minister Hébert. .
The Benny Farm CLSC&#39;s service offer includes medical and nursing services, including samples and vaccines, and many other services for families, schools and daycares. Resources are also available for people with mental health problems and for those with chronic illnesses, including diabetes. In addition, you can benefit from community organization and home support services.
“In addition to offering local care and services to Montrealers, this project is both economical and environmentally friendly. It is therefore a fine example of a judicious choice in terms of public infrastructure. In fact, energy consumption will be lower, given the design of this building which meets cutting-edge environmental standards. Note, for example, the implementation of a heat recovery system that will significantly increase the energy efficiency of the building as well as equipment that will reduce the consumption of drinking water by nearly a third. ”, Underlined Minister Lisée.
Covering an area of 6,310 square meters, the new building was built at a cost of $ 19,948,000, most of which was assumed by the CSSS Cavendish through the non-renewal of the rental contracts for the former spaces occupied by the establishment. The Department of Health and Social Services, for its part, made a contribution of $ 787,000. The management of the work has been entrusted to the Société immobilière du Québec and the building, which respects many principles of sustainable development, is aiming for LEED Silver certification.
