Montreal - Work on the Victoria-Barclay project is officially launched. The parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Mr. André Villeneuve, today shoveled the earth to mark the start of construction work on this project, in the presence of the mayor of the borough of Côte-des-Neiges-Notre-Dame-de-Grâce, Mr. Lionel Perez, and many community partners.
This project, carried out thanks to the AccèsLogis Québec program of the Société d&#39;habitation du Québec (SHQ), provides for the construction of a 9-storey building comprising 67 affordable housing units for families. Community spaces will also be set up on the ground floor and in the basement of the building. Nearly $ 12M has been invested in this project by the Government of Quebec and the City of Montreal. It should also be noted that the borough of Côte-des-Neiges-Notre-Dame-de-Grâce is allocating an additional amount of $ 2.6 million to enable the community component of this project to be carried out.
“This project is excellent news since it will allow 67 low and modest income families to find adequate housing while paying decent rent. The construction of this housing complex is a fine example of an initiative that will help curb the exodus of families to the suburbs and our government is very proud to be associated with it. Congratulations to all the architects of this great project, ”declared André Villeneuve, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Land Occupancy, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault.
The government of Quebec, through the SHQ, has granted more than $ 5 million to allow the construction of this building, in addition to guaranteeing the mortgage loan contracted by the Office municipal d&#39;habitation de Montréal. The City of Montreal, for its part, has invested more than $ 1.2 million in this project. Finally, we should mention that Gaz Métro granted a subsidy of just over $ 26,000.
“The realization of this mixed residential and community project is the result of the application of the Social and Affordable Housing Inclusion Strategy in large-scale projects. The benefits for the community of the borough of Côte-des-Neiges-Notre-Dame-de-Grâce and the development of the Triangle sector are becoming tangible and concrete with the construction of this original complex which meets local needs ”, a informs the vice-president of the executive committee of the City of Montreal and responsible for housing and housing, Mr. Benoît Dorais.
“This project is of great importance for the neighborhood, which has experienced a second lease of life since the revitalization of rue Victoria. In addition to improving access to housing, the center will improve the range of leisure and social development services by welcoming two community organizations, ”added the mayor of the borough, Lionel Perez.
Note that 34 tenants of this housing complex will be able to benefit from the Rent Supplement Program, which will allow them to pay only 25% of their income for housing. This additional assistance of more than $ 585,000, spread over five years, is being assumed 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the City of Montreal.
Remember that the SHQ&#39;s mission is to promote citizens&#39; access to adequate housing conditions. Whether it is by helping to preserve the health of families and seniors, by fighting poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000 people. households each year. It also promotes job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec.
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habitation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Espace Habitat, the SHQ&#39;s Web magazine which deals in particular with the impact of its interventions on Quebec society as a whole.
