Saguenay– The Minister responsible for Government Administration, President of the Conseil du trésor and Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, and the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, announced an investment of $ 16 million for the construction of a building that will bring together on a single site, in downtown Arvida, the approximately 140 Revenu Québec employees serving the region. For the occasion, MM. Bédard and Gaudreault were accompanied by the mayor of Saguenay, Mr. Jean Tremblay.
“This major investment will not only allow Revenu Québec to meet its current and future needs, but it will also constitute an important regional hub for the provision of public services. Also, I am particularly proud to point out that the use of wood and the adoption of efficient environmental measures will be privileged for the new construction, which will aim to obtain LEED certification, ”declared Minister Bédard.
Project manager, the Société québécoise des infrastructures (SQI) will erect the building on boulevard Mellon. It will have four floors and will offer a total area of 4,800 square meters, or an area approximately 65% greater than that of the current premises, which are located on Deschênes Street and Harvey Boulevard. The new building will be built on a plot of 1,277 square meters consisting of two plots that will be acquired by the SQI; one from the city of Saguenay and the other from the Secretariat of National Unions of Arvida. An agreement with the city will allow the use of spaces in the municipal parking lot adjacent to the building.
“In addition to presenting the most advantageous solution from a financial standpoint, the arrival of an increased number of Revenu Québec employees in downtown Arvida will greatly contribute to the revitalization of the sector, which is particularly important to me. heart. I would like to thank all the stakeholders who collaborated in the realization of this project, ”added Minister Gaudreault.
The launch of the call for tenders for professional services is scheduled for winter 2014, while the start of work is planned for spring 2015 for delivery in spring 2016.
