Québec, September 22, 2020 - Noting the lack of resources in schools during this extremely sensitive period, the member for Joliette and Parti Québécois spokesperson for education and the family, Véronique Hivon, asks the government to mobilize urgently, Quebeckers likely to be able to come and lend a hand in our schools. To do this, it proposes the establishment of a “I contribute” platform for the education community.
IN SHORT
Since the start of the school year, barely three weeks ago, the testimonies of teachers, professionals and support staff at the end of their rope have been piling up. “The staff shortage seems to have become widespread. Some people perform all kinds of tasks unrelated to their specialty, in addition to their regular mandate with students. It&#39;s overflowing! From our point of view, it is unacceptable that a remedial educator, for example, does circulation or disinfection instead of giving the services for which he is trained, nor should a teacher see the recovery periods. aiming to help reduced students for the benefit of other tasks which take up more and more space, ”said the member at the outset.
The situation is all the more aberrant as the needs for support and remediation, among other things, are greater than ever. “After months of not attending school, many children need extra attention, guidance and support. But we are living the opposite: overworked teachers have less time to give them, because they manage a lot of tasks related to COVID. However, we must at all costs prevent students, especially those in difficulty, from paying the price and becoming the next victims of the pandemic; we have a duty to avoid creating a “COVID generation”, ”she continued.
Véronique Hivon wants strong and vigorous actions. She believes that a website on the model of the “I contribute” platform, for the health network, would be entirely appropriate and very profitable for recruiting support staff and filling the gaps identified in Quebec schools. “The minister must innovate, be proactive, find solutions. His priority, his obsession, must remain student success. He must feel the urgency and quickly cry out from the heart. Retirees, students and many other people able to perform different support tasks are certainly ready to come and lend a hand, and we do not have the means to deprive ourselves of their contribution, ”insisted Véronique Hivon.
Since the start of the pandemic, the Parti Québécois has made several constructive and innovative suggestions to the Minister of Education. Whether by offering a return to hybrid class when necessary or by asking that teams dedicated to mental health support students, the Parti Québécois places, again and again, student success at the heart of its concerns.
