Paris, France - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, announced the establishment in Montreal of the French company LINAGORA, specializing in the development of free software.
“Free software is gradually establishing itself as a reliable and economical option for public bodies and Quebec businesses. The government is convinced of its advantages, and that is why we recently announced the creation of the Center of Expertise in Free Software, whose mandate is to support public organizations wishing to make the transition. We therefore very favorably welcome the arrival of LINAGORA, which will find in Quebec a fertile ground for its North American expansion ”, underlined Minister Marceau.
LINAGORA is one of the largest free software developers in Europe. In recent years, the company has invested significant sums in R&amp;D to develop collaborative messaging, digital vault and identity management solutions. The solutions created by the company are used by several public bodies in France including the Ministries of the Economy and Finance, the Interior, Culture and Defense, as well as by the National Gendarmerie and many communities. local. Its OBM collaborative messaging solution thus equips nearly 50% of the posts of French ministries.
Ultimately, this project should generate investments of around $ 10 million and the creation of 55 new jobs over a three-year period. The arrival of LINAGORA is the direct result of steps taken by Investissement Québec for nearly five years.
“Quebec&#39;s policy of supporting innovation and businesses, proximity to the American market and the quality of support by Investissement Québec throughout this project were decisive factors in our decision. In addition, the stated interest of the Quebec government in free software offers very promising prospects for a company like ours, ”concluded Alexandre Zapolsky, founder and CEO of LINAGORA.
Investissement Québec&#39;s mission is to promote the growth of investment in Québec, thereby contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. This company provides businesses with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity investment, to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, she is responsible for administering tax measures and prospecting for investments abroad.
