Montreal - Present at the demonstration held as part of the annual conference of the Quebec Oil and Gas Association, the Parti Québécois reiterated its position in favor of a moratorium on shale gas.
“Citizens are currently being treated like lab rats because the government is allowing the groping development of shale gas in Quebec. There is too much uncertainty. France understood it, what is waiting for Jean Charest to understand it? », Asked the MP for L&#39;Assomption and official opposition spokesperson for the environment, sustainable development and parks, Scott McKay, who was accompanied for this demonstration by the MP for Vachon and spokesperson from the official opposition on mining and shale gas, Martine Ouellet.
For MP McKay, liberal improvisation is more like supporting industry when health, water, the environment and the citizens themselves are directly affected and threatened. For more than a year now, the Parti Québécois has been urging a moratorium on shale gas, which, like thousands of citizens, is concerned about the development of this sector. The member for L&#39;Assomption has also tabled a bill in the National Assembly to that effect. For its part, however, in the turmoil, the Liberal government has put in place an approach that does not meet the expectations and concerns of the population at all.
“The imbalance in the composition of the committee and the lack of consultation in the strategic environmental assessment process undermines the credibility of the exercise. We have intervened on numerous occasions, but in vain: Minister Pierre Arcand persists in his complacency with the industry, continued the member for L&#39;Assomption. We reiterate our call for a credible and transparent process. The committee formed by Minister Arcand, on which the gas companies sit, cannot be judge and party at the same time. We must start the work again and come back to the recommendations of the BAPE, ”he added.
For the Parti Québécois, there is no doubt that the future of Quebec depends on its energy independence. “We must favor energy efficiency, hydroelectricity, wind power, the anaerobic digestion of organic waste and passive solar energy, energies that will be those of Quebec in the 21st century. We have to imagine a Quebec with truly sustainable development, a Quebec that will invest in its green energy potential, in all regions, creating jobs and wealth that will benefit all Quebeckers, ”concluded Scott. McKay.
