Montreal - LeBarreau du Québec has the pleasure of awarding the Mérite Christine-Tourigny 2013 to Me Véronique Hivon, who currently holds the position of Minister Delegate for Social Services and Youth Protection for the Government of Quebec. Each year, the Mérite Christine-Tourigny is awarded to a lawyer who stands out for her social commitment and for her contribution to the advancement of women in the profession.
The Mérite Christine-Tourigny will be officially awarded to Me Hivon on Thursday, May 30, 2013 at 4:30 p.m., during the official opening of the Annual Congress of the Barreau du Québec, at the Palais des congrès de Montréal.
Commitment, perseverance, sensitivity and a sense of diplomacy are among the dominant traits of Véronique Hivon, a woman of action who knows how to endorse the point of view of a committed and modern woman within Quebec society. With a bachelor&#39;s degree in civil and common law from McGill University, Me Hivon was called to the Bar in 1996. She then completed a master&#39;s degree in social policy analysis and planning at the London School of Economics, then graduate studies at the National School of Public Administration in Quebec.
Oriented towards citizen involvement and public service, Me Hivon&#39;s professional track record is remarkable. Before taking up her current position in Social Services and Youth Protection within the PQ government, Ms. Hivon worked in several positions in the Quebec public administration and she also distinguished herself in her role as a legislator. As a member of the National Assembly of Quebec, Véronique Hivon has performed well as a member of the official opposition and as a representative of the political party in power. His questions and comments always denote his excellent preparation of files and his understanding of the most pressing issues. Concerned about improving public policies, Me Hivon also knows how to show weighting in her exchanges with her fellow Members of Parliament, guests of parliamentary committees and members of the public.
Me Hivon has contributed to the development of major issues, in particular that of the Special Commission to Die with Dignity, of which she was the instigator and where she stood out, as Vice-President, through her leadership and her fingering. Its desire to deal rigorously and without partisanship with this most delicate issue has been noted and underlined by many in this dossier.
In addition, Me Hivon was involved for three years in the Women, Politics and Democracy group, whose mission is to promote greater participation of women in political life. She served this association as a volunteer and also embodied its mission by immersing herself in the political arena. In this sense, it supports the advancement of women by being a model of active involvement in society.
