Québec– The member for Jonquière and official opposition spokesperson for sustainable development and the environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, and the member for Verchères and spokesperson for Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, note that once again the failure of &quot;collaborative federalism&quot;, this time in the area of the environment; they therefore urge the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment and the Fight against Climate Change, David Heurtel, to condemn Ottawa&#39;s unilateralism.
The member for Jonquière deplores that Minister Heurtel was not consulted by Ottawa to establish the Canadian target for reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. “Ottawa&#39;s unilateral attitude seals the debate on the alleged federal-provincial collaboration that Premier Couillard wanted to establish when he came to power. Quebec must be a leader and stop waiting for Canada to wake up, ”he argued.
The Parti Québécois also notes that Canada, when it comes to the fight against climate change, is always behind. Indeed, of all the G7 countries that will participate in the 2015 Paris Conference, Canada&#39;s GHG emissions reduction target will be the lowest. “There is a huge divide between the Canadian vision and the Quebec vision in the fight against climate change. Never has it been so clear, ”added Sylvain Gaudreault.
The Parti Québécois recalls that an independent Quebec remains the only possible way to affirm our choices. “As in all other fields, in environmental matters, Quebeckers must be masters of their decisions. If we consider this deep divide, we cannot seriously say that two governments can manage the environment in a coherent way. The government of Quebec must take note of this new affront from Ottawa and act accordingly, ”said Stéphane Bergeron.
Finally, the members ask the government of Quebec to call on the Parti Québécois bill 390 in order to assert Quebec&#39;s environmental sovereignty. &quot;The government of Quebec must immediately make a strong gesture to send a message to Ottawa&quot;, concluded the deputies.
