Quebec - The MNA for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and official opposition spokesperson for the status of women, Carole Poirier, today tabled a petition in the National Assembly calling for the return of sex education classes in our schools. This petition was initiated by the Cyber-aide Center and signed by 5,762 people.
&quot;With a petition officially tabled in the National Assembly, this is one more step towards developing knowledge in matters of sexuality education,&quot; said Cathy Tétreault, Executive Director of the Center Cyber-aide, an organization that aims in particular to inform and educate the population about the healthy and safe use of the Internet.
“It is urgent to offer young people a model of sexuality based on the principles of egalitarian relationships. Young people should benefit from sensitization and acquisition of relevant information in sexuality education. This new knowledge should develop the critical spirit of our young people and lead them to egalitarian relationships that are non-sexist and non-heterosexist. The citizens of Quebec are ready; we are there, ”continued Carole Poirier.
Launched at the end of the second forum on the hypersexualization of young people, held last February in Quebec City, the petition made it possible to translate the feelings shared by the many participants.
Environments, partners of an egalitarian society
“It is imperative to develop a critical mind in the face of proposals for sexual behavior and sexist messages conveyed in the various media, including the Internet. With cyberbullying, young people are victims, despite themselves. We must mobilize communities, adults and young people. It is urgent to act, ”added Cathy Tétreault.
The initiators of the petition maintain that in order to adequately develop knowledge about sexuality education in Quebec schools, it is important to jointly consult representatives of the education community (teaching, professional, nursing or support staff, directors and parents) as well as specialists in sexuality education (sexologists, expert groups - such as CALACS - representatives of the women&#39;s movement, among others). These people would be in the best position to think about a rooting strategy that would really lead to the development of knowledge in sexuality education among young people.
Worrisome situations
“We are all very concerned about the growing phenomenon of the hypersexualization of young people, especially young girls, as well as premature sexuality. Our public and social space is sexualized. It is just as disturbing to see to what extent our young people are exposed, even overexposed, to sexist models, reductive and imbued with elements linked to the codes of pornography. Traditional and social media are important socializing agents for young people. This is why it is urgent to provide them with other models, to offer them a counter-discourse and an understanding free from any relationship of domination, ”continued Cathy Tétreault. The latter also underlines that the Cyber-aide Center will participate in the Forum on the fight against bullying, which will be held on October 2, since the issues of cyberbullying, hypersexualization and sexist and heterosexist relationships are closely related. linked and must be prevented with a comprehensive strategy.
Minister Yves Bolduc has already declared himself in favor of the implementation of sexuality education courses in Quebec schools, we read in the media on September 3. &quot;We are now waiting for the extra gesture that will ensure that we really walk the talk and feel that political will is triggered to address a public health problem.&quot; It is for the good of our young people and the future of our society that we are making this request, ”concluded Cathy Tétreault.
About the Cyber-help Center
The Cyber-aide Center is a non-profit organization that was created by parents, police officers and people from the school community. In particular, he presents workshops on the prevention of cyber addiction and cyberbullying in more than 40 elementary and secondary schools in the greater Quebec City region.
