Quebec City, September 13, 2017– The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the spokesperson for health, access to care and home support, Diane Lamarre, and the spokesperson on social services and youth protection, Dave Turcotte presented a solid plan for home care and support.
“It is time to put an end to rationing and meet the real needs of Quebecers. The findings are clear: the Barrette reform and its promises have not improved anything for home support. While busy merging structures, increasing the budgets of doctors, guaranteeing them their unnecessary premiums, Minister Barrette has rationed home support. And it is the Ombudsperson who confirmed it to us: the government applied a method which consists in &quot;giving a little to each one, while not giving enough to any one&quot; &quot;, declared at the outset the head of the official opposition.
&quot;Our objectives are just as clear: to allow seniors, or those living with a physical disability, a mental or degenerative illness, to stay at home, while reducing the burden on family caregivers, and to involve health professionals, social economy enterprises and community organizations. Our solutions are solid, ”he added.
IN SHORT
Ensure a respectful and safe environment: supervised and secure housing as needed, and PAIR program
“In order for seniors, people with disabilities and degenerative illnesses, and those with mental health issues to stay at home, it is not enough to just give them money. First, their housing must be safe and adapted to their condition and, second, resource persons from the social or medical field offer close support. To do this, we must innovate, present concrete measures, increase human and professional resources at home, use new technologies, including digital technologies, and support existing initiatives, such as the PAIR program for automated calls ”, illustrated Diane Lamarre.
This service, present in certain regions, must be extended. It contributes to the safety of the elderly and to the peace of mind of those close to them. It comes in two versions: first, the security call, which generates an alert if the subscriber does not answer after three attempts. A verification is then carried out by a respondent who will have been identified by the subscriber or the police services. There is also the “cheat sheet” call, which reminds subscribers to take their medication, check their blood sugar levels, and much more.
“In addition, our plan is to support the deployment of supervised housing, in particular for people suffering from degenerative or mental illnesses, or suffering from a physical handicap. These units consist of groups of tenants who are assigned a social worker or a nurse who often resides within these groups. Technological solutions now make it possible to make the environment for these people safer, while facilitating the work of health professionals. Several community initiatives that meet a host of other such needs must be encouraged, facilitated and supported by the government; that&#39;s what we will do, ”continued Jean ‑ François Lisée.
Provide the necessary resources: at least $ 100 million per year
“We want to avoid unnecessary use of emergency rooms and hospitals. The wait time for home care can be up to 6 or even 12 months; this is unacceptable. During the 2014 election campaign, the PLQ pledged to invest an additional $ 750 million over 5 years in home care. But he broke his promise in his first year in office. He invested a hefty $ 0 the first two years, $ 60 million the third, and $ 69 million this year. It is insufficient. It should also be remembered that it cut half a million hours of home support in 2016. As a result, support was offered to 10,000 fewer people, while each year 100,000 people reach 65 years of age, ”he added. Diane Lamarre clarified.
“It is time to offer the necessary means, it is time to offer something solid to seniors and people living with a disability. They must be able to live decently at home; it is a will that they have expressed many times, and our role is to do everything possible to respect it. We will invest at least an additional $ 100 million per year for 5 years. This will significantly increase the services offered by family carers and other health professionals, ”she added.
Relieve family caregivers: 8 hours of respite per week
“Caregivers do extraordinary work every day. Unfortunately, for several years, nothing has really been put in place to relieve and support them. According to an analysis by Statistics Canada, between January and May 2016 alone, 95,500 Quebecers gave up their jobs because of &quot;personal and family obligations&quot;. Among them, 73,500 women. It is enormous. The former liberal minister Marguerite Blais called for the establishment of a policy for caregivers. When she left, she was also very critical of her own party, noting its slowness in implementing a policy in this direction, despite repeated calls. It is time to do it, and concretely. Our plan will allow, among other things, to offer 8 hours of respite per week to those who need it most. It is time to better support community organizations that come to the aid of informal caregivers, ”insisted Dave Turcotte.
“Our plan is to do everything possible to offer a humane solution that promotes the full social participation of people living with a disability. Currently, 3,500 of these people under 65 live in a CHSLD in Quebec. We must offer these people concrete solutions, such as improving the service employment voucher, in order to allow them to truly make a choice about their living environment. With the next Parti Québécois government, CHSLDs will no longer be the only option for these people who finally deserve to have a government that listens to them. For the Parti Québécois, receiving home care is a matter of respect and dignity, ”added the spokesperson.
“We must act now to adequately support seniors who want to age in place. And the people who support them on a daily basis must also be helped. Given the many issues related to the aging of the population, we continue, with many groups, to demand general statements on the living conditions of seniors. The petition claiming them already has more than 14,000 signatures, and it continues, ”said the official opposition spokesperson for seniors, Harold LeBel, in closing.
Technical sheet
Second part of the Parti Québécois health plan, presented by the leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the member for Taillon and spokesperson for health, access to care and home support, Diane Lamarre , and the spokesperson for social services and youth protection, Dave Turcotte.
Axis I: Ensure a safe environment
Axis II: Provide the necessary resources
Axis III: Relieve family caregivers
