Montreal - On the occasion of the launch of the artist workshops for the realization of the De Gaspé project, which will bring together artists on more than 180,000 sq. Ft. In the heart of the Mile-End district of Montreal, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal region, Jean-François Lisée, announced an agreement in principle for the creation of a major broadcasting hub that will bring together six artistic presentation organizations. This announcement took place in the presence of the head of culture, heritage and design on the executive committee of the City of Montreal, Élaine Ayotte, as well as the mayor of the Plateau-Mont-Royal borough, Luc Ferrandez.
“During the 2012 Rendez-vous - Montréal Métropole Culturel, in November, the Premier announced that the government would financially support the agreement reached between the Pied Carré group and the owner, Allied Properties. Today, I am announcing that the project has been improved since we have reached an agreement in principle which will allow the development of a major dissemination center on the ground floor of the building ”, declared the Minister of Culture and Communications.
The agreement in principle of nearly $ 1.8 million will allow six visual arts organizations (the Center d&#39;art et de diffusion Clark, l&#39;Atelier Circulaire, Diagonale- Center des arts et des fibers du Québec, Dazibao- Center for animation and photo exhibition, Occurrence - Contemporary Art and Test Space and Optica) to proceed with the realization of a project for the development of a dissemination center on the ground floor of the building.
“Remember that the Mile-End is the place in Quebec where the highest concentration of cultural players is found. We have made a commitment to take tangible actions, in order to respond adequately to the demands of artists, artisans and cultural organizations struggling with a lack of space. The agreement in principle announced today will allow six visual arts organizations to benefit from a place accessible to the public and conducive to creation, ”said Maka Kotto.
“Through their creative talent, our artists contribute to the recognition and influence of our metropolis on the world stage, hence the importance of giving them favorable conditions for creation. Artists have their place in the city. They create synergy, maintain employment and diversity, and participate in the urban renewal of neighborhoods, ”added Minister Jean-François Lisée.
5445-5455 De Gaspé is the first project to receive financial support under a partnership agreement between the Ministry of Culture and Communications and the City of Montreal for the safeguard of artists&#39; studios in Montreal . The De Gaspé project is led by the Pied Carré grouping, a non-profit organization bringing together artists, artisans, workers and cultural organizations. Through this project, the organization is helping to consolidate a flagship district, a laboratory district in the heart of the Mile-End, where creation is in the spotlight. The Pied Carré group works together with Les Ateliers Créatifs Montreal, whose mission is to consolidate, develop and support Montreal&#39;s creative places.
The artist studios of the De Gaspé project benefit from funding under various programs and agreements: the partnership agreement between the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications (MCC) and the City of Montreal (2.65 M $), the “Imagine-Realize Montréal 2025” agreement between the City of Montreal and the Secretariat for the Metropolitan Region ($ 3.125 million) and the Metropolitan Initiative and Outreach Fund of the Secretariat for the Metropolitan Region ( $ 2 million). To these amounts is added this agreement in principle ($ 1.8 million) granted by the MCC for the dissemination center on the ground floor of the building.
