Quebec - The Parti Québécois deplores the weakness of the action plan on climate change unveiled this morning by ministers Pierre Arcand and Pierre Moreau, the Prime Minister of which joined in the announcement at the very last minute. “Many words for few meaningful results. This plan is more of a public relations plan, of a kind of green mask so that Jean Charest can strut on top of the earth in Rio, at the end of the month, ”declared the member for L&#39;Assomption and official opposition critic for the environment, sustainable development and parks, Scott McKay.
The deputy recalls that barely a month ago, the Sustainable Development Commissioner made an unequivocal observation on the management of the fight against climate change by the Minister of the Environment: lack of transparency, inappropriate governance structure, uncertainty with regard to the achievement of government objectives, poor monitoring of the targets and objectives set and anecdotal accountability. “These harsh conclusions already apply to the new action plan since, like the previous plan, the 2013-2020 plan is based on measures whose effectiveness and efficiency have never been demonstrated. ”, Emphasized the member for L&#39;Assomption.
Actions in the transport sector suffer from a deplorable amateurism. “The liberal regime plans that in 2020, 25% of vehicles purchased in Quebec will be electric cars. However, the measures it is putting in place will, at best, only make it possible to reach 1% of Québec&#39;s vehicle fleet. It is clearly insufficient, ”said Scott McKay.
For the Parti Québécois, the late implementation of measures in the transport sector robs the Liberal action plan of any credibility. “When the transport sector is integrated into the carbon exchange in 2015, we will already be very close to the 2020 deadline. The time to put in place the measures and make the inevitable adjustments along the way, we will be already at the dawn of 2020. While 43% of Québec&#39;s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are in the transport sector, this major weakness of the Liberal plan means that the achievement of the government objective turns out to be highly improbable, ”added the spokesperson.
Scott McKay would like to point out that the sustainable development commissioner demonstrated in his concise report last month that the Liberal government is ignoring fluctuations in economic activity in its action plan. &quot;Worse still, the liberal regime is launching headlong into mining development and shale gas exploitation, without providing for compensation measures for the GHGs that these sectors of activity will generate&quot;, notes the deputy for L &#39; Assumption. “The only gas pipeline provided for in the Liberal regime&#39;s budget to supply northern Quebec with natural gas will emit major leaks. However, nothing in the action plan unveiled today is intended to offset these emissions. It lacks seriousness, ”he said.
&quot;The Liberals are going to give free GHG emission credits to new mines that are going to develop in the North, but today&#39;s plan does not even mention it!&quot; Here is the demonstration that it is only the wind, a hot air balloon that two Liberal ministers are launching today. If the Liberal regime firmly believes in its plan, it will without hesitation launch a real public consultation, ”concluded Scott McKay.
