&quot;A renewed PQ, a green nation&quot;
Speech by the leader of the Parti Québécois during the extraordinary national council in Drummondville on June 11, 2017
The version read is authentic.
Every year in the United States, American Presidents deliver the State of the Union Speech. And I have always thought that a Quebec premier should also make a speech on the state of the nation every year.
But I said to myself that, to get the hang of it, we could start with a speech on the state of the Parti Québécois, a little over a year away from a crucial general election for Quebec.
Let&#39;s start with what makes the roots of a political party so strong. His members. And compare with those of other parties.
There are people coming in and going out, that&#39;s normal. But, while the other parties complain about the massive desertion of their members, in the Parti Québécois, over the past year, 12,500 new people have joined us. We welcome them.
But there is more than the number. There is representativeness. Six months ago, with Paul St-Pierre Plamondon and the whole party, we launched a great movement to add our experienced members to our members under 40 years of age.
First, the number of our members under 40 has increased by a third in six months.
Then, the renewal of our local and regional executives in recent months has enabled a new intergenerational balance, where the under 40s occupy at least a third of the seats, a third of the presidencies, 40% of the regional presidencies and more than 40% of the delegates to the next congress.
We have succeeded, together, in the regeneration of the Parti Québécois!
We will illustrate it, immediately. I ask all experienced delegates, therefore over 40, to stand up.
Now all delegates under 40!
You see, you are almost tied, together, shoulder to shoulder, ready for victories.
There&#39;s more. Six months ago, with Carole Poirier and the whole party, we launched a great movement to open up to Quebecers of diversity who share our values, our proposals and our independence objective.
I am pleased to introduce the members of the Interim Diversity Committee to you. They come from all regions of Quebec and I will tell you which country they represent. I look at my notes. They represent their country, Quebec!
I continue to report to you on the state of the party.
We invented, with René Lévesque, popular financing. Here are the results compiled by the Chief Electoral Officer for the current year, as a percentage of donations.
We are the popular fundraising party. But I appeal to you today. We have a lot of initiatives to fund between now and the election, and we invite you to be even more generous, even more active in funding to exceed our objectives.
Finally, is the Parti Québécois connected? We compiled the Facebook and Twitter footprints of parties and leaders to find out.
We are, on social networks, by far the most modern, the most connected, the most active party. We are a massive persuasive force and I invite all of you to participate in this great digital conversation that we have with Quebecers of all ages and from all regions.
In short, I am happy to conclude: the state of the Parti Québécois is exceptional. Thanks to you. Exceptional.
“Quebecers are exiles within their country, Canada. Because Canada is turning its back on them. Because their nation is not recognized. Philippe Couillard, the most federalist of our prime ministers, finally had to face this obvious fact. There is a fundamental problem. Persistent, throbbing, irritating.
And, when the premier of the Quebec nation expresses in the sweetest, most patient and most diplomatic way possible the wish that one day, perhaps, without wanting to offend anyone, we could discuss the possibility of admit, in the fundamental Canadian law, the existence of the nation, what happens?
Trudeau. It happens Trudeau. The man of openness, of tolerance, of sunny ways, threw himself with all his weight to humiliate Philippe Couillard, treated his demand for semantics without interest.
One would be tempted to say that contempt for Quebec among the Trudeaus is hereditary. That would not do justice to what he represents. Justin Trudeau perfectly embodied the spirit of Canada towards the legitimate aspirations of Quebec. He is in tune with Canadian opinion. Quebec does not count. Quebec is not worthy of respect.
So, Justin Trudeau tackled Philippe Couillard to the ground. For any reply, Philippe Couillard pretended he was taking a nap. The premier of Quebec has never raised his voice. He never made it known that Justin Trudeau lacked respect for Quebecers. Never.
The premier of Quebec has suffered the worst humiliation since Pierre Trudeau called Robert Bourassa a “hot dog eater”.
I hope Quebeckers have paid close attention to what has happened in recent days. With the Couillard government, Quebec no longer has any balance of power. On the investment in Bombardier, he lost. On federal health transfers, he lost. On the Infrastructure Bank, he lost.
With Philippe Couillard and the federalists, Quebec is neither loved, nor respected, nor feared. Why? Among other things, because Philippe Couillard does not believe in the strength of Quebec. He said it this week. He sees Quebeckers as incompetent and incapable who would sink into poverty if they let go of the Canadian crutch. Never had we heard a Quebec federalist leader be so ashamed of Quebec and its intrinsic strength.
I am happy to have defended Quebecers in the National Assembly this week, by reminding Philippe Couillard that an independent Quebec would be the sixth economic power in the Americas, one of the most diversified and open economies in the world, would have resources. renewable in abundance, an educated, creative population with crazy talent. Canada is a snuffer. An independent Quebec would be a permanent firework display!
But at what price ?, asks Mr. Couillard. For months, I have suggested that he debate the comparative merits of federalism and independence for an hour on television. But he refuses. He is afraid. Is he as scared of me as he is of Justin Trudeau? The bets are open.
So, I&#39;ll give it a taste with three numbers.
Three billion. This is the share that Quebec taxpayers will pay for state-of-the-art military fighter jets, which we really don&#39;t need. Three billion. Independent, Quebec could, with this sum, renovate all the dilapidated schools in Quebec.
Four billion. This is what we lack every year in federal productive investment in Quebec. It is the absence of our fair share, the Canadian investment deficit, that deprives us of 35,000 jobs per year. With this sum, an independent Quebec could double its budget for culture, agriculture and justice every year.
Finally, 30 billion. This is the colossal sum that Quebeckers will spend over the next 25 years to finance super-jobs in Halifax and Vancouver to rebuild and maintain the Canadian navy. Our grandparents said that Quebec had been Canada&#39;s cash cow, since its founding, for 150 years. With the $ 30 billion that it will take from us, we will become Canada&#39;s dairy, cheese factory and supermarket. Thirty billion extracted from our economy to enrich the economy of English Canada - this is the biggest embezzlement in our history.
So, I say to Quebecers: we cannot count on Philippe Couillard to stand up to Justin Trudeau, he has just proven it. We can not count on François Legault, who was completely silent during this episode.
Quebec needs a government that is not afraid to defend its interests. Quebec needs to regain its balance of power. As he had with the governments of the Parti Québécois. Quebec needs, today more than ever, a government of the Parti Québécois.
Justin Trudeau, Philippe Couillard and François Legault have something in common. These are the three amigos of the Energy East pipeline.
Justin Trudeau said it: he wants as many pipelines as possible for Canadian oil. He recently went to promote extreme oil to the oil kings in Texas. He was given a huge ovation. Justin Trudeau is very popular with polluters. He doesn&#39;t even hide it anymore. Social acceptability, ultimately, for Energy East, is not essential. What about the Quebec agreement? He doesn&#39;t even ask himself the question.
Philippe Couillard said it: it is normal for oil to flow from west to east. François Legault said it: how much does it pay? If Albertans give him a check, he will applaud the passage of the world&#39;s most polluting oil through 860 of our rivers.
The CAQ is therefore ready to auction the Ottawa River, the Mille-Îles River, the Saint-Maurice River, the Sainte-Anne River, the Jacques-Cartier River and, of course, the St. Lawrence River.
The PLQ and the CAQ, which we will call, for short, the PL-CAQ, are ready to help make global warming irreversible. Yes. James Hansen, the great NASA expert did the math. If the oil from the Alberta tar sands is completely extracted, it will be “game over” for the climate. Checkmate. There will be too many greenhouse gases in the atmosphere to prevent disaster.
In an interview, Justin Trudeau said that a fundamental responsibility of a Prime Minister of Canada is to allow our resources to get to the market. I am saying that a fundamental responsibility of a premier of Quebec is to do everything possible to prevent the irreversible warming of the planet.
We have already had too much erosion of the banks, too much flooding, too much thawing of the permafrost to deny our responsibility.
I want us to be able to tell our children and our grandchildren that in the great fight against global warming, the Parti Québécois was on the front lines, Quebec was on the front lines.
We are also the guardians, for ourselves and for future generations, of one of the largest reserves of fresh water in the world. What is the likelihood that there will be a major spill from the pipeline if it were built?
The Council of Canadians took stock of accidents at TransCanada&#39;s pipelines over the past six years, including its brand new pipelines. The Council of Canadians predicts that, if the trend continues, over the 40-year life of Energy East there will be six major spills. Six.
How big? In Michigan, in 2010, an oil pipeline spilled 3 million liters. The partial clean-up cost $ 1 billion. But it was a small pipeline. Not one of the biggest in the world, like the one we are promised. An Energy East break could spill up to 30 million liters, ten times more than Michigan. We do not even dare to think about the extent of the damage.
An independent Quebec, of course, master of its own destiny, could simply say no to a Canadian pipeline on its territory. And this is the theme of the first sheet of the series “50 answers plus one on independence”. A series that begins today.
A Parti Québécois government elected in October 2018 will not be helpless. We will ask voters for a clear electoral mandate to take all political, legislative, regulatory, normative measures to prevent the construction of a single kilometer of this pipeline. Today, I give our environment spokesperson, Sylvain Gaudreault, and our party committee on sustainable development the mandate to make an exhaustive inventory of all the measures that will be available to us to ensure that with the The ruling Quebec Party, Energy East never saw the light of day.
Let me tell you what will see the light of day under a Parti Québécois government.
Green energy. The green economy. Green innovation. A new wave of green entrepreneurship across the country. A green nation.
We will be elected in October 2018. A few months later, we will present our first budget and it will be the budget for going green. Imaginative, structuring, transformative, launching ambitious and concrete national initiatives, and sparking projects in every nook and cranny of Quebec.
We are at the crossroads of an economic necessity and a climatic necessity. Economic necessity, first: with the fall in energy costs in our neighbors, including the rapid fall in the costs of renewable energy, it is becoming increasingly evident that we are going to have to consume an increasing share of energy locally. our own hydroelectricity. Climate Necessity: To be a model nation in the fight against global warming, we will need to rapidly reduce our oil consumption.
This crossroads is also a great opportunity to seize: that of new sustainable economic growth and a better quality of life.
Since our oil is imported from elsewhere in the world, every barrel of oil saved is an investment in our local economy. It is as if Quebec had built a pipeline of money that pours $ 18 billion beyond our borders every year. Too bad for our economy. We must deploy a gigantic effort to keep these billions at home, so that they serve our well-being.
What to do with this money? I hear the leaders of the PL-CAQ dreaming of new dams. They are in the wrong century.
Tomorrow, for the cost of a new Romaine dam, we could invest in green renovation, release as much energy (negawatts) and support more than 60,000 jobs for decades. The next James Bay, it is not in the Far North, it is in every house, every building, at the corner of every street.
Imagine the workers, in Mauricie, who transform lithium to power the production of batteries in Montérégie to install them in electric vehicles manufactured and assembled in the Laurentians with aluminum from the Côte-Nord and Saguenay – Lac-Saint- Jeans.
Imagine the solar panels produced in the metropolis, with innovations from optical companies in Quebec, used as much in Estrie as in the Outaouais. Imagine the forest regions of Quebec, producing biomass replacing hydrocarbons, and treated wood for an increasing use of wood in our buildings. Imagine the next generation of farmers invested in local agriculture, with short circuits and products promoted in our local grocery stores. Imagine the wind turbines, manufactured in Gaspésie and the Bas-Saint-Laurent, serving as engines for communities, cooperatives and First Nations who will want to invest in them as partners. Imagine the anaerobic digestion of our waste becoming productive in all regions of Quebec.
And imagine the pleasure we will have, as soon as we return to power, when we repeal the medieval law adopted by the Liberals, the law which gives the oil companies the right to expropriate everywhere in Quebec, Bill 106. We are going to do that. send back to the Middle Ages! And we are going to ask the Caisse de dépôt to set an example and to put an end to its investments in oil companies.
We will take power at a crucial time of change. Those under 40 did not grow up with the religion of the automobile. They are from the car-sharing, carpooling, active transportation and public transit generation. And that&#39;s good, because the new transport is on our doorstep. Our historic role is to accelerate the transition to all modes of sustainable mobility, in the metropolis, in the capital and in the regions.
Yes, we will carry out a test bench for the electric monorail project. We will propose for Montreal a comprehensive plan to increase public transit that will have a real effect in reducing congestion and greenhouse gases. We will not forget the east of Montreal. We will not forget Longueuil.
With local players in each region, we will deploy appropriate measures to facilitate the transition to sustainable mobility from Abitibi to Gaspésie. And our nation&#39;s capital, finally, will have a robust public transit system.
It is an environmental issue, yes. It is an economic issue, yes. But it is also a public health and social justice issue. The most vulnerable Quebecers are the first victims of the increase in pollution, episodes of great heat and poorly insulated homes by owners who do not care.
The major social housing and renovation effort that we are going to undertake will improve their quality of life and their health. And the owners of what are called &quot;energy slums&quot; will be called to order. It is estimated that there are 20,000 poorly sealed housing units in Quebec. The owners of these housing units, and substandard housing units, will be deprived of the right to impose a rent increase until they rectify the situation. Quite simply.
In all of these actions, the leadership of the Parti Québécois government will be essential. Prime Minister, I will keep the responsibility for sustainable development and I will lead an interministerial committee on the green shift. The Green Fund will be devoted to the most promising measures to reduce GHGs and will report to this committee.
But I spoke of impulse. Because the creative force of the new green Quebec lies in the will and creativity of tens and hundreds of thousands of Quebecers committed to this transformation.
In social economy enterprises, in SMEs, in neighborhoods, in the technology transfer centers of our CEGEPs, in our universities and in our research centers. More and more, in our neighborhood councils and our municipal councils.
Before, we found less than 10% of Quebecers who wanted to start a business, whether social, private or cooperative. Today, 30% of Quebecers by adoption and - hold on tight - 42% of those under 35 would like to be their own boss. And they want to do it where they live.
In the Saint-Michel district of Montreal or in Saint-Michel-des-Saints in the Laurentians, in Saint-Michel near Quebec, in the Saint-Michel district in Thetford Mines or at Lac Michel in Lanaudière, even at Mike Lake in Haute-Mauricie. Obviously, it takes high speed Internet from them all over the country before the end of our first term.
But look at the extraordinary resource that we have throughout Quebec. The biggest entrepreneurial wave in our history. With an ecological conscience never seen before. We are the party of entrepreneurial succession, we are the party of green succession, we are the party of the green nation.
And, as Barack Obama said: “We are what we expected. &quot;
I would add: we are the light at the end of the tunnel of the liberal years.
The Parti Québécois, separatist, progressive, pragmatic, entrepreneurial, from large cities and regions.
The Parti Québécois, regenerated, is ready to lead Quebec&#39;s green turn, to make Quebec a green nation, to be at the rendezvous of all the nations leading the great fight of the 21st century, for us, for today, for tomorrow and for all the tomorrows of Quebec and the world.
Download the PDF version
