Here is the speech given by Jean-François Lisée as the new leader of the Parti Québécois.
Speech delivered on the occasion of the evening to unveil the results of the leadership race in Lévis.
To watch this speech, click here!
The pronounced version is authentic.
Victory
Tonight is the victory of all of us. It is the victory of the Parti Québécois. From the Party of Alexandre, Martine, Paul, our friend Véronique who listens to us and we greet warmly… We, the candidates, you saw us tease us a little, a lot but above all: passionately. But it is because we are passionate about Quebec, passionate about social progress, passionate about independence.
And all Quebeckers have seen that the debates are taking place in the Parti Québécois. Ideas are formulated in the Parti Québécois. The leadership races, it is with the Parti Québécois that we know how to make it relevant, intense, connected, like the Quebec of today, like the Quebec we love ...
And like the Quebec we love, after a good game where we gave the maximum, all the players will have a drink together to celebrate all they have in common. And you know, Alexandre, Martine, Paul, Véronique and me, what we have in common is you, the members of the Parti Québécois. It&#39;s the taste of Quebec.
The taste for an honest government, which has a real sense of ethics; the taste of a government that has enough heart and compassion not to run budget surpluses at the expense of children, patients, the elderly and the disabled; the desire for a government that will give tools back to the regions, instead of confiscating them; the taste of a government that will not abandon 860 of our rivers to an absurd project to transport the most polluting oil in the world; the desire for a government that will be close to small and medium-sized enterprises and their fight for less hassle and red tape, more freedom to undertake and invent; the taste for a government that protects our language, a government that teaches our history; the taste of a government that will sign the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and the taste of a government that, when informed that indigenous women have been victims of violence, will not wait months before trigger an independent investigation, but will do so immediately.
The taste of a government for which equal opportunities for every child in Quebec, equality of men and women, the march towards more secularism, social progress and democracy, the success of integration for each Quebecers by adoption, are not empty words, but firm, concrete, tangible commitments.
The Parti Québécois, our party, the largest party in Quebec, came out of this campaign invigorated. With new energy. More seasoned candidates. Better established organizations. Renewed teams. One could not ask for a better dress rehearsal to prepare for the next victory: that of the October 2018 elections. Imagine for a moment the energy of the organizations of Paul, Alexander, Martine and my campaign, combined towards a common goal. The days of the Couillard government are numbered.
Messages
Alexander. Dear Alexandre. I was told that to prepare for the debates, you had a thankless task, you and your team. Read everything I have written for 20 years. You see me deeply sorry. But I have a suggestion for you. The book of our victories to come. Do you want, we will write it together?
You have suggested that we set up, in the coming weeks, eight projects to concretely define, within a year, what sovereign Quebec will be made of. I have a suggestion for you. Do you want to set up these projects together?
My task today, our task, is to make the best possible synthesis of the proposals you have made, Alexander, for tax justice, for the regions, and those of the other candidates so that everyone can identify with our common project. And yes, Alexandre, for education, which excites you, I was serious about you the other day.
Martine, my dear Martine. Your energy, your determination, your ardor never cease to amaze us. You are not, Martine, what we call a &quot;quiet force&quot;. But you are a force, even more today than six months or a year ago. You know the fights we have fought together for what you so aptly call “smart economic development”. You know how much we share the vision of a Quebec that takes the lead in electric transport, secondary and tertiary processing of our natural resources. How much we want to get Quebec out of hydrocarbons.
I extend my hand to you, Martine, so that we can do it together. So that your proposals on energy and the electrification of Quebec form the basis of our common program of the whole party.
In this campaign, you and I did not propose, for the presence of Quebec in Canada, the same expiry date. Not exactly the same schedule. But exactly the same destination. And exactly the same starting point to prepare for the trip: tonight.
You proposed to publish, Martine, from next year, a brochure on the 50 + 1 answers for independence. Do you want to, let&#39;s get started, together. And together we will achieve the independence of Quebec.
The revelation of the year for the Parti Québécois. No it is wrong. The revelation of the year in Quebec politics is Paul Saint-Pierre Plamondon. The proof, we all learned to pronounce his full name. A feat !
Paul, you were an orphan. We adopted you. It was not a foregone conclusion. You made your place in the party. Signature by signature. Meeting by meeting. Debate by debate. Idea by idea. Above all, I saw you charm the militants by your desire to open the party to those who are not in this room. For those who never even thought they wanted to be there. Paul, your place is with us. Your task: to train all the political orphans of Quebec to be like you and to transform the Parti Quebecois from the inside.
Together with Véronique and with all the members, all the activists, all the organizers and all the volunteers of the Parti Québécois, we have a great mission to our measure. First we get together immediately after the race.
With Jacques Parizeau, I had been nicknamed “the advisor at the opening”. Today, like Jacques Parizeau, I want to be the leader of the rally. Among the 1000 things taught to me by the one we respectfully called “Monsieur”, there is this one: “for sovereignty,” he said, “the house is ready for all sacrifices”. He showed exemplary self-sacrifice to build around him, in 1995, the largest political coalition in our history. I&#39;m going to be faithful, in his way to his model ...
I also saw Pauline Marois, sitting around her table at the Council of Ministers, people who, in moments of bewilderment, had not believed in her, had not been kind to her. She passed in the towel and added up their talents. I am going to be faithful, in his way to his model.
And I give an opinion to all those who did not share, for my election, the enthusiasm of 50.6% of the members.
I need, the Parti Quebecois needs, Quebec needs each of you. From each of you. Without exception. Everyone, because our gathering is only the first circle of an even larger gathering. The one for all those who want change. And they are many.
I will speak to Liberal voters first. A quarter of you told the pollsters. You are dissatisfied with the Couillard government. There is no shame in being ashamed of a shameful government. Liberal governments, there have been exceptional ones, like that of Jean Lesage. There were ways. But bad guys like the one who&#39;s ruling right now, we&#39;ve never experienced that in our lifetime. The PLQ, your party, is a great party in the history of Quebec. But not at this time. Not with Sam Hamad, Gaétan Barrette, Lise Thériault and the others. Not with an austerity policy that has hurt our economy and our poor.
Not with a Prime Minister who needs 24 hours to decide whether or not it is ethical to hire someone who has just stolen documents. No. If you want the Liberal Party of Quebec to become a big party again, there is only one remedy: a long stay in the opposition. A change of guard. A long course of ethical detoxification.
In the 2018 election, we will make it easy for you, dissatisfied Liberal voters. We will present to you a formidable team, innovative ideas, future ministers of integrity. A hum-hum of good government. Independence, yes, as a sovereignist movement, we will try to convince you that this is the greatest progress for Quebec and that we should then, in 2022, take a decision in this direction. But as a government, for four years, from 2018 to 2022, we will work together, for the common good, for the nation, for Quebec. We are reaching out to you.
It is also handed out to Caquista voters. First, to tell you some very bad news. Some of you still think that the CAQ is a coalition. You will tell me, it is still in the name, coalition. At the beginning, yes, there were sovereignists and federalists united to talk only about the economy. But sovereignists, there are no more. François Legault said it in the middle of the national assembly the other day: “there are now two political parties that want Quebec to stay in Canada”.
Yes, the CAQ has become completely federalist. François Legault has gone to the dark side of the force. There are therefore now two right-wing federalist parties in Quebec: the PLQ and the CAQ. Two right-wing federalist parties that are ready to say yes to the pipeline that would endanger 860 of our rivers. Two right-wing federalist parties that refuse to francize companies with 25 to 50 employees, which are nevertheless the privileged place for the anglicization of new Quebecers. Two federalist parties which despise the early childhood centers, which are nevertheless one of the finest achievements for children on the whole continent.
François Legault has something else in common with Philippe Couillard and Gaétan Barrette. Together, they are responsible for the biggest disaster in Quebec&#39;s public finances of the century. The one that led to more than $ 5.4 billion a year being given to 20,000 people, the doctors. Yes, it was François Legault, when he was Minister of Health, who put the arm of public finances in the wringer, that Messrs Couillard and Barrette then twisted to the last penny.
Obviously, François Legault is not happy. In fact he is rarely happy. But the other right-wing federalist stole it. Not just his secret documents. No. Not just his former star candidate, Gaétan Barrette. Not just the former president of his party, Dominique Anglade, who is now a liberal minister. But also his program which could be summed up in three words: compressions, compressions, compressions.
One would have thought that after two and a half years of toxic austerity, François Legault would have had enough of the cuts. Would have understood that Quebecers had had enough. But no. Listen carefully. The day before yesterday, in the Assembly, the CAQ thought of making a whole operation with a motion proposing a general tax cut starting next year. Super good idea, until we calculate, in 22 seconds, that that meant additional cuts of three billion dollars a year on the backs of Quebecers. The CAQ plan means three billion more cuts in education and health for our seniors. Our 40,000 CHSLD seniors will eat powdered potatoes for how many years to satisfy the thirst for cuts from the CAQ?
No, the CAQ is not ready to govern Quebec. It is a party that changes priorities every six months. It is a messy party, impulsive like its leader, which makes unrealistic proposals in all kinds of fields. A right-wing federalist party that has no compass. No wonder so many caquists leave the ship as soon as they are offered a better job.
I represent the beautiful riding of Rosemont, but it was Thetford Mines and the Chaudières-Appalaches region that saw me grow up. Me, the entrepreneur&#39;s son who spent Sunday mornings putting flyers under the windshield wipers of cars in all the church parking lots in Beauce Nord and Beauce Sud. And I want to say one thing clear: Lévis, Beauce, the Thetford region do not belong to the Liberals and the Caquists.
The National Capital Region does not belong to the Liberals and the Caquists. I intend to be present, listening, in the capital. There is no mystery Quebec. There are citizens who have priorities, values, hopes, which must be better represented, better relayed. I agree to it.
I now want to talk to our friends from Québec Solidaire. We do not agree on everything. Otherwise, we would be in the same party. But we agreed on one thing last year during the federal election. Despite all the differences, it was necessary for the common good that Stephen Harper was no longer Prime Minister of Canada. And we were right. I now believe, despite all our differences, that it is necessary for the common good that Philippe Couillard no longer be the Premier of Quebec. So I sincerely turn to our friends from Québec solidaire. Together, let&#39;s find a way to add our strengths, during the 2018 election. Together, we can bring the project to bring the minimum wage to $ 15 as soon as possible. We can jointly support the project of freeing Quebec from tax havens.
We can bring together the project of transforming our voting system so that the next election is the last to represent the popular will so badly. We can look at the electoral map together and see how we can elect more progressive and sovereignist MPs and send as many right-wing federalists as possible to retire. It is just a matter of political will. Do we in the Parti Québécois have this political will? Do we have it? Yes we have it. And, friends of Québec solidaire, we would also like to find it with you. So that together we give victories to the common good.
The eternal youth of the Parti Québécois
On June 2, 1897 the New York Journal published a brief correction by a famous reader: Mark Twain. The newspaper had previously reported Mr. Twain&#39;s death. He therefore wanted to rectify the facts. “The news of my passing,” he wrote, “is exaggerated. &quot;
Rarely has the death of a party or an idea been as desired, foreseen, predicted as that of the Parti Québécois and the independence movement. A few months before René Lévesque&#39;s historic election in 1976, Pierre Trudeau announced, and I quote “separatism is dead”.
After the 1980 referendum, death notices were so numerous that pollsters stopped asking the question of the sovereignist voting intention for several years. When, before the referendum of 1995, a federalist spokesperson announced that it was necessary to “crush” the sovereignists, it was because he really believed that the result would be catastrophic for the Yes. This is what the very serious internal analyzes of the Prime Minister&#39;s Office said.
A few years later, the Canadian edition of Time magazine chose a tombstone to symbolize our movement. And in the aftermath of the 2014 election, Maclean&#39;s coverage decreed “the epic collapse of Quebec separatism”.
Yet we are still alive. Still standing. We are still and always the most important political party in Quebec. With more members than all the other parties combined.
And today, my friends, even today, the leader of the PLQ Philippe Couillard added his name to the long list of false federalist prophets. Sovereignty, he said, “no longer has a future in Quebec”. He thinks it&#39;s dead. Mr. Prime Minister, there is Mark Twain on the other line. He has something to tell you.
And today&#39;s election, the extraordinary campaign that we have just led, the rich debate of ideas that we have had, the rate of participation recorded, everything proclaims to the world a great truth, an inconvenient truth: The Parti Québécois is here to stay. The independence project is irreducible.
I deeply love this party and I cannot say thank you enough, on this victory evening, to my extraordinary team, my close collaborators. Thank you to my spouse, my family, my children who had a funny vacation this summer. My sister and mother who supported me and turned into amazing membership card sellers. And my father, Jean-Claude, whom I feel present with us this evening. Thank you to the hundreds of volunteers and to the thousands who clicked on “I embark with Lisée”, the 1000 who were with me at the previous race and who have regained hope this year. I salute you all, wherever you are in the four corners of Quebec… and further afield.
Our party, therefore, is indestructible, irreducible, like Quebec. But let&#39;s put the question differently. Is our party old? We are not yet 50 years old. The Liberal Party will blow out its 150 candles. And as for the CAQ, well, he&#39;s like baby Benjamin Button. He was born old.
Like all major parties, the Parti Québécois has reached maturity and is going through good times and lean times. Established parties, like him, which had lost ground have managed to regenerate and find contact with a new electorate. Let us think of the “Mitterrand Generation” of the French Socialist Party, of the success of Barack Obama then of Bernie Sanders for the Democratic Party or, closer to us, of the orange wave and then of the renewal of a Liberal Party of Canada that we believed. dying in the wake of the sponsorship scandal. &quot;Where are the young people who were with René Lévesque when the Party was created&quot;, do we sometimes hear?
Well, they are still there, in the rooms where we met them, from Gaspé to Val d&#39;Or. They have aged, but are still valiant, active, committed. There is in them a resilience that commands admiration. There is nothing wrong with our training attracting the support of baby boomers and young retirees, on the contrary. Their experience and solidity are precious to us, as is their fidelity to their childhood dreams.
The question we must ask ourselves is: &quot;Where are the others? &quot;. Last Sunday, I was happy to present around thirty Montreal supporters: they were of all ages, all backgrounds, all origins. United in the same campaign. A beautiful moment of gathering. A trailer for the Parti Québécois that I want to build with them and with you.
The youth. &quot;To interest young people, you have to be interesting&quot; said a man a few days ago who has just taken back his card from our party: Jean-Martin Aussant. I&#39;m glad, Jean-Martin, that you find us interesting again!
But how to interest all the youth? By becoming their party, then their government, plugged into their sensitivity. Our effort must be important, constant, multifaceted. First, by offering the youth wing of the Parti Québécois the status, the means and the importance it needs to become a major center of attraction for all Quebec youth. Young people must broaden their place, shake up the cage, breathe new life into Quebec&#39;s independence, social and environmental dialogue. In short: they must disturb, including the new boss.
Our Parti Québécois will once again become resolutely green in order to make Quebec an exemplary nation on the planet in the fight against climate change. Prime Minister, I will also immediately implement my proposal to create a Quebec Agency for International Solidarity, a real bridge for young Quebecers abroad.
A government of the Parti Québécois environmentalist and actively connected to the world, also fighting against income inequalities and tax havens, these are ways to once again become the valid interlocutor of youth and thus be able to engage in dialogue on other levels, including the essential independence.
I also propose to re-stage the festive side of the independence project by launching the “Sovereign Tour” every summer to meet the youth of Quebec. Young singers, comedians, independentist creators will be able to revive and renew Quebec&#39;s independentist culture, for our greater good.
At the founding convention of our party, there was a debate on the name we were going to adopt. René Lévesque, in his great humility, was not infatuated with the name &quot;Parti Québécois&quot;. He was chosen, against his will, by the majority of the delegates. He told them this: “It is a very beautiful name that we have chosen. We will therefore have to wear it, this name, with dignity (…) and the kind of indisputable responsibility for everything we have decided to take, since we have chosen it. &quot;
The Parti Quebecois must be the party of all Quebecers. It was his message. The party of all debates too because, contrary to the legend that some want to create today, René Lévesque was the first to criticize immigration policies and their thresholds. He was the first to loudly defend the Quebec identity, which he called the “vital difference” of Quebec and our responsibility to defend and transmit it. He was, in his time, accused of all words. Xenophobia, racism, Nazism, there was no limit. This did not prevent him from moving forward for the good of Quebec. We will be faithful… He was leading his fights for diversity. For the rights of anglophones, for their institutions. We must also take up this torch.
During last year&#39;s leadership campaign, I launched the idea of creating the Bold Anglos for Independence. Now they exist, under the banner of the Anglos for Quebec. Independence and they are already about fifty. I am delighted and we must welcome them with open arms. And I will even, as Pierre Karl Péladeau did during his victory speech, say a few words in English to them and to all Anglo-Quebecers.
We have a very catchy song, in French, by Loco Locass. It’s called: Libérez nous des libéraux. Free us from the liberals. Well, that’s our plan, for all of us, next election. The liberal party has trapped anglo quebecers for decades into voting for them by two means. First, by banking on the fear of separation. Better an inept, unethical, bumbling liberal government than the separatist PQ was their basic message. You know what I mean. Fully 40% of all non-francophones in Quebec are dissatisfied with this current liberal government.
It gives liberalism a bad name. Well, what if we got out of this trap for a change. What if we agreed to have a full term of just clean, honest, green, dynamic government. Yes, as a sovereigntist party, we will keep working towards our goal. But as a government, we will rebuild what this awful liberal team is spoiling but that we all hold so dear: this corner of North America that is unique in so many ways, and that thrives on that uniqueness, creativity, joie de vivre.
I said the liberals had two means to keep you in their electoral trap. The second one is to make you believe that we, at the Parti Quebecois, are, let’s say, dreadful people. They have a vested interest in making you believe that. They have help from, among others, the Toronto Globe and Mail, who described us, and I’m not making this up, as “vampires” and “zombies”.
Well, you know better than that. And, as a leader, I will make sure that we have an open and fruitful dialogue on who we are and what we can build together, when we do the current liberal team the great service of putting them out of their misery and letting them regenerate in a long overdue period in opposition. In my campaign this year, members of the Hispanic, Jewish, Haitian, Kabyle, Lebanese, and many others, young and old, sold membership cards in their communities and supported me.
This is another Parti Québécois trailer that I wish for soon. The committee representing, in the PQ&#39;s instances, adopted Quebecers must be recreated as a matter of urgency. Teams responsible for carrying our project into the communities must be set up to undertake serious, constant, long-term work. Diversity representatives should be active in each of the constituency executives where they are present. Party assemblies must quickly reflect more accurately the mixed reality of Quebec today and tomorrow.
Let us take a moment to make known our empathy, our distress and our solidarity with the Haitian people and the Haitian Quebec community once again struck by fate. You are our brothers and our sisters. You our sisters, you our Haitian brothers, know that in your distress, we are with you wholeheartedly. Tomorrow the sun will shine on your brave faces again and we will be by your side to emerge from the ordeal with our heads held high.
In Quebec as elsewhere, affiliation to a major party is less attractive than before. We campaign for causes, from time to time, then we move on.
The Parti Québécois must therefore be opened up to this desire for variable-geometry militancy. Open our consultations to non-members. Allow proposals to be submitted, questions asked, actions organized, without everyone having to show their card. Information must flow more freely within the party. Local initiatives should be encouraged, rather than controlled. And it is high time that the Party had a full-time liaison officer in Quebec City to fuel our action in the National Capital and in Chaudières-Appalaches.
We therefore need a breath of fresh air in our party and in our political life. Since its creation, the Parti Québécois has always known how to innovate. Has always known how to dare. By thoroughly reforming political financing (twice: in 1977, then in 2013). By establishing universal suffrage of members for the choice of its leader. He still has to innovate. Demonstrate that it is today, as much as it was created almost 50 years ago, by far the best vehicle to take Quebec to the future.
Above all, our convictions are intact. Our project is as modern as the first day. The foreign experience - Scotland, Catalonia, Brexit - proves us right in form and in substance. Our challenge is not to redefine our objective or our project, but to regenerate our organization to bring it into line with today&#39;s citizens.
Our Quebec federalist friends have abandoned their dream: that of a renewed Canada, which would concretely recognize the existence of the Quebec nation and which would accept its autonomy. They are orphans. They gave up. As Canada&#39;s 150th birthday approaches next year, they dare not even discuss the remote possibility that Canada&#39;s basic law, the constitution passed without us and against us 34 years ago, could be fixed. May the existence of our nation do justice. There is therefore a death, a real one, in the Quebec family. The death of the dream of Jean Lesage, Claude Ryan and so many other elected officials who believed that Canada, one day, would officially recognize the Quebec difference. Would welcome him with “honor and enthusiasm”. The Liberals do not even dare discuss the subject any more, their capitulation is so total. They know that the Canada they wanted is a fantasy land. They no longer believe in their own dreams. In this case, the announcement of the death of their dream is by no means exaggerated.
But we, the separatists, our dream is more alive than ever. We know that we have no permission to ask of anyone but ourselves. We know that Quebec will be present in the world. We know the future is ours. We know that the road to victories opens before us this evening.
