Quebec - The MNA for Marie-Victorin and House Leader of the Official Opposition, Bernard Drainville, suggests that all Members of the National Assembly take a first step towards a less partisan and more respectful Parliament by putting an end to the applause during the oral question and answer period. He also suggested that the proceedings begin at the time provided for in the Standing Orders of the House.
“Cynicism towards the political class is palpable within the Quebec population. All parties have contributed to it and are responsible for it. The Parti Québécois invites elected officials to take a first step with us to combat this cynicism and restore the confidence of citizens. This is what the population wants and the time has come to listen to it, ”said the parliamentary leader.
People want more civilized exchanges between political parties in the National Assembly. “Everyone understands that the Salon Bleu is not a tea room, and that the debates can sometimes be tough. However, the hyper-partisanship shown by our applause during question period is not doing anyone a favor. On the contrary, it encourages parliamentarians to look for the murderous phrase that will impress their colleagues, to the detriment of a healthy, constructive and democratic debate, ”admitted Bernard Drainville.
Moreover, the Parti Québécois believes it is necessary for parliamentary work to start on time. “Our work starts regularly with 15 or 20 minutes late. Things have to change, out of respect for the institution, ”continued the deputy.
The Leader of the Official Opposition welcomes the openness shown by his government counterpart to these two proposals. “I will have the opportunity to discuss it with him today, as well as with the leader of the CAQ, the representatives of Québec solidaire and the Member of Parliament for Arthabaska. A draft motion without notice will be submitted to them today. I invite them to discuss it with their caucus and to come back to us before resumption, next Tuesday at 2 p.m. A single measure will not be enough to curb cynicism, but we have to start somewhere, ”concluded Bernard Drainville.
