Blainville - Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, presented her commitments for the well-being of families in Quebec. On this occasion, she was surrounded by the Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Pointe -aux-Trembles and Minister of Families, Nicole Léger, the candidate in Blainville, Gyslaine Desrosiers, and the candidate in Groulx, Martine Desjardins.
“I am very proud to have helped establish innovative policies as Minister and I am even more proud to have been able to develop them as Premier. However, we want to go even further. We want to open a new project, that of work-family reconciliation. Give parents a little help so they can spend more time with their children, to make their lives easier. I am therefore announcing the forthcoming holding of a major forum on work-family-studies balance, ”declared the Premier.
This meeting will be an opportunity to think about solutions to improve the quality of life of families in Quebec. The partners invited to this summit will notably come from the family community, the municipal world, unions, employers&#39; organizations, daycare services, university institutions, health and social services establishments, Aboriginal communities and the childcare sector. transport.
“Quebec families want time. I am making the commitment: we will mobilize all the players, in order to sit them around the same table and find solutions to help our families ”, affirmed Pauline Marois.
First, our health commitments demonstrate our concern for families. We wish to continue the deployment of family medicine groups in order to improve access to a family doctor, institute an entry point to an appointment-making system for front-line services and specialized care in public establishments, in order to significantly reduce the waiting time to obtain an appointment with health professionals, as well as develop a reliable and comprehensive reference portal, the Health Portal, which will present a information checked and updated regularly.
In addition, in order to make life easier for parents, the Health Insurance Act will be amended to allow them to obtain an additional health insurance card for their child, so that each parent can have one with them altogether. time. This administrative change will meet the needs of parents, especially those of single-parent families. We are also working to improve access to screening and early intervention services for autism and impairments, and to improve the offer of daytime activities in order to promote the maintenance of acquired skills for people aged 21 and over. more with a disability or autism spectrum disorder.
In addition, over the past 18 months, the actions of the Parti Québécois government have embodied our commitment to making life easier for families. We have thus announced 28,000 childcare spaces, so that in 2016, 250,000 reduced-contribution spaces will be available for children in Quebec.
In addition to meeting their needs, the Parti Québécois wants to make life easier for parents. A one-stop-shop for access to child care spaces will be available from June 2014. This is a major project for the child care service network. Currently, parents have to knock on several doors in order to have a place for their child. Ultimately, they will only have to take one step to register their child with all the childcare services that offer reduced-contribution places in Quebec. This registration will be free.
As part of its solidarity pillar, the Parti Québécois also increased funding for community family organizations by $ 5 million per year, in addition to improving integration into daycare services for disabled children, with an envelope of $ 6 million. over 3 years.
“In this campaign, the only party that makes firm commitments and has a plan to improve the lives of families is the Parti Québécois. This is true for family issues, but the same is true for our health and transportation commitments. We are determined to make life easier for parents and to build a more welcoming Quebec for our children, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
The Parti Québécois is the party of families. Since the creation of the network of early childhood centers in 1997, it has been driven by the desire to give our children a better start, to better support their parents and to allow women to return to the labor market.
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
Watch the press conference.React on Pauline Marois&#39; blog post.
