Quebec, April 7, 2017 - Gaétan Lelièvre, the member for Gaspé and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois responsible for the Gaspésie – Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, and the member for Bonaventure, Sylvain Roy, questioned the minister responsible for the region, Sébastien Proulx, concerning the abandonment by the Liberal government of the Gaspésie – Îles? de? la? Madeleine region.
IN SHORT
The issue of transport Transport occupied a major place during the inquiry. Whether it is road, rail or air, in the Gaspé, the transportation sector is going through a period of crisis.
“The citizens of the Gaspé feel forgotten by the government, especially when it comes to transportation. The region&#39;s RCMs have made the return of rail service a priority. However, we did not see any announcements in the budget on this. All socioeconomic players in the region deny the Minister of Finance, who declared that the train was not essential for the economic development of the Gaspé. Does the regional minister agree with his colleague? Questioned on this subject, Sébastien Proulx returned the ball to the Minister of Transport, saying that the development of the file was not his responsibility. Does he have a weight, in the Council of Ministers, to move this file forward? The Ministry of Transport has owned the section for 2 years; what is he waiting for to take his responsibilities? Does the government want to make the train an electoral promise for 2018, instead of including it in its 2014-2018 achievements? Damaging the development of the region so much is unacceptable, ”said Sylvain Roy.
“Air transport is also in crisis. An all-inclusive week in Cuba costs less than a Gaspé-Quebec return trip. In addition, one of the two medical evacuation planes cannot land at four of the five airports in the region. A patient from the Magdalen Islands even had to wait five days before being evacuated! This is unacceptable. Budgets for road investments are at their lowest since 2014, when Route 132, particularly on the northern coast, is nearing the end of its useful life. Without major investments, the citizens of Haute-Gaspésie and the Estran will relive the isolation caused by the erosion of the banks, which is increasing. None of these priorities has been announced, has no timeline. However, the time is no longer for studies; the region needs results, ”continued Gaétan Lelièvre.
Moreover, the members do not believe that the Liberals adequately recognize the island character of the territory, contrary to what they claim. “We tolerate a cancellation rate of flights to the Magdalen Islands of 20%. The CISSS des Îles is preparing to close the CLSC de l&#39;Est on weekends, reducing the response times from 10 to 45 minutes. Is it really that, recognizing and combating the challenges of insularity? They ask themselves.
Regional consensus During the interpellation, Minister Proulx repeatedly raised the lack of regional consensus to explain the lack of achievements in the region. “This is unacceptable and extremely disappointing, as an answer. First, a consensus has existed for several months for the return of the train from Matapedia to Gaspé. Second, after his government abolished the regional consultation bodies, the minister is in a very bad position to criticize elected officials for not getting along! What is lacking, for the realization of the major files in Gaspésie, is not consensus, it is government action, vision and will, to support local leaders, ”added the MP for Gaspé.
No vision, no will of the government for the development of the region According to the deputies, the regional minister was not able to concretely convey neither the vision nor the will of his government for the development of the region. Both, as well as the fifteen elected officials and representatives of the Gaspé who attended the interpellation, came out extremely disappointed. &quot;We did not obtain any clear commitment from the minister responsible for representing the Gaspésie – Îles? De? La? Madeleine region on the Council of Ministers,&quot; they concluded.
