Quebec - Martine Ouellet, MP for Vachon and official opposition spokesperson for transport, transport electrification and maritime strategy, has serious reservations about the place that the Caisse de dépôt et placement will take in the financing and operation of public transport services in Quebec.
“Nothing is free or magic! The SLR and the western train will cost more for citizens and users. By entrusting the financing and operation to the Caisse, which has no expertise in the procurement process or in the operation of public transport infrastructure, we will add to project costs the return required from the Caisse, ”said Martine Ouellet.
Recall that in April 2013, the then Minister of Transport, Sylvain Gaudreault, created a project office at the Agence métropolitaine de transport to coordinate the construction of a light rail system (SLR) on the new Champlain Bridge. . The project was also subject to the Directive on the management of major public infrastructure projects, implemented in February 2014 by the Parti Québécois government.
“While all the players in transport in the metropolitan region agree that there are too many players in the file and that better coordination is necessary, the Liberal government decides to add an actor who does not has no expertise in the management or operation of a public transit service. This new so-called &quot;innovative&quot; formula will promote efficiency above all and will open the door wide to the private sector in the management of our public services. Ultimately, it will be the users and all Quebecers who will foot the bill and assume all the risks, ”added Martine Ouellet.
The Federal Government&#39;s Contribution
When the announcement, in April 2013, of the installation of an LRT on the new Champlain Bridge, the Parti Québécois government indicated its intention to have it funded in large part by the federal government, through the program. from Infrastructure Canada. “The Liberal government is once again showing its bluntness vis-à-vis the federal government. He chose the easy solution: dip into Quebecers&#39; socks and make them assume all the risks, ”concluded the spokesperson.
Watch the press conference.
