Québec, May 14, 2020 - Véronique Hivon, MP for Joliette and Parti Québécois education spokesperson, calls on the government to adopt three measures aimed at taking action for the psychological health of high school students and promote optimal support to support their perseverance and success.
The Parti Québécois is proposing three measures to support and accompany high school students:
To help high school students, the Parti Québécois believes that mental health intervention squads should be set up. “The government has indicated that it has made the decision to reopen primary schools largely to ensure children&#39;s mental health, but it seems to have forgotten that the 340,000 high school students experience just as many challenges from this point of view. sight - perhaps even more, since they are at a pivotal stage in their development, and are particularly challenged by isolation and lack of socialization. These intervention squads would make it possible to act in a proactive manner, for example at the request of members of school teams or relatives who notice signs of vulnerability and distress in adolescents. This essential measure must be deployed quickly, for the well-being of the students who, unfortunately, are in some respects neglected ”, raised Véronique Hivon.
The member for Joliette also wants to urgently release a dedicated budget to increase, in number and intensity, the follow-ups of professionals with students in difficulty. “What we are seeing in several places is a reduction in follow-ups, whereas on the contrary there should be a lot more, given the difficulties and the vulnerability which are worsening for several students at the moment. If we do not want insurmountable delays to occur and a &quot;COVID generation&quot; of dropouts to emerge, we must deploy increased resources now! », She insisted.
In addition, after two months of confinement and distance learning, the government must guarantee once and for all accessibility to technological devices. “The Minister of Education announced a partnership with Apple and Telus to offer 15,000 new tablets to families. Unfortunately, not only is this number clearly insufficient to meet the needs, but in the best of all worlds the devices will probably not be available for several weeks. The minister can make nice announcements, but if they do not materialize on time, he is only creating false hope. I ask him to ensure that every student who needs a technological tool can get it in good time. And, if there are still loopholes this spring, there will be no more excuse for the recovery in the fall, because the next few weeks are precisely there to plan and organize, ”added the spokesperson. education.
Finally, while CEGEPs and universities are working hard to offer as many distance courses as possible next fall, Véronique Hivon reiterates her request to the Minister of Education: &quot;He must allow elementary and secondary schools to have the flexibility to physically accommodate half-time students, in order to maximize both stability and socialization, in particular, for both children and adolescents. This proposal is receiving more and more support, including that of school administrators, ”she recalled.
