Quebec - The Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, participated today in the unveiling of a monument in tribute to women in politics. “I was 12 when the first woman entered Parliament. I will always remember that moment when our society opened up to a true democracy by considering men and women on an equal footing. It took years of struggle and the determination and strength of character of the pioneers to get there. Quebec must remember their contribution, ”declared Ms. Marois.
The monument highlights the considerable contribution of four women to Quebec political life: Idola Saint-Jean, Marie Lacoste Gérin-Lajoie, Thérèse Casgrain and Marie-Claire Kirkland. Let us recall that the first three militated for the right to vote and to stand for election for women before the adoption of the law by the Legislative Assembly of Quebec on April 25, 1940. Mrs. Kirkland was, for her part, the first woman. to be elected to the Legislative Assembly some 20 years later. It is to her that the adoption, in 1964, of the Law on the legal capacity of married women.
&quot;It is to these women, and to all the people who have accompanied them on their long march, that we owe the advancement of women, mainly in the political sphere, but also in other sectors of activity and influence. . They have been a source of inspiration for me, and I hope they will also be for future generations, ”continued the Premier.
The National Assembly, the National Capital Commission of Quebec, the City of Quebec and the Council on the Status of Women have joined forces to allow the erection of this monument. They entrusted the realization of the work to the Quebec sculptor Jules Lasalle, who is also the author of the statue of Prime Minister Robert Bourassa, erected in 2006 on Parliament Hill. This initiative comes on the heels of the 70th anniversary of the right to vote and to stand for election in Quebec, underlined last year. The monument is installed on the south facade of the Parliament Building, overlooking the Grande Allée in Quebec City.
