Montreal– The Parti Québécois candidate in the Chicoutimi constituency and President of the Treasury Board, Stéphane Bédard, the candidate in Chambly and Minister of Justice, Bertrand St-Arnaud, and the candidate in Drummond – Bois-Francs, Daniel Lebel, affirm that the Parti Québécois is the only credible party to fight against corruption and restore the confidence of the population in its institutions.
“Today we are doing what the Liberals cannot. We present our government&#39;s record on integrity. Philippe Couillard never spoke of integrity in this electoral campaign. He made no commitments. Moreover, the Liberal Party has admitted no wrong for its ethical abuses. These include his systematic refusal to hold a commission of inquiry, the liberal daycare scandal, the FIER scandal, the lowering of ethical rules to accommodate certain ministers, the list is long, ”declared Stéphane Bédard.
For his part, the former president of the Ordre des ingénieurs du Québec, Daniel Lebel, chose the Parti Québécois to continue the work on integrity. “Quebeckers must ask themselves the question: do they want the fight against corruption and collusion to end, or to continue? The measures put in place 18 months ago have made it possible to save $ 240 million in road works. I&#39;m running with the Parti Québécois team because it&#39;s the best team. It makes integrity a real priority, ”added Mr. Lebel.
The first law tabled by the Parti Québécois government was the Integrity in Public Contracts Act. He also set up a new funding regime for Quebec political parties and adopted Bill 10, making it possible to remove from office a municipal elected official accused criminally.
“For 18 months, the Parti Québécois has shown its determination to fight corruption. For its part, the Liberal Party voted 11 times against holding a commission of inquiry. The next government will receive the report of the Charbonneau commission. Quebeckers must ask themselves: which party is best placed to implement the recommendations of this commission? », Continued Bertrand St-Arnaud.
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
Watch the press conference.
