Quebec - The MP for Roberval and official opposition spokesperson for forests, Denis Trottier, vigorously denounces the Action Démocratique du Québec (ADQ), which has just turned its back on the Quebec forest, its workers and to the regions of Quebec.
At the initiative of the Parti Québécois, the National Assembly was preparing to adopt a motion to ensure that the amphitheater project in Quebec City made a significant place for the use of Quebec wood. The Liberal Party of Quebec and Quebec Solidaire were in favor; however, against all expectations, the ADQ objected to it.
The motion presented was, however, moderate:
&quot;That the National Assembly ask the government of Quebec to ensure a significant place in the use of wood in the design of the new amphitheater in Quebec to make it an ecological and technological showcase and to enhance, in complementarity with other materials , the use of wood in future government constructions, in accordance with budget forecasts ”.
“This ADQ refusal is a revelation for the regions of Quebec and forestry workers: the ADQ has just turned its back on the Quebec forest. This almost unanimous motion was simply aimed at ensuring that finally, in Quebec, we are working to develop pride in this noble and ecological resource which contributes to the economic development of Quebec. It is shameful that the ADQ is opposed to that, ”denounced Denis Trottier.
An economical and ecological combination
The use of wood in construction, in addition to contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gases, allows appreciable savings for heating since wood is more insulating than concrete and steel.
The member for Roberval believes that it is normal for such a building, financed in large part by Quebec taxpayers, to contribute to the economic development of the regions through the use of their forest resources. “As taxpayers, we will devote $ 200 million to this. Why wouldn&#39;t there be a return on the additional investment? This would send a clear message that we are proud of wood in Quebec, ”he added, recalling that other countries around the world have adopted laws on the increased use of wood.
&quot;ADQ deputies will now have to explain to forestry workers why today they have just turned their backs on them,&quot; concluded Denis Trottier.
