Quebec - The Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, and the Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, today presented the government&#39;s vision to promote the increased use of wood in construction in Quebec: the Wood Charter.
“Our government is demonstrating today, through the Wood Charter, the firm desire to put in place more effective means to promote the use of a material transformed locally. In addition to consolidating and even creating jobs for our communities and in the regions, increased use of wood material constitutes a tangible contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gases, ”declared Minister Martine Ouellet.
“The Charter will allow the construction of wooden buildings of five and six floors: they are currently limited to four. New construction techniques allow this enhancement. We worked in collaboration with the Régie du bâtiment to develop a Quebec measure while waiting for permanent standards to be incorporated into the regulations. It is a concrete response to a demand formulated by the industry and an important outlet for their products, ”added Minister Agnès Maltais.
“I am happy that my government is presenting the Timber Charter. We promote the use of a noble, ecological and renewable resource. I invite Quebeckers to adhere to the principles of the Timber Charter and to use Quebec wood in their construction, ”said Denis Trottier, Member of Parliament for Roberval and Parliamentary Assistant for Forests.
The Government of Quebec is committed to demonstrating its exemplary nature in the application of the Timber Charter as the most important contractor in Quebec. Thus, for all projects financed in whole or in part by public funds, the responsible project manager must systematically demonstrate that a wooden solution has been evaluated and that a calculation of greenhouse gas emissions ( GES), comparing the use of wood with different construction solutions, was carried out at the pre-project stage. It should be noted that renovation projects, consisting of an addition of surface area to a building, will also be subject to the Charter. The government will set up an industrial cluster aimed at bringing together the players in the wood construction industry and thus ensure a coherent approach to promote the use of wood and the development of value-added wood products.
The increased use of wood in construction in Quebec is a tangible contribution to the fight against greenhouse gases. Indeed, it comes from a local resource whose renewal is assured. In addition, wood has the property of storing and trapping the carbon atoms contained in carbon dioxide (CO2), one of the greenhouse gases responsible for climate change. We know that on average a cubic meter of wood can trap a tonne of CO2. Its use, as a substitute for other more common construction solutions, is all the more ecological as wood requires much less energy for its extraction and processing than other construction materials.
The government has set up a training plan so that professionals involved in the construction of buildings, such as engineers or architects, acquire the most recent knowledge on the use of wood as a structuring element as is already done. in Germany, Austria and France. Educational establishments and centers of expertise will therefore be strongly requested to offer comprehensive training, in addition to promoting the use of this material.
By adopting the Timber Charter, the government is creating favorable conditions for research and innovation, both in terms of products and processes. This development of advanced know-how will generate economic activities for several municipalities and increase recognition of the importance of trades linked to the forestry sector. It aims in particular to develop wood products with high added value, to innovate in the use of wood in construction processes and to design green buildings with high energy efficiency.
For more information on the Cahrte du bois, consult the website of the Ministry of Natural Resources at the following address: http: //www.mrn.gouv.qc.ca/forets/entreprises/entreprises-transformation-charte. jspet the explanatory brochure Wood: a raw material for responsible development in PDF format (1.2 MB)
