Lachine - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, and the Member for Marquette, Mr. François Ouimet, met yesterday with the local survival committee, made up of about twenty people , to take stock of the Old Dutch plant (formerly Humpty Dumpty), located in Lachine. It will be remembered that at the end of the day, on Monday May 6, the company announced the closure of the plant, resulting in the loss of 216 jobs.
The Minister Delegate gave a frank and honest report on the situation. She opposed an end of inadmissibility to the leaders of the American company, who are asking the Quebec government for a subsidy of 20 to 25 million dollars to make the Lachine plant operational and compliant with today&#39;s standards. hui.
&quot;The contribution of Quebecers cannot be solicited at such a level for an American company which must first demonstrate its real interest in staying here and in investing,&quot; declared Minister Delegate Zakaïb. “What matters to us and must mobilize us is maintaining jobs, and we are going to do everything in our power in this regard. &quot;
For his part, the member for Marquette, Mr. François Ouimet, while agreeing with the Minister Delegate on the fact that the requested investment is exorbitant for public funds, wished to remind those gathered that some employees lived human tragedies that had to be taken into consideration.
“As the Member of Parliament for Marquette, I care about the plight of the hundreds of people, some of whom are near retirement age and others fear for their future. We are going to make every effort to support the economic development of our riding and the maintenance of jobs, ”said François Ouimet.
All the actors concerned are ready to work together to try to find a solution in the short term. A first meeting took place on May 15 and a second today. A third meeting will bring together a select committee in which the Minister Delegate and the Member for Marquette will have a representative. This will be held at the CDEC in LaSalle-Lachine, under the coordination of the Director General, Henri Chevalier.
The factory, built in 1964 by Humpty Dumpty, has been in continuous operation ever since as a potato chip factory. Old Dutch acquired Humpty Dumpty in 2006.
Minister Élaine Zakaïb and MP François Ouimet in a meeting with the local survival committee (source: CNW Group / Office of the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec)
