Quebec - The Minister for Industrial Policy and the Banque de développement économique du Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announces financial assistance in the form of an equity investment in the amount of $ 5 million in the Indian Farmers company Fertilizer Cooperative (IFFCO) Canada ltée to carry out a pre-feasibility study relating to the possible establishment of a urea production plant in Bécancour. This project is valued at $ 1.3 billion.
“This investment is a breath of fresh air for the Bécancour region. The plant will create 300 permanent jobs and it is estimated that 1,500 people will be hired during construction. I can only rejoice at the efforts being put in place by our government to ensure the region&#39;s economic vitality following the decommissioning of Gentilly-2. The arrival of IFFCO, combined with other investment projects and an economic diversification fund of $ 200 million, will ensure that the economy of the Bécancour region emerges from the nuclear era ” , argued Minister Élaine Zakaïb.
La Coop fédérée has expressed its intention to enter into a distribution agreement for its fertilizer market and to become a financial partner of the project. Currently, urea imports into Quebec amount to approximately $ 400 million. Local urea production will improve Quebec&#39;s commercial balance sheet.
Bécancour stood out against its competitors because of its comparative advantages, in this case the availability of natural gas through Gaz Métro, railways and port facilities that will allow the export of fertilizers. . The project will use natural gas, transported by Gaz Métro and coming from a North American distribution network.
IFFCO is a leading global player in the fertilizer industry. “It has the expertise and know-how necessary for this type of project and we are convinced of its success. This is major news that will have repercussions for the City of Bécancour and for the Center-du-Québec region, but also for all of Quebec, ”said the chief government whip responsible for the regions of Quebec. Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet.
