Quebec - Following their visit to Val-d&#39;Or, the member for Saint-Jérôme and leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the Parti Québécois spokesperson for indigenous affairs, Guy Leclair, and the spokesperson for the status of women and housing, Carole Poirier, called on the Liberal government so that projects that have been on the ice for a long time can finally be unblocked, in order to provide solutions to the problems that aboriginal communities live.
“In Val-d&#39;Or, we met women and men who want to be heard by the government. People who demand that justice be done and that the same rules apply to everyone. We have found that several projects are on the ice. They have been in development for years and come up against red tape or liberal austerity. However, these are concrete projects that could provide some short-term solutions. Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard can act, and he must do it now, ”declared the leader of the official opposition.
“We also noted that 2015 was a tough year for homeless people in Val-d&#39;Or, particularly for Aboriginal clients. The Chez Willy lodge, a respite center that welcomed Aboriginals in need, had to close its doors. Winter will be cold in Val-d&#39;Or if the government does nothing. The Minister of Native Affairs must put pressure on his colleagues so that the lodge reopens its doors and that the homeless Native people of Val-d&#39;Or once again have access to a minimum of dignity, ”continued Guy Leclair.
“We met several community organizations working for the safety of the most vulnerable women in the region. La Piaule, for example, has a project to build 21 social housing units in the Manoir Val-d&#39;Or building. But the minister responsible for housing told us, during the study of the estimates, that he did not have time to deal with it, because there were only 24 hours in a day. Will Pierre Moreau soon be able to find time to unblock the project that the people of Val-d&#39;Or so badly need? », Added Carole Poirier.
“Since 2008, the Aboriginals of Quebec have been calling for an action plan to fight racism and discrimination against them to be put forward. It was not until 2013 that the government of the Parti Québécois of Prime Minister Pauline Marois decided to go ahead by organizing consultation days to prepare this action plan. Since the arrival of the Liberals, everything has stalled. Will the government wait for another crisis to realize the need for a specific plan to combat racism against Aboriginals? », Concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau.
