Quebec - The leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the member for Rousseau and the Parti Québécois critic for finances and revenue, Nicolas Marceau, called on the Liberal government of Philippe Couillard about the scandal of Panama Papers and what it plans to do to counter tax evasion. Nicolas Marceau also unanimously passed a motion on this subject.
“Today, the Prime Minister has a second opportunity to show employees and small businesses that he is not applying double standards. We questioned the government about the KPMG scandal, but got no answer. The Prime Minister had nothing to say about the amnesty offered to these wealthy people who were caught hiding money on the Isle of Man. Big fish that use tax schemes have been seized by the tax nets, but the Prime Minister claimed that agreements binding Quebec to the federal government required us to put them back in the water. Is that his vision of tax fairness and justice? “Asked Pierre Karl Péladeau.
Unanimous motion
“Tax avoidance practiced on a large scale in a tax haven like Barbados deprives the Quebec state of considerable sums, in violation of the principle of tax fairness. Barbados is a tax haven for Canadian businesses, due to a decision by the Government of Canada. It is the Canadian government that created the problem, so it is the Canadian government that can correct it. The motion adopted this morning calls on the federal government to make the necessary changes to put an end to these practices. The government of Quebec and its Minister of Finance now have an obligation to obtain from Ottawa that these changes be made, ”continued Nicolas Marceau.
The motion adopted unanimously this morning reads as follows:
“That the National Assembly condemn the practices linked to tax havens, which deprive the Quebec state of considerable sums and violate the principle of tax fairness;
That the National Assembly recall that all taxpayers must pay their fair share of tax;
That the National Assembly ask the federal government to collaborate with the government of Quebec in order to put an end to the tax avoidance that is practiced through the many empty shells in Barbados set up by Canadian companies, in particular in amending subsection 95 (1) of the Income Tax Act and Income Tax Regulation 5907, so as to specify that any business which is entitled to a special tax benefit granted by Barbados is not exempt from tax by effect of a tax treaty, in accordance with the Canada-Barbados Income Tax Agreement Act, 1980. &quot;
Remember that the Panama Papers scandal brought to light other cases of tax abuse that would involve more than a hundred companies in Quebec alone. Firms back home have used the services of Mossack Fonseca to hide money in Panama, the British Virgin Islands, the Seychelles and the Bahamas.
“The Prime Minister likes to cite the federal government as an example. He must therefore know that it has just announced additional means to specifically attack the creators of tax schemes and high-risk multinationals. Finally, therefore, the federal government is giving itself the means to attack the big fish rather than the smallest. Can the Prime Minister tell us if the Government of Quebec will do the same? Philippe Couillard must also explain to Quebecers what he will do to ensure that the fraudsters, whose names are publicly displayed in the media, do not get away with impunity, ”concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois.
