Montreal, January 8, 2017 - The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the chief whip and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on immigration and cultural communities, Carole Poirier, presented today &#39; hui to the media Évelyne Abitbol, special advisor for diversity, and launched a first action plan of the Parti Québécois in terms of diversity.
“Our objective is twofold. On the one hand, we want to establish a constant dialogue with Quebec&#39;s diversity to develop with its members policies that will ensure the success of Quebecers of various origins. We also want to significantly expand the place of members of diversity within the Parti Québécois, so that they are stakeholders in our debates and our projects. Carole Poirier is responsible for these two files, and Évelyne is the ideal person to support us in this task, ”said Jean-François Lisée.
Born in North Africa, in Morocco, Évelyne Abitbol has devoted a large part of her career to dialogue between cultures and civilizations, and she has worked in international organizations working in the field of cooperation. She is known for her commitment to the cause of Raif Badawi, this blogger taken prisoner of conscience in Saudi Arabia. Honored, among others, by the Institute of Sephardic Culture of Canada for her tireless action in the dialogue between cultures, she also received the Arab Women Trophy. A long-time independentist, she worked for the Bloc Québécois under Lucien Bouchard and was also Director of Government Relations and Public Affairs at Concordia University, in addition to having represented Quebec and Morocco at the Fondation des Trois Cultures (Christian, Muslim and Jewish) in Seville. Its mandate will also cover relations with the English-speaking community.
“As of now, we are setting in motion a series of actions. We are working to mobilize members of the Parti Québécois from diverse backgrounds and we will ensure their contribution during constituency conventions. We also have as mandates the creation of a committee for diversity within the party&#39;s bodies, as well as, very soon, within the framework of the presessional caucus, the organization of a tour of the deputies to the communities. More generally, our objective is to intensify the dialogue and to focus it specifically on the challenges of the next election, ”added Carole Poirier.
Several Quebecers of various origins have joined the Parti Québécois over the past year, around the leadership candidates. Mr. Lisée and Ms. Poirier invited other members of diversity to do the same by writing to diversite@pq.org.
“I accepted this important mandate because I have known Jean-François for nearly twenty years and I know the depth of his commitment to Quebecers of all origins. I also see Carole at work in the communities and I see the quality of the relationships that she knows how to forge. I believe that the time has come to initiate a voluntary, structured, permanent and fruitful action of real connection between the Parti Québécois and the Quebecers of adoption, ”concluded Évelyne Abitbol.
