Quebec - The Minister of Public Security, Stéphane Bergeron, today launched the very first Quebec Civil Security Policy 2014-2024, entitled Towards a Quebec Society More Resilient to Disasters, on the occasion of the Colloquium on Civil Security and fire.
As a reference to guide the actions of all the actors concerned, the Québec Civil Protection Policy aims to promote the consolidation, optimization and improvement of the efforts and resources devoted to civil protection, in order to prevent deaths and injuries. injuries and limit the increasingly heavy socio-economic costs associated with disasters. Prevention thus stands out as the key element around which the efforts of all, in particular citizens, must revolve.
“Each year, our territory is affected by natural phenomena, or accidents, which threaten the lives of many Quebecers and which affect the normal course of activities in the community where they occur. Without the implementation of concrete measures to prevent these events, we are faced with ever more frequent, important and costly emergency interventions. In this context, I am particularly proud of this very first Québec Civil Protection Policy, which establishes a common framework for action from which will be deployed, over the next decade, measures that will increase our resilience to disasters ”, declared Minister Bergeron.
To ensure the implementation of this policy, a national action plan will be drawn up during 2014, under the coordination of the Ministry of Public Security, and will aim to achieve the objectives pursued, to promote consultation between various actors, and to ensure the coherence and complementarity of the actions carried out. The submission of an interim implementation report is expected mid-term, in 2019, and a final report will be produced after the 2024 deadline.
“I would like to thank those, especially all of our partners, who contributed to the development of this Québec Civil Protection Policy. Together, we will succeed in advancing civil protection in the years to come, and thus preserve the safety and health of future generations as well as the social and economic prosperity of Quebec, ”concluded Mr. Bergeron.
To consult the 2014-2024 Quebec Civil Protection Policy, visit www.securitepublique.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesc.
