Montreal - Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and Governor of Vermont, Peter Shumlin, proudly announce the conclusion of a partnership between Quebec and Vermont for the implementation of the Quebec – Vermont Electric Charging Corridor. This route will allow owners of electric vehicles (EVs) to travel with peace of mind between Montreal and Burlington, since they will now be able to count on a complete charging infrastructure.
“This is the first segment of an electric charging network that we want to expand, in collaboration with neighboring provinces and states, over the next few years,” said Pauline Marois.
“Using electricity instead of gasoline will mean clean transportation in our region, at a lower cost. I am pleased to join Premier Pauline Marois in announcing the considerable progress that has been made on the Quebec – Vermont Electric Charging Corridor, ”Governor Shumlin said.
The Quebec – Vermont Electric Charging Corridor is the result of the partnership between Quebec and Vermont. From the beginning of the fall, electric vehicle users who will use the Montreal – Burlington corridor will be able to do so with complete peace of mind. Along this 160-kilometer north-south journey, 31 public charging stations will be accessible to EV drivers. These stations are part of the Electric Circuit deployed by Hydro-Québec and the Drive Electric Vermont network.
In addition to the announcement of this first corridor, Quebec and Vermont have already mentioned the continuation of exchanges with a view to extending the network and developing other highways, like the Magog – Sherbooke – St. Johnsbury which will allow EV drivers to travel across the border.
The Quebec – Vermont Electric Charging Corridor initiative follows on from discussions initiated between Quebec and Vermont at the last Conference of New England Governors and Eastern Canadian Premiers. Its achievement is an eloquent example of cooperation between the two states which had agreed to create, with Hydro-Quebec, Green Mountain Power Corporation and representatives of the private sector, a working group on the deployment of public charging infrastructure for EVs.
To date, nearly 1,500 fully electric or plug-in hybrid vehicles are on the roads of Quebec. Recent economic surveys show that Quebec has a very large share of the Canadian EV sales market. In terms of public charging, Quebec already has a network comprising 300 stations in service. The Hydro-Québec Electric Circuit has nearly 150 of these terminals and the VER Network, an initiative of a young Québec company, AddÉnergie Technologies, has nearly 100 terminals.
Quebec has many assets that allow it to become a leader in the electrification of transportation. We produce electric power from renewable sources, available and offered at competitive prices. In addition, Hydro-Québec&#39;s distribution network is reliable and robust. It is already capable of supplying electricity to at least one million vehicles.
The Electric Circuit is the spearhead of the charging infrastructure that supports the arrival of rechargeable EVs in Quebec. It includes nearly 160 240-volt charging stations, in service in particular in AMT parking lots and several RONA hardware stores, Metro grocery stores and St-Hubert rotisseries in Quebec. Since its inauguration in March 2012, 34 other private and institutional partners have joined the Electric Circuit. Its expansion will continue so that it offers greater geographic coverage and serves a greater number of EV users in several regions of Quebec.
“In Quebec, the electrification of transportation is underway! It is a solution that is both clean and profitable. This is why our government wants to accelerate this transition. With the Quebec – Vermont Electric Charging Corridor, we are setting a new milestone to ensure the driving autonomy of electric vehicle users, on both sides of the border, ”concluded Pauline Marois.
