Québec, September 14, 2016 - After months of hard work, Diane Lamarre, the member for Taillon and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health and access to care, is delighted that the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette , announced the abolition of ancillary fees, which represented an injustice and a real obstacle to access to essential services for patients literally held hostage. Nonetheless, Ms. Lamarre warns the Minister: the incidental costs file should in no case lead to the addition, through a secret negotiation, of sums in the remuneration envelopes of physicians.
“After having defended for years the legalization of ancillary costs, first as president of the Federation of medical specialists and then as liberal Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette is now backing down on this major issue for all Quebecers. : no more citizens will be obliged to take out their credit card at the same time as their health insurance card for insured health services, ”said Diane Lamarre.
&quot;It&#39;s a victory for the Parti Québécois, because we have fought this battle for the abolition of overbilling for years, but it is first and foremost a victory for the 8 million Quebecers that I defend in the daily. I would like to underline the mobilization of dozens of groups - in particular made up of citizens, professionals, doctors, representatives of professional orders, seniors, and so on - who have dared to publicly denounce the Minister&#39;s intention to legalize incidental costs. Gaétan Barrette wanted to legalize the illegal by denying the injustice that the incidental costs generated. I am happy that Quebec patients are now exempt, ”added the spokesperson.
However, she warns the Minister of Health: the Parti Québécois will continue its work rigorously to ensure that the bill will not be indirectly passed on to Quebec taxpayers. &quot;We will ensure that the remuneration of physicians is not improved on the sly, following negotiations that would take place behind closed doors,&quot; she concluded.
