Quebec, September 15, 2016 - While the Ombudsperson tells us that administrative rigidity prevents victims of crime from quickly obtaining the compensation to which they should easily have access, the Member for Jonquière and Leader of the Opposition official, Sylvain Gaudreault, asks the Minister of Justice, Stéphanie Vallée, to correct the situation and improve the management and efficiency of the Directorate of Compensation for Victims of Crime (DIVAC).
“In her report, the Ombudsperson raises several problems in the administration of DIVAC. The most serious, in our view, are the restrictive and rigid interpretation of the eligibility criteria, which deprives victims of fair compensation, long delays in processing claims, and the lack of information available. to victims throughout the process. We must do everything to improve assistance to victims of crime, those people who, every day, live with the consequences of actions taken against them. Collectively, it is our duty to support them. The Liberal government must quickly correct this unfair situation, ”said Sylvain Gaudreault.
“These revelations from the Québec Ombudsperson add to another problem we are already experiencing: $ 25 million is in the Crime Victims Assistance Fund, and this is voluntary. The government is using this money to balance its budget, when it should normally be used to support organizations that help victims of crime. It would not be the first time, moreover, that the criteria of access to a fund or to a compensation program would be interpreted restrictively to prevent the money leaving the coffers of the State ”, added the chief. of the official opposition.
The Parti Québécois government had taken concrete action to help the victims. “The passage of Bill 22, among other things, gave them more time to file a compensation claim and allowed reimbursement of the costs of cleaning up a crime scene. In addition, it substantially improved compensation for the parents of a victim, which went from $ 2,000 to $ 12,000. The former Minister of Justice of the Parti Québécois, Bertrand St Arnaud, had also increased the limitation period for civil remedies for victims of sexual assault from 3 to 30 years. Finally, we announced our intention to reform the IVAC in depth; unfortunately, until now, the Liberal government has not seen fit to follow up on this idea, ”concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
