Quebec– The MNA for Joliette and Parti Québécois spokesperson for culture and communications, Véronique Hivon, as well as the MNA for Vachon and spokesperson for transport, Martine Ouellet, denounce the government&#39;s intention to raze remains dating from the end of the 17th century, for the benefit of the construction, under the Turcot interchange, of a water collector.
This decision is all the more absurd given that the old Village des Tanneries, discovered about a year ago, was the subject of archaeological excavations which cost the government some $ 1.6 million. “This site has been said to be as interesting, from an archaeological point of view, as that of Pointe-à-Callière; so why, now, would anyone want to destroy it? I ask the Minister of Culture, Hélène David, to quickly pull herself together so that this part of Quebec&#39;s historical heritage is preserved. Yesterday&#39;s announcement sounded more like a funeral for this site than a real commitment to preserving it; what we basically said was that we were just going to keep a few artefacts, but that we would demolish the site and all the historical value that it holds. This is not enough, ”said Véronique Hivon.
“We must be aware of the importance of the remains discovered on the site. Because they allow us to learn more about our origins, they represent a collective wealth for Quebecers of all generations. We must therefore safeguard them and ensure that they are accessible to as many people as possible. At least, this is the reflex that our Minister of Culture should have, ”continued Véronique Hivon.
Martine Ouellet denounces for her part the confusion of the Ministry of Transport in this file. “Who decides, at the Ministry of Transport? At the time of the discovery, the ministry had undertaken to wait until the end of the excavations before deciding what would happen to the site; however, it seems that engineers have already received permission to destroy these remains dating back three centuries. If so, that&#39;s just one more reason to act quickly, ”she concluded.
Tonight, members of the Parti Québécois will participate in a vigil to raise awareness among the population and decision-makers about the importance of preserving the site of the former Village des Tanneries. The meeting is fixed at 7 p.m., at the corner of Saint-Rémi and Cazelais streets, in Montreal.
