Quebec - &quot;Faced with the failure of the Action Plan to Prevent and Treat Violence in Schools, an action plan described as an empty shell by several stakeholders, the Minister of Education, Line Beauchamp, must immediately implement takes new concrete measures to put an end to the violence and all acts of intimidation currently experienced in our schools and which have devastating consequences for hundreds of young people, their families and teachers ”.
This is what Sylvain Gaudreault, the member for Jonquière and official opposition spokesperson for primary and secondary education, declared in the National Assembly today, when he called again Minister Beauchamp so that she can go into action mode and provide Quebec with a real action plan to curb the phenomenon of violence in schools.
The Parti Québécois proposes that a personalized plan be developed for each report so that a victim of bullying, but also his or her attackers, are quickly taken care of by the education community, that of social services. and also police forces, if necessary. “Not only must we act quickly for the victims, but we must also do it for the aggressors. Schools must have sufficient resources to draw a portrait of their environment and ensure follow-up with victims and aggressors. It is not only by moving a victim, even in time, that the problem will disappear, ”continued Sylvain Gaudreault.
Citing the example of France, the member for Jonquière invites Minister Beauchamp to agree to a partnership with those in charge of social media to better control what is happening on these networks. “The French Minister of Education has signed an agreement with Facebook to close access to this network when attackers use this platform to intimidate students. This is a way forward for Quebec, ”added the Parti Québécois spokesperson. He specifies that the proliferation of social media now allows attackers to continue their acts of bullying outside of school hours.
“These measures will send a clear signal that there is zero tolerance for violence and bullying in all its forms. The goal is to make sure that no youngster falls through the cracks. There is an urgent need to act, ”concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
