Saint-Hubert - Returning from a three-day trip to the land of shale gas, Pennsylvania, the member for Vachon and official opposition critic for mines and shale gas, Martine Ouellet, accompanied by Serge Fortier, spokesperson for the Interregional Citizen Group of the Saint-Laurent Valley, Claude Roger, mayor of La Presentation, Yvon Pesant, mayor of the municipality of Saint-Marcel-de-Richelieu, and Réjean Blanchette, farmer, draw up a very worrying assessment of the situation of farmers and citizens grappling with the consequences of the exploration and exploitation of shale gas.
Réjean Blanchette felt directly concerned by the difficulties faced by farmers in Pennsylvania. &quot;The great poverty of the farms pushed the farmers to want to improve their lot and the gas companies took the opportunity to make them sign agreements on the exploitation of the subsoil of their land without knowing what the consequences would be&quot;, he added. he declares.
At La Presentation, there is a shale gas well that has been leaking for several months. Mayor Claude Roger is therefore following this file with great interest. “My trip to Pennsylvania allowed me to see the impacts of shale gas development on the ground. The findings are disturbing: wells of drinking water contaminated with methane, ventilation of the ground next to a church to prevent an accumulation of this same gas inside the church, citizens supplied with drinking water by reservoirs plastic near their home. The most difficult thing is to see that the citizens grappling with these problems are destitute, without financial resources, and seem completely abandoned by their government authorities. &quot;
&quot;This trip makes us realize that this form of development in a region like ours confirms not only the risks associated with it, but also the deep certainty that we are exposing ourselves to serious environmental, economic and social problems, both for us. - same as for future generations, ”continued the mayor of Saint-Marcel-de-Richelieu, Yvon Pesant.
The group of 55 people also met citizens who daily experience the harmful impacts of shale gas exploitation, particularly the contamination of their water. “It is worrying to see the powerlessness of citizens who are victims of the industry, to see that the burden of proof lies with affected and impoverished citizens without the support of their elected officials. They are left to fend for themselves. We must absolutely prevent this from happening again here in Quebec! “, Worried Serge Fortier.
All the participants were able to observe that the gas companies use the same speeches, the same arguments and the same techniques, whether in Pennsylvania or in Quebec. Behind a facade that dangles the creation of wealth and jobs, the latter are downright playing sorcerer&#39;s apprentices with agricultural land. &quot;The impacts for farmers and citizens are terrible: contamination of drinking water by methane and by chemicals from hydraulic fracturing of wells, air pollution and increased smog, health and pregnancy problems. and production in cattle herds in particular. A farmer told us bluntly: Don&#39;t be as naive as me, find out and if a gas company offers you a contract, see a lawyer! », Concluded Martine Ouellet.
The participants of this trip invite the entire population of Quebec to participate in the Earth Day march on Sunday, April 22 at 2 p.m. in Montreal, to make the citizen voice heard in favor of regaining control of our natural resources. .
