Quebec - The Minister for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, the Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignty Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier met his federal counterpart, Mr. Peter Penashue, Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs, as well as Mr. Christian Paradis, Minister of Industry during interviews held on December 11 in Ottawa.
These meetings were an opportunity for Minister Cloutier to defend the positions of the Government of Quebec on several important issues for Quebec.
In particular, he recalled the firm desire of the Government of Quebec to exercise full control over cultural funding in its territory and to conclude an agreement with the federal government in this regard.
With regard to the next federal infrastructure program, Minister Cloutier indicated the need to ensure that Quebec&#39;s jurisdiction is respected by proceeding with a “block” transfer of federal funds provided for Quebec.
Minister Cloutier also recalled the unanimous opposition of the National Assembly of Quebec to the loan guarantee recently announced by the federal government in Newfoundland and Labrador for the realization of the Lower Churchill hydroelectric project. He also made a point of stressing that Quebec has always been and is always ready to collaborate with Newfoundland and Labrador on this file.
Minister Cloutier also agreed with Mr. Paradis on the importance of quickly agreeing on the “mirror” laws aimed at implementing the Canada-Quebec Accord on the joint management of hydrocarbons in the “Old Harry” reservoir. , located in the Gulf of St. Lawrence.
“The meetings with Mr. Paradis and with Mr. Penashue allowed me to have cordial exchanges during which I was able to outline the approach that our government intends to adopt in terms of intergovernmental relations. I told my counterparts that we are going to ensure that our jurisdiction is fully respected and that a sovereignist government will do everything in its power to acquire more powers for Quebec, ”said Minister Alexandre Cloutier.
During their meeting, ministers Cloutier and Penashue agreed that meetings will be held on a regular basis over the next year. &quot;We will now opt for a direct dialogue approach with the federal government,&quot; Minister Cloutier concluded.
