Gatineau– The Minister of Public Security and Minister responsible for the Outaouais region, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, was in the Outaouais today.
He took advantage of this day to meet various stakeholders in the region: Ms. Paulette Lalande, in her capacity as prefect of the MRC de Papineau, Mr. Frédéric Poulin, president of the Alliance for the cause of higher education in the Outaouais, Mr. Jocelyn Blondin, president of the Commission scolaire des Portages-de-l&#39;Outaouais, Mr. Maxime Pednaud-Jobin, head of Action Gatineau, and some representatives of the Round Table of voluntary organizations for popular education in the Outaouais.
These stakeholders were able to present their respective files to the Minister responsible for the Outaouais region and discuss them with him. The latter said he was very happy to have been able to have this first direct contact with them: “It was my first official visit to the Outaouais as Minister responsible for the region and I greatly appreciated all the discussions. This allows me to explore promising issues for the region, said Stéphane Bergeron. This visit to the Outaouais also gave Mr. Bergeron the opportunity to meet the regional director of correctional services, Mr. Denis Brian, as well as the director of open environment services, Ms. Marie-Josée Riopelle as well as special constables and police officers. probation at the Gatineau courthouse.
The Minister took advantage of his presence in the Outaouais to formalize the appointment of Ms. Lise Goulet as political advisor for the Outaouais: “Ms. Goulet will be the link between the Outaouais and my office. She has the necessary political experience, having held these same positions a few years ago with ministers Sylvain Simard and Joseph Facal. In addition, she was senior advisor to the former Bloc Québécois MP, Mr. Richard Nadeau, ”commented the Minister. Ms. Goulet will also be supported by a political attaché in her tasks. This person should be hired shortly. It will be installed in a regional office which will be opened shortly.
