As part of the En marche pour la parité event, organized by the Women, Politics and Democracy Group, the leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the vice-chief and spokesperson for family and justice, Véronique Hivon, as well as the spokesperson for the status of women, Catherine Fournier, presented the commitments of the Parti Québécois to achieve parity in the National Assembly and in political decision-making spheres.
IN SHORT
“Every time Quebec acts to improve the condition of women, for greater equality, all of Quebec society is making progress. We are committed to ensuring that our next Council of Ministers is equal, and we are aiming for parity, also, within the boards of directors of public organizations. With regard to the elected representatives of the National Assembly, is it necessary, to finally achieve parity, a law, as proposed by the Women, Politics and Democracy Group? The response of the Parti Québécois is yes. We need a law that will take effect for the 2022 election. I am making a pledge to you today: elected on October 1, our government will table a bill on parity. What law will it be? Should it take up exactly what you are proposing to us, by setting an obligation on the parties? Rather, should it introduce conditions that will encourage the parties to achieve the objective and which would make those who fail to achieve it pay a price, political or otherwise? The debate remains open within our party, as it is within society, ”declared the leader of the official opposition.
Jean-François Lisée specified that the result of the 2018 election and that of the considerable effort made by the parties this year to reach the parity zone will provide additional elements to nourish reflection and guide the drafting of this great law. . The commitment to electoral parity could also be combined with the additional democratic tool that the Parti Québécois intends to offer for 2022, namely a mixed proportional representation, regionalised. These two reforms, on parity and on the voting system, will move forward on the road to a much more representative democracy. Quebec is ready to take these steps.
&quot;Quebec society has made great strides towards equality between women and men: let us think, among other things, of the Pay Equity Act, maternity leave for municipal councilors, the automatic collection of support payments, Equality for all Quebeckers program, at childcare centers, at the election of the first woman prime minister ... However, we must take additional steps. That is why we are now voting in favor of the introduction of maternity and paternity leave for MPs. We are asking the National Assembly to set up a committee so that parliamentarians can, all together, study the terms, ”added Véronique Hivon.
“Today, we are firmly committed to parity in the spheres of power and in the National Assembly. I salute the work of the Women, Politics and Democracy Group; his proposal is bold, and we welcome it with enthusiasm. The next Parti Québécois government is committed to taking other decisive steps. We will do them, with the whole of society, to achieve real parity, real equality, ”concluded Catherine Fournier.
