Quebec - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, today welcomed the success of the first flight of the Bombardier CSeries aircraft.
“This is a historic moment for the Quebec aeronautics industry. The CSeries aircraft is the ultimate expression of the know-how of Quebecers. Conceived and designed by local engineers, manufactured in large part by Quebec workers, this new family of aircraft will become one of the symbols of our success in aeronautics. Greener, more efficient and more reliable, CSeries aircraft will enable Bombardier to carve out a place of choice in a new market of the future and to further promote Quebec&#39;s expertise in a cutting-edge field, ”declared Minister Marceau. .
Remember that the Quebec government was an early partner in the development of the CSeries aircraft. As early as 2008, a loan of $ 117 million was granted to Bombardier to help finance this project of more than $ 3 billion. In addition, the government has set aside an envelope of US $ 1 billion, managed by Investissement Québec, to finance the first buyers of CSeries aircraft and thus promote the sale of aircraft.
“The production of the CSeries aircraft will have a significant impact on the Quebec aerospace industry. It will represent more than 3,500 jobs at Bombardier and interesting spinoffs for our SMEs. In addition, many of our companies will be called upon to provide services and components for new aircraft, particularly in the case of engines that will be assembled by Pratt &amp; Whitney Canada in Mirabel. This approach is in line with the objectives of our industrial policy, which aims in particular to fill the entire value chain in our niches of excellence, ”added Minister Zakaib.
“The Bombardier team deserves our congratulations for their hard work. The CSeries aircraft has a bright future. The Government of Quebec is proud to have contributed to the success of this major project, ”the ministers concluded.
To receive real-time press releases from the Economy section of the Ministère des Finances et de l&#39;Économie, subscribe to the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss.
