Québec, June 26, 2014 - The member for Joliette and official opposition critic for culture and communications, Véronique Hivon, calls for the suspension of the cuts to tax credits for cultural production, while the impact studies and consultations - which should have been done before the budget announcement - take place. These cuts of $ 85 million will have a major destructuring effect and could cause, according to the players in the field, the loss of thousands of jobs. The member is also wondering about the minister&#39;s real opinion.
&quot;The minister recently invited the community to mobilize against these cuts, going so far as to encourage them to prepare? The clearest and most convincing presentations possible?&quot; for the Québec Taxation Review Commission. Is this commission becoming an appeals tribunal for unfounded Liberal budget decisions? We still do not know, despite our many questions to this effect, whether the minister agrees or not with these cuts. What we do know is that the one who described herself as a? Culture fighter? rather seems to invite others to fight, ”said Véronique Hivon.
Will Minister David witness the decline of state museums? Faced with $ 2.65 million in cuts to the operating budgets of the four state museums, Minister David has offered no response to the many questions and concerns shared today by museum leaders, who were on an unprecedented trip showing their dismay as to the impact on the functioning of their institutions.
“While the recent Report of the task force on the future of the Quebec museum network concluded that the national museums find themselves in a state of great precariousness and that there is a need to invest additional funds, the government is cutting back on 5% in their operating budgets! What is the Minister of Culture&#39;s vision for the future of museums? What does she have to say to them to reassure them? It is the very ability of museums to fulfill their mission that is called into question! », Continued the spokesperson.
In addition, Véronique Hivon notes the inconsistency in government action. The latter has in fact never consulted the community before making cuts in cultural production and museums, while for the future of independent bookstores and books, he is recommencing all of the consultations carried out there less. one year by a parliamentary committee of the National Assembly. These consultations led the Parti Québécois government to announce its intention to legislate to regulate the price of books. “We would like to save time that we could not do better! The time for consultations is over. We must act now, Madam Minister, ”concluded Véronique Hivon.
