Montreal– The Parti Québécois de Saint-Henri-Sainte-Anne proudly announced earlier today that Véronique Fournier will run for the Parti Québécois in the riding during the next election campaign. This event took place in the presence of Mr. Maka Kotto, Minister of Culture and Communications and Member of Parliament for Bourget, Mr. Benoit Dorais, Mayor of the Sud-Ouest Borough, Ms. Louise Harel, former Member of the National Assembly of Quebec and several times minister under different governments of the Parti Québécois, Ms. Gaël Cerf, co-owner of Grumman 78 and vice-president of the Association des restaurateurs de rue du Québec and Ms. Claudette Dubé, president of the golden age of Saint- Paul who all wanted to be present to support this candidate who represents a young, urban voice, carrying the reality of the central districts of Montreal.
Solicited by many citizens and supported by the executive of Saint-Henri-Sainte-Anne, this candidacy is a completely coherent path in the path of Véronique Fournier who is aware of local challenges and who is ready to meet them. . Indeed, City Councilor in Saint-Henri-Petite-Bourgogne-Pointe-Saint-Charles from 2009 to 2013, she is first and foremost a resident of the constituency concerned by its issues and committed to its community development. Ms. Fournier has a strong attachment to the riding and does not hesitate to get involved in issues of concern, for example Turcot or, more recently, rail safety. Also, until very recently, it was she who chaired the South West Urban Planning Advisory Committee (CCU).
“We are at the heart of a changing constituency and I want to develop a promising vision for it. You have to know how to respond well to everyone&#39;s needs: both the people who built it and the newcomers, and I will be able to use my experience and skills to achieve this. It is important for the citizens of here to give themselves a voice in the chapter and to help build a prosperous and united Quebec. The challenges of Saint-Henri-Sainte-Anne are also those of Montreal, those of Quebec: infrastructure, housing, social solidarity, transport, cultural influence. It is to this responsibility that I intend to respond with commitment and determination. I invite citizens this spring to create a Member of Parliament who will be present for them, ”stated Véronique Fournier.
During her mandate as elected to the City of Montreal, Ms. Véronique Fournier held the positions of urban planning spokesperson for the official opposition, vice-president of the Committee on finance and administration, vice-president -President of the Commission on Economic and Urban Development and Housing. She knew how to use different forums to defend culture, housing for all, the requalification of Griffintown, to denounce several behaviors and realities harmful to the future of the city.
Ms. Fournier holds a master&#39;s degree in social economy and a bachelor&#39;s degree in social work and community organization. In addition, she has taught democratic practices in community organizations at UQAM and is pursuing graduate studies in public management at the National School of Public Administration (ENAP).
