Victoriaville, October 16, 2016 - “Welcoming Véronique, in good shape, in good health, enthusiastic and committed to our work, is the best news we could receive a few days before our return to the National Assembly”. It is in these terms that the leader of the official opposition and Member of Parliament for Rosemont, Jean-François Lisée, greeted Véronique Hivon, Member of Parliament for Joliette, who had been absent since August 17 for health reasons. Speaking about the files he entrusted to him, Mr. Lisée also announced that he delegated important mandates to Stéphane Bergeron and Martine Ouellet.
The member for Joliette will be back for the start of parliamentary business next Tuesday. Véronique Hivon will be the official opposition spokesperson for justice, the reform of democratic institutions and end-of-life care. In addition to these responsibilities, the leader of the Parti Québécois appointed her representative for relations with civil society, citizen participation and convergence. She will also be the chief&#39;s lieutenant for political relations with the Parti Québécois, Mathieu Traversy being in charge of organizational matters.
“In addition to the important responsibilities that Véronique will assume, she will have an essential role to play in the nourished relations that we will undertake with all of civil society, and in the sustained interest that we will take in citizen initiatives. She will also be my direct representative to ensure the success of the work of the convergence and in my relations with the authorities of the Parti Québécois ”, specified Jean-François Lisée.
“We have to open the windows, reconnect with the population, become meaningful again for citizens, promote their initiatives and ideas, and be inspired by them. Bottom-up politics, I believe in it. It is from this perspective that I envision this mandate, ”declared Véronique Hivon.
Two separatist initiatives &quot;I wanted to materialize, in the first days following my election, my firm will to really act to widen the ranks of Quebec separatists, by launching initiatives that will reach a large public&quot;, also underlined Jean-François Lisée.
Martine Ouellet, the Member of Parliament for Vachon, will be in charge of the operation 50 + 1 responses on independence. In a very user-friendly format with wide distribution, we will explain the issues of borders, citizenship, rail transport, the seaway, pensions, to name a few.
“Members and citizens have very down-to-earth questions about independence. It is high time to provide them with answers. Jean-François asked me to carry out the 50 + 1 response operation on independence, which I had announced during the race. It was with great pleasure that I accepted. This is work that will be done in consultation with members of Parliament, experts and groups interested in transforming the province of Quebec into a country, ”explained Martine Ouellet.
The second initiative relates to the 150th anniversary of the coming into force of the British North America Act (now the Constitution Act, 1867), which took place on July 1, 1867. Stéphane Bergeron, Member of Parliament for Verchères , becomes Chargé de Mission for Operation 150th Anniversary of Canada. In 2017, the Parti Québécois will also be talking about history, but from a different angle!
“Throughout 2017, we will try, with firecrackers and balloons, to convince Quebeckers that they are part of a great adventure, that of Canada. Many believed, in fact, that this adventure was worth living. Without wishing to play spoilers, I believe however that it is advisable to set the record straight and to demonstrate that the federative pact of 1867 did not live up to its promises, especially since Quebec is not a signatory to the 1982 version of the basic law governing Canada, which absolutely no one seems to be concerned about across this country. We will therefore mark Canada&#39;s 150th birthday by evoking 150 facts and events that will shed a new light on what we would like us to celebrate, ”declared Stéphane Bergeron.
“Martine and Stéphane have at the same time the competence, the energy and the pedagogical qualities necessary to gather around them and carry out these essential mandates”, concluded the leader of the official opposition.
