Quebec– Diane Lamarre, spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in matters of health, access to care and home support, affirms that it is impossible to have a fair picture of the situation in Quebec hospitals without integrating the daily data on overflow units to emergency statistics. She thus asks the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, to make them public.
IN SHORT
** - Like the statistics concerning patients waiting in the emergency room, the number of patients in overflow units must be made public every day on the website of the Ministry of Health; this data already exists.
“Despite three years and many reforms, it is an observation of failure for Gaétan Barrette. He failed to improve the first line except by sending people to the overflow units. However, waiting in an overflow unit or waiting in the emergency room are all the same. Knowing that the ministry already requires hospitals to report daily on the number of patients in overflow units, why not immediately make this data public on the Internet, as is done for emergencies? This would provide a true picture of the situation, ”said the MP.
“Several speakers said that we were trying to &#39;camouflage&#39; reality, in particular by resorting to overflow units. If the minister refuses our request, it will mean that he is complicit in this tactic, even that he encourages it. And the last thing the health network needs is to put our heads in the sand by improving the situation, ”added the spokesperson.
Here is a table illustrating the words of Mrs. Lamarre; the first two columns describe the real situation experienced this Friday morning, April 28, 2017. The data come from the Ministry of Health:
However, according to the data on the overflow units revealed during the study of the 2016-2017 appropriations, between April 1, 2015 and March 5, 2016, there were 58 people hospitalized daily, on average, in the overflow of the Cité-de-la-Santé, in Laval. At one point, we even reached 96 patients! For Saint-François d&#39;Assise, an establishment in the Quebec region, this average was 11, for a maximum of 28 patients. If we take this average and apply it to the data from April 28, 2017 concerning emergencies, that changes the picture considerably.
“There would therefore be, at Cité-de-la-Santé, 103 people waiting on stretcher, either in the emergency room or in an overflow unit. In Saint-François d&#39;Assise, it would be 50 people in total. It is quite a difference! For the sake of transparency, all data must be made public on a daily basis, ”concluded Diane Lamarre.
