Pointe-Claire– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces that the Department is taking charge of the work to secure and manage hazardous materials on the site of Reliance, the company not having complied with several measures required by the order served on August 29.
Inspections carried out over the weekend have in fact made it possible to determine that the company has not complied with the first step imposed by the ordinance concerning the safe development of the site. The company had until September 13, at 11:59 p.m., to comply. “The first steps in securing were both simple and quite urgent to carry out. Yet Reliance failed to meet its obligations under the first installment. So, as I said, we immediately take charge of operations on the site in order to make it safe and properly dispose of the hazardous materials there. The environment and safety must be taken seriously, ”said Minister Blanchet.
The minister also assured that all measures are taken to proceed without delay. Already, companies are mandated to begin work on securing the site. As of today, work to repair the fence will begin and additional security measures will be put in place to prevent any intrusion on the site. A contract was also concluded with the company Sanexen in order to dispose of the PCBs. Under the order, the Reliance company will have to reimburse all the costs of the work assumed by the government. &quot;The financial capacity of the company could be in question,&quot; said Minister Blanchet. We have therefore also initiated a procedure aimed at taking a legal mortgage on the assets of the company. If Quebecers see part of this burden imposed, it will be as small as possible. &quot;
“I will make sure that everything is done without compromise so that the citizens of Pointe-Claire no longer have to live with the worry that an accident could occur. Starting today, we are doing everything we can to get rid of these PCBs as quickly and as safely as possible. The situation in Pointe-Claire needs to be resolved quickly and there are no more cases like this in the future. My patience has reached its limits in this matter, ”concluded the Minister.
