Quebec - The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces that the preliminary plan submitted by the company Les Equipements de l&#39;énergie Reliance Ltée (Reliance) is deemed acceptable at look at the order that was served on August 29. The company will thus be able to go ahead with this preliminary plan which aims to secure the site and free it from all stored PCBs. Despite the above, the Ministry remains ready to intervene at the first discrepancy observed.
Remember that the ordinance of August 29 imposes certain time limits for action on Reliance. By September 13, the company must have complied with the minimum storage standards, which include, in particular, the establishment of a storage area in accordance with the Regulation respecting hazardous materials, the identification of materials. hazardous areas, the layout of the building to contain leaks or spills and the conservation of absorbent materials at all times. In addition, Reliance has until September 28 to install a fire and intrusion detection system and to have emptied all equipment containing PCBs or contaminated by PCBs. By that date, the Department also expects to receive a detailed global action plan, including in particular the stages of characterization and elimination of materials or equipment containing PCBs or contaminated by PCBs.
The action plan tabled today shows the company&#39;s intention to meet these deadlines, but the Department will continue to ensure a presence on the scene in order to guarantee full compliance with these provisions. In the event of the slightest breach, the Ministry will carry out the work for which the company is in default in lieu and at the expense of the latter. “The Ministry is not giving up on any possible action, but the preliminary action plan submitted generally corresponds to our expectations. The speed of execution is likely to reassure people, the security of the site is underway and Reliance will pay its suppliers directly. At the moment, this is the best scenario. However, our vigilance will remain constant, ”declared Minister Blanchet.
In addition, investigators from the Ministry conducted a search yesterday in the offices of Reliance in order to recover all the documents necessary for the investigation currently underway. “No matter how goodwill the Reliance company has shown since we forced it to take responsibility, I see no reason to believe that the company is not seeking to conceal or destroy evidence. It took a few days, but we began the process from the night of Wednesday to Thursday last so that a warrant is issued to recover all potentially useful documents, ”said the Minister.
