Quebec, August 22, 2016 - The MNA for Richelieu, Sylvain Rochon, as well as his colleague MNA for Berthier and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in agriculture, André Villeneuve, once again sound the alarm about trouble financial support for farmers in the riding of Richelieu, especially those whose land is located on the outskirts of Lavallière Bay, in a fragile natural environment. Following a visit to the Paul family farm in Sainte Anne de-Sorel, which is facing the most dramatic situation, Sylvain Rochon has lost patience.
“As soon as I took office, I offered my full cooperation to the government so that solutions could be found for these farmers whose lands are poorly drained due to a combination of environmental factors. Until then, they must also be compensated. Yet despite some positive signals on different occasions, nothing has come to fruition. I ask the Minister of Agriculture, Pierre Paradis, to put his fist on the table and demand that his government act now. The Paul family can no longer afford to wait! », Insisted the member for Richelieu.
André Villeneuve obviously endorses the cry from the heart of his colleague. “Among those most affected, the Paul family experiences hell on a daily basis. Powerless, it sees disastrous yield losses add up year after year. The economic consequences are such as to jeopardize the very survival of the farm established for seven generations. The time comes when the government must show judgment and a minimum of humanity, and it has come. Minister Paradis must make his colleagues in the Council of Ministers listen to reason so that solutions are found and the Paul family is compensated, ”he continued.
“One of the problems that everyone identifies is the obstruction of tributaries. However, the maintenance of these tributaries requires the authorization of several ministries, whose results of analyzes contradict each other and which are engaged in wars of jurisdiction. For months, the government has had in its hands a hydrogeological study which can guide its action. Enough is enough! After more than two and a half years of procrastination, the Liberal government must settle this matter immediately, ”Sylvain Rochon concluded.
