Quebec, January 14, 2017 - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, and his lieutenant for the French language, Maka Kotto, propose bold measures and a pragmatic approach to advance the French language in Quebec, within the framework of the unveiling of the main proposal to members of the Parti Québécois.
Chapter 4.1 of the main proposal, Consolidating the status of French as an official and common language of Quebec, aims to assert French as a common language, particularly as a language of work. “For French, we are going to show a new daring. Never before have we proposed to demand a real knowledge of French to 100% of newcomers. We have never offered a serious, operational, compulsory French exam for obtaining English-speaking CEGEP and university diplomas. Rolling back bilingualism in the workplace also means reducing the number of unilingual anglophones in Quebec within each cohort of college and university students. We have never had the audacity to do so. Today we have it.
To reverse the decline of French on the Island of Montreal, to turn the tide, there is one essential condition: a clear majority of Francophones living on the Island of Montreal. We are on the eve of the day when less than 50% of the inhabitants on the island will have French as the language of use at home, as the language of transmission. If we go below this point, how do you expect us to correctly integrate newcomers for whom French is not the first language? The Parti Québécois must have the audacity to assert that maintaining a clear majority of Francophones on the Island of Montreal is a legitimate and essential national objective. This objective necessarily involves the retention of families; we will give them the conditions to stay in Montreal.
“We have a strengthened determination to extend Bill 101 and make it compulsory for medium-sized businesses as well as businesses under federal jurisdiction, and to turn our backs on institutional bilingualism. The combined effect of these measures will enable us to halt the decline of French and powerfully extend the far-reaching reach of Bill 101. And if we were together on purpose to choose the fights that are both the most effective for the French language. progress of French and the most unifying? How about we try this for once? With a Parti Québécois government in 2018, we will have victories for French, ”JeanFrançois Lisée launched to the activists gathered during the national council.
“The teaching of French must be valued and reinforced at each stage of the school career, for young people who frequent French-speaking or English-speaking networks. French teaching hours will be increased. In the same spirit, we must make French-speaking CEGEPs more attractive, by allowing students from French-speaking CEGEPs who so desire and who demonstrate sufficient mastery of French to follow an enriched English course which may include a session in an English-speaking CEGEP. We must also ensure that every graduate from a Quebec university, French or English, can succeed in the French-speaking labor market. We will therefore initiate a dialogue with university institutions so that knowledge of French is a condition for obtaining a diploma, ”added Maka Kotto.
Here are all the proposals submitted to consolidate the status of French as the official and common language of Quebec, as well as to achieve the goal of 100% francization:
4.1. Consolidate the status of French as the official and common language of Quebec
Our State will always have to promote our official and common language. With independence, Quebec will finally have all the leeway it needs to set up a structuring and coherent language policy. Until then, it can nevertheless act to strengthen French where it has been weakened by years of inaction.
1) Make French truly the language of the State, municipalities and other public administration bodies: - Enshrine the status of French as an official and common language in a Quebec constitution; - Embed in the Charter of Rights and Freedoms of the person of Quebec a right to live and work in French in Quebec, as well as a right to francization; - Strengthen the application of the right and duty of employees in the public and parapublic sectors to work in French; - Resolutely apply a policy of actively offering services, information and documents in French to citizens, particularly those with an immigrant background.
2) Deploy policies to ensure the maintenance, on the island of Montreal, of a clear majority of Francophones, in particular through an active and ambitious family retention policy on the island, by applying the recommendations developed in 2013 -2014 in the report Montreal = Families, but abandoned by the Liberal government.
3) Strengthen French as a language of instruction:
The teaching of French must be valued and reinforced at each stage of the school career, for young people who attend French or English networks.
At primary and secondary level, by:
At the college level:
The choice of English-speaking CEGEPs by too large a proportion of allophone students must be reversed through robust action to make French-speaking CEGEPs more attractive on all fronts, particularly in their linguistic offer, by:
at. Allowing students from French-speaking CEGEPs who wish to do so and who demonstrate sufficient proficiency in French to follow at CEGEP an enriched English course which may include a session in an English-speaking CEGEP;
Thus, allophone and francophone students who today choose an anglophone CEGEP in order to acquire a better knowledge of English will be able to achieve the same legitimate objective, but by choosing the Francophone CEGEP to achieve it.
Likewise, an additional effort must be made to ensure a good knowledge of French for graduates of English-speaking colleges, in particular by:
b. Introducing a uniform French test in all CEGEPs, including English-language CEGEPs;
vs. Strongly encouraging students from English-speaking CEGEPs to follow an enriched French course comprising an entire session in a French-speaking CEGEP.
Deploy policies to ensure the maintenance, on the island of Montreal, of a clear majority of Francophones, in particular through an active and ambitious family retention policy on the island, by applying the recommendations developed in 2013-2014 in the report Montreal = Families, but abandoned by the Liberal government.
At university level, by:
The Quebec university network is one of the great success stories of modern Quebec. The fact that there are renowned Francophone and Anglophone institutions there is an asset and no one questions the possibility, for each student, of choosing the university studies of their choice.
On the one hand, however, we must ensure that graduates from all our universities, including anglophones, have the skills required to succeed in a francophone labor market. Likewise, it would be normal for the limited or contingent courses to be offered to students in a proportion close to the linguistic composition, and therefore the needs, of Quebec.
Finally, we must take concrete account of the imbalance between the ability of English-speaking universities to attract foreign students and that of Quebec universities, and remedy this imbalance.
This can be done by:
Starting a dialogue with English-speaking universities so that their students from Quebec maintain or improve their French throughout their studies and that their knowledge of French is a condition for obtaining their diploma; that initiation into French be part of the curriculum of their students from outside Quebec;
Identifying, in fields where enrollment in university studies is limited by a lack of space, equipment or personnel, or even subject to quotas in consultation with professional orders, a strategy aimed at a linguistic distribution more respectful of the weight of French and English in Quebec;
Limiting tuition fee exemptions in bilateral agreements with foreign governments to students taking French-language training at a French-speaking university. This policy should be revised if English-speaking universities prove unable to recruit a proportion of foreign students at least equivalent to the demographic weight of English-speaking people in Quebec;
Promoting French as the language of research, in particular by ensuring that grant funds encourage more researchers who favor the publication of their work in French.
1) Reinforce French as a working language:
2) Promote French as a language of business and commerce:
3) Promote French in the world:
The government of Quebec has done a lot to promote French, the Francophonie and cultural diversity outside its borders. It must continue this work, by:
at. Communicating only in French with foreign governments having French as an official language, as well as in international organizations;
b. Encouraging the multiplication of agreements between Quebec and French educational institutions;
vs. Promoting the adoption of an international convention on linguistic diversity;
d. Encouraging French in scientific circles, trade relations and the virtual world, including in electronic commerce.
4.4. Ensuring the success of every immigrant
(…)
1) Achieve the 100% francization objective:
