Quebec - The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, took advantage of the Week Against Bullying and Violence in Schools, which will be held until October 4, to invite the public to perform “cyber-appreciation” gestures on social networks.
“From the schoolyard to social media, we need to fight bullying and violence. This year, we have chosen the theme of “Cyber Appreciation”. As adults or parents, we are often the models from which young people are inspired. Let us lead by example and behave respectfully in cyberspace as in our everyday relationships. Let&#39;s be plugged into the positive, ”said the Minister.
The Ministère de l&#39;Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport recently unveiled a partnership with four organizations that have dedicated themselves for many years to the fight against bullying and violence, namely Together for the respect of diversity, the Jasmin Roy Foundation, the Pacific Institute and Tel-jeunes. With the slogan Connected to the Positive, an invitation was launched to young people to implement respectful practices in their virtual exchanges to counter this new phenomenon of cyberbullying.
It should be noted that the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League has already shown its support for the campaign. Some of its players will even participate in social media exchanges using the hashtag #positive branch.
To this end, many activities will be carried out in schools. Among them, let us mention the workshops on “cyber-appreciation”, a concept developed at the elementary school of Parc-Orléans of the Commission scolaire des Premieres-Seigneuries de Québec. Video capsules, the website www.branchepositif.gouv.qc.ca, an activity guide, reference tools and brochures will also be made available to students. These new educational tools are offered free of charge to school boards.
“It&#39;s one week per year, but you should know that the awareness activities put in place will continue during the 51 others. Students and teachers must continue to mobilize to make cyberspace a pleasant and safe place where it is good to learn while having fun, ”added the Minister.
Since the unanimous adoption of Bill 56, the school network has mobilized. Currently, 99% of schools have an anti-bullying and anti-violence plan and have designated a contact person to ensure it is implemented. As prescribed by law, elementary and secondary schools in Quebec are invited to carry out various civic awareness activities.
