Quebec - The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports, Ms. Marie Malavoy, would like to take advantage of the launch of the Education Professionals Week, which takes place from November 18 to 22 in all regions of Quebec , to highlight the extraordinary work of these people as well as their essential contribution to academic perseverance and educational success.
&quot;While I recently announced our intention to implement a national policy to fight against early school leaving, I would like to express our gratitude to these professionals, who will play a very important role in achieving the goals. that we recently set ourselves in this area. I salute your constant commitment and your know-how in this regard, which contribute to the well-being of students and their development, ”declared Minister Malavoy.
Minister Malavoy reiterated the importance of acting upstream and in a preventive manner, in particular by promoting the new full-time 4-year-old kindergarten service to parents from disadvantaged backgrounds. She also insisted on the government&#39;s determination to support the school environment, which resulted in the injection of $ 5.2 million into the school network for the addition of professional and support resources. This sum follows the government&#39;s commitment to increase by 600, over four years, the number of education professionals and support staff directly serving students with special needs or learning difficulties. .
“Beyond statistics, there are students full of potential, who need personalized follow-up. When a young person&#39;s perseverance is put to the test, it is our duty to hold his hand and especially not to let him go. No student should leave the school benches without a professional meeting him, communicating with him and offering him personalized follow-up. This is how, together and in consultation, all the players in the network will be able to fight effectively, with heart and competence, against the scourge of dropping out of school. Thank you again to all the professionals for their contribution! I will have the opportunity to meet you shortly, and I look forward to discussing the actions to be implemented in the future with you, ”concluded Ms. Malavoy.
This week is an initiative of the Federation of Professional Education Professionals of Quebec (FPPE-CSQ), in collaboration with the Federation of Professional Staff of Colleges (FPPC-CSQ). It is an opportunity to promote the various professional services offered in school boards and colleges, whether administrative or pedagogical services, or even direct services to pupils or students. This year, the Week will be held under the theme Me, I make an impact !.
Comment on the Parti Québécois blog! &quot;Dropping out of school: act early, think big!&quot;, A post from Pauline Marois
