Quebec– On the occasion of Quebec Disabled People&#39;s Week, which this year has as its theme &quot;Together, let&#39;s build a more inclusive society!&quot; », The member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, Jean-François Lisée, today deplored the effects of liberal austerity on people with disabilities. Alongside the members of the Montreal organization Ex aequo, which has dedicated itself for 35 years to the promotion and defense of the rights of people with motor disabilities, the deputy spoke to denounce the impacts of the cuts announced a year ago .
“These people don&#39;t complain; they just want to contribute to society, to be full-time citizens. The state has a duty to support their autonomy but, currently, the Liberal government is brutally attacking the means that have taken decades to perfect to make their lives easier. Let us not forget, too, that it is a question of rights and dignity. The government must not only listen, but put itself into action mode, ”said Jean-François Lisée. The member also tabled, this morning in the House, a cookbook produced by the organization, entitled Chez Prospère, aimed at raising the awareness of elected officials and the population on ways to enable real social, professional and economic inclusion of people in disability situation.
“Even the Human Rights and Youth Rights Commission declared publicly yesterday in a press release that it was worried about the impact of the current budgetary context on the right to equality of people with disabilities. The commissioner, Mr. Jacques Frémont, recalled that several recent testimonies in the media indicated that government decisions could directly affect services, in particular those intended for disabled students or students with social maladjustments or learning difficulties ”, he added. he adds.
The Commission recalled that &quot;for nearly 40 years, the Charter has prohibited any form of discrimination against people with disabilities&quot;. However, the Liberal government, by reducing the services from which they benefit, cumulates the direct attacks against these people. In addition, the Commission revealed that it had dealt with 283 complaints related to a handicap or to a means of alleviating it, and this only for the year 2014-2015. The majority of these complaints came from the workplace. In the last five years, the complaints of this type have been the most numerous at the Commission.
“People with disabilities can count on our solidarity; we will not let them down. The many challenges they face, especially that of integration, require enormous courage, and the State must do everything in its power to support them. The artisans of community organizations, associations and volunteers in the field deserve our full recognition; their dedication and their daily actions are essential to the development and autonomy of people with disabilities, and make our society ever more inclusive, ”concluded the Member for Rosemont.
