Quebec - The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, participated in the kickoff of the 5th Quebec Public Markets Week, which will take place from August 16 to 25 in several regions of Quebec. He took the opportunity to invite the people of Quebec to visit the public markets.
“For consumers, public markets are great places to connect with agricultural producers and processors and see the passion that drives them. Whether seasonal or permanent, the markets are exceptional showcases that showcase the work and creativity of those who are at the origin of the gourmet treasures that we put on our plates ”, underlined Mr. Gendron.
Economically, the markets provide Quebec biofood companies with access to local and regional customers. They thus constitute excellent outlets for agricultural producers and small processors. In addition, this form of local marketing allows producers to have direct and privileged contact with customers while diversifying their marketing methods and their sources of income.
&quot;By promoting Quebec foods and giving them their rightful place in the grocery basket of Quebecers, the Quebec Public Markets Week is a showcase par excellence that meets the objectives of the Food Sovereignty Policy unveiled last May&quot; , said Mr. Gendron.
He also took this opportunity to highlight the contribution of the Association des marchés publics du Québec in promoting local foods. &quot;With the other partners of the Table de concertation des associés du bioalimentaire québécois, our mandate is clear: to implement the Policy aimed at boosting and developing a prosperous biofood sector,&quot; concluded the Deputy Prime Minister.
To learn more about the Food Sovereignty Policy, you can consult the blog (www.PolitiqueSA.gouv.qc.ca or the Internetwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueSA) website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and of Food. You can also follow the Department on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec.
