Quebec - The member for Jonquière and leader of the official opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, asked the Prime Minister to clearly detail the concrete actions that the Liberal government intends to take to increase academic success, while it has proclaimed itself prime minister of education. He did not get a satisfactory answer.
“The Prime Minister still has the nerve, after the disaster of the last two years in education, to dare to assert to Quebeckers that he is the premier of education. The liberal years saw cuts by the hundreds of millions in the education network, reductions in homework assistance services, hundreds of fewer professionals, an increase in the budget at the bottom of inflation, this which is lower than the average for the past 10 years. And it is a government which becomes entangled in a debate of structures in order, finally, to recognize its failure. In short, it is impossible to imagine a worse record in education, not to mention the fact that there have been three ministers in two years, ”declared Sylvain Gaudreault.
“The network has 250 fewer professionals since the Liberals came to power. They are front-line workers in the fight against dropping out; in this area, there is no more concrete way to act than theirs. The Prime Minister could take a first step and tell us how many of these 250 professionals will be rehired next September to help our young people who are most likely to drop out. I asked him the question, he refused to answer it. His words of the last few days are definitely just words, ”added the leader of the official opposition.
Two years lost in structural debates How many young people have we lost during the years when the Liberal Party plunged the network into a structural debate, a completely useless exercise, as the Prime Minister himself admits? How many additional dropouts does Quebec have because of government improvisation? Despite everything he can say, the Prime Minister has no credibility when it comes to the educational success of Quebec children, ”concluded Sylvain Gaudreault.
