Quebec, September 16, 2019 - The federal election campaign, now officially launched, is the perfect opportunity for Quebec to assert its demands. In this context, the member for Matane-Matapédia and parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois, Pascal Bérubé, as well as the member for Joliette and spokesperson for Quebec-Canada relations, Véronique Hivon, urged the allegedly nationalist government of the CAQ to remind federal parties of its 2015 demands; Quebecers will thus be able to judge its consistency.
IN SHORT
“For months, we have heard Prime Minister Legault repeat that Quebec does not need to be independent to prosper and fully realize itself, that its &#39;future lies within Canada&#39;. Today, the time has come for him to put his speech into practice: he must remind the campaigning federalist parties of his 2015 demands - and obtain results in the form of commitments - or else explain why he does not dare to do so. to do. The opportunity is unique, it will not be repeated during the term of office; will he grab it? », Raised Pascal Bérubé.
These 18 demands include 10 constitutional amendments and 8 administrative agreements. “Until now, Quebeckers have seen that the outgoing government was against the idea of a single tax report, and against letting Quebec select its immigrants. But what about the other 16 nationalist demands of the CAQ? François Legault must without delay address issues relating to the framework of the federal spending power in Quebec&#39;s fields of jurisdiction, tax points and other transfers to the provinces, Quebec&#39;s right of veto on constitutional amendments, abolition or the reform of the Senate, the abolition of the office of lieutenant-governor, the preponderance of Quebec in matters of language, immigration, environment and culture, and many other subjects still. It&#39;s all in his 2015 plan; now that the federal parties are listening, will François Legault be consistent with his remarks at the time? Is his plan still relevant today? “, For her part asked Véronique Hivon.
“The time for good intentions is behind us. The CAQ government must now obtain results, assert its balance of power, on behalf of the Quebecers who elected it. Otherwise, we can only regret that his nationalism is just a front - since he will obviously remain comfortable within Canada. I wish him the best of success and assure him of our full cooperation, even though I remain convinced that an independent Quebec would move faster and go further. For us, independence is the most logical and desirable outcome of nationalism, ”concluded Pascal Bérubé.
