Quebec– The MNA for Terrebonne and official opposition spokesperson for families, Mathieu Traversy, the MNA for Pointe-aux-Trembles and spokesperson for primary and secondary education and school perseverance, Nicole Léger , the MNA for Rimouski and spokesperson for the fight against poverty, solidarity and social economy, Harold LeBel, as well as the MNA for Rosemont and spokesperson for social services, Jean-François Lisée, denounce liberal attacks on Quebec families.
“The Liberal government is attacking families directly by postponing the development of childcare spaces, by wanting to implement a family tax that would put an end to the universality of tariffs and, now, by implying that the Quebec Regime d parental insurance will pass to the wringer. Quebec&#39;s family policy, however, has produced exceptional results: the birth and activity rates of mothers have steadily increased over the past five years. Supporting young parents is essential and beneficial for the whole of society; it is not an accounting expense, it is an investment, ”said Mathieu Traversy.
For her part, Nicole Léger said she was worried about the &quot;Bolduc cuts&quot;, which directly affect services to students and families. “Minister Yves Bolduc does not take his responsibilities by putting the blame on the schools, while his cabinet has itself proposed a list of 32 sectors in which to cut. It is clear that students will be affected by liberal decisions, especially those from more disadvantaged backgrounds, ”she lamented.
The government is attacking the most vulnerable
“The Liberal government&#39;s action excludes the most disadvantaged from our society. We must review the law to fight poverty and social exclusion. Obviously, the targets we set for ourselves ten years ago have not all been achieved. We need to take stock and set new goals, far from liberal austerity, ”added Harold LeBel.
“Community organizations take care of our world and the most vulnerable. The concern they feel must be heard by the government. And it must stand up to federal initiatives affecting the field of homelessness, among others, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
