Quebec - &quot;Today&#39;s announcement by the federal government of Canada&#39;s withdrawal from the Kyoto Protocol is shameful: not only does it confirm that Canada will be the dunce in the fight against climate change, but also Federal Minister Peter Kent has the nerve to come and announce this significant decline in Quebec, alongside the docile and resigned Quebec minister, Pierre Arcand ”.
This is what the member for L&#39;Assomption and official opposition critic for the environment, sustainable development and parks, Scott McKay said, surprised that Minister Arcand agreed to be present, alongside Minister Kent, for the occasion.
“Although the two ministers were gathered for another reason, a courageous government would never have wanted to join in such a masquerade. Under the aegis of the protection of the St. Lawrence, the federal government comes to taunt us in the face. Quebec serves as a carpet on which Canada comes to wipe its tar sands stained feet. Minister Arcand is not even shaken by this announcement, which demonstrates all the arrogance and deeply retrograde character of Stephen Harper&#39;s conservatives, ”scolded Scott McKay.
Responding to a question from a journalist, Minister Arcand said without conviction, What do you want me to do? “When you have a courageous position, you defend it to the end. However, Quebec has not even delegated its Prime Minister or its Minister of the Environment. It is therefore the Canadian position that will be defended on the spot. This explains why Alberta Premier Alison Redford chose to travel to Durban to defend the tar sands. Meanwhile, our Prime Minister prefers to squander our resources on foreign companies, ”denounced Scott McKay.
The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois suspects that the absence of elected Quebec officials at the climate change summit in Durban, South Africa, is the result of a non-aggression pact between Jean Charest and Stephen Harper. “Why this time Jean Charest preferred to stay in Quebec when he loves to represent us abroad ?, asks the member for L&#39;Assomption. The gap between Quebec and the rest of Canada on climate issues is widening, but the international scene will remember, through the sluggishness of our representatives, that Quebec&#39;s efforts no longer count in the face of this Canadian decision. A free Quebec would have made it possible to join the camp of those for whom the environment is a constant concern for our future generations, ”concluded Scott McKay.
