Montreal - “We refuse to be the generation that will see Montreal marginalize French! We will not accept that francophones will soon be in the minority on the island and we will not allow French to lose its critical mass in the metropolis of Quebec. It is a true cry from the heart that launched today the candidate of the Parti Québécois in Rosemont, Jean-François Lisée.
The finding established in September 2011 by the Office québécois de la langue française (OQLF) is clear. While we should be pleased with the progress of French as a second language in Montreal, the decline in the proportion of Montrealers for whom French is the predominantly spoken language is of great concern. While this percentage rose to over 61% in 1971, it barely exceeded 54% in 2006 and is expected to drop, if left unchecked, to 47% in less than 20 years.
&quot;The weakening of the Francophone majority jeopardizes our collective ability to integrate newcomers to French in the metropolis and weakens the future of French,&quot; he said, adding that the future of French in Quebec will to be played on the island of Montreal within 20 years. It is more than urgent to assert our firm political will to maintain a French-speaking majority on the island and to open a major project to achieve this. &quot;
Several measures already appearing in the Parti Québécois platform contribute to achieving this objective, particularly with regard to language of work and that of education. After reporting on general measures to support French and measures to revive the metropolis, the Parti Québécois is proposing two lines of action aimed specifically at preserving a French-speaking majority on the island of Montreal: the linguistic composition of immigration and the development of a living environment favorable to young Francophone families.
The linguistic composition of immigration is one of the main variables fueling the decline in the proportion of Francophones in Montreal. A Parti Québécois government will modify the selection criteria for immigration candidates so as to favor candidates who use French as their language of use and who meet the other proficiency requirements.
The departure of young Francophone families to the suburbs when a child arrives is the other main cause of the decline of French. A government of the Parti Québécois will open a project intended to define, together with elected officials and Montreal stakeholders working in the housing, transport, environment, security and sustainable development sectors, specific actions for retain families on the island of Montreal.
This second measure will be of general application and open to all citizens, regardless of language. Since most of the departures concern Francophones, the application of this measure will have a positive impact on the linguistic composition of the island. A ministerial committee will have the mandate to put in place an action plan aimed at the designation of a predominantly French-speaking Montreal during the first year of the mandate.
“Faithful to the memory of René Lévesque and to the spirit of Bill 101, we intend to respect the present and act for the future. There is obviously no question of interfering in the language used by citizens in their private life or of inciting them to change. We intend to influence future demographic trends to ensure the sustainability of French in the metropolis, the main place for linguistic meetings and the integration of newcomers, ”explained Jean-François Lisée, arguing that maintaining a Montreal predominantly French-speaking is in the interest of all Quebecers who wish to preserve a healthy French-speaking society in America for generations to come.
These measures are in addition to those already announced, including the adoption of a new Charter of the French language which will extend to new areas such as businesses with 11 to 49 employees, CEGEPs and vocational training schools. A Parti Québécois government will put an end to bridging schools.
“The Liberals did nothing, the Caquists and the Solidaires will do nothing. When the results of the OQLF study were published in September 2011, Premier Jean Charest downplayed the importance of the decline in French in Montreal by saying that it was necessary to contextualize these data. Since then, he never spoke about it again, ”he said.
In Québec solidaire, spokesperson Françoise David said that these data were not worrying in themselves, but that they would be if the proportion of Francophones on the island fell below 40%. The CAQ is not interested in the question of the linguistic composition of the Island of Montreal, which no doubt explains why fierce opponents of Bill 101, such as Robert Libman and William Johnson, are calling for a vote for François Legault. These three parties are also opposed to other structuring measures, such as the extension of Bill 101 to the college level and the introduction of Quebec citizenship which will require new immigrants to have a minimum knowledge of French.
“The Parti Québécois is the only one that has the courage to say loud and clear that the decline in the proportion of Francophones on the Island of Montreal is unacceptable. The political will we are expressing today does not only concern Montrealers. It concerns the whole of Quebec. We know that all Quebecers are worried about the future of French in the metropolis. We know that all Quebeckers want to avoid creating a linguistic divide between Montreal and the rest of Quebec. The objective of a French-speaking majority on the island is and must be the objective of the whole nation, ”concluded Jean-François Lisée.
