Montreal - On the eve of International Women&#39;s Day, the Premier of Quebec and leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, announces that exceptional women are joining the Parti Québécois team, including Gyslaine Desrosiers, candidate in Blainville.
“Gyslaine Desrosiers held the position of President and Chief Executive Officer of the Ordre des infirmières et des infirmiers du Québec (OIIQ) for twenty years. As such, her vast knowledge of the health sector and the nursing profession will be an undeniable asset in improving health care in Quebec, ”said Pauline Marois.
With a bachelor&#39;s degree in nursing from the University of Montreal, Gyslaine Desrosiers also has a master&#39;s degree in business administration from HEC Montreal. She was President and CEO of the OIIQ from 1992 to 2012. Since 1998, she has also been President of the Board of the International Secretariat of Nurses in the Francophone Space.
“During my career of more than 30 years in the health field, I had the honor of contributing to the improvement of the condition of the nursing profession and of the professional health network. I am proud to be part of the Parti Québécois team, a team dedicated to improving the care given to Quebeckers. I want to participate and, first and foremost, represent the citizens of Blainville in the National Assembly, ”said Gyslaine Desrosiers.
“Access to quality health care throughout Quebec is a priority for the population and for our government. The addition of Gyslaine Desrosiers to our team confirms once again our desire and our commitment to offer Quebeckers the best health care system, ”added the leader of the Parti Québécois.
Pauline Marois said she was excited by the arrival of many candidates who come to strengthen the Parti Québécois team and believes that Quebecers will too. “Gyslaine Desrosiers joins a team of dynamic women who bring a breath of fresh air to our political life. The team that we are putting together is remarkable, not only for the quality of the people who make it up, but also for their unwavering attachment to Quebec. &quot;
We have a plan and the team to be successful. Today, it is time to give ourselves the means to go even further.
