Quebec - &quot;How did the Minister of Public Security react when she was made aware, a few months ago, that eight police officers from the Sûreté du Québec allegedly repeatedly attacked native women in Val-d? &#39;Gold? She decided that the Sûreté du Québec would investigate the Sûreté du Québec police officers. As if this business was trivial, as if it was business as usual. Now that CBC / Radio? Canada has revealed the story, it is shedding tears in front of the cameras. These tears, the minister should have shed them in the spring, and done something then! », Are of the opinion Pascal Bérubé, Carole Poirier and Guy Leclair, members of the Parti Québécois respectively spokespersons for public safety, the status of women and native affairs.
“Yesterday, when Pierre Karl Péladeau questioned the Prime Minister to ask him for a real investigation, above all suspicion, Philippe Couillard replied that the current investigations were quite sufficient, that there was no problem. For him, the Sûreté du Québec, which is investigating eight police officers from the Sûreté du Québec, is an independent investigation! Then, suddenly, following the broadcast of a report, the government changed its mind and entrusted the investigation to the SPVM. It is a real farce. We are facing a government that wants more to preserve its image than to help aboriginal women, ”continued Pascal Bérubé.
&quot; That&#39;s enough! As a society, we will have to stop turning a blind eye to physical, psychological and sexual violence against women. This violence is very real, affects Aboriginal women more, and it continues with impunity in situations of abuse of power. Native women deserve better, and we no longer have the right to remain silent, ”insisted Carole Poirier.
“The government&#39;s laxity on the matter is unacceptable. Where is the Minister responsible for Aboriginal Affairs? For the past five months, has he pressured his colleague at Public Security to launch a public inquiry and suspend the police officers involved? Geoffrey Kelley is supposed to be the first Indigenous advocate in government. Was he even aware of the situation? His silence in the file is disturbing ”, concluded, for his part, Guy Leclair, who also thanked the journalists who made it possible to bring to light this unacceptable situation.
