Quebec City, November 18, 2016 - In reaction to the decision of the Director of Criminal and Penal Prosecutions concerning allegations of sexual abuse committed against Indigenous women, the Parti Québécois spokesperson for Indigenous affairs, Alexandre Cloutier, spokesperson for the status of women, Mireille Jean, and the spokesperson for public safety, Pascal Bérubé, are once again calling for an independent Quebec inquiry into the relationship between aboriginal women and the police.
Native women say they are bitterly disappointed and abandoned; Alexandre Cloutier believes that it is essential to restore the bond of trust, which is currently broken. “The report tabled yesterday by Me Fannie Lafontaine is clear. It reads that &quot;in a crisis situation, a criminal investigation is necessary, but it is insufficient&quot;. It is therefore imperative that a broad inquiry be launched into the relations between the aboriginal nations and the police forces. We&#39;ve been asking for it for months. The Liberal government cannot abdicate its responsibility; he has a duty to get to the bottom of things. He cannot use the pretext that the federal government is holding its own commission of inquiry, because it does not have the same objective, ”he declared.
“The Lafontaine report also states that the need for protection and support for victims is pressing. However, for a year, the government has not taken any emergency measures to support these victims. Why, when the strategy on sexual violence was unveiled, did the Minister responsible for the Status of Women offer nothing regarding support for aboriginal women? », Added Mireille Jean.
The Parti Québécois is also dissatisfied with the investigation process. “The police have investigated the police. However, we have repeatedly called for the government to mandate the Bureau of Independent Investigations to conduct the investigation. Unfortunately, the Liberal government refused to follow up on our request. The result is that aboriginal women no longer have faith in the justice system. It&#39;s serious! “, Considers for his part Pascal Bérubé.
“While we were in government, we undertook a broad consultation to develop a government action plan to counter racism and discrimination against Aboriginal people. The Liberal government has not followed through on this initiative. In light of recent events, this action plan is all the more necessary, and its application is urgent, ”concluded Alexandre Cloutier.
