Québec - The MNA for Bourget and official opposition critic for immigration, Maka Kotto, the MNA for Berthier and critic for agriculture, fisheries and food, André Villeneuve, as well as the member for Verchères and spokesperson for Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, deplored the inaction of the Minister of Immigration, Kathleen Weil, who was forced to admit, yesterday, that the reform of the federal program of temporary foreign workers would be imposed by the Ottawa government, without taking into account the specificities of Quebec.
“Minister Kathleen Weil said that Quebec officials have failed to come to an agreement with Ottawa to prevent the implementation of the announced changes from harming Quebec&#39;s economic development. However, it is not for officials to negotiate these agreements, it is for the Minister! We could have expected more leadership from her, but she was content to deplore that Ottawa had made its decision without taking Quebec into account. She should have intervened long before and firmly to resolve this impasse. This shows us, once again, the need for Quebec to control all of its immigration policies. We do not need the opinion, nor the intransigence, nor the vision of the federal government ”, declared Maka Kotto.
The deputy for Bourget adds, moreover, that the minister, during an interpellation to the National Assembly, on March 20, had mentioned that she did not intend to request the repatriation of powers in matters of &#39;immigration, arguing that &quot;the Canada-Quebec agreement works very well&quot; and that the ministries talk to each other &quot;often&quot;. Obviously, this was not the case in the case of temporary workers.
“Companies recruiting from abroad, particularly those in the agri-food sector, are already grappling with a labor shortage, and the new federal measures will only increase their administrative burden. The very survival of some businesses may be at stake, and Ottawa does not take this into account, ”lamented André Villeneuve.
“In this case, as in many others, federalism increases bureaucracy and hurts entrepreneurs, workers and farm businesses. Federalism does not work. Minister Weil admits having received a letter and requested a meeting, but without success. So is life in the Canadian federal system; even though the Liberals are on the prowl, Ottawa is turning its nose up at the government of Quebec. Does the minister not see this as further proof that Quebec must control all of its powers, including in matters of immigration? », Concluded Stéphane Bergeron.
