Quebec - Participant in the 15th anniversary celebrating the partnership between Emploi-Quebec and the Commission des Partenaires du marché du travail, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltais, recognized the scope of the work that has been carried out, as well as the commitment and support of key players in Quebec in the area of workforce training. However, in a context marked by the uncertainty surrounding the renewal of the Canada-Quebec Agreement on the labor market, Ms. Marois reiterated Quebec&#39;s desire to retain exclusive project management in this area.
&quot;More than ever, Quebec must be able to have all the tools and all the flexibility necessary to ensure that all Quebecers, as well as our businesses, have access to effective active employment measures. and adapted to the local labor market. The government is in the best position to provide these services to Quebecers. By encroaching on this field of jurisdiction which is not its own, the federal government calls into question the partnership dynamic developed here and which is specific to us. Worse, it is taking Quebec back 15 years by implementing the Canada Job Grant, which duplicates and overlaps what Quebec is already doing effectively, ”declared the Premier.
For 15 years now, the Commission des Partenaires du marché du travail and Emploi-Québec have been working together to meet the training needs of businesses and workers in Quebec. Gathered around this theme, representatives of employers, labor, education, community organizations and government organizations highlighted the foundations that led to the current partnership, which today allows the Québec to stand out and achieve convincing results.
The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltais, for her part underlined the importance of the close collaboration that has been built to ensure economic prosperity and social security of Quebec. “Both working people and unemployed people must have the opportunity to develop their skills and put them at the service of Quebec society. However, the federal government risks jeopardizing 15 years of Quebec success since it will make it more difficult for SMEs in Quebec to access training and adversely affect Emploi-Québec&#39;s ability to reach people far from the labor market. &quot;
“I am proud to be part of a Quebec which cares about its human resources and which does everything to increase their potential. The Government of Quebec will continue its efforts to promote the skills development of Quebecers, ”concluded the Premier.
