Montreal, January 24, 2021 - Worried to see more and more workers in the cultural sector losing their jobs and reorienting their careers due to the pandemic, the leader of the Parti Québécois, Paul St-Pierre Plamondon, and the member for Matane- Matapedia, parliamentary leader and cultural spokesperson for the Parti Québécois, Pascal Bérubé, calls on the government, in particular the Minister of Culture, Nathalie Roy, to act quickly to reassure artists and better support them.
IN SHORT
The cultural community is undoubtedly one of the most affected by the crisis. “The number of artists and artisans in the cultural field in Quebec is estimated at 150,000; among them, one in four would have lost their job because of the pandemic. Full of resources, these people rolled up their sleeves and looked for work elsewhere, in another professional sphere, sometimes very far from the arts; but can we really do without all this talent? », Asks Paul St ‑ Pierre Plamondon.
To explain this bleeding, the leader of the Parti Québécois points to government support measures, which are poorly adapted to the reality of the cultural environment, particularly in the regions. “The assistance offered to broadcasters and producers has enabled them to survive temporarily, but it is far from sufficient to meet the needs. In addition, the measures quickly showed their limits, emergency aid of $ 50 million for broadcasters did not always reach the small broadcasters in the regions. However, all this has significant repercussions on artists, workers in the sector as well as on accessibility to culture, ”he added, also mentioning that for emerging or independent artists, the reality of the pandemic is striking. even harder.
The parliamentary leader agrees, stressing that the only ones to be pampered by the Minister of Culture are perhaps the organizations in his constituency, Montarville; in fact, they benefit disproportionately from its discretionary budget. “We actually asked the Auditor General to look at these practices; the discretionary budgets of ministers must be accessible to organizations in all regions, especially since there are real needs everywhere, ”he recalled.
Realistically, Pascal Bérubé is of the opinion that we must act now in anticipation of the months to come. “The support measures expire on March 31. What will happen after this date? What fate awaits cultural institutions, artists and workers in the sector? Minister Roy must now reassure the community and plan a way to support it with improved measures because, in all likelihood, we will still have to be patient; it is indeed difficult to predict a normal resumption of activities in the short, even in the medium term. If culture is really a priority for the CAQ government, it must ensure that our experts and our talents are kept alive; nationalism, it passes and it is expressed among others by our artists! », Concluded the parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois.
– 30 –
SOURCE: Lucas Medernach
Director of Communications
Quebec Party
