Quebec - In response to the significant increase in accidents reported to the CSST on the construction site of the Center hospitalier de l&#39;Université de Montréal (CHUM), the member for Bourget and official opposition spokesperson responsible for the Charter of the French language, Maka Kotto, and the member for Beauharnois and labor critic, Guy Leclair, are calling for swift and concrete action from the Liberal government to ensure worker safety and strengthen regulations on construction sites.
“The number of accidents on the CHUM site has literally exploded. We are talking about 55 accidents in 2014; this is 7 times more than at the start of the works. I remind the Minister of Labor that on April 28, the National Assembly unanimously adopted a motion on Memorial Day for those who died or were injured at work. This motion included an amendment proposed by the Parti Québécois so that the government of Quebec modernize the Act respecting occupational health and safety. Instead of focusing only on structural changes and agency mergers, the minister must review his priorities; it is its duty to protect the life and health of workers in Quebec, in particular by ensuring that there are sufficient inspections on the construction sites, ”declared the Member for Beauharnois.
There is a real problem on the CHUM site. It should be remembered that in October 2014, a CSST investigation report had clearly established that the fact that a project manager had given instructions only in English had resulted in the electrification of a worker. Asked about his inaction in the case last March, the Minister of Labor, Sam Hamad, said that it was up to the competent authorities to crack down. The OQLF then confirmed that the francization process was too long and unsuitable for construction sites, which are of limited and variable duration. The minister responsible for the Charter of the French language, Hélène David, had therefore promised to review it.
“In fact, it has been almost six months since Minister David walled herself in torpor and silence, while she pledged to strengthen the application of Bill 101 on construction sites. Is she waiting for another tragic event to act? », Wondered, worried, Maka Kotto.
