Kinshasa - The first day of mission of the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) took place under the sign of international solidarity and support for women and children who are the most marginalized of the society.
In the morning, the Premier and the Minister of International Relations, La Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée, visited the offices of Oxfam-Quebec, one of the few international non-governmental organizations in Quebec to ensure a presence supported in the DRC. The Prime Minister announced support of $ 250,000 over two years for two initiatives of the organization: one in support of women in North Kivu victims of sexual violence; the other aimed at giving better access to drinking water to the population of a suburb of Kinshasa.
“Your work is essential. Perilous and capital too. I know that thanks to you, women and children will find hope and security. Quebeckers are happy to support your important mission, ”declared the Premier.
Pauline Marois then took part in a round table on the state of human rights and democracy in the DRC with representatives of Congolese civil society. Also participating in this meeting were MM. Pierre Even and Kim Nguyen, respectively producer and director of the Quebec film Rebelle, whose screening in Kinshasa is one of Quebec&#39;s contributions to the cultural component of the XIVth Sommet de la Francophonie.
This round table resulted in the announcement of $ 75,000 in support from Quebec, this time to Handicap International, which will strengthen the offer and quality of rehabilitation care for disabled children. in the DRC, through the Kinshasa University Clinics. In addition, the Development and Peace organization will receive financial support of $ 50,000 to improve the living conditions of 425 families displaced by armed clashes in North Kivu.
It is mainly through the Quebec International Development Program (PQDI) that the Quebec government supports international cooperation organizations working in partnership with the communities of the least favored countries of French-speaking Africa and Latin America. and the West Indies.
In the afternoon, Ms. Marois and Mr. Lisée were received by the Secretary General of the International Organization of La Francophonie, Abdou Diouf, as well as by members of the opposition parties in the DRC.
“Through its presence and action, Quebec contributes to advancing issues of governance, democracy and sustainable development within La Francophonie. The absence of dialogue would amount to obscuring certain facts and would considerably harm the objectives pursued by all the Francophone and Francophile nations committed to the Organization, ”said Minister Lisée.
