Montreal - &quot;We have done remarkable work together. We now have a clear vision of the future to offer Quebecers. A vision for a Quebec of today, a vision for a Quebec of 2020! The vision of a Quebec free to act fully This is what we propose to Quebecers: to regain control of our future! &quot;, said Pauline Marois, head of the Québec Party, in her closing speech of the XVI National Congress that closed yesterday and in which 1,700 delegates participated and about 200 national and international guests.
&quot;The federalists no longer have anything to offer Quebec. We are going to write our rights as a people in a Quebec constitution. We will adopt a letter to affirm the secular character of the Quebec state. And if Canada wants to put us in the wheel with its relics! colonial and their judicial arbitrariness, Quebecers will judge! &quot;, said Pauline Marois. The Plan for a sovereign Quebec becomes, at the end of the congress, article N ° 1 of the new program of the Québec Party. It is a plan that breaks with the policy of waiting and that marks what will be a sovereign government.
To emerge from the unhealthy climate that Quebec knows under the liberal government, the militants adopted numerous proposals to clean up the political mores in Quebec. &quot;That is why we propose strict rules regarding the financing of political parties, the governance of the State of Quebec and municipal administrations. And, above all, we will shed light on all this. We are going to carry out this commission of inquiry that all of Quebec claim! I&#39;m going to do it! &quot;, continued the head of the Quebecois Party. The militants also adopted other proposals, in particular those relating to limiting the terms of the prime minister and mayors of a municipality of more than 5,000 inhabitants.
The new program will be solidly oriented towards a net predominance of French, especially by extending the provisions of the current Charter of the French language to the CÉGEPS. &quot;We will vigorously defend our language and our culture. Law 101 will be rewritten and strengthened. Working language; language of education; language of administration; French is, and will be, the common language of all Quebecers!&quot; Pauline Marois assured firmly in front of her militants. Furthermore, the teaching of our national history will be an important orientation of a sovereign government.
The creation of wealth was also the focus of the proposals adopted. &quot;Quebec must regain control of its economy. We are going to do it and put Quebec back on the path of creating wealth for all! We are going to repatriate all federal economic development programs that we fund with our taxes and we are going to group them into a Quebec Economic Development Bank. And if Ottawa hinders us, Quebecers who will judge! &quot;cried Ms Marois. We are also going to review the taxes we impose on companies that exploit our natural resources. Regarding hydrocarbons, our conditions are clear: at least half of the profits must return to Quebecers and if, to achieve this, public participation in these companies is necessary, we will not hesitate. We will not shut it up: the riches of Quebec belong first and foremost to Quebecers! &quot;He added.
Pauline Marois also recalled &quot;the urgency of launching a great project that will define Quebec for several generations: energy independence. We are going to make Quebec an example in terms of the environment and a North American leader in the field of green energy. Let&#39;s go. to reduce our dependence on oil that pollutes and impoverishes us. We will make the development of alternative energies a priority and the electrification of transport will be a reality! We have a very ambitious project, worthy of the 21st century, and it will be young people who will complete it. We are going to take back control of our energy and our environment, we are going to build a green and blue Quebec! &quot;
Pauline Marois stated that it is necessary to regain control of social programs to put them at the service of Quebecers. &quot;We will have a slogan: accessibility. Our young people will have access to a quality education, to equal opportunities. The Quebecois Party calculated the number of places needed in the nurseries in Quebec. The answer is very simple: for each child, one! place! We are going to combat in a concrete way the school dropout. We are going to reduce the number of students per class, encourage the success of the boys and support the initiatives of the communities so that their young people do not drop out. We are going to make the private school make your contribution by working with children with disabilities or learning difficulties. In addition, it was time in Quebec to launch a great debate on how to fix the issue of under-funding of our universities. We will not accept that only Quebec students do the We are many in this room who have taken advantage of our universities, me the first: our priority will be to protect access to new past generations. &quot;
&quot;In terms of health, our doctors will have the support of other professionals from family medicine groups and Quebecers will no longer waste their time in the emergency room. We are going to give our nurses the necessary resources to put their skills into practice Our pharmacists will have the autonomy to make life easier for Quebecers. We will give our seniors access to home care, &quot;added Pauline Marois.
&quot;During the last decades, we have also lost control of our state, which is immobilized by the bureaucracy. We are going to de-bureaucratize it. Quebecers should know that no other party is more ambitious than ours in this regard,&quot; said the head of the Quebecois Party. .
&quot;The congress we have held this weekend is historic. We came out united as never before with a vision tailored for Quebecers. Now, we will prepare to replace the liberal government of Jean Charest. Starting this Friday, our fellow citizens can see a dynamic party , full of life, in which Quebec and its interests are essential. You can see that the Quebecois Party will know how to respond to your expectations and rebuild the bond of trust between Quebecers and their Government &quot;, concluded Pauline Marois at the end of the congress, in the one that obtained 93.08% of the votes of confidence. An unprecedented result.
– 30 –
Source: Quebecois Party
Information: Manuel Dionne, Press Attaché, 514 207-8303
