Montreal - “The Parti Québécois has always been, since its founding, the political party concerned with the future of our regions and the people who live there. With our new program, we are once again proving that a Parti Québécois government will put the development of our regions at the heart of its action, said the new president of the national executive of the Parti Québécois, Raymond Archambault. During the presidential campaign, I visited most of the regions and I can say that our vision corresponds to the needs and concerns of the people who live there ”.
To this end, the activists of the Parti Québécois adopted, last Sunday, the proposal for a framework law on the occupation of the territory and decentralization which has for principle, in particular, the financial autonomy of municipalities and regions, decentralization powers according to the capacity and will of the various territories and the adaptation of government policies to local and regional specificities. “The Parti Québécois&#39; vision of regional development is clear: no more &#39;wall to wall&#39;. We will also support the niches of excellence defined by each region to guide its regional investments. We will encourage regional aviation development as well as high-speed Internet access, ”said Mr. Archambault.
In the area of agriculture and fishing, a sovereignist government will adopt a food sovereignty policy and support local producers as well as Quebec agrifood companies. It will take measures to support the succession of agricultural producers and fishermen. “In addition, for the good of our fishing industry, we will negotiate the way in which fishing quotas will be allocated in the St. Lawrence,” added the President.
&quot;Quebec is rich in its forests and its mines. This wealth should benefit all Quebecers.&quot; That is why we will increase the royalties from the exploitation of our mineral resources to an economically and socially acceptable level. With a Parti Québécois government, our resources will be exploited to enrich Quebeckers, but it will not be done just any old way and at any cost. Also, for resources linked to forests and mines, a sovereignist government will create a share capital regime to encourage the financial participation of workers and Quebecers in general in the revival of forestry companies. The wood resource is a source of national pride, ”said Mr. Archambault. Campaigners adopted a proposal for a wood charter that will promote the use of secondary and tertiary wood materials in the construction of government, commercial, industrial and residential buildings.
In order to support the development of our tourism industry, a sovereignist government will deploy a vast program to improve hotel infrastructure and attractions in tourist regions in order to better meet the expectations of today&#39;s visitors. In regions where the tourism industry is a major economic force, the Parti Québécois will support major tourist destination projects. Finally, the Parti Québécois government will renovate the network of rest areas on Quebec highways.
