Québec– The member for Saint-Jérôme and official opposition spokesperson for the economy, entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports, Pierre Karl Péladeau, as well as the member for Rousseau and spokesperson for finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, deplore the lack of fallout from the Prime Minister&#39;s European mission and his presence at the World Economic Forum in Davos.
“Obviously, the preparatory work upstream was not done by the Minister of the Economy, Jacques Daoust. An economic mission without any concrete results, it&#39;s heartbreaking. The last similar mission had been carried out by Pauline Marois; major investments of more than 450 million, creating more than 600 jobs, were then brought back to Quebec. Let us think, among others, of FerroAtlàntica, White Star Capital, Ubisoft Quebec and Cinesite, ”Pierre Karl Péladeau recalled.
The economic situation is worsening “Day after day, month after month, the figures confirm it: the economic situation in Quebec is worsening. However, the Prime Minister continues to patiently wait for the Liberal effect, which does not happen. For him, all is well; therefore, it does nothing. Obviously, the incessant changes in corporate taxation are hampering investment decisions. Let us recall the parametric 20% cuts to tax credits and the results of the Godbout commission, which are still pending; this uncertainty makes Quebec less attractive for businesses. Add to that the cuts made by the President of the Treasury Board, Martin Coiteux, which are hurting economic growth. Clearly, the liberal-Caquista recipe does not work, ”declared Nicolas Marceau.
The MP also recalls that the ISQ announced last week that Quebec&#39;s GDP fell 0.4% in October. We are therefore talking about two drops in the last three months. We also learned that Quebec exports fell by 11.5% in November, the last month measured; this fall is much more marked than in the rest of Canada.
“While since the arrival of the Liberals, Quebec has the worst employment record in Canada, Minister Jacques Daoust shares the wait-and-see attitude of his Prime Minister. Instead of writing press releases on Saturdays to try to reassure people who lose their jobs, as he did for Bombardier in La Pocatière, he must act! Liberal-Caquist austerity and inaction do not help our SMEs and our entrepreneurs; their confidence is weakening, which slows down investment and job creation. The liberal lethargy must end. Concretely, what will the government do? If he has no idea, let him resume our Priority Employment economic policy, ”concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau.
