Drumondville - The Saint-Nicéphore technical landfill site (LET) will not be enlarged according to the recommendations of the Office of Public Hearings on the Environment (BAPE) and despite the request of the Waste Management company. After consultation with experts and a long reflection, the Minister sides, as he had announced, on the side of the results of the consultation conducted in the form of a referendum. The MP for Johnson, Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, Yves-François Blanchet, made the announcement today at Saint-Nicephore. However, he indicated that a responsible decision should also make it possible to gradually get rid of the volume of waste previously buried annually in Saint-Nicéphore. The government therefore partially and temporarily allows an increase in the company&#39;s landfill capacity, but without expanding the site. “After having analyzed all the scenarios and all the possibilities, I opted for the decision dictated by the will and the interest of the population. This choice avoids a waste crisis while respecting the legitimate aspirations of citizens expressed on March 25, ”declared Minister Blanchet.
Waste Management will thus be able to continue operating part of the current site for a maximum period of seven years in order to meet the immediate and pressing needs of municipal customers. With this decision, Minister Blanchet imposes limits much greater than those recommended by the BAPE, by only allowing further exploitation on a part of the current site that has already been the subject of a government authorization. , and this for a limited period.
It should be remembered that in 2011, Waste Management filed an expansion project which provided for increasing the landfill capacity of the site by 14.2 million cubic meters for a period of approximately twenty years and an annual tonnage of 600,000 tonnes. After holding public hearings, the BAPE recommended in particular to the Minister to reduce the operating life to 10 years while maintaining the annual tonnage of 600,000 tonnes. As for Minister Blanchet&#39;s final authorization, it clearly cuts the Waste Management project short. It limits the total capacity to 2.7 million cubic meters and imposes a regressive annual tonnage, which means that the tonnage will be set at 500,000 tonnes, i.e. a decrease of 100,000 tonnes for the first year, a decrease which will have to continue. gradually to reach 430,000 tonnes at the end of the fifth year (see the comparative table in the appendix to this press release). In the event that Waste Management does not reach the authorized quantity of residual materials during one of the five years provided, the company is authorized to continue the landfill of the unused quantities for two additional years. “This five- to seven-year transition period will give Saint-Nicéphore, Drummondville and the other municipalities concerned the time needed to find an alternative to burying their residual materials. The objective is clear and non-negotiable: to put an end to the landfilling of residual materials by maximizing recycling, anaerobic digestion and composting, alternatives to which hundreds of millions of dollars are devoted by the ministry that I lead, or by applying any other environmental alternative solution, ”he said.
As authorized by the government, the project in question is environmentally and technically acceptable insofar as it will be carried out in accordance with the Regulation respecting the landfill and incineration of residual materials (REIMR). It must also meet the mitigation measures provided for in the impact study, the commitments made by the project promoter and the conditions set out in the government authorization. Waste Management will have to apply concrete measures relating to odors, sound environment, water and air quality, protection of wetlands and the presence of gulls on the site.
The restricted authorization granted to Waste Management makes it possible to meet a collective need by eliminating approximately 9% of the residual materials generated in Quebec. On the other hand, Minister Blanchet is open to alternative solutions, invites citizens to &quot;get involved as much in solutions as in oppositions&quot;, and to realize that &quot;the issue of waste has its roots in our kitchens and our houses &quot;.
Saint-Nicéphore technical landfill: table comparing the initial request of WM Quebec Inc, the recommendation of the BAPE and the decision of the Government of Quebec
