Granby– The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, today attended the unveiling of the action plan for the restoration of the Yamaska River and its tributaries . Organized by the Estates General of Yamaska, this event aimed to adopt an action plan endorsed by all the players concerned by the situation of the river.
“In this International Year of Water Cooperation, we must more than ever continue to pool our knowledge and expertise in order to preserve and restore this collective resource that is water. For almost a year now, OBV Yamaska has made considerable efforts to ensure the success of the Estates General. I congratulate them on that. We are in great need of committed partners in order to effectively protect this resource, the ecosystems that depend on it and ensure the well-being of the entire population of Quebec, ”said Minister Blanchet.
The Estates General of Yamaska have given rise to a vast public consultation in recent months. Stakeholders from different backgrounds were invited to comment on issues related to the worrying pollution rate of the river in order to find avenues for sustainable solutions.
&quot;Last February, we unveiled an intervention strategy for the future of Lake Saint-Pierre,&quot; said Yves-François Blanchet, who will be in Michigan at the end of the month with the leaders of the states bordering the Great Lakes to discuss various environmental issues. “The fate of Lake Saint-Pierre is closely linked to that of the Yamaska River, which is one of its main tributaries. Here we have very concrete proof that our strategies for protecting water resources must be complementary in order to be truly effective. In my eyes, today&#39;s event is not the outcome, but rather the beginning of an even closer consultation between the players in the field and the ministries concerned. As soon as we have the report in hand, we will see how to support concrete interventions. This approach could learn elsewhere in Quebec, ”concluded Minister Blanchet.
