Sorel-Tracy- In the first 100 days of a majority government of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois is committed to abolishing the law 78, to cancel the 82% increase in tuition fees and to hold a higher education summit . This is the commitment of the Leader of the Quebecois Party, while she participated in the return of the students of the Cégep de Sorel-Tracy. 
"By giving himself a majority government, the Parti Québécois will quickly realize its commitments. Law 78 may be abolished and tuition canceled in the first 100 days. A higher education summit will put in place with student representatives, the directorates of establishments, union representatives and employers. This summit will include accessibility to higher education for all, the assessment of overall tuition costs, including related costs, the quality of education and research, financing and management of universities She assured. 
The leader of the Parti Québécois took advantage of the return to the Cégep de Sorel-Tracy to express its solidarity at the place of the students' claims. "I want to reiterate the solidarity of the Québécois party to the student movement. We witnessed this spring to the awakening of a generation and demonstration of all its determination. Faced with the closure of the Prime Minister, the students never dropped his arms, reminded Pauline Marois. CEGEP students decided to return to class rather than continuing the strike. It's all of their honor. I guarantee them that a majority government of the Parti Québécois will respect its commitments. » 
The leader of the Parti Québécois took the opportunity to present the vision of the Parti Québécois in terms of education. "Education is a priority for the Québécois party. We must work to increase the number of graduates. The more trained Quebeckers will be well trained, the more collectively we will enrich ourselves. It is for this reason that the Parti Québécois undertakes to maintain tuition fees accessible to all as Quebec has not achieved the Canadian average of the graduation rate, "she said, noting that The Vision of the Parti Québécois in education includes all levels of education. 
"François Legault's CAQ believes that by cutting in the structures, all the problems of the world of education will be settled as per magic. Nothing is wrong. The world of education does not need a war of structures. For the Parti Québécois, it is the children first; For the CAQ, it is the structures above all, "lamented Pauline Marois, recalling that the Parti Québécois committed to hiring 600 professionals more than 2015 in primary and secondary schools. The Parti Québécois also undertakes to establish kindergarten four years in disadvantaged circles. 
The development of vocational training in college educational institutions will also be part of the priorities of the Parti Québécois in education. Also, the Parti Québécois will facilitate, as part of an adult education policy, the attendance of workers at professional or technical courses in secondary schools or CEGEPs, in particular by modulating course schedules. 
"In Quebec, we need all the strength of our youth to meet the challenges that will come to us. The future of Quebec goes through an educated and educated youth, which is why we will do everything to facilitate access to post-secondary education or vocational training, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
