Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, and the member for Saint-Jean and Deputy Whip of the Government, Dave Turcotte, announced the expansion of the Hospital of Haut-Richelieu, an installation of the High-Richelieu-Rouville Health and Social Services Center. This will indeed make the subject of major expansion and redevelopment. The cost of the entire project is estimated at $ 105 million, including construction, furniture and equipment costs, as well as management and contingency costs. 
"I am very proud to participate in this important announcement for the region. This major real estate and clinical initiative is part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, released last April. This allows, in a scheduled, structured and responsible manner to the needs of the regions, as well as the whole of Quebec. Patients in this part of the Montérégie will eventually benefit from a significantly enhanced hospital infrastructure, which will improve the quality and accessibility of care, "the premier said. 
"This hospital, which has an important subregional mission, has not been the subject of any major transformation since its construction, more than four decades ago. The investment we announce today will receive services as neuralgical as urgency, intensive care, laboratories, operating thermal, inhalotherapy and one-day surgery, "said Minister Réjean Hébert. 
The emergency will have 41 stretchers, including 4 shock for trauma cases. Ten examiners are planned for outpatient services, while the new premises of one-day surgery will have 20 stretchers, in addition to 14 in alarm clock. Eight rooms will be converted to the operating room, and intensive care will count in all 18 beds. 
Under the spotlight, the Hospital of Haut-Richelieu will be enlarged more than 14,000 square meters, while we will redevelop existing premises with a plural size of less than 2000 square meters, all on four levels . The site will be marked in this winter, in the wake of the preparatory work done since the beginning of the year. The new facilities will be available in the fall of 2016. The cost of the work will be assumed for the most part by the Ministry of Health and Social Services. The financial participation of the High Richelieu-Rouville Health and Social Services Center is $ 1,262,000 as part of an energy saving project. 
"I am very proud that our government can give final green light to a mobilizing project, to which local and regional partners have devoted a lot of energy in recent years. I note with satisfaction that we had the wisdom to predict unmanaged areas, with a view to future developments, "said the member for Saint-Jean, Dave Turcotte. 
"The 2013-2023 Infrastructure Québec Plan will eventually result in investments by nearly $ 19.4 billion for the health and social services component. Beyond its benefits in terms of services, this plan will have major economic benefits throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained by year, on average. This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of assessing the needs prospectively, depending on the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the associated costs and, thus, to make well-informed choices, "concluded the First Ministry. 
