Montréal - The Leader of the Official Opposition and MP from Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, is worried about the economic situation of Quebec that deteriorates every week. "The bad news for the workers multiply at a frantic pace. Every day over the past year, 140 workers lost their jobs. It is a totally unacceptable situation. 
"For our economy, we have something to be worried. Quebec's economic balance sheet is the most negative in Canada. In 2011, he lost more than 50,000 jobs in Quebec as he was created 250,000 in the rest of Canada. For a second year in a row, Quebec ranked 8th in 10 in terms of economic growth, far behind the Canadian average, "said Pauline Marois, denouncing the inaction of the Charest government. 
"Thousands of workers are victims of the immobilism of Jean Charest. The current unemployment rate is 8.7%, a level that brings us back 10 years back. It's more than those of Ontario, Canada and the United States. While these workers lose their job by ten, the Prime Minister has no solution to stimulating employment development, "she added. 
Pauline Marois is concerned about the fate of workers who are the costs of government inaction. Earlier this morning, she met with the workers' union of the MABE plant in Montreal who announced a few days ago that she ceased her production in Quebec leaving more than 700 unemployed workers. "We can not remain insensitive before such a situation. The government must act immediately by taking the necessary means to curb the situation. " 
At the National Party Council on the end of the last week in Montreal, the Deputies adopted an emergency proposal requiring the Government of Quebec that it "urgently develop an economic strategy to stop haemorrhage. in the manufacturing sector; The early loss of 700 jobs, announced this week at the MABE plant, being the latest unfortunate example of the consequences of the inertia of the government, a situation that penalizes and weakens the quality of life of hundreds of families in the riding of Bourget and Quebec entire ". 
In addition to the job situation that deteriorates, the disposable income of families is also sharp decline. The many increases in taxes and rates in effect since January 1 result in an additional burden of $ 2 billion. In concrete terms, all of these increases will slow down our economic growth by 1%. 
"Quebec workers and families deserve better than that. Since the Liberals are in power in 2003, he lost nearly 200,000 jobs in the manufacturing sector. The only strategy adopted by Jean Charest has been that of the laisse-faire. A government of the Quebecois party will not abandon workers and adopt strategies to compete our economy as we did when we were in power, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
