Montreal- While the year of the 150th anniversary of the Canadian Confederation has just begun, the leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, the member for Verchères and responsible the other 150E, Stéphane Bergeron, accompanied by spokespersons Rod The Stod and Marie IMALTA Pierrelys, have made public today's social networking commitment statistics the campaign initiated by the Parti Québécois. The observation is clear and unequivocal: the other 150E succeeds in mobilizing a greater number of citizens on social networks than the official pages of the 150th anniversary of the Confederation of Canada. For example, during the last two weeks of February, on Facebook, people have loved more, shared and commented on the publications of the other 150E than the official 150th, in both languages! 
"The federal government wanted to talk about history throughout the year 2017, it is now served! Not only did we prove the relevance of our operation, but we also dismantled the federal campaign on social networks. Our operation has already managed to highlight dozens of historical facts and events that the federal government wanted to forget. With half a billion dollars, the federal government has embarked on a real expenditure orgy on the back of taxpayers to appear the Federative Covenant of 1867 as the beginning of a promising adventure and paved with roses. Today, the numbers speak for themselves and confirm that Canada has embarked on a waste of public funds, "said Bergeron. 
"The history of Canada, it is also that of the Canadian Francophonie, and where the federal government, by its blows, tries by all means to limit the scope of Quebec and its people. The good news is that the other 150E is just beginning, "concluded the spokesperson for Operation Rod Le Stod and Marie Imalta Pierrelys. 
Launched by the Parti Québécois and supported by a group of volunteer historians as well as many guest collaborators, the team of the other 150E aims to present 150 facts and events directly or indirectly affecting Quebec from 1867. The population is Guests continue to follow the activities of the other 150E on the various official pages of the operation: 
Facebook: https: //www.facebook.com/autre150e/Youtube: https: //www.youtube.com/channel/ucweapqq1nabbcjcsb2vdpkatwitter: https: //twitter.com/autre150Esite Internet: http: //autre150e.ca/ 
