Laval- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, as Madame Suzanne Proulx, MP Officer of Sainte-Rose, and Mr. Leo Bureau-Blouin, Parliamentary Assistant to the Prime Minister and Deputy From Laval-des-Rapides, today participated in several announcements to strengthen the care supply for Laval residents. These ads total nearly $ 15.6 million. At the same time they also inaugurated the new Neonatology Unit of the Laval Health and Social Services Center (CSSS), a project funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services, in partnership with Operation Child Sun and the CITY OF HEALTH FOUNDATION. 
Minister Hébert has announced investments totaling $ 15,606,000, which will enable capital work for strengthening the service offering in the Laval region. First of all, 14 additional hemodialysis stations will be installed at the Laval Cité-de-la-Health hospital for a total amount of $ 6,885,000. The hospital center will receive more than $ 6,053,000 for the development, from May 2014, from its pathology laboratories, which includes the morgue, laundry and offices. The third project for this hospital is to add a third tomodeteometer, at a cost of $ 2,668,000. This type of medical imaging equipment makes it possible to examine the organs by cross-cuts and to diagnose pathologies with great accuracy. 
"Our government is particularly committed to monitoring the growing needs of Laval's population. We are continuing our efforts to consolidate the offer of care and service, both in terms of services themselves and infrastructure. We wish to respond to the desires of the people of the region to be able to use quality care and services, as close as possible to their place of residence, "said the minister. 
"The Laval Health and Social Services Center has developed strong expertise in specialized care, an expertise that needs to be used to better serve the populations, including people whose health status is weakened and who Must avoid long displacements, "said Leo Bureau-Blouin. 
These three projects are part of an approach that aims to promote access to local services. This initiative is funded equally by the Ministry and the Laval Health and Social Services Agency, with regional capital envelopes. 
"The development of neonatology care has made a lot of progress in Quebec, which we can be proud of. The inauguration of this new unit is a good example, which also demonstrates how health of newborns is important to us. This new unit, which advocates a more personalized approach, will allow the optimal development of babies with their parents and a team of professionals attentive to their needs, "said Dr. Hébert. 
This project has increased the number of cradles of the new neonatology unit from 10 to 20, in addition to enhancing the level of CIA care at IB, which will prevent certain transfers to specialized centers of the specialized centers. University hospitals in addition to allowing the faster return of great premature in Laval. The different modules of the unit have also been renovated to comply with the recommended new standards. It includes three isolation rooms, a hall of four heated domes for the resuscitation and monitoring of very unstable newborns and a breastfeeding room that can accommodate four mothers, in accordance with the recommendations of the hospital initiative Friends of babies (Ihab). Due since September 23, 2013, the new unit has so far been able to accommodate more than 327 newborns. 
Remember that the minister announced on November 26 a total investment of $ 365,276, shared between the ministry and child child operation, in order to carry out these renovations. The Foundation Cité de la Health has made a contribution of $ 47,074 for the purchase of a central console for the cardiorespiratory surveillance of newborns. These amounts are added to other previous investments of the department to consolidate the neonatology activities of the CSSS de Laval, ie $ 302,400 (2010) for the purchase of specialized equipment in addition to a recurring budget of 250,000 $ (2012). Another $ 611,000 (2011) also served as the purchase of equipment as part of the increase in the number of beds of the neonatology unit, accompanied by an operating budget up to $ 1 million a year, depending on the activities of the unit. 
"This beautiful project shows how important it is for our government to offer Laval families the opportunity to receive these services as close as possible to their homes, particularly with respect to care for newborns," Added Madame Proulx. 
