Quebec- At the end of their work session held on the 17th Alternate Meeting, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Prime Minister of the French Republic, Jean-Marc Ayrault, have agreed on actions intended to Bring a new impetus to the Franco-Quebec relationship. 
Since last September, the political dialogue between Quebec and France has intensified, in particular, the official visit of the Prime Minister of Quebec in France and many ministerial visits on both sides. The major challenges shared by the two companies are treated at the highest level through a future-oriented political dialogue on the aging of the population, the financing of health, the social and solidarity economy, the energies. renewable, cultural diversity and gender equality. 
According to the wish expressed by the prime ministers, the relationship between Quebec and France is now under the sign of creativity and innovation. The priorities and guidance recorded in the decision-making record signed today in Quebec aim to deepen the links, more particularly in the fields of the economy and youth. These new directions will take advantage of the entire scheme of the Franco-Quebec relationship, both at the political and institutional level. 
Prime ministers make the development of economic exchange and investment a priority. 
"France is already as a key partner of Quebec's prosperity, as its second foreign investor and one of its main European export markets. Today we want to strengthen this economic axis by focusing on the assets of language, naturally, but also on the complementarity of our economies and expertise, "said the Prime Minister. 
The Quebec project of the Economic Development Bank and the French Public Investment Bank present similar terms. Quebec and France want to collaborate between these two institutions, with a view to financial support to companies wishing to invest in Quebec and France, as well as businesses in the social and solidarity economy. 
Prime ministers want the rapid finalization of the overall economic and commercial agreement between Canada and the European Union, whereby enterprises can benefit from better conditions for carrying out their expansion and investment projects, and they. commit to promoting it. They also encourage the continuation of cooperation for the northern development of Quebec in respect of the environment and communities. 
The prime ministers retained three new themes that will guide the actions of the Franco-Quebec Economic Cooperation Group (GFQCE): innovation and creativity, the green economy, and the social and solidarity economy. 
They thus announce the establishment of a Franco-Québécois dialogue on leadership in the innovation and creativity sector in anticipation of the C2-MTL Conference. In May, this international event will bring together in the metropolis of leaders sharing an innovative approach to the business world. 
The green economy is also included in the number of new priorities. Prime ministers want to strengthen support for projects in clean technology sectors, renewable energies and emerging transport technologies, with the competition of Quebec niches of excellence and French competitiveness clusters. Yesterday in Montreal, business leaders in Quebec and France participated in a meeting aimed at targeting opportunities for cooperation in these sectors of the future. 
Finally, the prime ministers announce the signing of a cooperation agreement on social and solidarity economy, which will allow exchanges on cooperative models, financing and labeling in this sector called to gain importance. A statement for this purpose had been signed on the sidelines of the International Cooperative Summit held in Quebec City and Lévis last October. 
The prime ministers took the floor, last night in Montreal, in front of hundreds of leaders of Quebec and French companies gathered at the initiative of the French Chamber of Commerce in Canada. 
"By the time Quebec wishes to diversify its export markets, we need to accentuate our eyes on France which, should it be recalled, represents both the fifth global economy and the largest political partner of Quebec on the stage . In view of the conclusion of the economic and trade agreement between Canada and the European Union, this country appears to be more than ever as a natural gateway enabling our companies to more easily break the French and European markets, " said the premier. 
The prime ministers emphasize the growing place granted to entrepreneurial employment, the entrepreneurial mentoring as well as the vocational training of young people in the programs of the Franco-Quebec Office for Youth (OFQJ). The centerpiece of the Franco-Québécois device, whose programs benefit more than 4,000 Quebeckers each year, the OFQJ celebrates its 45th anniversary in 2013. 
In the company of young Quebeckers who have benefited from the services of the OFQJ, the prime ministers participated in Montreal at an activity that made it possible to highlight the labor mobility projects of the Office in these sectors. The participants were able to expose their achievements and exchange with the prime ministers on the concrete impact of their experience with the OFQJ. The entrepreneurial mentoring was also on the agenda of the first ministerial work session. The leaders of the Foundation of Quebec Entrepreneurship and the Institute of Entrepreneurial Mentoring of France presented their joint actions in this sector. 
Prime ministers encourage the emergence of a Franco-Quebec group of young creators and innovators, in the wake of the C2-MTL International Conference. Youth, creation and new technologies occupy a leading role in the dynamism of cultural cooperation. They invite the authorities responsible for this cooperation, including the Cultural Business Development Corporation (SODEC) and the National Cinema and Animated Center (CNC), to promote partnerships and co-productions in the field of cinema and The animated image, as well as in that of digital arts. 
In terms of higher education and research, the prime ministers emphasize the success of the cotutelles of theses between Quebec and France, which amounted to 3000 for the last decade, as well as that of the many cooperation projects between Quebec institutions and French. 
"This new impulse that we want to give to the Franco-Quebec relationship must feed on the dynamism of our youth, which is eloquently eloquently manifesting through exchanges in culture and education, but also in terms of vocational training and entrepreneurship, "added the Prime Minister. 
Challenges of society and solidarity  The prime ministers welcome the results obtained under the Mutual Recognition Agreement of Professional Qualifications. They invite the competent authorities to continue their mobilization, particularly with regard to the implementation of the mutual recognition arrangements already concluded. They ask professional orders and other authorities who have not yet concluded arrangements to intensify their negotiations. 
Finally, relying on a broad consultation, the prime ministers agree to work together so that the Francophonie has an ambitious economic strategy, in order to contribute to growth and employment, particularly in the countries of the South, and promote the development of North-South and tripartite trade. 
The Decision Records will be available on the Ministry of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade website. 
