Quebec, on July 7, 2017 - At the eve of the anniversary of Jordan, about the judicial deadlines, the official opposition spokesman, Véronique Hivon, made the point and requires actions. Concrete Minister Stephanie Valley. 
"Justice has been neglected for years, forgotten and underfunded by the Liberal government. Our justice system has not undergone funding or major reforms. On the contrary, again last year, cuts were running. It took pressure from the Parti Québécois and an unprecedented crisis, provoked by Jordan, to finally the government begins to move. Today, the confidence of the population is undermined, the victims are abandoned, not to mention the dozens of accused liberated without trial and the hundreds of queries still pending. Despite our repeated requests and the serious release of three defendants of murder and an accused of repeated sexual assault on a minor, the Minister still refuses the use of the derogatory clause for ceasing hemorrhage, "said Véronique Hivon. 
IN SHORT 
"The Chief Justice of the Superior Court mentioned this week still needed 12 to 18 months for the" Jordan Storm "to be completely past. 12 to 18 months during which public confidence in our justice system will be stiffened, it is inconceivable. On the Causes in Civil and Family Causes, for example, hundreds of parents and children are increasingly longer, due to the transfer of judges to the criminal to stop haemorrhage. Meanwhile, the Minister of Justice always believes that the solution goes through the federal government for the appointment of judges to the Superior Court. However, she failed to convince the federal minister to appoint the 14 positions of judges she has been calling for months, "she illustrated. 
"We also deplore fatalism and resignation that has seized the Minister of Justice. She mentioned this week that it was a sad birthday, but what does she do otherwise deplore the situation? A case of stopping procedures for unreasonable delays is already a case too. Energic gestures are expected to stop the all-round disorder from our justice system and the serious crumbling of confidence that follows ", has concluded Véronique Hivon. 
