Quebec- The member for Saint-Jérôme and Head of the Parti Québécois, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the member for Joliette, Véronique Hivon, the member for the Pointe-de-l'Île and President of the Bloc Québécois, Mario Beaulieu, the leader of National Option, Sol Zanetti, the President of United Nations Organizations for Independence (yes Quebec), Claudette Carbonneau, the President of the Society of St. John the Baptist (SSJB) and Chair of the Cap Network on Independence (RCI), Maxime Laporte, and the Vice-Chair of the National Movement of Quebeckers (MNQ), Martine Desjardins, meet as part of the 20th anniversary of the 1995 referendum to send a strong convergence signal for the rest of things. 
"Quebeckers have ambition. Our best investment is first of all to believe in ourselves and in our success. Together, with all the independence, we work to recreate the unit that has made the strength of the movement. At the dawn of the 20-year-old commemoration of the 1995 referendum, we are inspired by the great citizen mobilization orchestrated by Prime Minister Jacques Parizeau and the partners for the Yes. As the first action, we are launching today a posting campaign, in collaboration with the SSJB, the MNQ, ON, the BQ and the Yes Quebec. Citizens and citizens who want it will be able to obtain the popular posters of the 1995 referendum again, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"Today, it is concretely demonstrated that the Parti Québécois is no longer the sole and only master of the game of independence. We want to show that he does not have the monopoly of independence and that he wants to work with partners he recognizes the relevance and difference. Each gesture of reconciliation is a significant gesture, from the most modest to the most ambitious. In itself, it is representative of a real commitment will while teaching us to work together, "added Véronique Hivon. 
"The last federal campaign has shown that parties can join their strengths. In many constituencies, militants from different independence parties have worked hand in hand to give back a representation that defends Quebec every day in Ottawa. It is now time to look at the next electoral appointment and rebuild the magnificent 1995 coalition, "said the President of the Bloc Québécois. 
"In the next year, a national option will have constructive discussions with Quebec Solidarity and the Parti Québécois with the aim of reaching an agreement on a clear commitment to realize the independence between 2018 and 2022. to bring the movement towards A real refoundation, it will be necessary to put in question, "says Sol Zanetti. 
This initiative is broader than parties. As in 1995, civil society is involved in the Independence Project. Three major partners today join the Parti Québécois, the Bloc Québécois and national option. 
"In 1995, the MNQ played a leading role in the referendum campaign by setting up the partner coalition for sovereignty, which included large organizations of society and had its foundation in all regions of Quebec. Today, it is clear that the issue of Quebec's political status is still not settled. This is why it is our duty to take over the torch to demonstrate that freedom is always the best choice for Quebeckers, "said MNQ vice president Martine Desjardins. 
"As I have seen in Catalonia, civil society and citizens are those who make live and vibrate the idea of the country. By showing us, we send a very clear message: twenty years after the 1995 referendum, we are always alive and we will no longer accept the status quo, "added Claudette Carbonneau. 
"The march of a people towards the acquisition of its full potential is dotted with obstacles, defeats and half-victories. Talk to the Irish, Greeks, Catalan, who fought for centuries to get to what begins ... So let's keep hope and maintain the course! For me that was too young to vote in 1995, it is clear that as long as independence is not made, it remains to be done because it is a modern project, worthy of what we are and worthy of From what we aspire, as well as collectively and individually, "concluded Maxime Laporte. 
Citizens can order their posters at: ouimonpays.quebec. 
