Saint-Eustache- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and the hon. Member for Deux-Montagnes, Mr. Daniel Goyer, announce $ 2.6 million for the creation of an external center Hemodialysis at the Health and Social Services Center (CSSS) of Lac-des-Deux-Montagnes. This amount is part of an envelope of nearly $ 3.7 million granted to the institution to develop the offer of care and service in the region. 
"Given the growing number of people in the region who need this service, it is without a doubt about an excellent news for people here. This new center will ensure that patients will no longer have to leave family and friends to receive these services elsewhere, and at the same time promote the maintenance of their autonomy, "said Minister Hébert. 
The member for Deux-Montagnes, Mr. Goyer added, "By decreasing the movements of these people, we contribute directly to the improvement of their life quality, as well as that of the members of their entourage. I am very pleased with this announcement, which is testifying once again the will of our government to improve the accessibility of care in our region. » 
The real estate solution enabling this external hemodialysis center to emerge the day will materialize through an investment of the ministry of the order of $ 2,40,000. The Laurentian Health and Social Services Agency will provide the establishment with its regional operating appropriation envelope, an additional annual budget of $ 4,130,000. 
Minister Hébert also took advantage of its transition to the CSSS of the Lac-des-Deux-Montagnes to announce other investments totaling $ 1,093,000, which aim to carry out capital work and equipment acquisition to strengthen The service offer in the region and improve access to local care. 
These investments will make it possible to achieve various expansion and redevelopment work within the walls of Saint-Eustache Hospital. These will benefit: to the surgery of one day ($ 358,000), which can accommodate up to 15 additional stretchers to meet the increase in surgery activities; at the service of pneumology and inhalotherapy ($ 300,000), which will benefit from more spacious premises for inhaling; at the service of radiology ($ 222,000), which will have a new ultrasound apparatus; As well as the birth unit ($ 213,000), which will include a new delivery room and two additional postpartum beds. 
For all these projects, the Department will fund equipment costs, which amount to $ 477,000, while real estate work will be borne by the Laurentian Health and Social Services Agency, on the basis of regional fixed asset envelopes. 
"We are continuing our efforts to strengthen the service offering in the Laurentians, both in terms of services, and infrastructure, in order to meet the wish of the population to have access to care and quality services. closer as possible from home. The institutions in the region have developed, in recent years, strong expertise in several specialized care. It is important to put this expertise to profit, especially since it will allow several people whose state of health is weakened not having to make long trips. ", Concluded the Minister Hébert. 
For the Laurentians region, these ads register in an overall $ 23 million envelope to enhance the offer of care and local service. This adds to our government's effort to reduce gaps between regions in the allocation of health and social services budgets. For the Laurentians, this translates into a decrease of 31% in the last year. 
