Val-David- A new residence of 26 affordable housing for seniors in slight loss of autonomy was inaugurated today, in Val-David, by the member for Bertrand, Mr. Claude Cousineau. Built thanks to the AccessLogis Quebec City Housing Program (SHQ), the Le Havre de Val-David required an investment of more than $ 4.6 million from the Quebec government and its community partners. 
"This project is an excellent news for the community of Val-David as it allows seniors in slightly loss of autonomy to stay in a new apartment, quality and affordable cost. As evoged by its name, the Harbor of Val-David offers its residents a peaceful and safe environment, "said MP Claude Cousineau, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The Government of Quebec, through the SHQ, has granted a grant of nearly $ 1.8 million for the realization of this project. In addition, the SHQ guarantees the mortgage contracted by the organization. The total contribution of the environment is approximately $ 505,000, of which more than $ 411,000 comes from the municipality of Val-David. Also note that the project has received a $ 345,000 grant through the SHQ program. 
"It is said that a society needs to know where it comes to know where it goes, and our elders are well placed to remind us. Val-David can finally offer them to remain in their environment instead of exile to live their retirement, lack of adapted housing. The whole community will benefit from their presence, experience and wisdom, "said Nicole Davidson, Mairse de Val-David. 
Note that additional financial assistance of nearly $ 224,000, divided over five years and 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the municipality of Val-David, offers the possibility for 13 households of the Havre de Val-David to benefit from the rent supplement program. Thus, these low-income families pay a rent similar to that of a low rent dwelling, or 25% of their income. 
Among the contributions of the community, emphasize that the project has received a subsidy of nearly $ 49,000 from the Ministry of Natural Resources Energy of Efficiency and Energy Innovation to ensure that it meets the standards of the ProgramMenovoclimate, This ensures tenants an appreciable economy on the heating costs of their housing. 
