Lachine - Québec Prime Minister Pauline Marois announced today that his government puts forward the necessary measures for the creation of 273 new jobs at CAD railway industries, which will be added to the current 300. 
"To enrich Quebec, our priority is to create quality jobs for Quebeckers, specialized jobs in carrier industries in all regions. That's why we decided to financially support the Rail Industries CAD Modernization project. Thus, the company will be able to increase its presence as a key North American player in the area of refurbishing locomotives and railway cars, "said Pauline Marois. 
Attribution, by investment Québec, of financial assistance of nearly $ 6.5 million to this company specialized in the maintenance, refurbishment and the design of locomotives and railway cars aims to enlarge and modernize his Lachine facilities. 
In addition, a financial contribution of $ 950,000 from Emploi-Québec is granted to the company for the deployment of a vast training plan for its workforce. This assistance, endorsed by the Labor Market Partner Commission, is complementary to an investment of $ 2,850,856 railway industries in its skills development project. The company will be able to provide training to 273 new employees and 15 already in office. 
The Quebec rail sector has 150 companies active as service manufacturers and providers. These directly generate more than 4400 jobs, mostly in SMEs. This sector of activity represents a turnover of more than $ 800 million a year. 
"Experts in the rail industry observe an increase in investments in rolling stock, particularly as to the renovation of locomotives, as well as an increase in the volume of rail transport. In 2015, the US government will also implement new pollutant emission standards that the majority of 25,000 active locomotives in North America should respectively meet. These are important business opportunities for CAD railway industries. With the investments confirmed today, the company will be in a better position to take advantage of it, "said the Prime Minister. 
Mr. Fausto Levy, President and Chief Executive Officer of CAD Industries, said that by investing in the modernization of his laboratories, by increasing his production capacity and by implanting the rail infrastructure needed to receive locomotives. At six axles, the CAD Rail Industries company will be well placed for new contracts. 
