Trois-Rivières- The member for Champlain, Mrs. Noëlla Champagne, announced, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élaine Zakaïb, the allocation of a loan of 225,000 $ at Automation Mauricie Inc., specializing in the design and manufacture of automated systems. The loan, granted under the Economic Diversification Fund of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, will contribute to the completion of a process optimization project estimated at nearly $ 1.2 million, which Create 30 new quality jobs. 
This is the second phase of the business expansion project. The first phase had allowed the construction of a new building and equipment layout. This second phase aims to increase the competitiveness of the company through the optimization of its processes, and includes the purchase of equipment, training and marketing. 
"Automation Mauricie is a dynamic and visionary company that contributes to the rise of our manufacturing industry, while consolidating the industrial vocation of our Greater Mauricie region," said Christmas Champagne. "This project is part of the Center-du-Québec's Economic Diversification Plan and Mauricie. It is therefore leading to important economic benefits for our region, and will maintain the company's 45 jobs and create some thirty others. » 
"The manufacturing sector is an important engine of economic growth and our government has made a commitment to further support it, particularly in the context of the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy," said Zakaïb. "This policy emphasizes the modernization of manufacturing companies to ensure their competitiveness, a modernization that goes mainly through automation. We redouble with our manufacturing companies continue to start, progress, export and innovate to maintain leaders and offer quality jobs in all regions. » 
Founded in 1989, the Automation Mauricie company specializes in the design, manufacture, programming, installation and maintenance of automated systems for many sectors of activity, such as agribusiness, mines and transformation of the wood. Its subsidiary, CPMI specialized entrepreneur Inc., includes electricians specialized in control and instrumentation. 
It is to better meet the needs of space and diversification of its activities as well as to those of its customers that AUTOMATION MAURICIE has developed this project in two phases. 
"Thanks to the optimization of our processes, we will realize innovative projects, in addition to increasing our competitiveness here and internationally," said Automation President Mauricie, Mr. Stéphane Thiffault. "We thank the Government of Quebec for its precious support, which will allow the completion of the second phase of our expansion project. We will thus consolidate our position of excellence in industrial automation and control. » 
For more information on the Fund, the Table and Plan for the Economic Diversification of Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, consult the www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie. 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
