Lévis- Agricultural Financial in Quebec will coming soon to nearly $ 3.6 million to more than 550 producers of lamb and 21.4 million to 3,000 farm calves producers. 
These amounts respectively represent a compensation of $ 5.79 per lamb and $ 0.4687 per kilogram of lamb sold, and a compensation of $ 43.29 per calf and $ 0.426 per kilogram of calf sold. In addition, they are added to the $ 7.5 million paid in July producers and the 16.7 million received in June by styling calf producers. 
These disbursements, made under the Agricultural Income Stabilization Insurance Program, will allow producers to have access to cash in a context where market prices are not at the rendezvous, particularly in the sheep sector where prices. Various categories of lambs are low, and since the beginning of the year. The payment of these allowances is part of the Government of Quebec's willingness to support and promote the economic growth of Quebec agriculture and agri-food. 
In this regard, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, "said it is important to accompany the Quebec producers of lambs and styling calves . Present in several regions, they allow sustainable economic development and a dynamic occupation of Quebec. 
"By its insurance programs, agricultural financial allows companies to better cope with the risks inherent in agriculture.," Said Robert Keating, President and CEO of the Quebec Fiscal Financial. 
By providing quality products and services for funding, insurance and income protection, Québec's agricultural financial financial firms promotes the development and stability of more than 25,000 Quebec agricultural and forest companies. In addition, it places the agricultural succession at the heart of its priorities by providing direct financial assistance and adapted to its reality. With insured values that amount to $ 4.7 billion and a loan guarantee portfolio reached 4.4 billion, it is actively involved in the economic growth of Quebec and its regions. 
