Malbaie - Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, welcomed the success of the 37th Annual Conference of the Governors of New England and the Eastern Eastern Ministers (CGNA-PMEC) which concluded today. Hui to Malbaie. This meeting involved in nine heads of government in the region allowed significant progress in several areas. 
At the end of the work, six resolutions were adopted, including two on the initiative of Quebec. The first exhorts the Canadian and US federal authorities to take all necessary measures to enhance the safety of rail transportation of hazardous materials. It also aims to increase collaboration, information sharing and exchange of good railway safety practices between states and provinces to prevent railway disasters such as that occurred in Lac-Mégantic. 
The second resolution presented by Quebec highlights the commitment of members to increase the use of energy-efficient vehicles, including by promoting the compatibility of charging infrastructure for electric vehicles, as well as to identify road corridors to deploy this type of Infrastructures.  "More than ever, the issues and interests of Quebec find echoing within this conference. It has allowed over 40 years to establish a highly profitable regional collaboration for all of its members. I salute the commitments made today who testify to a firm desire to associate, also, our future, "said the Prime Minister. 
Among the other agreed resolutions among the members, emphasize the objective, by 2020, that the regional fleet is 5% of replacement fuel vehicles, while promoting the availability of refueling positions in order to Support use. Members also agree to propose, by the 2014 conference, improved transit options to ensure a more environmentally friendly transport network in the region. In the field of public security, it has been agreed to strengthen mutual aid partnerships by identifying the constraints that could affect cross-border aid between states and the provinces. Recommendations will be formulated to mitigate these obstacles. 
According to the Regional Greenhouse Gas Inventory 1990-2011, the GHG Reduction Goal for 2010 in the CGNA-PMEC Action Plan, which was relevant at the 1990 level, was exceeded and almost reaches one third of the target set for 2020. 
Governors and Prime Ministers agree on a new climate change action call for the development of a short-term work plan. They thus confirm, for 2050, a target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from 75% to 85% below the level of 2001. 
The members of the Conference renew their commitment to increasing renewable energy business opportunities. They recognize the importance of continuing efforts to ensure the energy security of the region, as well as the critical role of the eastern provinces of Canada in the addition of new sources of clean energy for domestic markets and markets. export. 
In this year of 40Aniversity of creation of the conference, Quebec pleaded so that the economic dimension occupies a greater room within the conference. "We want businesses more closely to our next activities with the aim of stimulating economic exchanges between our provinces and states," said the Prime Minister. 
The annual conference will be held in 2014 in New Hampshire. 
