Quebec- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, makes public the twelve projects that will be put forward by eight wildlife partners by the end of the end of the 2013-2014 fiscal year. Thus, subsidies totaling $ 477,321 were granted by the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks as part of the "Summing and Enhancement" component - national reinvestment envelope in the field of wildlife. 
"Through this initiative, the Government of Quebec recognizes and encourages the contribution of these organizations in the development of wildlife activities and the training of succession. Their approach is both modern and registered in our traditions, "says Minister Blanchet. 
The projects selected (see the appendix) come from eight active organizations in the wildlife sector, the Quebec Federation of Hunters and Fishermen, the Federation of Founders of Quebec, the Foundation for the Safeguarding of Speckled Trout, the Quebec Federation For Atlantic Salmon, the Quebec Trappers Federation, the Federation of Salmon River Managers in Quebec, the Society of Outdoor Institutions of Quebec and Zecs Québec. They bear, on the one hand, on the renewal of the clientele of hunting, fishing and trapping activities, and, on the other hand, on the development of the wildlife resource in order to optimize it and 'develop the exploitation. 
Each year, in Quebec, hunting, fishing and trapping activities generate nearly $ 1.9 billion in creating riches and salaries in businesses by and elsewhere. For example, these benefits generate nearly 14,000 jobs in all regions of Quebec. "By this financial assistance, our government confirms the importance it attaches to hunting, fishing and trapping activities and recognizes their contribution in the development and character of the regions. Wildlife is an invaluable common wealth, both in the economy and Quebec biodiversity and identity, "the minister concluded. 
