Quebec- The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor Head of the Status of Women, Agnès Maltais, testified to Quebec's expertise in the fight against violence against women during the activities of the 57th Session of the United Nations Status Commission. The minister took the opportunity to multiply high-level meetings and argue all the importance that this cause must have on the international scene. 
During the senior Francophone concertation on violence against women and girls, Minister Maltese held a vibrant speech on behalf of Quebec and demonstrated his firm willingness to defend the rights of women as part of the adoption of the adoption of the Francophone action plan on violence against women and girls in the International Organization of La Francophonie. She presented the formal mechanisms developed in Quebec to ensure effective implementation of government actions to counter violence against women. 
"The struggle to counter violence against women must be done at all levels. I am convinced that the leadership of the Quebec government in this area will result in other governments, including those of the Francophonie, to make this struggle a priority. It is the responsibility of parliamentarians around the world to shape a world where the words respect, equality and human rights resonate a woman's way, "mentioned Maltais. 
On the sidelines of the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women, Mrs Maltais held bilateral interviews with many of its counterparts on violence issues. She met with Ms. Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, French Minister of Women's Rights, Ms. Yanick Mézile, Haitian Minister for the Status of Women and Women's Rights, Ms. Mariama Sarr, Senegalese Minister for Women, Children and the Child. Female entrepreneurship, Mr. Benno Bättig, Secretary General of the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs and Head of the Swiss Delegation, and Ms. Marie-Claude Blais, Attorney General, Minister of Justice and Consumer Consumer and Minister responsible for Women's Questions. Brunswick. 
Ms. Maltais also traded with the Honorable Rona Ambrose, Minister of Public Works and Government Services and Minister for Women's Status of Canada. They agreed on the need for specific actions to counter violence against women, including aboriginal women and those from immigrant backgrounds. In addition, they agreed on the importance of involving men and boys in the prevention of all forms of violence and thus ending it in a sustainable way. The Federal Minister took the opportunity to emphasize Quebec's remarkable work in these subjects. 
Minister Maltese took the opportunity to meet the representatives of two non-governmental organizations in Quebec, the consultation of sexual exploitation struggles and the grouping of houses for women victims of spousal violence. 
The minister also participated in the Inter-Parliamentary Union event on parliamentary strategies to counter violence against women and girls. 
It should be remembered that the Commission's 57th session carried out from 4 to 15 March 2013 on the theme of eliminating and preventing all forms of violence against women and girls. Representatives of the Member States, United Nations entities and non-governmental organizations from all regions of the world participate in the session. 
