Sainte-Agathe-des-Monts- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, the member for Labelle and Government Manager of the Laurentian Region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, and the member for Bertrand and Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Claude Cousineau, announce the establishment of a new ophthalmology clinic near the Laurentian Hospital of the Health and Social Services Center (CSSS) of the peaks, an investment of $ 6.5M. This amount is part of an envelope of nearly $ 9.7 million granted to the institution to develop the supply of care and service in the region. 
"We have made a commitment to improve the accessibility of care and services and this announcement is precisely for this purpose. Considering that the Laurentians region is distinguished by strong population growth, particularly among the elderly, and that this clientele has important ophthalmological needs, it is quite indicated to implement such a public service here, at the CSSS of the peaks ", said Minister Hébert. 
Indeed, in the absence of public service in the sector, people with ophthalmic needs, such as basic examination, cataract surgery and age-related macular degeneration services (DMLA) were directed either towards the CSSS of Saint-Jérôme or to the private. 
"I am very pleased with this initiative of our government. This new ophthalmology clinic will allow many people to enjoy high quality care and services, near their place of residence, "says Monsieur Pagé. 
Mr. Claude Cousineau added, "This is a considerable advantage for people in the sector, and especially for older people, for whom long trips can sometimes be trying. » 
Estimated at $ 6,542,000, the implementation of this new ophthalmology clinic will receive financial support from the Ministry of $ 6,348,000, including a portion ($ 4,606,000) will be used for the construction of A new two-storey building on the Field of the CSSS of the Summits, and another ($ 1,742,000) for the purchase of equipment. The Laurentian Health and Social Services Agency will fulfill the balance of this project ($ 194,000). 
Minister Hébert also took advantage of its transition to the CSSS of the Summits to announce investments totaling $ 3,239,000, which aim to achieve various capital work and equipment acquisition in order to strengthen the offer of service in The region and improve access to local services. 
These investments will allow the redevelopment of a portion of the Laurentian Hospital ($ 2,265,000) to accommodate, instead of endoscopic activities, the activities of ophthalmology and gynecology. They will also support the development of a second waking room and a resting room ($ 379,000), which will allow the use of two operating rooms simultaneously rather than alternating. 
Other funded projects include: the layout of a second reading room and an additional ultrasound room in a temporary unit adjacent to medical imaging ($ 350,000); The relocation of certain ambulatory services ($ 195,000), such as internal medicine, pediatrics and gynecology, which will be redeveloped in other premises at Laurentian Hospital, CLCs de Mont-Tremblant or CLSC Sainte-Agathe-des- Mountains; As well as the addition of equipment linked to the voluntary interruption of pregnancy ($ 50,000), in order to allow women of the region who wish to benefit from this service closer to home, within the public network of health. 
For all these projects, the Department will fund equipment costs, which amount to $ 1,940,000. Real estate work will be assumed by the Laurentian Health and Social Services Agency, with regional capital envelopes. 
"We are continuing our efforts to strengthen the service offering in the Laurentians, both in terms of services as known as infrastructure, to respond to the wishes of the population to access care and quality services closest. possible from home. The institutions in the region have developed, in recent years, strong expertise in several specialized care. It is important to put this expertise to benefit, especially since it avoids people whose state of health is weakened by having to move over great distances, "concluded the Minister Hébert. 
For the Laurentians region, these ads register in an overall $ 23 million envelope to enhance the offer of care and local service. This adds to our government's effort to reduce gaps between regions in the allocation of health and social services budgets. For the Laurentians, this translates into a decrease of 31% in the last year. 
