Joliette- Mrs. Véronique Hivon, Minister Delegate to Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Minister responsible for the Lanaudière Region and MP for Joliette on behalf of Mr. Maka Kotto, Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Stéphan La Rock, President and CEO of the Quebec Council of Arts and Letters (CALQ), Mr. Gaétan Morin, President of the Lanaudière Elected Regional Conference (Crés), Ms. Dominique Masse, President of the Lanaudière Youth Forum ( FJL) and Ms. Ghislaine Bourcier, President of Culture Lanaudière (CCL), today unveiled the content of a new agreement promoting the artistic and literary development of the Lanaudière region. 
According to the terms of this agreement, the CALQ and La Cré lanaudière will invest a total amount of $ 300,000, respectively, that the Youth Forum will dedicate an amount of $ 80,000. Artists, professional writers and art organizations in the region will be able to count on the availability of funds totaling $ 680,000 for the realization of artistic projects related to the Lanaudoise community. 
(c) Guillaume name-msss 
"Investing in culture is investing in everything we are and in everything we can be. That is why it is essential to participate in the development of Lanaudois artists and cultural organizations from here to promote the growth, to live collective and individually enriching experiences and to radiate outside our borders. , "Said Minister Hivon. 
"The development of the arts and letters throughout the territory of Quebec is one of the priorities of the CALQ. With the collaboration of committed partners who are committed to the development of their region, the CALQ is very proud to support the artists and writers of Lanaudière and to encourage the cultural vitality of this dynamic region, "mentioned the President -Director General of CALQ, Mr. Stéphan La Roche. 
"The President of La Cré Lanaudière, Mr. Gaétan Morin, for his part reiterated the commitment of the created to encourage the artistic creation and the promotion of the arts in the region. According to him, this participation clearly demonstrates the involvement of the regional conference of the elected representatives to the development of all Lanaudois faces " 
"The Youth Lanaudière forum has chosen to take part in this agreement to promote the place of artistic succession throughout the Lanaudois territory. Artists under the age of 35 will benefit greatly from this support, which will enable them to increase their visibility, to forge their place in the cultural environment and to develop their sense of belonging to the region, "said Mrs. Dominique Masse, President From the Lanaudière Youth Forum. 
The specific agreement on support for artistic creation and its diffusion motivated by its link with the Lanaudièrea community to support artistic creation and dissemination involving links with the community; to increase and diversify sources of revenue for professional artists and writers in Lanaudière; to contribute to the retention of professional artists and writers, including those of the young person in order to break their isolation and to promote their recognition within the community; To promote the emergence of artistic succession, as well as to encourage and support the development and influence of professional art organizations in the territory and outside. 
This agreement therefore allows, for the 2013-2014, 2014-2015 and 2015-2016 exercises, the implementation of the program of support for the creation and its diffusion motivated by its link with the community of Lanaudièrequi includes the following components: 
Component 1- Support for professional artists and writers related to the Lanaudière community; 
Component 2- support for professional arts and literary organizations related to the Lanaudière community; 
Component 3- Support for the promotion and dissemination of the agreement. 
This third component is under the responsibility of Culture Lanaudière, which is mandated to assist promoters in their efforts, to provide appropriate training and promote both the program and projects selected. "It is a great privilege for Culture Lanaudière to work with artists and organizations that constitute the Cultural Field Lanaudoise. All artists and organizations are invited to meet us and it will be pleased to be our help, "said Ms. Ghislaine Bourcier, President of Culture Lanaudière. 
In the next three years, the registration deadlines for component 1 will be October 15, 2013, April 2013, April 15, 2015. 
There is only one deadline for registration for component 2 which is 15 October 2013. 
Details about programs and registration forms are available on the CALQ website at: www.calq.gouv.qc.ca/regions/14.htmou still, by hyperlink, on the sites of La Cré Lanaudière (www.cre-lanaudiere.qc.caou of culture lanaudièrewww.culturelaudiere.qc.ca). 
Recall that the signatory partners of the agreement are CALQ, La Cré lanaudière, the Lanaudière Youth Forum, the Ministry of Culture and Communications, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, the Minister Head of the Lanaudière region, Mrs Véronique Hivon, and Culture Lanaudière. 
