Montréal - Québec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, today announced government financial assistance of $ 750,000 to support the restoration and enhancement of the property of the Vigneault family, cited in 2008 by the municipality of Natashquan, as well as the enhancement of the roller alley. For the occasion, Ms. Marois was accompanied by the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, Minister Delegate to Tourism, Pascal Bérubé, and the hon. Member for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Daniel Breton. 
"Natashquan and Gilles Vigneault are two inseparable names, and the project targeted by the project has a historical, cultural and symbolic value. It represents the source of inspiration from one of the largest poets of modern Quebec. Anchored in the heart of a municipality made famous especially thanks to his illustrious ambassador, this project proposes the development of a place that saw born and grow a striking character of Quebec, Mr. Gilles Vigneault, "said the Prime Minister . 
"I am proud to be a member of a government that recognizes the importance of transmitting future generations a natural and cultural ensemble whose value is resonating in us that Quebec identity, made of deep attachment to Nordicity," added Minister Maka Kotto. 
"Improving the quality of tourism offer is the priority element of our tourism action in the northern regions. This project therefore responds to our goals. The visit of the whole site, combined with that of the neighboring attractions of Havre-Saint-Pierre, will allow to extend the visitors' stay in Natashquan and, by the same fact, in the tourist region of Duplessis, "a His share declared Minister Bérubé. 
The project includes the exterior and interior restoration of the property where Gilles Vigneault grew up, the native home of the poet, the house of Mon'onclaude Claude where have lived in the grandfather and then the uncle of the poet, as well as three other buildings constituting the dependencies of the property of the vigneault. The twelve roller stores, commonly known as "pebbles", form a site classified under the Cultural Heritage Act since 2006. The Heritage site of Gilles Vigneault has been protected in 2008 under 2008. a municipal quote. A project manager will be hired to ensure the proper implementation. The total cost of the project is nearly a million dollars. 
"I want to thank all the people who devote time and effort to safeguard a single heritage contributing to the definition of the identity of the citizens of Natashquan and the entire North Côte-Côte-Côteaux, a heritage impregnated with an authentic intimacy With the sea and nature, "said the member for Duplessis, Lorraine Richard. 
The project is part of the targets covered by Nordic Development in Tourism and Culture, and the financial assistance granted is as follows: $ 450,000 from the Ministry of Culture and Communications under the Fund From Quebec cultural heritage, while $ 300,000 comes from the tourist development component north of the 49th parallel of the tourism industry development program. 
