St-Jerome - Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and Mr. Sylvain Pagé, head of the Laurentian and Labelle Member Region, announced investments totaling $ 9,234,000, which will allow the realization of real estate work and the purchase of equipment within seven projects aimed at strengthening the service offer of the Saint-Jérôme Health and Social Services Center. 
"Our government is particularly committed to better responding to the desires of the people of the Saint-Jérôme region of resorting to quality care and services as close as possible to their place of residence. The Saint-Jérôme Health and Social Services Center has developed strong expertise in specialized care, expertise that needs to be used to better serve the population, "said Dr. Hébert. 
The amounts offered by the department will all serve to cover the costs of buying equipment to strengthen the service offer of the Saint-Jérôme Hospital. The largest amount, ie $ 1,991,000, is intended to support the creation of an external dialysis center, a project for which discussions are currently underway to specify the final scope. Other funded projects include the addition of six intermediate care, which will be granted $ 410,000, the addition of 14 hospitalization beds in medicine, which will obtain $ 140,000, as well as the development of clinics. Polyvalent external to the Rosary-Lapointe pavilion, which will be given an amount of $ 200,000. In addition, $ 92,000 will also be devoted to equipment used to develop a day-to-day mental health hospital and another $ 114,000 to increase the supply of care and voluntary interruption service. . Vascular services and pneumology will share $ 100,000. The Laurentian Health and Social Services Agency will fulfill the balance of these projects through regional envelopes. 
"I look forward to seeing that our government consider seriously the needs of St. Jérôme's people in health care and services. This concrete help will make it possible to bring the services of people closer, which is a great news, especially for people whose health status is weakened and who must avoid travel over great distances, "said Mr. Sylvain Pagé. 
These seven projects are part of an approach that aims to promote access to local services. This regional and local service offering initiative is funded by the Department, in partnership with the Laurentian Health and Social Services Agency, with regional capital envelopes. 
For the Laurentians region, these ads register in an overall $ 23 million envelope to enhance the offer of care and local service. This adds to our government's effort to reduce gaps between regions in the allocation of health and social services budgets. For the Laurentians, this translates into a decrease of 31% in the last year. 
