Quebec- While in Port Cartier, the Ferroatlántica project has just been abandoned, the official opposition leader, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the member for Duplessis and spokesman for the Nordic Development Party, Lorraine Richard, and the spokesperson for economy, Alain Therrien, deplored the loss of this investment of $ 382 million and the 345 jobs planned. They also note that this is the second major investment project that the judgment is announced this week after that of Iffco in Bécancour. The Parti Québécois asks the Liberal government to act, finally, for economic development and job creation. 
"We are very far from the liberal promises of Philippe Couillard, which had ensured that the liberal effect was miraculously creating 250,000 jobs. The smoke screens of the Liberals make jobs mirror, but without result. The North Plan is not an economic plan, it is a simple primary exploitation plan for our resources that leaves the market conditions destroy jobs and projects, a plan that leaves the workers before anything when the metal course is experiencing a significant slowdown, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"This news is a shock for everyone in Port Cartier and throughout the region. The situation is very worrying, our region counting at this moment less jobs than in 2013 and having seen its unemployment rate from 7.8% to 10.5%. The regions of Quebec pay the price of the economic incompetence of this government. Workers in the North Shore are tired of broken promises and poor excuses; They need jobs now, "continued Lorraine Richard. 
"We share the immense disappointment of the citizens of the region, especially those of Port Cartier, who were waiting for these jobs impatiently. For several months, we have been demanding the Liberal government that it adopts a real economic development plan to diversify the economy of the regions and promote the implementation of processing activities; It's more than time he's acting, "added Alain Therrien. 
"The Prime Minister has appropriated the good news when the natural resource sector knew an expansion cycle. Now he leaves the workers and their families in plan, without acting to help them. When I arrived as the official opposition leader, last May, I put their hand to the Prime Minister to bring together economic decision-makers and create a consensus on priorities for action. Instead, he chose inaction. As a result, Quebec lost 12,000 jobs in 6 months. The people of the North Shore and all Quebec have enough liberal promises. They ask for concrete gestures to revive our economy, "concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
