Quebec - "Hydro-Québec Empties Regions, at the request of the Liberal government, to fulfill the head office in Montreal and François Legault applaud. It's shameful and irresponsible. " 
Regional Deventful Devential Devential, who's occurring to la coalition Avenir queq (Caq) and Son Chef , François Legault, d'êté totale font réaltés des Régions. WHO IS EST, PHOTE CHEMISTED SIGHT BIGHTES OUT MASS. 
Indeed, yesterday, during his press conference, the Calcist leader, François Legault, was happy that Hydro-Québec proceeds to the abolition of 200 positions in several regional offices of the Crown corporation to better concentrate them. its head office in Montreal. Recall that the Crown corporation intends to proceed quickly with the removal of these positions in particular in Gaspé, Sept-Îles, Rimouski, Gatineau, Chibougamau and Chicoutimi. "François Legault does not understand that a loss of 15 seven-Îles jobs is the equivalent of a loss of 1000 jobs in Montreal," said the member. 
For the Parti Québécois, this statement by François Legault illustrates the fact that he has no vision or position on the role and future of the regions of Quebec. "Unlike François Legault, we estimate the Parti Québécois that the regions deserve the respect of our Crown corporation and that it can not be acceptable to endorse this Hydro-Québec's intention to centralize its activities in Montreal. Without the regions of Quebec, Hydro-Québec would not be the flagship that it is today, "continued André Villeneuve. 
The member asks François Legault and the Cavoists to position himself clearly on Bill 499 that the Quebec party has tabled two weeks ago and has been welcomed with great enthusiasm by all those who s. concern for the dynamic occupation of the territory and decentralization. 
"This bill clearly confirms that the Parti Québécois is the Party of the Regions. He wants to ensure that the services are equitably divided into the territory and give local and regional actors the necessary tools to promote the development of their territory. If we want to make our regions of the dynamic and prosperous places, it is certainly necessary to endorse the gestures of Hydro-Québec which is currently the opposite with its decisions, "concluded the member for Berthier. 
