Quebec, March 6, 2020 - The hon. Member for Rimouski and spokesman for the Quebecois for seniors and caregivers as well as in social services, Harold Lebel, strongly denounces the government decision to cut a bonus offered to attendants. beneficiaries working in CHSLD. 
IN SHORT 
Harold Lebel first believed in a misunderstanding, since the government continues to repeat that we must do everything to attract people in the field; He even went to $ 7500 scholarships to people who choose this profession, in addition to looking for foreign workers to fill the many vacancies. "It's a secret for anyone: In Quebec, we are sorely lacking in beneficiaries, in all regions. These people do an essential job with seniors and people with disabilities, in often difficult conditions. The decision to withdraw a premium encourages them to work in CHSLD is therefore entirely inconsistent with the goals we want to achieve, "he mentioned playing. 
The premium in question represents an amount of about $ 180 per 750 hours worked. "Beneficiary attendants do not earn astronomical wages; We are talking about about $ 20 per hour in the public network, and more or less $ 17 from the hour to private. In this account, the abolie premium could really change things in a budget. I therefore ask the Government not only to restore the premium, but also to review all the salary and work conditions of the beneficiary attendants; This occupation must be more valued, "continued the hon. Member for Rimouski. 
Indeed, considering the fact that the waiting lists for a place in CHSLD continue to lie down, it is essential to give the taste to people, especially young people, to invest in a career in care. "In Bas-Saint-Laurent, for example, a quarter of the population is 65 and over. In Quebec, a total of some 40,000 people are hosted in CHSLD. The government, by the voice of Minister Marguerite Blais, has talked a lot about redeveloping the CHSLDs, building beautiful seniors' houses ... But we first need staff to adequately care for people! ", Concluded Harold Lebel. 
