Quebec- As a result of the disconcerting or even irresponsible position of the Attorney General of Quebec on the possibility that religious marriage can only be considered as a "spiritual union" and not having civil effects - Position having also been adopted by the Superior Court - the spokesman for the Québécois justice, Véronique Hivon, asks the Minister Valley to clarify it urgently, because it casts us in confusion. 
"While the Civil Code clearly states that everything celebrating must transmit the marriage declaration without delay to the Director of Civil Status, now the Attorney General adopts a position that goes against this reality, yet never questioned. until this day. This orientation has enormous potential effects, both for the public and for celebrant, who will no longer be able to stick to it. And that's not to mention that we risk attending the birth of a parallel religious regime, with risks of multiple weddings or even forced. It's very disturbing, "said Véronique Hivon. 
Creation of a non-partisan commission on the law of the family 
Faced with the many questions and recent interpretations of the courts that led to new law, it is more time to work on a reform of family law, rather than being dictated by new orientations by the courts. "The right of the family is absolutely affecting everyone and it must reflect the values ​​and consensus of Quebec society. That is why we believe that a non-partisan commission, in the image of the spirit of the Commission on the question of dying in dignity, must be set up. This would be the best possible framework for a debate on the many issues related to the reality of today's families. We can think of the situation of de facto spouses and that of children, more and more numerous, from this type of union, new forms of filiation, the reality of recomposed families and the role of the parents-in-law, or questions related to carrier mothers, for example. The report filed last June by the Family Law Advisory Committee, chaired by Mr. Alain Roy, is an excellent basis for discussion, "said the member for Joliette. 
Véronique Hivon thus tends his hand to all the political courses for such a forum to be created quickly. "The situation revealed in recent days, as for the possible lack of civil effects of the religious unions and the surprising position of the State in this case, only reinforces our belief that we must act so that the elected officials , in concert with the population, proceed to the reform, "she concluded. 
