Quebec- In the light of the information revealed this morning as to the deadly accident involving a police officer and having caused the death of a young boy, the member for Lac-Saint-Jean and the official opposition spokesman in Court of Justice, Alexandre Cloutier, believes that a revision of the file is absolutely necessary. He therefore claims from the Minister of Justice, Stephanie Valley, which she quickly appoints an external prosecutor for this purpose. 
"Clearly, this file raises very disturbing questions. Quebeckers arrange, rightly, on the reasons that motivated the Director of Criminal and Criminal Prosecutions not to carry criminal charges against the Quebec Security Investigator involved in the accident. We ask the Minister of Justice to seize the file and demand the revision by an external prosecutor, "said Alexandre Cloutier. 
Indeed, the information unveiled so far by the media makes it very legitimately believe that the file must be revised. "The prosecutor of criminal and criminal prosecutions is not a judge. His analysis is based on the reasonable perspective of conviction taking into account the facts. With the information available and given the case law in dangerous driving files, the Minister must require the revision of this case. It is the credibility of the judicial institutions that is at stake, "added the member for Lac-Saint-Jean. 
Finally, Alexandre Cloutier asks the Minister of Justice to ensure that henceforth, when a peace officer is involved in an incident causing the death of a citizen and that no accusation is brought against him, the Director of Criminal and Criminal Prosecutions (PPCP) systematically unveils the reasons for its decision. Moreover, in a letter lodged at the National Assembly in March 2013, in the context of the creation of the Office of Independent Investigations, the PCPP itself claimed wanting to develop such a policy of unveiling its reasons. 
"Transparency does not affect the independence of criminal and criminal investigations. On the other hand, the grounds of the PCPP must be communicated to the public, not only to guarantee the perception of an integrity system and the service of the citizens, but especially to ensure that families do not have to fight Against the system simply to understand what happened, "concluded Alexandre Cloutier. 
