Quebec- The Quebec Party spokesperson in the area of economy, Alain Therrien, the one on agriculture and food, André Villeneuve, and the spokesperson for international relations, Stéphane Bergeron, are disappointed to see that once, the government ignores the worries of farmers; As evidence, he refuses to study the Free Trade Agreement with Europe in Parliamentary Committee. 
The Quebecois party has tabled a motion yesterday to convene a parliamentary committee to study the impact of the free trade agreement for Quebeckers, and in particular for our dairy and cheese producers. 
The motion reads as follows: 
"That the Committee on Economy and Labor review the overall economic and trade agreement between Canada and the European Union, including the impact on the Quebec dairy and cheese industry; That for this purpose, the Commission hears all persons and all the organizations it deems necessary to convene; That the organization of the mandate is entrusted to the members of the Commission; Finally, that this motion is an order of the National Assembly. » 
"The Parti Québécois has always maintained that to accept the Free Trade Agreement with Europe, dairy and cheese producers need to be adequately offset by the federal government. However, the compensation announced are clearly insufficient. It remains essential to mitigate the impact of the agreement on our producers, "said Stéphane Bergeron. 
"Liberal government's softness hurts our dairy and cheese producers. The Minister of Agriculture went to meet his federal counterpart and came back empty. Ottawa certainly does not intend to bend in front of a government that does not care about its farmers, "said Alain Therrien. 
"This refusal of the government is just another sign that he has abandoned farmers. Since their arrival, the Liberals have cut more than $ 425 million in the budget allocated to agriculture. Minister Pierre Paradis, like the Prime Minister, refuses to cancel these changes that will increase land taxes of 83% of farmers, for amounts up to $ 3000 or $ 4000. Our producers have enough! They endured for two and a half years a government that turns them back, "concluded André Villeneuve. 
