Montreal- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, announce that the Quebec government has served its support for the agreement in principle on the major issues of the majority. Negotiation of the global economic and trade agreement between Canada and the European Union (CETA). This draft agreement in principle occurs after several months of intense negotiations. 
"We are proud to take this crucial step in the negotiations that will lead to the largest free trade agreement since NAFTA, in 1994. Due to a limited internal market, Quebec must open more on the world. With its 500 million consumers, the European Union is the first economic power of the planet, "said the Prime Minister. 
"The overall economic and trade agreement between Canada and the European Union aims to diversify and consolidate access to a critical market for Quebec companies. The CETA will abolish all of the European Union's Tariffs of the European Union and Canada on Industrial Products, including 98% of tariff lines upon the entry into force of the CETA, "said Minister Marceau. 
Quebec can therefore enjoy significant gains, particularly in the aluminum sectors, recreational vehicles, petrochemical and chemical products, sawn timber, mobile homes, auto parts, telecommunications equipment, advanced equipment in optics. as well as for many food processing products. 
The CETA will also include a framework for the recognition of product certification bodies for sectors whose "EC" marking is needed. For Quebec, this certification will mean deadlines and costs decreased for our industries. 
In the area of public procurement, it is important to mention that no other G20 countries will receive access comparable to that obtained by Canada with the public procurement of the European Union, the largest public supply market in the world. , rated nearly $ 3,000 billion annually. 
In agriculture, the CETA will provide increased access to the European market for beef and pork and will eliminate tariffs on many fresh and processed products. 
However, the federal government has increased the cheese import quota, which could lead to repercussions on the income of Quebec dairy and cheese producers. 
"The Government of Quebec had expressed its opposition to the federal government as to such a compromise in the face of the applications of the European Union. In addition, I confirm that we have achieved a firm commitment from the federal government that compensation measures will be planned for dairy producers affected by this increase in imports. These measures will specifically address potential revenue losses attributable to the increase in the import quota, tightening the entry of non-quota cheeses, to implement a shorter short-term border control and finally to better Take into account the share of the sector present in Quebec in the allocation of import licenses, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
It was agreed that these compensation mechanisms should be known and detailed before the final ratification of the CETA. 
Finally, Quebec was sure to exclude from the scope of the CETA, in particular, the services related to education, health and social services, the services provided in the exercise of governmental power and the management OFFER. With regard to the cultural industries, the negotiations made it possible to put forward, an approach to exceptions by chapter, with a reference, in the preamble of the CETA, to the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of Diversity cultural expressions of UNESCO. 
"Upon our arrival, our government has served its support for a possible free trade agreement to diversify market access for the Quebec industries. By the ratification of a final agreement, we will continue to work tirelessly that Quebec withdraws the greatest possible benefits of this agreement, "added the Prime Minister. 
"Quebec has been a stakeholder throughout the negotiations, and we have achieved significant gains for our economy. We made ambitious offers to allow Quebec companies to access Europeans more easily. It is therefore essential to complement the work to allow Quebec to benefit as quickly as possible major benefits by diversifying our exports to the European Union, "concluded the Chief Negotiator for Quebec, Pierre Marc Johnson. 
