Montreal -The Member of Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesman for the official opposition in secularism, Carole Poirier, is perplexed before the differences of opinion observed between François Legault and Chantal Longpré, President of the Quebec Federation of the Directorates educational institution and member of the Coalition for the Future of Quebec (CAQ) on the issue of reasonable accommodations. 
Indeed, Ms. Longpré publicly expressed this week against the fact that Muslim employees of the Montreal School Board obtained an additional day off due to the end of Ramadan. Chantal Longpré speaks of inequity towards other employees who will not benefit from this leave. 
"There is a reflection subject. However, as we are constantly hammering for months and, as Ms. Longpré points out, it is precisely because of the political void on the question that such situations occur, "said Carole Poirier. 
François Legault was opposed to the port of ostensible religious signs for civil servants, but only for certain categories of civil servants, judges for example. The founder of the CAQ also clarified that secularism was not a priority for him. 
"The debate on reasonable accommodations and the secularism we want in Quebec has been a regular surface since 2006. The Liberal government has totally failed on this ground. Similarly, the positions expressed by François Legault and his coalition are totally unacceptable because what they propose would create two categories of civil servants: those who would have the right to increase ostensible religious signs and those who would not have it! François Legault only offers Quebeckers to divide them and create inequities between them! This attitude is totally irresponsible! , "Said Carole Poirier. 
"Both the Liberals and the Coalition of François Legault want to maintain the case-by-case regime in terms of secularism and reasonable accommodation. Quebec needs a real debate on secularism. Now, on this topic, PLQ or CAQ, it's white cap and white hat! Only the Parti Québécois proposes to reject open secularism and set up a charter of inclusive secularity that would define once and for all the conditions of living together in our society, "concluded Carole Poirier. 
