Quebec - the official operation to the National Assembly asked that the Chief Negotiator of Quebec for the signing of a free trade agreement between the European Union and Canada, Pierre Marc Johnson, meets parliamentarians very soon In order to take stock of the state of the negotiations. 
"The current blur surrounding negotiations is worrying many Quebec speakers. The time has come to take stock with parliamentarians to dispel the fears that intensify, "said the member for Rousseau and spokesperson for finance and economic development, Nicolas Marceau. 
He recalled that negotiations cover a wide range of economic activities. Access to provincial and municipal public procurement worries a lot, as is the protection of patents to pharmaceutical companies, the agricultural supply management system, grant programs in the cultural field. 
"Does the privatization of municipal water supply services, where European private investors are very active, is on the table? Can the Quebec government give insurance to our farmers that our proven way, is not called into question? Will Quebec open its edition aid programs to European companies? These are some examples of questions and for whom it will be necessary to get answers quickly, "said Marceau. 
The member for Rousseau recalls that in October 2010, Mr. Johnson had presented himself in parliamentary committee, but that this meeting had not been satisfactory because the Liberal government refused the filing of relevant documents. 
"There is an opportunity for Quebec to intensify its economic ties with Europe, but it must be done in the respect of our Quebec values and consensus. It is necessary that the Liberal government changes its practices, which it ceases to negotiate behind closed doors, which it informs the population on the stakes of the negotiations and that it submit the text of the agreement to the parliamentarians as and when of its evolution. It is therefore necessary to demonstrate the greatest transparency and this must begin with an accountability of Mr. Johnson to the members with the relevant documents, "said the member for Rousseau. Do not rocked illusions either; Mr. Johnson has a limited influence within the Canadian delegation, one of ten negotiators, "he concluded. 
The Parti Québécois will support the motion presented by the Independent Deputy of Nicolet-Yamaska, Jean-Martin Aussant, who will be debated today in the National Assembly. 
