Quebec-accompanied by representatives of the Association of Craftsmen of Quebec, the Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the Spokesperson in Agriculture and Food, André Villeneuve, the spokesman International relations, Stéphane Bergeron, and the spokesperson on the Economy, Alain Therrien, announced that they will table an amendment today during the debate on the global economic and commercial agreement (CETA) between Canada and the European Union (EU). This amendment aims to refer to 6 months the approval of the Agreement by the National Assembly, the time, for the federal government, to fulfill its commitment to fully offset Quebec producers and cheese. 
IN SHORT 
"It is important to repeat it: we are convinced that the CETA will benefit our exporting SMEs anywhere in Quebec. However, we are not for naive approval. In the negotiation, the Canadian government has favored the west and charges Quebec. The Government of the Parti Québécois had obtained the formal guarantee of the Government Harper that producers would receive full compensation. We ask the Trudeau government to fulfill this commitment; He must come to an agreement with cheesemen on financial compensation and import quotas. On these issues, as on many others, the federal government is not sensitive to the reality of Quebec. For its part, the Government of Philippe Couillard is neither fear nor respected in Ottawa. It only expresses his disappointment. His only lever is to suspend his agreement until Ottawa repairs his damage, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
"We are proud of our fine cheeses, which account for 60% of all Canadian production. Quebec is therefore the most affected; For our cheesers, we are talking about an estimated loss at $ 1.5 billion. The proposed compensation, $ 350 million, is insufficient. In addition, we still do not have the details about the distribution of this amount. There can be no assurance that industrial players will not have the share of the lion, leaving only crumbs to artisan cheesemen. However, we need to make every effort to support this important economic sector, "added André Villeneuve. 
Recall that under this agreement, 17,700 additional tonnes of European fine cheeses will enter Canada, a concession representing about 4% of the market. "Access to the European market is obviously a good thing for our exporting companies, but at what price! Europeans are already entitled to two-thirds of the 400 tonnes of imported cheese annually. This additional quantity will come directly cut off the market share of local producers, which are mainly Quebec. The option to grant import quotas to producers rather than third parties or retailers would mitigate the impact of the additional 17,700 tonnes. Instead of cannibalizing the market, import revenues could be used to reinvest in the Quebec cheese industry, especially in promotion or research, for example, "illustrated Stéphane Bergeron. 
"It is estimated that Quebec's cheesemen will lose $ 150 million a year; A compensation of $ 100 million over 4 years is therefore significantly insufficient. We still have time: we can always ask the federal government to improve compensation. And we can, above all, insist with the Government of Quebec to respond strongly and support the producers here. Six months, it's a reasonable time; We are in favor of the CETA but, if the Liberal government persists in asking us to approve it today, we will abstain, "concluded Alain Therien. 
