Lac-Mégantic- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announced a principle agreement of a maximum of $ 1,348,683 for the Auditorium's renovation project of the Versatile Montignac in Lac-Mégantic. The hon. Member for Sherbrooke, Serge Cardin, was also present for the occasion. 
"For the Lac-Mégantic community, the Auditorium of the Polyvalente Montignac occupies an important place in the distribution of the performing arts. This renovation project will allow it to fully fulfill its role and demonstrates that the Government of Quebec recognizes the importance of giving better access to quality cultural equipment to our fellow citizens and our fellow citizens, "said Minister Kotto. 
"There is no doubt that the auditorium of the Polyvalente Montignac is a privileged place of access to culture in the region. Citizens and citizens of surrounding municipalities regularly converge in Lac-Mégantic to entertain and relax. This work is therefore made necessary to provide the public with adequate services and diversified programming, up to their expectations, "said MP Serge Cardin. 
The renovation project aims in particular the redevelopment of the theater and the enhancement of the quality of the scenographic equipment, allowing the broadcaster, the Mégantic Cultural Committee, to meet the criteria of professionalism in the arts of the stage. This multidisciplinary broadcaster, supported by the operations by the Ministry of Culture and Communications, offers rich and varied programming in theater and song that is rarely outside large centers. 
Built in 1972, the Auditorium of the Versatile Montignac in Lac-Mégantic is the only professional performance room serving the population of the Granite MRC, which brings together more than 20 municipalities. It also welcomes audiences from the MRC of the Haut-Saint-François and the Chaudière-Appalaches region. 
This project is part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan 2013-2023, made public in April. Recall that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 2 billion investments for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the associated costs and to make informed choices. 
