Sherbrooke- On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, Minister responsible for the Estrie Region, Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, and the member for Sherbrooke, Serge Cardin, announced an agreement in principle of a maximum of $ 4 million for the construction of a new dance and theater special room for young people in Sherbrooke. 
"By this agreement in principle, the Government of Quebec encourages the first moments of a child's wonder during a show and the precious moments of a cultural exit with the family. This dissemination will also open to several thousand students every year and offer them a new learning context. This support from the Government of Quebec reflects our desire to promote growth and artistic development among our youth, "said Minister Kotto. 
"I am convinced that the Estrian population will develop an attachment for this new place that will include the mission of initiating our young citizens to become cultural life ... and therefore to reinitiate their parents who will accompany them! In addition, I wish to salute all those who have put the elements in place to achieve this agreement in principle. Their commitment demonstrates the collective will to diversify the cultural offer of the region. Finally, I am all the more happy with this new since it refers to an electoral hire that my colleagues from Sherbrooke and myself had taken in August 2012, "said Minister Hébert. 
"This announcement is very pleasing to the citizens of the City of Sherbrooke and the Estrie region. This project will greatly contribute to the cultural development of our community and allow you to increase the quality of life of young families, "said Cardin deputy. 
The total construction cost is estimated at over $ 8.6 million and is divided between the Ministry of Culture and Communications, the City of Sherbrooke and the stage side that brings together three Sherbrookois broadcasters, the small theater of Sherbrooke, the theater of the double sign and the dance company starts. 
This project is part of the 2012-2016 Strategic Plan of the Ministry of Culture and Communications (MCC). The contribution of the MCC comes from the 2013-2023 infrastructure plan, made public in April. Recall that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 2 billion investments for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the associated costs and to make informed choices. 
