Québec-twelve months after signing an agreement that was to improve access for patients with the Federation of Omnipratic Physicians, the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, unveiled results that demonstrate that he has failed. Diane Lamarre, Member of Taillon and spokesperson for the Quebecois health and accessibility of care, finds with disappointment that the targets, as to the number of patients enrolled and at the attendance rate of physicians, are far from to be reached. 
Ms. Lamarre also deplores that the minister waited after the end of the parliamentary session to provide these numbers, while asking them for several months and that quarterly reports have been available for one year. "Was he afraid to give this information not reassuring to the population and to undergo my questions? She asked. 
"Since June 2015, for a year, just 2.4% of Quebecers have been newly enrolled in a family doctor. It will therefore take an increase of 14% in a year and a half to reach the target of 85% of Quebecers enrolled before December 2017. How can the minister think he will meet his goals? ", Also questioned Diane Lamarre. 
"As for the attendance rate, which corresponds to the real capacity of people to see their family doctor when they need it, the statistics presented by the minister do not mean anything, since they are based on a number of registered patients. much lower than expected. The confession of gaéan barrette, today, confirm that despite the return of the bolduc premium and all the other premiums to the registration he has granted to doctors and who cost more than $ 22 million last year, the targets are missed. Meanwhile, the minister continues to have a despise attitude towards physicians, accusing them of being responsible for the delay, and patients, they are forced to wait, again. It's unacceptable, "added the spokesman. 
"We have already deplored the lack of transparency of the minister with respect to the follow-up of the targets set out in that agreement. While we had to give us news to the three months, it will have taken a year to finally admit that the improvement of access is not at the rendezvous and that its targets are far from being achieved . Even the Prime Minister acknowledged this week that his Minister of Health did not give the right time, in another file affecting long-term care. Today, what Gaétan Barrette has admitted our concerns: his reforms are a failure. One million patients are still without a family doctor, and nearly 500,000 of them need it greatly and want one, since they have registered at the access desk. In short, the increase of the inscriptions and access, of the admission of the minister, does not materialize, "concluded Diane Lamarre. 
