Quebec, August 30, 2017 - the complete failure of the barrette reform, this umpteently liberal reform over the last fifteen years, the official Leader, Jean-François Lisée, and the spokesperson for health , accessibility to home care and support, Diane Lamarre, present a realistic and innovative plan that finally puts the patient at the center of our health system. 
IN SHORT 
"With their structural reforms, the Liberals have only facing our health system, without ever tackling the heart of the problem. We will have the courage to take the true ways to finish Quebeckers and Quebeckers have access to the care they are entitled to expect in a modern and prosperous society like ours, "has immediately declared John -François listed. For a liberal health decompartmental have always refused, but Quebec can no longer wait: doctors must be released from a lot of acts and promote true interdisciplinarity. "We propose to increase the role of specialized nurse practitioners, the IPS, and to extend to the whole Quebec the model of the clinics without a doctor to treat minor emergencies. IPS could also provide services in CLSCs to complement the front-line offer. It is not normal, for example, that nurses are supervised by acting doctors for immunization operations, as has been reported recently. It is these kinds of aberrations that make the costs increase, and that access decreases. More than ever, we need a clinical big bang! For its part illustrated Diane Lamarre.The other professionals must also hold more responsibilities in the dispensing of care. "For example, occupational therapists conduct seniors' assessment for the renewal of their driving license; Why, except for the exception, they should review a doctor? Dental hygienists must be able to clean without supervision, otherwise people in CHSLD will never have access to this elemental service. As for dentists, they reasonly claim access to the DSQ because some medicines affect oral health. Psychologists can accelerate the assessment of children with mental health problems or ADHD. Physiotherapists and optometrists can contribute to the assessment and processing of several conditions. Pharmacists, paramedics, social workers, audiologists ... In short, all other professionals have a lot to offer Quebec patients. Quebeckers have contributed for decades to their training, but our outdated laws maintain these professionals in reducing roles that do not allow them to make their full contribution, while doctors are no longer enough for the task. Elsewhere, by decomposing the role of other professionals, we have managed to improve the supply of services, "added the spokesman. 
Patients at the heart of our budget choicesThe Minister of Health had white card to find solutions to problems with access to care, but he chose to invest everything in doctors. In fact, three-quarters of the new amounts invested in health went to the pockets of the 20,000 doctors, without guarantee of improving access. The social contract has not been respected. "This decision is one of the worst to have been taken in recent decades in terms of public finances. These are the patients and taxpayers who pay the price. Once in government, we will immediately freeze the doctors' remuneration envelope and reinvest these amounts in services. And we will end their incorporation, which makes us lose annual millions of dollars, "said Jean-François Lisée, who notes that this year, the remuneration of doctors will further increase by 6%, which represents Nearly a third of the higher health budget. For a real access to front-line care "what to do when one being a 25% of Quebeckers still does not have access to a family doctor? And even if we have one, what to do when we need it in the evening or the weekend? Too many people find themselves unnecessarily, and too often. We must act! Diane Lamarre added. "We will make sure the front-line care is accessible when patients really need it. We will make sure Quebeckers have access to nights and weekends. We will guarantee proximity access, an IPS or a doctor, up to 9 pm And we will put an end to the ping-pong of the doctors between the public system and the private ", also mentioned the Porte-parole.There is an important announcement for Quebec patients. The official opposition will have many others to do in the coming weeks, especially for seniors, as well as in social services, home care, and public health in general. "The election of A Québécois party government in October 2018 will deliver results for Quebec patients. Structural reforms and poor liberal solutions disappointed. Patients are still desperate. But it is possible to go up this slope; It's about having courage. In this field, the Liberals proved their disability. We are going to do it! Finally, "concluded the Leader of the Official Opposition. Finally, the health team of the Parti Québécois, composed of MPs Diane Lamarre, of Sylvain Pagé and Dave Turcotte, crowns the regions of Quebec in the coming months to do Knowing our proposals and discussing the environmental players as to the best ways to deploy the plan, depending on their reality on the ground. 
Axis I: for a professional health appliance 
4. Enabling other professionals that doctors refer patients to specialists under certain conditions. 
Axis II: patients at the heart of our budget choices 
5. Freeze, from the outcome, the compensation envelope of doctors until the overall remuneration is rebalanced around a Quebec standard taking into account the share of the wealth that society agrees to pay to its doctors - A norm that should not be the Canadian average.6. Reinvested money to guarantee better access.7. End the incorporation of doctors. 
Axis III: for real access to the first line 
8. Guaranteeing local access to a specialized nurse or a doctor until 9 pm. Put funden ping-pong doctors between the private and the public. 
Some examples in other Canadian provinces and the United States, IPS are allowed to prescribe drugs and make some diagnoses. Those of the United Kingdom and Australia also enjoy much more autonomy than Quebec IPS. The same is true for Ontario dental hygienists. Pharmacists are allowed to vaccinate in all US states and almost all the provinces of Canada, as well as in Portugal and Australia. In addition, in Ontario, they have been allowed for 10 years to review drugs. 
