Quebec- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the spokesman for the Quebecois Immigration and Cultural Communities, Maka Kotto, have requested an emergency debate at the meeting National on the reception of Syrian refugees in Quebec. 
"The Minister of Immigration said they are legitimate about Quebec's questions about host capacity and security issues. Why, then, do not answer all the questions? Otherwise, other questions could arise. We must unite, do not fall into partisanship and talk about these issues serenely. Although they are open to the reception of these refugees, Quebeckers, municipalities, community organizations, in particular, do not know anything. Transparency must prevail. We must hold a debate at the National Assembly, in order to support them and to provide refugees with the best possible services and integration, so that their welcome is a success, for the well-being of all, "said the Leader of the official opposition. 
"Today, the Minister of Immigration has not taught us nine. She is in reaction mode, but we still do not have a schedule, match plan or any idea of the sums that will be paid by Ottawa for the welcome of refugees. Ms. Weil came to tell us today that she followed the situation. Very well, but what about discussions with the federal government? The minister shows us again that we are at the trailer of Ottawa. Targeted cities and citizens of Quebec are entitled to expect more transparency and precision about the actions that will be made, "continued Maka Kotto. 
"The Government of Quebec must ensure that the reception conditions will respect the basic criteria for comfort, humanity and, of course, security. These fundamental elements remain unanswered. Quebec is responsible for transcending the promises made as part of the recent federal election campaign. We must assume the responsibilities that are ours, "added the leader of the official opposition. 
The Prime Minister must withdraw his remarks 
In addition, Pierre Karl Péladeau invited the Liberal Prime Minister to come back on his end of the week. "Instrumentalizing undecientiously and partisan the horrors of Paris, the Prime Minister accused the Quebecois party and the Future Quebec coalition of xenophobia. However, nothing is more wrong. Those who have committed to the Parti Québécois since its founding have been and are always led by the openness to the world and the promotion of diversity, accompanying women and men who choose Quebec as the land of welcome. We have a duty to ask all the legitimate questions and the right to question the actions of the government without being treated with xenophobia. The Prime Minister must demonstrate the height inherent in his post and withdraw his remarks, "he concluded. 
