Quebec- The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, today tabled Bill 65 to facilitate the replacement and reconstruction of notaries' transplants that were destroyed during the rail disaster at Lac-Mégantic on July 6th. According to an estimate of the Chamber of Notaries of Quebec, the destruction of 12 notarial transplants resulted in the loss of nearly 100,000 notarial acts: marriage contracts, wills, mandates in case of incapacity, mortgages, procurement. or sale of property, etc. 
"The destruction of notarial acts represents the loss of a Pan of history of the Lac-Mégantic community, notaries' transplants being the silent and privileged witnesses in the history of a region. It is also the legal loss of a valuable guarantee of the protection of the rights of citizens who inhabit it. With the adoption of this bill, we will give ourselves more efficient tools to replace and reconstruct destroyed grafts, in the interest of our fellow citizens, "said Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud. 
In fact, the current law of law have not been adopted by the Quebec legislature to respond to an extreme situation as the incident at Lac-Mégantic. The applicable articles of the Code of Civil Procedure were rather adopted with a view to replacing or reconstructing an act or a few acts lost or destroyed by megar. This is why the current law provides that each replaced or reconstituted notarial act must be submitted to the Tribunal. 
The bill therefore proposes, in particular, a lighter and diversed procedure for replacing acts. It provides that the deeds destroyed can be replaced by the integration of the registry of an authentic copy of these acts. The copy thus integrated into the graft would then have original value. In addition, in cases where the replacement of the act will not be possible, the bill proposes that the notary carries out its reconstruction, but only on request of a party or a third party concerned. 
"Given the high number of deeds destroyed, respect for general rules would require too much human and financial investment, in addition to harming the effective functioning of the judicial system. This is why, and exceptionally, the bill provides for special rules for the reconstruction of destroyed grafts in the loss last summer in Lac-Mégantic, "concluded Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud. 
