Québec- Following the special board session (CA) of the Université de Montréal (CHUM) hospital holding last night, the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for seniors, the doctor Réjean Hébert, accepts and responds to the proposals of the Board in order to support the establishment in the implementation of the necessary measures to redress governance and to regain sound management and budget balance. To do this, the Minister appoints a ministerial guide, and the ministry appoints an Acting Director General from outside the CHUM. 
"I take note of the Board's willingness to carry out significant changes to restructuring CHUM's governance, as recommended by the Auditor General of Quebec (VGR). I accept his request to be accompanied in this process. Thus, the ministerial escort will support the CA and senior management of the CHUM in the implementation of fast, effective and structuring measures to achieve this. Institutions in the health network have the duty to make decisions in the public interest, which wants taxpayers' money to be invested in care and services responsibly and rigorously, in accordance with laws and rules. in force. We believe that today's decision can put the institution back on the road to good governance, "said Minister Hébert. 
The minister refers to Dr. Michel Baron to assume the role of accompanist. It must ensure, as soon as it took office on December 16, to respond to the recommendations of the VGR report, while taking into account the observations of the two accompanying companions appointed by the Montreal Agency which complement their mandate. Dr Baron will also see with the CA to put order in the internal management of the CHUM while imperatively ensuring the maintenance of the services to the population and operations surrounding the construction of the new CHUM. It will also have to support the CA and senior management for a balancing return by March 31, 2014, and to prevent the establishment from completing the financial year in deficit, currently estimated at 13 million. of dollars. The accompanist will have, monthly, report to the agency and the department to inform them of the progress of the work. Dr. Baron is named for a period of 180 days, which may be renewed 
Dr. Baron is a specialist doctor. In particular, he held the functions of Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Sherbrooke from 1996 to 2003. He was also CEO of the Estrie Agency of 2004 to 2012. He is also the author of the report. on analyzing the governance rules and financial management of the McGill University Health Center published in December 2012. 
At the request of the Board, the Department agreed to delegate Michel Fontaine, which currently occupies the duties of Deputy Minister associated with coordination, financing, fixed assets and budget at the Ministry of Health and Social Services, as a Acting General Manager from Monday, December 16, 2013. Mr. Fontaine has held the position of CEO of the Capitale-Nationale agency from 2004 to 2011. A competition will be open at the short term to designate a new Director General for the establishment. "Considering the gaps reported by the Auditor General of Quebec in particular with senior management, I believe that the department delegates an acting director general from outside the CHUM to make a separate look," said the minister. Hébert. 
In addition, the Minister is satisfied that the CHUM Board of Directors has reached an agreement on the termination of the Christian pair's contract as Director General of the establishment, as of December 17, 2013. Let us remember that Mr. Pair. Has been suspended with balance on December 2 in the wake of the tabling of the VGR report. 
"The CHUM is a major establishment whose management must be imprinted with exceptional transparency and rigor. The government will not compromise with sound management of public funds. The measures announced today aim for the CHUM to find the path of healthy governance. We hope that this will allow donors to regain confidence in this exceptional institution. Above all, we want to restore the necessary serenity climate so that its thousands of professionals and employees pursue, with the commitment and dedication that they are known to them, their mission with Quebec patients who attend every day the establishment, "concluded Minister Hébert. 
Remember which Report of the Auditor General of Quebec, filed on November 27, has uncovered irregularities and gaps in the governance and management of the CHUM. In addition, in recent months, different bodies, including the Special Parliamentary Commission on Chum, held last March, the preliminary report following the analysis of the conformity of the working conditions of the executive and senior executives of the Chum, directed by the Montreal Health and Social Services Agency last August, as well as the preliminary report of the accompanies designated by the Montreal Agency, also confirmed serious problems in the administration of The establishment. 
