Quebec- The member for Sanguinet and official opposition on the work and pension plans, Alain Therrien, please clarify the elements of concern about the Party of Quebec about Bill 3, Favoring Health Act Financial and the sustainability of defined benefit pension plans in the municipal sector, while the detailed study will begin soon. 
"For us, it is clear that the status quo is no longer viable for the defined benefit pension plans for municipal employees, which constitute a huge financial burden for cities, so for Quebec taxpayers. The sustainability of pension plans must be ensured, it is obvious. That's why we voted for the principle of the bill. Nevertheless, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Pierre Moreau, chose the confrontation and division instead of consensus with the parties. He decides to target all pension plans, even those with good financial position, in addition to leaving no room for negotiation, "said the member for Sanguinet. 
The official opposition spokesperson recalled that the unique approach of the bill does not take into account the particularities of regimes, previous negotiations and municipal realities. 
"We deplore that the government sends us in detailed study without the real situation of pension plans know. We asked him to make public the actuarial assessments of the pension plans as at December 31, 2013. The up-to-date figures will allow us to work rigorously. Faced with such an important problem, it is essential to have the most accurate portrait of the situation, "sued Alain Therrien. 
"The detailed study is an opportunity for Minister Moreau to put water in his wine. It should not remain locked in aspects of the bill that are not acceptable, especially for retirees. Deindexation, compliance with past contracts, as well as the restructuring of adequately capitalized regimes, are also the questions that concern us. All stakeholders present in parliamentary committee agree that amendments to the bill are needed; We will table our amendments to be made, "concluded Alain Therrien. 
