Québec- The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is proud of the adoption by the National Assembly, the Program of Law No. 27 aims to recognize, Promoting and increasing the role of the social economy in socio-economic development in Quebec. 
"Upon my appointment of the Council of Ministers, on September 19, 2012, the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, gave me the mandate to continue the deployment of the social economy in all regions, including the filing of a project. of law. This long-awaited framework law, the National Assembly adopted it today, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
In concrete terms, the Framework Law will provide the recognition of social economy enterprises (cooperatives, mutual and mutual market) by all government departments and agencies. A permanent dialogue will be established between the government and the actors of the social economy to continue the adaptation and implementation of new public policies. To this end, the law refers to the site of the social economy and the Québec Council for cooperation and mutuality as privileged interlocutors and establishes a table of partners in social economy. 
In order to build a more prosperous and solidarity Quebec, the main players of the social economy called on this legislation which places the answer to the social needs and well-being in the heart of economic activity. 
This law constitutes significant institutional recognition for the sector, and proposes a favorable framework for the development of the social economy that contributes to the social and economic vitality of all the territories of Quebec. In doing so, it allows Quebec to pursue a long tradition of solidarity and to remain a leader in supporting the development of social economy enterprises. 
This initiative also registers Quebec in a global trend that is more and more of states recognize the social economy as a distinctive economic activity that contributes to sustainable prosperity. 
"The adoption of Bill 27 has finally completed a long process initiated at the 1996 Economy and Employment Summit. It will be remembered that the Parti Québécois government was then committed to supporting this sector. Promise holding! ", Concluded the minister. 
