Quebec- The Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Régie des Pentes du Québec, Ms. Agnès Maltais, is pleased by the adoption, today at the National Assembly of Quebec, DUPROJE 39, Law on Voluntary Pension Savings Plans. These new regimes will be gradually established as of July 1, 2014. Thus, all Quebec workers will have access to a retirement savings plan. 
"The implementation of the RVS will allow 2 million workers to have access to a simple and inexpensive vehicle allowing them to save for retirement. Our government is very proud of the rapid implementation of RVRS, as recommended in the Love Report, "said Minister Agnès Maltese. 
The introduction of the RVS will allow workers, mostly employees of SMEs or self-employed, to save for retirement in a structured framework, by means of deductions on the salary or periodic, at low cost, while benefiting from 'Advantages reserved for collective regimes. 
The corporations covered by the bill will have an obligation to provide an RNER to their employees. The deadline to satisfy this obligation differs depending on the size of the company. Thus, employers from 20 or more employees will have to provide an RVER by December 31, 2016. Companies that matter between 10 and 19 targeted employees will have one more year and will have to do so by 31 December 2017. for Employers who account for between 5 and 9 targeted employees, if the Government deems it necessary, the deadline will be fixed later, but will be after 1 January 2018. 
"Targeted employees" means employees aged 18 and over who justify one year of continuous service, within the meaning of the Labor Standards Act, and who currently do not receive any collective employer pension plan for which a deduction on the salary could be made, or who have no registered pension plan within the meaning of the Income Tax Act. 
Let us mention that the implementation of these new plans does not require the employer no particular training and that autonomous workers will have the opportunity to adhere to it voluntarily. 
This measure is also part of the government guidelines on which the "solidarity" pillar is based, one of the four pillars of government action, with integrity, prosperity and identity. These guidelines, made public on October 30 by the Premier Pauline Marois, will guide the government's action in the implementation of measures aimed at improving the well-being of the most vulnerable individuals and families. The government wants to give a new impetus to solidarity, an inseparable value of collective wealth. 
