Quebec- The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, welcomes the adoption, on the date of today, of law No. 35, which corrects certain difficulties of application of the Civil Code of Quebec . 
"Our laws must reflect the needs of our company in constant evolution. These legislative amendments are added to the achievements to make our system of justice more humane and more accessible, "said the minister. 
As Minister responsible for the fight against homophobia, Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud is particularly pleased with the adoption of new provisions to facilitate the approaches of transsexual and transgender people. 
Thus, the major people domiciled in Quebec for at least one year and having Canadian citizenship may, from the entry into force of the Act, obtain the modification of the sex indicated on their birth certificate, without the obligation of treatment medical or surgery. The conditions will be specified in 2014 by regulation. The publication of gender or first name changes in the official Quebec Gazette and in local newspapers will now be more mandatory. 
In addition, under certain conditions, the new provisions will allow people born in Quebec and living abroad to ask the Director of Civil Status to modify the sex indicated on their birth certificate. 
"Transsexual and transgender people unfairly face administrative obstacles within the government apparatus. As Minister responsible for the fight against homophobia, I have been made aware of the difficulties that these people face and I am proud to respond promptly by bringing the necessary amendments to remedy the situation, "added Bertrand St- Arnaud. 
The legislative amendments also authorize the transmission electronically of a declaration of birth or death to the Director of Civil Registry. They also give the latter the power to draw up the death certificate of an assassinated person whose body has not been found, saving families the appeal to the court for obtaining this certificate. Finally, the law now allows deaf people who can not speak, read, or write to use the services of a signs language interpreter to make a notarial testament or a testament in front of the witnesses. 
