Quebec- Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased that the National Assembly has adopted yesterday Law No. 46 which will better combat grabbing Agricultural land and strengthen the rules determining access to agricultural land by non-residents. 
"This new law is a first important gesture to protect our land assets of agricultural land. Our laws must adapt to the current economic reality. The government of the Parti Québécois has decided to act now and not to wait for the phenomenon of accaparement to grow. It is a responsible gesture in order to ensure the sustainability of the Quebec agricultural territory, in accordance with the guidelines of the Food Sovereignt Policy, "said the Minister. 
Bill 46 alleviates the concerns of agricultural players as to the interest of foreign buyers for Quebec lands. More specifically, it puts the foreground three measures: 
Tighten the definition of the resident status provided for in the Act respecting the acquisition of agricultural land by non-residents, in order to prevent a foreign investor from using this provision to acquire agricultural land without submitting to the process of authorization of the Committee on Protection of the Agricultural Territory of Quebec; 
Review the evaluation criteria, at the time of consideration of an application, in particular to take into account the possible consequences on the occupation of the territory and to take into consideration the positive impact of an acquisition when it aims to put in value of sub-exploited farmland; 
"The message is clear: we take the necessary means to ensure that our agricultural land remains owned by Quebeckers. I am convinced that it will reassure many farmers and many other people in several regions of Quebec. The québécois agricultural territory must be treated with the greatest respect. It is important to preserve it and use it intelligently so that the generations that will follow can benefit in their turn, "François Gendron concluded. 
For more information on the Government of Quebec's food sovereignt policy, it can be visited regularly with the blogww.politiquesa.gouv.qc.caqui dedicated to it or to go to page www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politicisadu Website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter, at the addresssetwitter.com / Mapaquebec. 
