Quebec- "The Retrograde Agenda of Canada has taken another step yesterday with the adoption of Bill C-10 that will declice the Quebec People's Criminal Justice Model and will cost $ 1 billion over the next five years. . Who will pay for that? » 
This is the question posed by the member for Marie-Victorin and sentence of the official opposition in the field of Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Bernard Drainville, after the adoption of Bill C-10, the Government of Quebec having been unable to be heard by the federal government. 
Thus, Quebec is now reflected in applying a decision that it denounces. "Although the National Assembly of Quebec has spoken unanimously against the provisions of C-10, they will still apply to Quebec. In addition, this law will cost $ 750 million for the construction of new prisons and up to $ 100 million a year in recurring costs. The Quebec government has already indicated that it does not intend to pay the invoice, Ottawa also refuses to assume this amount. We find ourselves in a dead end. Who will pay? "Wonders Bernard Drainville. 
On November 1, 2011, during his appearance before the Standing Committee on Justice and Human Rights in the House of Commons, the Quebec Minister of Justice, Jean-Marc Fournier, declared "to be in a spiral of imprisonments ". He added "there is a red light and we will not pay. I do not know if it's pretty clear? We will not pay. » 
"The conservative government's compressor roll is at work. With C-10, there is another example of Quebec's legal weakening that is part of Canada's plan C, "said the member for Marie-Victorin. 
"Quebec loses its model, a model that advocates the rehabilitation of our young people. Canada has laid a gesture yesterday, a gesture that runs out of the Quebec values. The Charest government was unable to make québécoise unanimity heard. Its balance of power is totally annihilated. The first victims of this lack of leadership will first be young people, but also the taxpayers who, in a way where another, will have to pay. In front of as much injustice, Jean-Marc Fournier must tell us today: what does it mean "will not pay", concretely? Bernard Drainville concluded. 
