Quebec- The Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen Participation, Bernard Drainville, is proud to announce the adoption of the Program No. 2, An Act to amend the Elections Act to reduce the limit of constitutions by voter, to reduce the ceiling election expenses and enhance public funding from Quebec's political parties. 
"The adoption of this law shows the commitment of elected officials to want to restore the confidence of the population to the political class and its democratic institutions. Indeed, it will now be very difficult for anyone, to introduce a noule name system. The law will end the pernicious influence of fundraisers. It is essentially aimed at bringing integrity into the financing of political parties and restore the relationship of trust with the Quebec population, "said the minister. 
It reaches it through a bouquet of ten main measures: 
The new law decreases by $ 1,000 to $ 100 the maximum contribution that an elector can pay to a political party. This measure will put an end to the nominement system and the undue influence of fundraisers. It will no longer be possible to pick up big sums of money at $ 100, as it could be done with $ 1,000 amounts. 
The law abolishes the policy credit related to political contributions, which will generate taxpayers of nearly $ 6 million a year. 
The economy thus generated will be used to increase public funding of political parties, which will increase from $ 0.85 to $ 1.50 per voter. This public allowance will be paid to the parties according to their election results. It is therefore the adhesion of the population to the ideas of a party that will be its main source of funding. 
Lai Crude an appearance of appearance. Ukenavant, tous Les Partis Regus a agent doit at a fantenment aent a month of the Territory Evening. Les premiers $ 20,000 ahead by a donneront droit part of $ 50,000 du dreector général descents (DGE); AUTHERMENT DIST, 1 $ récolé by Correspond Part Part 2.50 Public Financement. AU-DELAY OF CETE PRUMEACH BUY US $ 20,000, APPARIEMENT WERE DOL Dollar Pred to a $ 200,000 $ 1,000 C'est Donc a Maximum by $ 2500,500 most Public Chaicement Thousand Public Versé to a Nouveau Part, Le Double Electorally. 
To compel parties to report on the proper use of these public funds, the law ensures the maintenance of the obligation of transparency and accountability. The DGE will control each party's revenues and expenses through even more demanding annual reports. 
To encourage small donors, the law allows cash donations with up to a maximum of $ 50. Any contribution of more than $ 50 will have to be made by check or credit card. As is already the case, all donations without exception will be accompanied by a contribution sheet to allow the DGE to ensure control. 
In order to facilitate the financing of the chefferry races, the law will allow the donations to transit through the DGE website. Such a measure should promote small donations. In addition, the limits of contributions for chefferie races goes from $ 1,000 to $ 500 (without tax credit). 
The key element of the consensus between the parties: the 30% reduction in the election expense ceiling, which increases from $ 11.5 to $ 8 million a year. This will limit the financial pressures on the parties. 
To ensure that sufficient funds in the election campaign, the law allows for an additional $ 100 contribution during this period in addition to creating an electoral fund equivalent to $ 1 per voter. This measure is not at zero cost, but the establishment of fixed date elections would make it possible to finance it in part. A bill has been filed for this purpose. 
"I am proud to say today that by adopting this reform, we are still the company with the financing control and expenditure of the most rigorous political parties in the world," said Bernard Drainville. 
The minister wishes to emphasize the work of his colleagues and to thank them for their collaboration in the adoption of this law. It believes that the consensus to which the parties have reached to improve the political party financing system will help restore citizens to the political class and our democratic institutions. 
