Québec- The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased with the adoption, today at the National Assembly, the Program of Law for provisionally One municipal elected office, which has been enhanced by the addition of several amendments since its deposit in November 2012. 
"Our government has heard the citizens and it is to respond to their concerns that we have enhanced this bill. The latter also illustrates our very firm desire to strengthen elected accountability and, in doing so, to promote the relationship of trust of the population to municipal democratic, "said the minister. 
The minister also stressed the good collaboration of the opposition parties for the adoption of several amendments. Of these, note that the convicted of an offense who has been the subject of a continuation of a provisional disability judgment will be deprived of all of its starting and transitional allocations, and not only from the portion attributable to the period during which he was noted from his duties. The law also provides that the Minister may put in place a program intended to financially support any elector who presented or who plans to submit a request to declare a member of the Council provisionally incomorrow of exercising any function relating to his office. is the subject of a lawsuit brought during his mandate. 
Recall that, by virtue of the new provisions, voters, municipalities and the Attorney General of Quebec will have the opportunity to ask the courts to provisionally address his duties a municipal elected person who is subject to prosecution on his current mandate. For a violation of a law of the Parliament of Quebec or Canada, which is punishable by two years of imprisonment or more. 
"A few months from the municipal electoral meeting of November 3, 2013, we had to put in place measures that would maintain the confidence to ensure the proper functioning of local democratic institutions. I am therefore convinced that this new measure will have a significant impact for citizens, municipalities and elected officials, "the minister concluded. 
