Quebec- "A historic decline for access to health care and services. It is in these terms that the leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the member for Taillon and spokesman of the Parti Québécois in terms of health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, qualified the Adoption of Bill 20, made possible because of the support of all Liberal members. 
"In surpane, several months after consultations took place, the Minister inserted his bill as amending the ancillary costs. Thus, we deprive thousands of health care Quebec women who are entitled, by billing $ 50 million for services already funded by taxes and taxes. It's much more than a breach in our public health system. It is a real betrayal of the government towards the health insurance contract, especially since the subject had nothing to do with the object and the principle of the initial bill, "said Stone Karl Péladeau. 
The Minister Barrette has resolutely demonstrated that he is the Minister of Physicians, not that of Quebec patients. "One of the immediate effects of Bill 20 is that family physicians will receive $ 25 million for the registration of new patients - it's the return of the Bolduc premium - and specialists, $ 50 million in fees Accessories paid by patients. A nice gift, in short, while the minister tries to make him believe that he has made access to care his priority. What do patients win, in return? Nothing at all. They will not have any more services and will not wait less to access it. And those who do not have the means to pay must probably deprive himself of care that may be essential, "said Diane Lamarre. 
The adoption of Bill 20 scores another transfer to the private sector: the end of public coverage of in vitro fertilization (IVF). "The minister penalizes infertile couples to make, his own confession savings of candle tips. How can he knowingly prevent couples from becoming parents? Even the Commissioner for Health and Wellbeing, which had been very critical towards the program, recommended its maintenance and preservation of the public coverage of the IVF. This decision is incomprehensible and will be detrimental to a large number of Quebecers, "concluded the member for Taillon. 
