Quebec- The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, and the Minister Delegate to the Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today presented the National Assembly. Law No.47 which aims to modify the applicable rules on adoption, parental authority and disclosure of information. 
Bill No. No.47 is a response to the needs of today's families, whether traditional, recomposed, single-parent or homoparental. It intends to facilitate the disclosure of the information between the adoptee and its parents of origin, that the adoption takes place before or after the proposed reform, and recognize the effects of customary adoption practiced by Inuit and by First Nations. In part, taking over the law degree No81mort on the order paper for the dissolution of the last legislature, it relies on the reports of the working groups who had been responsible for analyzing the various regimes and on a significant public consultation held in 2010. 
"This bill is a response to the many requests received, particularly in terms of access to information for identification or reunion, and expected for several years by the groups representing the adopted persons," said Minister Bertrand St- Arnaud. 
"For us, the goal remains to respond to the best interest of the child. The contemporary context differs in many respects of the one who was running at the time the rules currently in force were adopted. In terms of adoption, as in many other areas, it is important to be able to adapt the legislative framework so that it better matches today's social values and family models. The adoption is in particular a much more open and transparent approach than it was in the past and our laws must echo, "said Minister Véronique Hivon. 
Bill No. No.47, presented today, amends the Civil Lecode, Laloi on the protection of youth and other legislative provisions on adoption, parental authority and disclosure. 
In addition to the significant changes to the confidentiality regime of adoption cases, both for adopt and adoptable but who have never been adopted, and the recognition of the effects of customary adoption, the proposed amendments. Wear: 
"My colleague Véronique Hivon and I are counting on the planned consultations in parliamentary committee so that the groups and stakeholders concerned and citizens can decide on legislative proposals. We then hear the collaboration of all our colleagues from the National Assembly, in order to quickly pass this bill, "concluded the Minister of Justice. 
