Québec- Law Project No 28Institute the new Code of Civil Procedure has been adopted today in the National Assembly. For the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, the new provisions will have a considerable impact on access to justice. 
"The adoption of this reform will contribute to passing our civil justice from the 20th to the 21st century. In concrete terms, the new provisions will help to make our system of civil justice more accessible, faster, less heavy and less expensive, "said the minister. 
The new Code of Civil Procedure aims to make civil justice much more accessible, while preserving the right of all parties to assert their rights to the Tribunal. 
Thus, with the aim of reducing justice times, it focuses on amiable modes of conflict resolution, such as mediation, arbitration or conciliation, more user-friendly, accessible and rapid modes. As for the parties opting for the traditional judiciary, they will have to ensure that their requests, their procedural acts and their evidence will be proportionate to the nature and complexity of the case, to prevent abuse. 
Judges will also have increased management powers, including to ensure compliance with the principles of proportionality and cooperation at the heart of the new Code of Civil Procedure. Thus, they will be able to reduce the number of interrogations and expertise, two elements many times denounced as important sources of fees or delays for the citizen. 
The new Code of Civil Procedure provides, among other things, the following provisions: 
Increase from $ 7,000 to $ 15,000 the amount that can be claimed when prosecuted in the Division of Small Claims of the Court of Quebec; 
Enable the submission of oral applications or disputes, instead of more expensive written procedures, for records that do not have particular complexity; 
To force the parties to file a protocol of the proceeding, where they will include the number of interrogations that they intend to hold and the number of experts to whom they think they are thinking; 
Promote the use of common expertise between the parties rather than the multiplication of expertise, to limit costs and deadlines; 
Authorize the judge to take into account, in the distribution of legal costs, abuses in the procedure or undue delays of a party; 
In family matters, allowing common-law spouses to attach applications for their economic rights to those concerning the custody of a child or their dietary obligations, thus avoiding them to multiply disputes; 
In terms of youth protection, authorize the Court of Quebec, already seized with a request for the adoption or protection of youth, to decide on the need on the custody of a child or the exercise of parental authority, or even on its emancipation; 
Allow a consumer, an insured person, an employee or a mortgage debtor to present his file or defend himself in the district of his domicile or where the building is located; 
Encourage the use of information technology to limit travel, for example, by agreeing to make interrogations through videoconferencing; 
"This bill is the result of numerous consultations and important work in parliamentary committee. I thank my colleagues from the National Assembly and all the actors of the legal community who paved the way for the adoption of this bill which is a considerable step forward in access to justice. The realization of this project and all of our actions testify to the commitment of the Government of Quebec, that of administering justice with integrity, equity and humanity, for a more accessible and more solidarity justice system, "concluded the Justice Ministry. 
