Quebec- The Minister of Public Safety, Stéphane Bergeron, rejoiced the adoption by the National Assembly of Laloi amending the Police Act regarding independent investigations. The adoption of this law makes it possible to create the Office of Independent Investigations. 
"I am particularly proud of the adoption of this law, which is the culmination of a long approach and several consultations. This initiative, which has been expected for several years, responds to our government's commitment to review the current mechanism by focusing on the participation of civilians, while being able to rely on the necessary expertise in criminal investigations. I am confident that the creation of the Independent Investigations Office will finally allow us to put an end to the subsistence doubts about the impartiality of the current process, "said Minister Bergeron. 
The office will have the mission to investigate when a person, other than a police officer, dies or seriously injured or by a firearm used by a police officer during a police intervention or during his detention by a body from police. The objective is to determine whether evidence demonstrates that a criminal offense has been committed by the police involved in the event. 
The director of the Bureau will be a civilian who has never been a peace officer; About 12 investigators will be under his responsibility. The latter will be able to be retired police. They will not be able to investigate the service to which they belonged or maintained personal or professional links with the police officer involved. As for civilian investigators who have never been a policeman, however, they will have to have experience and skills relevant to the Office's attributions. The Quebec National Police School will provide training and they can be paired with an experienced policeman during the first surveys they will do. 
Minister Bergeron wanted to reiterate his confidence in the police work and he stressed the excellent work they do on a daily basis. He said that this law will be able to strengthen the confidence of the population with regard to our institutions, in particular those that ensure the safety of Quebeckers. "The police with important powers, their activities must be supervised by both fair and rigorous mechanisms in the eyes of all," the minister concluded. 
In the coming months, significant efforts will be made to set up the Independent Investigations Office, develop the laws arising from the law and designing training for staff to be hired. 
