Quebec- The member for Lac-Saint-Jean and the official opposition on justice, Alexander Cloutier, the member for Matane-Matapédia and public safety spokesperson, Pascal Bérubé, and the member for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, strongly denounce the final adoption of Bill C-51 by the federal government and the inaction of the Government of Quebec, which has not taken the means necessary to defend Quebecers. 
By granting unprecedented powers of intervention to the Canadian Security Intelligence Service, Ottawa weakens the rights and freedoms of Quebeckers. "Bill C-51 opens the door to dangerous slippages. The need and urgency of acting to put in place measures to combat terrorism should not become a pretext for breaking civil liberties, "said Alexandre Cloutier. 
The Parti Québécois deplores the inertia of the Government of Quebec, which did nothing to defend the rights and freedoms of Quebeckers on this issue. "The Minister of Justice, Stephanie Valley, and his colleagues ministers of Canadian security and intergovernmental affairs have not proposed any amendments to Ottawa. The convocation of a dark working committee did not result. The only gesture that the Government of Quebec makes is to send a wave letter of grievance to the federal government, as a result of repeated pressure from the Quebecois party, "added the member for Lac-Saint-Jean. 
In addition, according to his agenda, the last discussion of the Minister of Public Safety, Lise Thériault, with his federal counterpart, Steven Blaney dates back to March 2. "It's been over three months. If the minister did not do anything after cosigning a letter, it is not surprising that Quebec's requests did not have a follow-up, "said Pascal Bérubé. 
"Once again, Quebec will charge the inaction of the Liberal government against Canadian intransigence. Quebeckers are likely to suffer the impacts of measures supposed to target potential terrorists, simply because they challenge Harper government policies. How can Philippe Couillard justify that its collaborative federalism has resulted in a lamentable failure, with the final adoption of Bill C-51? Stéphane Bergeron concluded. 
