Montreal- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, took advantage of his presence in Aeromart Montreal, an international event on the aeronautics and space industries, to confirm the support of the Government. Aerospace sector. She announced the implementation of the SME 2.0 measure, which affects the aerospace industry, and the next arrival in Montreal, of three new companies in the aerospace sector. 
"Aéro Montréal, the cluster of aerospace, is one of the most dynamic industrial clusters of the metropolis," said Zakaïb Élain. "With great contractors, recognized equipment manufacturers, many suppliers and a qualified labor pool, Greater Montreal is one of the largest aerospace centers in the world and it serves as a spearhead for all the Quebec industry. This industry is also at the forefront of Quebec exports and invests more than $ 1 billion in research and development every year. It is a carrier sector that we are proud of and on which we count a lot. That's why I am pleased to proceed today, on the occasion of this international business agreement, four advertisements that will feed its boom. » 
The SME 2.0 measure has been set up to help companies in two target sectors, either fashion and aerospace, increase their productivity through the integration of information and communications technologies (ICT). Equipped with an envelope of $ 6 million over three years, also distributed among the two sectors, this extent provides for 30 small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to integrate ICTs into both production and their business processes. The Francophone Center for Computerization of Organizations (CEFRIO) is responsible for completing this project. 
"Thanks to this measure, we provide a tool with a tool that will greatly contribute to strengthening their positioning in the global supply chain," said the Delegate Minister. 
Élain Zakaïb also announced the next arrival of three new companies in the aviation sector in Quebec. "I am proud when foreign companies choose to come to Quebec," rejoices the minister. "This confirms our many recognized competitive advantages around the world, including the expertise of our workforce, our important network of universities and research centers and the presence of global leaders located at home. » 
The first company is the German companyPFW, which is preparing to move to Montreal its design office on the manufacture of tubes and air ducts for aircraft, currently located in Seattle. The creation of PFW Aerospace Canada and its implementation in Quebec results from a feasibility study for which the government has contributed $ 26,000. 
The other company, FACC Solutions, an Austrian company specializing in the manufacture of composite materials for aeronautics, will open an engineering firm in Montreal to design new furniture for business aircraft. 
Finally, the French company will store a subsidiary in Montreal to carry out program management and maintenance. LGM Management and Council will focus on the aerospace and rail markets as a matter of priority. 
In total, more than 190 high quality jobs will be created in Quebec through these three companies. These will be added to the approximately 42,550 industry quality jobs. 
