Montreal- The Prime Minister of Quebec and Head of the Party Party, Pauline Marois, presented this morning the commitments of the Parti Québécois on language. 
"For more than 400 years, the Quebec nation lives, grows up and flourishes in French. French is the precious heritage that our fathers and mothers have bequeathed us. This is one of our greatest riches. At the Québécois party, we are the only ones to propose concrete measures for our language. Quebeckers can not expect any Liberals and Caquists on this fundamental issue, "said Pauline Marois. 
"The decline of French, noted for several years, as much from the demographic point of view and in the workplace, requires concrete and immediate actions. The Parti Québécois undertakes to quickly adopt a new charter of the French language worthy of the 21st century. Above all, we will integrate the right to live and work in French in the Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms. It's a major step forward for future generations, "continued Pauline Marois. 
Last night, Quebeckers had the opportunity not only the leader of the Liberal Party of Quebec, Philippe Couillard, does not care about the issues related to the French language, but, even worse, he denies the very existence of a threat to French in Quebec. 
"One of the first duties, if not the first duty, of a Quebec Prime Minister is to protect the French language, a minority language in Canada and North America. In businesses and workplaces, there is a decline in French, corroborated by several studies of the Quebec Office of the French language and the Superior Council of the French language. For its part, Philippe Couillard says that workers need to be encouraged to speak English. He is willing to deny the Acquires of Law 101, without a state of mind. These are afurishing comments from someone who aspires to govern Quebec, "added the Prime Minister. 
From 2003 to 2012, the Liberal Party posed no concrete action in linguistic matters. The Liberals totally failed in will to enforce Law 101. They are firmly opposed to Bill 14, filed in December 2012 by Minister Diane de Courcy. Moreover, the Liberals voted against the adoption of Law 101 in 1977. 
As for the CAQ, it also opposed Bill 14 and has no real concrete proposal for our language. 
Quebec is a welcoming society, where each person can realize his aspirations. To promote better access to the labor market, the francization of immigrants are essential. This is why the Parti Québécois government has acted in this area, adding, in particular, $ 13.5 million over 3 years to improve francization. 
"We need to give the best chances of integration, both in the labor market and in everyday life, all the immigrants we welcome. Upon arrival in Quebec, some need courses to be able to appropriate French. It is the responsibility of our state to allow people who have chosen to live in Quebec to be able to integrate harmoniously in French, "said Pauline Marois. 
"For our language, only the Parti Québécois has the will to act and do it. For our metropolis and all regions of Quebec, we have to make concrete gestures to defend and promote our language. Do we want to confide the future of French to the Liberals of Philippe Couillard? ", Concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
Watch press clause. 
