The Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, and the minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation, Bernard Drainville, tabled in the National Assembly, the Novembrele Bill 60: Charter affirming the values of secularism and religious neutrality of the state as well as equality between women and men and framing accommodations. 
With this charter project, we define what we are and how we want to live together. 
40 years ago, we devoted the primacy of French as a common value of Quebeckers. With the presentation of the bill, the government confirms its willingness to affirm the institution and religious neutrality of the state and to provide solutions to avoid unreasonable accommodations. 
The Government of the Parti Québécois respects the commitment he took during the last election campaign and in the inaugural speech of the first minister.Dew that the public debate was launched, the Government was able to count on the support of Quebecisqui. says he wants a strong, undiluted bill, and with bonuses. 
The government now wants to undertake the study of this bill in a spirit of openness and dialogue in order to adopt these rules. Groups, organizations and citizens will be able to express themselves on the legislation during general consultations at the National Assembly. 
Quebeckers waited long enough before seeing a government that wanted to move forward on these issues, they deserve that. 
Quebec values are those of Quebecers from all origins and beliefs. The Charter of Values will be a source of harmony and cohesion for Quebec. It is part of the process of secularism, a long movement started during the tranquil revolution. These values are our cement; This is gathered, beyond our individual differences. 
Understand such a bill and its implications is not always obvious. Take note of the bill is the best way to participate fully in the debate! Here are the highlights. 
Consult the website on website: //nosvaleurs.gouv.qc.ca. 
1. Skate the requests for accommodation <collapse?>  Two main changes will be made to the Charter of Rights and Freedoms of the Quebec.  Equality between women and men, the primacy of French as well as the separation of religions and the state, its religious neutrality and its secular character will be enrolled in the preamble.  Article 9.1 will be amended to provide for that freedoms and fundamental rights are exercised in accordance with the values added to the preamble. 
The bill defines what is an accommodation, amends the Charter of Rights and Freedoms of the Quebec to mark the requests for accommodation, sets out the conditions to be respected so that it can be granted and establishes a framework. Analysis To facilitate the processing of a request for accommodation for religious motives submitted to public bodies. 
2. State a duty of reserve and neutrality for status staff <collapse?>  This aims to reflect the neutrality of the state and its separation of religions. Officials are already subject to such duty with regard to their political opinions. In the same spirit, people working for the state should refrain from promoting their religious beliefs as part of their duties. 
This applies to the staff of a public body, to persons with judicial or jurisdictional functions as well as to the staff of the National Assembly, to the staff of the early childhood centers, coordinating offices in the middle Family and private childcares. 
3. Framing the wearing of ostentatious religious signs <collapse?>  The bill provides for a ban on the wearing of ostentatious religious signs during working hours. 
Employees already in office will one year meet this prohibition. A four-year period for employees of institutions in the health and social services network, municipalities, CEGEPs and universities. This transition period of maximum five years replaces the withdrawal clause contained in last September proposals. For a health and social services institution, the period of extension, beyond these five years, could be granted by the Government under the criteria laid down in the law. 
On the other hand, employees hired after the penalty of the law will not be able to bring ostentatious religious signs. 
This applies to the staff of a public body, to persons with judicial or jurisdictional functions as well as to the staff of the National Assembly, to the staff of the early childhood centers, coordinating offices in the middle Family and private childcares. 
4. Make the face uncovered <collapse?>  The bill also mandatory the face to open when given or receives a state service. An accommodation to this rule must be refused by a public body if, taking into account the context, the reasons for the safety, identification or level of communication required. 
For the provision of services, this applies to the staff of a public body, to persons with judicial or jurisdictional functions, staff members of the National Assembly and some other persons, including, for example, the celebrant civilian marriage and civil union and the commissioners of swearing, the staff of early childhood centers, family custody coordinating offices and subsidized private daycares as well as leadership service. Family environment and their staff 
5. Establish a policy of implementation for state agencies <collapse?>  Public bodies will have to adopt an internal policy to integrate the objectives of the Charter into the daily operation of the institutions. 
The Minister of Family must develop an implementation policy applicable to the field of childcare services. This policy must in particular provide that the admission of children should not be linked to the learning of a belief, dogma or practice of a specific religion and that activities and educational exchanges can not have for objective such a learning. The bill also provides that the child care provider applies an educational program with aims to gradually bring the child to adapt to life in community and to integrate harmoniously with respect. Values of Quebec society, whose equality between women and men as well as the religious neutrality of the state and its secularity. 
Finally, it will be possible for a public body to require the application of guidelines 2, 3 and 4 by a person or a company with which a grant agreement or a service contract is concluded if the circumstances so warrant, taking into account, in particular, of the duration, nature and place of execution of the contract or the agreement. 
After the adoption of the bill, the Government intends to submit the issue of the Crucifix at the National Assembly Office, which has authority in this area. 
The Government will then propose to move the crucifix of the Chamber of Deputies to place it in another place of the National Assembly which will make justice to its heritage character. It will be accessible to the public. 
The bill asserts that the power to govern this issue returns to the National Assembly. Therefore, it will take unanimity of the members to reach a decision and to amend the rules of the National Assembly. 
The members of the Parti Québécois support the principle that elected officials should act in accordance with the spirit of the Charter and make the commitment of not making religious signs to the National Assembly. 
