Montreal- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, will preside over the National Forum on Mental Health to be held at the Mont-Royal Center in Montreal. More than a hundred participants from the health and social services network and partner organizations of the Community network are expected to participate in the reflections surrounding the development of the next mental health action plan. 
"We are committed to implementing actions to improve the prevention and care offered in mental health. This is one of our government priorities for 2014. To be effective, these actions must be based on an optimal consultation and collaboration of the various stakeholders and partners. This forum is a privileged opportunity to reflect together, with all the actors concerned, to the best measures to be deployed in the field, in particular to ensure better access to services, "said Minister Hébert. 
Several major themes will be addressed during the Forum, including the full exercise of citizenship for people with mental disorders, early detection and intervention among young people, the range of services offered in mental health, as well as organizational practices. and clinics. 
"I am convinced that the work of this day will help us develop an action plan that will guide us even more effectively towards achieving our objectives, particularly with respect to the quality and accessibility of care and Mental health services and closer stowage between specialized resources and the first line. Family physicians and general practitioners are often the first with whom people with mental disorders come into contact. Our government has the firm willingness to make mental health a priority and the forum that will be held tomorrow will be an important contribution to enlighten us as to the efforts to consent to this effect, "the Minister Hébert. 
The day program is available at the following address: www.msss.gouv.qc.ca/presse 
Follow the activities of the Forum Mental Health on Twitter: # HIGHTENT2014 
