Recipient of the price reports 2016 which has been given to him in recognition of his active activism to the Parti Québécois, Guillaume Lafortune has always been greatly involved in his environment.  He misunderstands that we may not be interested in what is happening around you. For Guillaume, do not take its place amounts to leaving it to others, and thus running the risk they make less noble use. 
Hoping to be of those who will make the difference around them, it is therefore the most actively possible to get things done. And despite the defeats that can happen, every little step is for him a great victory. 
"It's a bit of a way to want to change the world internationally, but change, it starts at home. No need to go very far to find something to change. " 
Guillaume has always been independentist. When Bernard Drainville, a friend of his grandfather, asked to meet him after the latter had expressed his interests of his grandson for politics, he of course accepted. We must admit that Bernard has a good Flair: a year later, Guillaume joined the Executive of Marie-Victorin as young representative, before becoming quickly, a few months later, vice-president, then president. 
"What is the Parti Québécois is that there is room for everyone, and let us leave the place we want to take. It's a happy mix of young people who have passion and experienced people who are willing to train them and pass the torch. " 
Guillaume Lafortune, price reports 2016 
With the success of the organization of various events within its constituency, Guillaume had the idea last year to organize a summit on the independence in Montérégie, both to transmit content to the activists in the Framework of a less partisan event than a political gathering, but also to extend a perch to the independence of other political courses in an optics of convergence of sovereignist forces. 
And it was a great success! His team and managed to bring together 350 people around speakers from all walks of life, among whom we found Sol Zanetti, Gabriel Nadeau-Dubois and Catherine Fournier. Impressed by their own success, Guillaume and his team will reiterate the experience this year, specifically on November 13, with a new summit on independence around a different theme. As he says so well: 
"The only fighting we are sure to lose, that's the ones we do not lead." 
Although he won the award, Guillaume wishes to emphasize that there are plenty of other quality young people in the Parti Québécois who would have deserved this recognition as much as he. Both better, because the more we will be, the better we will succeed. 
Congratulations, Guillaume, and thank you for your assiduous involvement! 
Do you want to make a difference like Guillaume? Do you involve on the ground! -> http://mon.pq.org 
