Quebec- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, announces that the Government supports the CHU of Quebec's approach to the analysis of an alternative project to the expansion of the Hotel-Dieu de Québec. The potential of a new real estate solution on the website of the Child Jesus hospital will be examined. At the same time, the Capitale-Nationale Health and Social Services Agency will lead a reflection, with the City of Quebec, on the use of vacant space by the revision, if any, of the hotel project- God of Quebec towards the site of the hospital of the Child Jesus. 
This is the commitment of Quebec's Premier today, while it speaks to the guests of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Quebec. On this occasion, it was accompanied by the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, as well as the Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the region of the Capitale-National and the Region of the Chaudière-Appalaches, Agnès Maltese. 
"It is clear that the synergy created by the concentration of specialized medicine and subspecialized in one site brings undeniable advantages for users and the general population. The new CHU Directorate of Quebec has undertaken an important approach to the organization of specialized and subsequent medical services in the region, following the fusion of CHUQ and CHA in 2012. The CHU President recently served His interest in moving forward and quickly initiating the analysis of a new real estate solution. We share this opinion and believe that deeper reflection must begin to offer citizens of the Greater Quebec region of optimal health services. I salute the courage and wisdom of the CHU of Quebec which, beyond the short-term project, wants to present us a long-term vision of health care for the Greater Quebec region, and even for all Quebec, "has declared the Prime Minister. 
As for him, the Minister of Health wishes a broad consensus among the various partners on the solution to remember. Réjean Hébert recalled that any new project will have to add value in terms of accessibility to care and services for the population, while respecting the government's financing capacity. Several issues should be considered, including access to health services, the vocation of the Quebec Hotel-Dieu, the redeployment of human resources as well as the assurance of the maintenance of local medical services for residents of Old Quebec . 
"We want to make sure we make the best possible choice given the amounts invested. The chosen project should be one that will offer the population greater accessibility to specialized care, including radiotherapy, as well as specialists, in a context of increased demand, particularly in oncology. The analysis will begin quickly and the committee will have to file its preliminary feasibility report at the latest on June 21st. The objective is to offer users of the Greater Quebec City Region and the Eastern Quebec care and specialized services, on the cutting edge of knowledge and technology, as soon as possible ", Indicated Minister Hébert. 
Minister Agnès Maltais emphasized the importance of ensuring local medical care for neighborhood citizens. "It is essential to maintain access for neighborhood residents, care and front-line services. In this sense, the work entrusted to the Health and Social Services Agency are indispensable. This hospital is an integral part of the built heritage of Quebec City and we must keep their name and vocation alive. Depending on the successful project, the Agency will also have to quickly offer solutions to occupy the premises that will become available. The presence of workers at the Quebec City-Hand hotel is an essential economic contribution to Old Quebec, in addition to a guarantee of vitality. We could induce new economic dynamics in this sector by installing thousands of public service workers in Quebec. » 
The mission of the Quebec Hotel-Dieu, a hospital of the CHU of Quebec, is to offer the population of the immediate region and other regions of the general, specialized and subspecialized services, particularly in the fields of oncology, Radio-Oncology and Nephrology. The hospital also provides a university teaching and research mission. 
