Quebec- The member for Jonquière and the official opposition spokesman for sustainable development and environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, the member for Taschereau, Deputy Parliamentary Leader and Spokesperson for the Capitale-Nationale Region, Agnès Maltese, as well as the member for Verchères and Spokespersons in Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, strongly denounce the withdrawal of the Government of Quebec from the Environmental Assessment of the Port of Quebec Expansion Project. 
"The Liberal government has chosen to give up any decision-making power and belong to the simple level of speaker; The port of the port is particularly important for citizens of the national capital. The Minister of the Environment, David Heurtel, however, had guaranteed Quebeckers that the environmental laws of Quebec would apply in full, in addition to promising that it would give a mandate to BAPE to evaluate the file. The minister returned to his word and went to the Quebec and Federal Port Authority, as his government more and more often, unfortunately, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"We all remember that last June, during the election campaign in Jean-Talon and in Chauveau, the two Liberal candidates said to share the concerns raised by the Parti Québécois as to the expansion of the port. Elected since barely two months, Sébastien Proulx and Tremblay Tremblay already rename their promises made to the citizens of Quebec. This is unacceptable! Agnès Maltais added. 
"When it comes to this project, we realize that Quebeckers are only tenants on their own territory. The Canadian government has only to make their opinion. But I maintain it's up to us to decide, not in Ottawa. But, rather than standing, the Liberals are complacent and make the four federal government wishes, "continued Stéphane Bergeron. 
Remember that the Parti Québécois filed Bill 390, which affirms the primacy of Quebec's environmental competence. "In this case as in many others, the consequences are directly assumed by Quebecers. Decidedly, environmentally, the Government of Philippe Couillard has no column; Either he creates facade baper, as in the case of the Energy project is, either he chooses to give up any decision-making power for the benefit of Ottawa, "concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
