The Assumption - Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, today announced the authorization to implement the program of technical orthotic techniques At the regional CEGEP of Lanaudière from the 2014-2015 school year. In addition, an allocation of $ 2.8 million is granted to this establishment for the enlargement of the building to meet new needs related to the addition of this program. 
"The announcement we are doing today once again confirms the importance I grant CEGEPs in the Quebec post-secondary education network. Since my entry into office, I work to revalue the role and place of CEGEPs. The latter play a strategic role in the economic and social development of our regions by allowing you to retain more young people. They also allow more young people to pursue higher education, which is crucial in a knowledge economy and an innovative society like Quebec, "said Minister Duchesne. 
"This is an excellent news for our region, families here as well as all future graduates of this specialized area. The request for a qualified succession in visual orthosis techniques is good and constant and the Assumption becomes one of the only three places in Quebec to offer this program. I am very pleased that the authorization of its implementation is concretized and that investments as important in higher education are carried out here. Our government is well aware of the dynamism and rapid evolution that Lanaudière is experiencing and it wants to contribute significantly to its fulfillment, "said Minister Véronique Hivon. 
$ 2.2 million is granted for the expansion of specialized premises and laboratories. In addition, $ 654,000 is intended for the acquisition of specialized equipment. Given the growing need for labor in the field of visual orthosis, this program has been prioritized in the management of the vocational and technical training offer. The total cost of the program of study of the curriculum is therefore $ 2,854,000 (premises and equipment), which is authorized to the five-year fixed assets 2010-2015 and 2011-2016. 
Previously, only two CEGEPs offered this curriculum: Cégep François-Xavier-Garneau in Quebec City and Cégep Edouard-Montpetit in Longueuil. This authorization will balance the supply and demand for labor to better meet the needs throughout Quebec. 
"This announcement is a great news for the Regional Cégep of Lanaudière and its college constituting the Assumption. The expansion of CEGEP facilities will provide students with adapted physical spaces and thus improving collegial life at the Assumption. The new spaces will meet the needs of the clientele which, like its region, continues to grow from year to year. In addition, the addition of the visual orthotic technical program will make it possible to diversify the offer of training to the Assumption. We would like to thank the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, the City of Assumption and our various partners for their support in the realization of this major project, " Emphasis Mr. Marcel Côté, Director General of the Lanaudière Regional CEGEP. 
As the Lanaudière region is characterized by strong growth in its population, the Department authorized in December 2010 a 30% increase in the Lanaudière Regional CEGEP school quote, allowing it to increase its workforce from 1,270 to 1,645 students . 
