Mont-Saint-Hilaire- The Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, accompanied by the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and the Science Technology and deputy of Borduas, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, participated today in the inauguration of the expansion of the Piedmont-du-Mont-Saint-Hilaire Nature Reserve. With the addition of more than 34 hectares, the nature reserve now has a total of 1,013 hectares of protected territories. 
"Natural jewel of Montérégie, Mont Saint-Hilaire deserves the attention we are wearing and the increased protection of which it benefits today. Express our gratitude to the city for its involvement in the protection of Mont Saint-Hilaire, the creation of a green belt and that of green spaces accessible to citizens. I wish this announcement inspires several other municipalities of Quebec and that it promotes, thus, increased protection of our natural heritage, "said Minister Blanchet. 
Recognizing the importance of the protection of the biodiversity of this Mount, the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP) has invested more than $ 389,000 over the years to support the acquisition For conservation purposes, properties in Mont Saint-Hilaire, through private nature conservation programs. 
Remember that the nature reserve status allows to recognize the desire of an owner who wants to devote his land for conservation for 25 years or perpetuity. The second municipality of Quebec to seek recognition of a nature reserve on its property, the city of Mont-Saint-Hilaire so demonstrates leadership in conservation. 
The announcement of today is also the result of the involvement of other partners, including the organizations center of the nature of Mont Saint-Hilaire and the conservation of nature, which have been working for several years now to protect the sector of the Mont Saint-Hilaire in collaboration with the city. 
"The expansion of the protected area of Mont Saint-Hilaire is a happy initiative that is part of the tradition of preserving the nature of our region and demonstrates that it is now part of the concerns of the entire community," concluded Mr. Pierre Duchesne. 
