Acton Vale- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Minister responsible for the Regions of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie and MP Johnson, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announced, On behalf of the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the attribution, through Investissement Québec, a loan of $ 351,033 at the Volunteer Center. Acton Vale. The non-profit organization, which helps poor families, will use these funds to renovate and expand its facilities, a project estimated at $ 630,000. 
The work, which began in mid-June, include the expansion of the clothing counter, the layout of a reception and waiting area, the construction of new offices and a therapeutic room, the installation an elevator and the addition of a bathroom adapted for people with disabilities. These are expected to end in mid-November 2013. 
"The Acton Vale Valence Center is an important player in the region," said Minister Yves-François Blanchet. "By keeping up on the proven people and helping them to get up, it contributes to the socio-economic vitality of the territory. I am very pleased that this project is concretized, especially since the center will add two people to his team, in addition to the current twelve employees. » 
The Vale Vale Valence Center for more than 40 years. He helps people in need of the eight municipalities in the region. In addition to the clothing counter, it offers community dinners and a popular and collective kitchens as well as leisure activities for seniors and a support group for caregivers. The Center also manages the Pair program, an automated call service that attaches elders to ensure their healthy health. 
"Our government recognizes the importance of the social economy as a driver of economic and sustainable development," said Minister Zakaïb. "We are willing to support businesses that work for the good of their community and we are proud to support initiatives with a socially responsible economy. » 
The Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mr. Mario Chabot, thanked Investisse Québec and recalled the organization's mission. "We have been present in the community since 1969 and we have always supported the families of Acton Vale crossing difficult times. Our dedicated team makes every effort to promote the development and care of each person in terms of personal, social, financial and family level. Thanks to the cooperation of the government, we can realize this beautiful expansion project. We can not wait to continue to give back to the community. » 
Investissement Québec's mission is to promote investment growth in Quebec, thus contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The company puts companies with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity capital investment, in order to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, it is responsible for the administration of tax measures and prospecting investments abroad. 
