Quebec- While more and more Aboriginal women are silent and say they have been sexually assaulted by police officers of Quebec, the Minister of Public Safety, Martin Coiteous, had to expand the mandate entrusted to the service. police of the City of Montreal, responsible for investigating these allegations. However, according to the Parti Québécois, a big problem remains. "Once again, it's the police who investigate the police. These surveys must be entrusted to the Independent Investigations Bureau, "said Pascal Bérubé, spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on public safety. 
Carole Poirier, spokesperson for women's condition, abounds in the direction of his colleague. "These women, they are afraid of the police. How could they trust, knowing that these are police who are investigating other police officers? The Office of Independent Investigations was created by our colleague Deputy of Verchères, Stéphane Bergeron, exactly for this kind of situation. I can not explain to me why the government stubbornly refuses to these women with 100% independent investigations, "she mentioned, adding that the grouping of the Aboriginal friendship centers of Quebec, the Assembly of First Nations And the Human Rights Commission, among other things, also asked the Coiteous Minister to entrust the said investigations in the Independent Investigations Office (EIB). 
Remember that there will be almost three years, under the Government of the Parti Québécois, the National Assembly adopted the law which created the EIB, allowing the Minister to "charge [...] to investigate any event [...] a peace officer and having a connection with his duties. " However, the EIB, because of the liberal leaving, is still not operational. "It's starting to be time for the EIB started its operations. We have been waiting for two years that the Liberal government acts on this issue. The EIB is supposed to be ready. What does he miss the government? Why does not he entrust investigations into the allegations of Aboriginal women at EIB? He has the power, "concluded Pascal Bérubé. 
