Quebec- The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, today announced, as part of the General Congress of the Agricultural Producers Union (UPA), The allocation of $ 50,000 financial assistance to the UPA - International Development component. This sum will contribute to the organization of the North America's continental meeting, which is part of the programming of the activities planned to underline, in 2014, the International Year of Family Farming. 
The mainland meeting of North America will bring together on April 7 and 8 in Quebec City, hundreds of participants from the other Canadian provinces, the United States and Mexico. This international event addresses the many activities and initiatives that will be aimed at promoting the commitment of family farming for a sustainable future. 
"Family farming is one of the pillars of our food sovereignty. The passion, determination and creativity of these men, of these women, of these families have always contributed to the development of a prosperous Quebec. Preserve our collective pantry, satisfy the food needs of the population and develop our vast territory, these are the major issues for our future and the next generations. Hence the importance of UPA involvement in this global movement for a better recognition of the strategic role played here as elsewhere, family farming, "Gendron explained. 
Fruit of a Federated UPA and Coop initiative, this important appointment is in line with the events presented by major international organizations and places family farming, challenges and key issues at the heart of the Discussions. 
"To better understand his needs, promote new ways of doing things, fostering his development, encouraging succession, there are all topics that will be addressed and who are concerned about, especially here in Quebec. It is precisely this agriculture on a human scale that has contributed and that still contributes today to collective wealth and our regions, "concluded the Gendron Minister. 
Recall that it is the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), which decreed, on November 22, 2014 as the International Year of Family Farming. We want to make known, in developed countries as developing, the essential contribution of family farming. Rich of traditions and practices transmitted from generation to generation, this agriculture covers a wide variety of agricultural activities and participates largely, at the regional, national and global, environmental protection, sustainable development and even eradication of hunger in some countries. 
For more information on the Government of Quebec's food sovereignty policy, we can visit the blogww.politicsa.gouv.qc.caqui is dedicated to it or go to page www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesadu website of the website Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
