Montreal - Quebec's Premier, Pauline Marois, inaugurated today, with the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the Maison-des-Marins, the fifth pavilion of the Museum of Archeology and History From Montreal, Pointe-à-Callière. The event took place in the presence of the Mayor of Montreal, Michael Applebaum, from the President of the Foundation Pointe-à-Callière, Russell Goodman, and the Executive Director of the Museum, Francine Lelièvre. 
"Quebec is a land of reception and Pointe-à-Callière is an eloquent representation. The museum is erected at the Montreal foundation place and retains testimonials from all periods since prehistory. There are traces of Aboriginal presence, the arrival of Europeans and the construction of the Quebec nation. The museum presents a concentration of remarkable historical sites of exceptional heritage value in North America. These places of memory testify to our identity and our origins, and we have the responsibility to keep them and leave them in inheritance to our children and grandchildren. The Maison-des-Marins offers Quebeckers a new space devoted to the discovery of our fascinating history, "said the Prime Minister. 
The total contribution of the Ministry of Culture and Communications for the rehabilitation of the Marin House and archaeological excavations in Place d'Youville West amounts to just over $ 20 million. In addition to cultural events and major temporary exhibitions, the new pavilion will, among other things, have multifunctional rooms at the cutting edge of technology, the museum shop, the Pointe-to-Callière Foundation and the activities of the Atelier Archeo. -Aventure, which recreates an interactive space an urban excavation site for young people. The activities of education and dissemination of youth programming, as well as the events and exhibitions presented, will attract new audiences and increase the attendance of the institution by all target customers. 
"Pointe-to-Callière is the largest archeology museum in Quebec and we are very proud of it. Located in the heart of Old Montreal, this exceptional museum institution contributes to Consolidation Montreal as a cultural metropolis. With the opening of the Marine House, the museum is enriched with a fifth pavilion that will allow it to increase its cultural offer and propose an even broader showcase on archeology and history. Thanks to an educational component, dedicated to visitor awareness, including young people, more than ever archeology is alive and captivating, "said Minister Maka Kotto. 
The work of art presented as part of the application of the architecture and environmental integration policy and public and public sites is a realization of the Montreal artist Nicolas Baier. This fragmented work, having for vanities 3. The mirrors of time, is composed of 75 digitized images of old or contemporary mirrors. It was chosen for its allusions in the past and memory as well as for its strong presence in space. 
