Québec- As the particular consultations are starting with Bill 70, the law to enable better adequacy between training and employment and to promote employment integration, the Quebec's Word of Party for Employment, Social Economy, Poverty and Solidarity, Dave Turcotte, has joined the dignity objective coalition to denounce certain measures that must be amended before its adoption. 
"The objectives targeted by the bill, that is to say, allowing better adequacy between training and employment, and promote employment integration, are desirable. However, the means identified by the government to reach them are not the good ones. The old method of carrot and stick will not work to effectively release people from the circle of poverty. As an elected, trying to understand why these people have arrived there, let's listen to their needs and give them the necessary tools to get out definitively, "said Dave Turcotte. 
The spokesperson added that the bill, in its current form, leaves several outstanding questions. In addition, the lack of settlement accompanying him to worry. "What is a" adequate job, "according to the Minister of Employment, Sam Hamad? Will people be forced to move to keep their services, or will they have to accept a job 200 kilometers from home? The bill is opaque. We do not have the details, and the minister has so far maintained the blur. Let us hope it is more open and that it has more transparency in the detailed study of the bill, which must follow the particular consultations, "he continued. 
Finally, Dave Turcotte believes that Sam Hamad relies on his responsibilities at the expense of the employees of his department. "Social assistance agents will end up with very important responsibilities than normally, they would not have to assume. By doing so, the minister opens the door to the arbitrariness, in addition to keeping the opportunity to blame his officials if there are slippage. But we can already say that the problem is that the minister does not give sufficiently clear indications. State employees can not be held responsible, "concluded the member for Saint John. 
