Quebec - the member for Rousseau and the official opposition spokeswoman in economic development and finance, Nicolas Marceau, and the member for Joliette, Véronique Hivon, strongly denounce the choice of the Caisse de deposit to financially support a project Kruger's investment in Memphis in the United States while this investment could be realized in Quebec, in the municipality of Crabtree. 
"The mandate of the Fund is to promote Quebec's economic development and not the relocation of investments in our own businesses to other markets using Quebecers' savings," said Nicolas Marceau. 
While Investing Québec tries to encourage Kruger to carry out its expansion projects in Quebec, the other financial arms of the Quebec state, the crate of deposit, works exactly in the opposite direction. "There is clearly a lack of leadership and coherence at the level of government action. It is also an additional evidence that the mandate of the Caisse de Fund must be reviewed to clarify that its Quebec's economic development mission must no longer be subordinated to its performance mission, "said Marceau. 
"By ordering the granting of Kruger's loan to the selection of the Expansion Project in Crabtree, the Fund could have both achieved a performance and contribute greatly to the economic development of the Lanaudière region. Obviously, the Branch of the Caisse does not care, "denounced the member for Joliette. 
"After the relocation of Electrolux of the Assumption to Memphis and the closure of Gadoua in Saint-Thomas, the Liberal government of Jean Charest, the Ministers Clément Gignac and Michelle Courchesne in the lead, have promised significant efforts to develop jobs in Lanaudière. Not only is there any sign of real effort, we see that $ 211 million in our money will be used to create jobs in Memphis rather than Crabtree. It's downright shocking and Lanaudois are right to be indignant, "added Véronique Hivon. 
While the Futshot Fund presents rather ordinary results for the months of January to June, Quebecers mostly want to know what decisions are being taken by the Caisse's leaders while financial markets are experiencing new turbulence. 
"At the end of 2008, when the scholarships have had sharp declines, the Fund has elapsed significant stocks of stocks and thus materialized for several billion dollars for which Quebeckers still pay the price today. What Quebeckers want to know the leaders of the Caisse now, it is the decisions that are currently taking while the stock markets cross a new turbulence period. The leaders of the Caisse and the Minister of Finance, Raymond Bachand, must give the insurance to Quebec that the errors of the past are not repeated now, "concluded the member for Rousseau, Nicolas Marceau. 
