Quebec, February 16, 2021 -The Member of Gaspé and spokesman for SMEs, as well as in the area of economy and recovery, Megan Perry Melançon, asks the Minister of Economy and Innovation , Pierre Fitzgibbon, to urgently bring the necessary adjustments to the Business Assistance Program in Maximum Alert (AERAM), clearly poorly adapted to the reality that entrepreneurs live, including restaurateurs. 
IN SHORT 
According to the member, who has collected the testimonies of many entrepreneurs, the AERAM has three major flaws: he does not meet the real needs of companies, it is too heavy to administer by the RCMs, and it only adds to the bureaucracy and indebtedness to which the restaurateurs already out of breath have to face. 
"We do not understand exactly the goal of Minister Fitzgibbon. He says he wants to help bus companies, but stubbornly defending a program from all sides, which does not work. He knows, by the way, since he himself admits that very few companies have filed an application under this program. What's more, we have just learned that requests are no longer accepted for the months of October to December, while some restaurateurs were busy gather supporting documents. Why? Obviously, the issue is not budgetary; It can not be linked to a flagrant lack of sensitivity, "Megan Megan Perry Melançon. 
This one makes a very simple request to the minister: to go listening. "So far, he maintained the hard line and was intractable. He will answer us, with a magnanimous air, that he recently canceled the interests running on loans. But it is the equivalent of removing a splinter with a patient who suffers from hemorrhage, "she illustrated. 
"The Parti Québécois already said it in May 2020: we must act quickly if we want to avoid the hecatomb in the middle of the restoration. Contractors must be offered direct assistance, calculated based on lost income. Note to the government: almost a year has elapsed since, "concluded Méganne Perry Melançon. 
- 30 - 
SOURCE : 
Laura Chouinard-Thuly 
Press Officer 
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois 
514 880-9594 
Laura.c After i's -t care liquid @as is NAT. Second. Wipe 
