Quebec, June 30, 2020 - The member of the Madeleine Islands and spokesperson for the transport of transport, Joel Arseneau, strongly condemns Air Canada's decision, which today announced the indefinite suspension. 30 regional links, 8 in Quebec. The carrier also abandons 3 Regional Québec stops. 
IN SHORT 
"For the regions of Quebec, Air Canada's announcement is heavy with consequences. The city of Gaspé finds itself without a business link, while the aerial desserts of Mont-Joli, Baie-Comeau and Val-d'Or will be considerably reduced. For the regions of Quebec, for the occupation, the development of the territory and the economic recovery, the air transport is essential, "first declared Joël Arseneau. 
Like her parliamentary leader, Pascal Bérubé, the member of the islands, however, says no waiting for Air Canada. "In our opinion, the time has come to turn to a 100% Quebec option, Air Canada has long proved that it has no respect for the regions of Quebec," he has advanced. 
In the opinion of the member, the first thing that the Quebec government must do is extend the aid program for the maintenance of essential regional air services during the health emergency, announced on April 1st, and this. , the time it will take to mitigate this regrettable situation. In addition, the program should be expanded to other destinations abandoned by Air Canada, which of course implies an adjustment of its financing accordingly. This enhanced program will provide profitability guarantees to businesses that will take over Air Canada. 
In addition, the Minister of Transport, François Bonnardel, must urgently convene a meeting of the Permanent Working Group on Air Transport, something he has neglected to do since his entry. Asked by the member Arseneau 6 months after his appointment, in April 2019, Mr. Bonnardel criticized the Liberals never brought together this working group ... a year later, the minister did not keep any meeting. "In conjunction with this committee, the Minister must determine which links are a priority and identify the best ways to go to disengage the cities and regions of Quebec. Its members must be convened as soon as possible to finally dispose of the basis for a real national air transport policy, "continued Joël Arseneau. 
"Air Canada, it's a past. The future of air transport in Quebec lies in an option from Quebec, "concluded the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on transport. 
