Gatineau - The Minister of Health and Social Services, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and the Minister of Public Security responsible for the Ottawa region, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, confirm the addition of 168 hours of weekly ambulance services for the City of Gatineau. This addition of services, granted as a result of the accompanying recommendations of the Outaouais Health and Social Services Agency, Dr. Donald Aubin, takes effect immediately. This represents an additional investment of $ 1,162,854 annually, which is added to the overall budget envelope of emergency prehospital services in Outaouais, for a total amount of $ 19,991,297. 
"These overtime hours of ambulance services, which had been awarded temporarily a few months ago, correspond, after analysis, to a real need of the region. Our government is proud to support the Cooperative of Outaouais's paramedics in its efforts to better serve the population, "said Minister Réjean Hébert. 
"The issue of emergency prehospital services is very important for citizens of the region. This addition of services is a concrete demonstration that our government is listening to the needs and concerns of citizens, "continued the minister responsible for the region, Stéphane Bergeron. 
In addition, Minister Hébert indicated that the mandate of Dr. Donald Aubin, accompanist of the Outaouais Agency, will be renewed for an initial period of 6 months. This mandate may be extended up to 12 months depending on the progress of the work. "The accompanying report filed by Dr. Aubin on September 30 was very enlightening, including the mobilization of all actors to improve the provision of prehospital services in the region. The need to continue this support, however, does not make any doubt in order to ensure that the achievements of the accomplished work remain, in particular in the governance of the institutions concerned and the responsibility of the agency in the field, "he has precise. 
Note that Dr. Aubin's mandate has been adjusted according to the work already done and what remains to be accomplished. Its role will include the implementation of the various elements of the Agency's Plan of Action following the report of the Ministerial Working Group on Emergency Prehospital Services in Outaouais, to ensure proper functioning of the Board of Directors of the Outaouais Health Communication Center and the independence of its governance. It will also need to ensure the continuation of the fixes to be made in the financial management and the allocation of the ambulance resources of the region. 
