Quebec, on January 16, 2017- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesman for the Parti Québécois in agriculture, André Villeneuve, the Word for the Treasury Board, Nicole Léger, and The spokesperson for the Capital Region? National, Agnès Maltese, are dissatisfied with the amendments to the Council of Ministers this morning. 
"How much has there been a reshuffle since the arrival of this Liberal government? Six. Every time, the Prime Minister tries to erase his mistakes and start again. He wants the year to begin to be less disastrous than the one just ended. Yet Quebecers and Quebeckers are not fooled. This government is worn. It is the Parti Québécois that the renewal is, we have clearly demonstrated this weekend at the National Council, "said Jean? François Lisée. 
The elected officials of the Quebecois party are indeed of opinion that many other changes were needed. "Let's think about Gaétan barrette, whose decisions and style are denounced from all sides, and the unprecedented crisis that the Minister of Justice, Stephanie Valley created. In the eyes of Philippe Couillard, these people worsened to stay in post? Then questioned the leader of the official opposition. 
"Another example: In the file of agricultural land taxes, as in many others, Pierre Paradis lost the confidence of the agricultural community. The Prime Minister should have taken advantage of this ministerial adjustment to withdraw Pierre Paradis with his duties as Minister of Agriculture. Farmers, with the support of the Parti Québécois, ask for too long, "illustrated André Villeneuve. 
"In addition, political and economic leaders said that Minister François Blais did not work in the Capitale-Nationale region and, however, the Prime Minister decided to keep him in office. It is a slap to the Liberal members of the region; Philippe Couillard considers that they have neither the qualities nor the experience to defend the interests of the capital-national, "has been reacting Agnès Maltese. 
"The only change made by Philippe Couillard is to give the Treasury Board to Pierre Moreau, we welcome the return. Carlos Leitão, who devoted much more time to his role as Minister of Finance, has never taken the time to negotiate with lawyers and notaries of the state. Its management of the file was lamentable. The fact that he leaves, it is in fact a relief. The new president must take the time to negotiate and quickly end this conflict that has lasted enough, "has required Nicole light. 
"Finally, we note, once again, the premier's refusal to trust the former police officer who has been deputy Robert Poëti, who was removed from his post to transport to have been a little too curious about the malpractices who had courses, "concluded the members of the official opposition. 
