Alma- The member for Lac-Saint-Jean and Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs and Sovereign Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, convened a first meeting with the mayors of the 15 municipalities in his riding in Alma this morning. This meeting gave rise to constructive exchanges and made it possible to discuss the ways of doing so that everyone can work together to the progression of the different files. 
"During the election campaign, I made a commitment to continue my efforts to advance my riding records. With this in mind, so it was essential for me to meet the elected officials quickly so that I can chat with them from the state of the situation with respect to many projects and that we can agree on a common mode of operation to ensure the progression Different records in the Lac-Saint-Jean region, "said Mr. Cloutier. 
At this meeting, the main topics affecting all municipalities were discussed. In particular, infrastructure projects, early childhood centers (CPE), cell telephony, residual matters, collective transportation, permanent trails for municipalities, municipalities devitalized municipalities. as well as records related to the management of drinking water and the treatment of wastewater. 
Alexandre Cloutier was accompanied by several members of his team, including Mrs. Cynthia Late and Mr. Michel Nero, who are directly assigned to elected services and municipal records. The elected officials also had the opportunity to meet members of the ministerial cabinet, including the Director of Cabinet, Ms. Andrée Corriveau, and the Liaison Officer, Ms. Marilou Gagnon, who is from Alma. The latter will lend the constituency team by facilitating exchanges with the ministries for the settlement of the files which concern them. 
In closing, Mr. Cloutier indicated that the citizens of Lac-Saint-Jean can be assured of its entire collaboration and that of his team. "These meetings with the electoral elected representatives will take place at regular intervals so that we can closely monitor the evolution of cases in the interest of all," concluded Minister Cloutier. 
