Quebec- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesman of the Parti Québécois on the matter of women, Mireille Jean, as well as the public safety spokesman, Stéphane Bergeron, are deeply concerned by The allegations of sexual assault for a liberal elected representative of the National Assembly. They are asking the Prime Minister and his caucus to formally commit all relevant information about this case to the police, and to suspend from the Caucus any member who would be under criminal investigation. 
When leaving the Liberal Caucus, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Lise Thériault, refused to answer a journalist who asked him if she knew the identity of the member's sentence, just declare that "this which happens to the caucus remains in the caucus ". These are extremely disturbing comments; They suggest that Liberal MPs have identified the person in question, but are trying to protect it. However, it is not a case of internal management of a caucus, but a case of criminal aggression. 
"If a liberal elected person holds any information in connection with this aggression, it is to the police that he has to go. As for the Prime Minister, if he knows the identity of the person concerned, he must immediately withdraw it from the caucus the time that the investigation will last, rather than to invoke the secret of the caucus. It must send the message that such gestures are unacceptable and are not tolerated, and that members do not enjoy a privileged regime, "said the official opposition. 
"I find it worrying that the Prime Minister has asked his whip and one of his advisers to meet the involved (s), these meetings that can open a suspicion of attempt to influence the versions of the facts. These people must be directed to police services directly, without a political intermediary, "continued Jean-François Lisée. 
"Lise Thériault is the minister responsible for the female status. It will be responsible for implementing the possible government strategy to prevent and counter sexual violence. As his prime minister, she must set an example and clearly say that in the case of sexual assault is tolerance zero. It must also ensure that victims have all the necessary support, "added Mireille John. 
Finally, infirm, in the interview, a friend of the victim affirmed to have several concerns in relation to the complaint process by the police. "The victim revealed that the policemen of Quebec would have discouraged him from continuing his efforts. If this is the case, it's totally unacceptable! In the circumstances, the SPVQ Police Chief has the duty to make sure that we investigate, not only on the merits of things, but also on how the complaint was treated. It is also necessary to examine the possibility that this action gap can constitute a breach of police ethics. Certainly, these unfortunate events can not stay without continuation, "reacted Stéphane Bergeron. 
