Quebec- The member for Terrebonne and the official opposition on the family, Mathieu Traversy, the President and CEO of the Quebec Association of CEP (AQCPE), Louis Senecal, as well as the President of the Association Private daycares of Quebec (AGPQ), Samir Alahmad, united their voices, today in a press briefing, in order to ask the departure of the Minister of the Family, Francine Charbonneau, who no longer confidence. They also denounce high and draconian modulation and increase in child care rates, two measures directly attacking the families of Quebec and on which the Prime Minister must back. 
"It's a historic alliance attending today. The two main associations of the child care network, the AQPE and the AGPQ, unite against modulation and rising tariffs. Together, they denounce the fact that the minister does not consult them and ask for his departure. Almost all of the speakers heard in a parliamentary committee on Bill 28 also affirmed their deep disagreement and concern about modulating and rising tariffs. The government did not study the impact of this rise on families, women in particular. Locked in its accounting logic, it did not evaluate all the complications of this modulation of the tariffs on administrative management and single-parent families, among others. The Liberals have not analyzed at all! It's total improvisation! "Said Mathieu Traversy. 
"With Bill 28, the government wants to impose a tariff shock to the families of the middle class in a hurry and reform in urgency one of our most important socio-economic achievements, has indicated Louis Senecal. After he denied his promise and refused social dialogue, we are a few days old to see this government imposing a gag to the families of Quebec. The latter deserve a family minister who defends them within the government. A finding is needed today: the minister has chosen not to consider his partners and the bond of trust is irremediably broken. We ask the Prime Minister to suspend his tariff modulation project and to appoint one or a minister who can restore the dialogue with the families of Quebec and the partners of the Educational Care Network. Together we can work to put in place carrying solutions, "he continued. 
"The Minister and his senior officials manage the department improvised and riddle, without any consultation or respect for child care partners. The modulation of childcare costs is a total aberration. It is the middle class family with children who will spun the almost all of the invoice. It was not at all that Mr. Couillard had promised during the election campaign, "concluded Samir Alahmad. 
