On February 5, 2014, Pauline Marois addressed hundreds of activists at the Quebec Museum of People's Culture of Trois-Rivières on the occasion of the Grand Militant gathering as part of the exceptional tour of the members of the Government in Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. Here are his speech notes. 
Also: React on the Blog of the Parti Québécois, at Pauline Marois ticket: "On the way to a rich, proud and solidarity country" and to ensure Pauline Marois's speech. 
The speech made is authentic. 
Thank you. 
I am very happy to meet you, citizen activists. 
Since our election in September 2012, we had less time to see each other, but it must be said that in the government, we have not been idle. 
We are doing everything in place to give an impetus in Quebec. For Quebec to be more prosperous and Quebeckers, richer. 
We are setting up a vigorous, voluntary economic policy, which will allow us to pick the fruits of global economic recovery. This policy will create 115,000 new jobs within three years. 
All means of the state is used to support, encourage, encourage job creation in all regions. Our goal is clear: we want Quebeckers to be richer, individually and collectively. 
I can tell you one thing: I am determined to get there. We will do Quebec a richer country! 
... 
Since we arrived in power, we have supported private investment projects totaling $ 10 billion. It means the creation or maintenance of 29,000 jobs. 
And, precisely, in all our story, never there were as many Quebeckers at work. Never! 
... 
Crave gestures have been asked for a long time; For example, Quebec was released from nuclear and asbestos. 
It was difficult decisions and committed to compensate with a lot of effort to bring back jobs in Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
Word has been held by multiplying the projects. 
Tonight, I am proud to tell the citizens of Mauricie: in terms of investment and job creation, the goods were delivered! 
... 
We did this by taking control of state spending for the first time in ten years. 
On the income side, Quebec is in the same situation as most Western states, that is, confronted with very low inflation. Revenues are not at the rendezvous. 
Despite this global context, François Legault is stubborn in wanting to reach the zero deficit now. 
Philippe Couillard has hesitated. He first suggested to postpone a few years the achievement of balance. The next day he changed position, claiming the zero deficit. 
If we listened to the leaders of the opposition, we should raise taxes or make very painful compressions of nearly $ 2 billion. Compressions, it means less economic activity, fewer jobs and, ultimately, less income for the state. 
We made a different choice. We chose to go deep with an ambitious and audacious economic plan. 
We had the choice between austerity and prosperity. Philippe Couillard and François Legault chose austerity. I chose prosperity! 
... 
Messiesurs Lugoult and Couillard and Mentclopain qu'les United States of Votant Prêds a nous Conster. S'ils real pas, the reviendere aux electors de trancher. 
I fully trust Quebeckers. 
... 
There is not just about the charter that Philippe Couillard Vasouille ... there is a fundamental question we need to be clear, now. 
I am talking about the political future of Quebec. 
Philippe Couillard says he wants to sign the Constitution by the anniversary of the Canadian Federation in 2017. But he refuses to tell us what conditions he is ready to do so. Is it ready to sign the unconditional Canadian Constitution, unlike all its predecessors, even Jean Charest? 
Robert Bourassa had demanded the minimum: the recognition that Quebec forms a separate company. Canada refused to recognize us and Bourassa refused to sign. 
Philippe Couillard affirmed the other day that Quebec should not be distinguished in North America ... It pushes the company separate from Robert Bourassa. Does the current leader of the Liberal Party want to go down this minimum? Philippe Couillard must be clear on that. 
He has a duty of minimal honesty vis-à-vis Quebeckers. Sign this constitution imposed on us without even the Quebeckers have been consulted, it would be a serious decision, which would engage the future of our nation for a long time. 
So I'm asking the question at Philippe Couillard: Is it committed, before asking such an important gesture, to consult Quebeckers by holding a referendum? I can not imagine that he will move in the election campaign without clearly telling us what his intentions are. 
The Liberals like to repeat that we threaten to hold a referendum, as if not to be democratically designed citizens. I say that Philippe Couillard threatens not to consult Quebeckers. Act without seeking the opinion of the population, it would be deeply undemocratic. It would be unacceptable! 
The Liberal leader must stop slipping away and give the right time. 
On our side, we are perfectly clear: we want Quebec to become a country! 
... 
We are also perfectly clear about our approach: sovereignty will only be after consultation and approval by Quebecers by means of a referendum. 
Since our election in September 2012, all have been able to find that the defense of our interests and values has been constructive and anchored in the real. 
Far from looking for the quibble with Ottawa, we wanted to advance our interests. The baffles - on the formation of the workforce, the labor funds, the securities commission, the employment insurance - have been caused by Ottawa. 
We have announced our desire to eliminate healthy overlap and municipal affairs to reduce bureaucracy, as well as the government, but from everyone.  For the future, we will continue to prepare Quebec to become a country. We will do so responsibly, without shaking Quebeckers, but with a lot of determination. 
The time will come when we are once again called upon to choose our political future. Our responsibility is to strengthen us, to prepare for this moment. 
Then, you have to take the time to fully think, as a nation, in our political future. Throughout our history, Quebeckers have been invited to this type of exercise periodically. There have been : 
These reflections have all been striking. It's normal for a people who has always had to fight to survive, to develop, to last. 
We did not take the time to fully think about the political future of the Quebec nation for almost 20 years. It's time for us to take stock and think about the path traveled and the road we need to take. 
Mr. Couillard would like to sign the Canadian Constitution and lock the status of Quebec as a simple province. He would like to do so without consulting us, without ways for our history and no way for the future. 
On our side, we want Quebec to become a country. Each of these options must be examined. What status will allow us to preserve our language over a period of 10, 20 or 50 years? That of Canadian province or country? 
For me, it is clear: the only way that ensures the future of French, it is that of a country, a French-speaking country in America! 
... 
Does the Canadian province status allow us to promote our common values, to create a sense of belonging, a real Quebec citizenship? It seems to me that it pleads in favor of a Quebec country. 
Is it possible for a province to reduce bureaucratic overlapping, to reform the state to make it a more efficient, less expensive tool closer to our needs? It seems to me to eliminate all bureaucratic duplicates by giving us a country, it would allow us to have a more efficient, less expensive state and closer to people. 
Does federal legislation correspond to our interests and values? And, as province, is it realistic to believe that Canada can respond to our national aspirations? 
How to believe it, knowing that in the federal Parliament, Quebec's weight decreases constantly? 
For our economic development, is the province of Canada status preferable to that of a country that has 
It seems to me, to me, that one is never so well served as oneself. 
To get rich, to go to the end of our potential, we need all the strength and the means of a real country! 
... 
In recent decades, we asked a lot about the question: what would be a sovereign Quebec? The opponents of sovereignty have emphasized a lot of risks, exaggerating them roughly. 
But what about the risks of remaining a Canadian province? How can one develop when another nation makes the decisions in our place? Who guarantees us that by remaining a Canadian province, we will be able to continue living in French, according to our values? What represents the greatest risk for our future, remaining a province or become a country? 
It's time to start thinking carefully, to seriously debate the future of our nation. That's what we're going to do. 
I announce it tonight: During the next term, we will start thinking collectively again. 
By taking again, in our own way, the approach chosen by René Lévesque, the whole population will be invited to speak. 
In a future mandate, a Quebec party government will present a white paper on the future of Quebec! 
... 
Of course, we can not presume the leadership that Quebeckers will take. Nor the moment we will be ready to make our choices. But we will propose a clear avenue. 
And, unlike Philippe Couillard, I can guarantee Quebeckers that the choice will rest between their hands: we will decide on our future and no one else! 
... 
When we are the majority, we will ask me if we will hold a referendum on sovereignty. My answer remains the same: there will be a referendum on sovereignty at the appropriate time. 
I would like it to be as soon as possible, but we do not jostle Quebecers. 
We will prepare us by acting in a constructive way, positively, strengthening our society on all plans. 
But I'm sure something: Quebec will become a country. Our whole story leads us! 
... 
For now, we must prepare for the next battle. The opposition threatens to rush in elections at any time. We must prepare in each constituency. 
Here, in Mauricie, in the center-du-Québec and everywhere else. Quebeckers will have to decide between two very different ways to see our future. 
There is the negative attitude of Mr. Legault, that we never do anything good in Quebec. There is the hesitant, indecisive approach, Mollassonne by Mr. Couillard. And there is the vision of my government, positive and determined. Very determined! 
... 
The opposition wants to impose austerity; We choose prosperity. 
The opposition relies on everyone-for-yourself; We choose solidarity. 
For our nation, the opposition offers us to erase ourselves. We choose to assume our values and our identity with pride! 
... 
You have seen us from going for a few months. 
We are determined to make Quebec a rich country. 
A proud country, united around our common values. 
A solidarity country, where we take care of our world. 
A country where we speak French. 
A Quebec country! 
... 
It will not happen alone. This ambition, this will, this determination, we must share it with our family, our friends, our neighbors. 
We start from afar and we have already made a lot of way. We must continue to move forward without fail. 
I am determined. I am determined to continue the road to the end. 
It depends on you, it depends on us. 
And it starts here, tonight, in the heart of Quebec! 
Thank you. 
Watch Pauline Marois's speech! 
