On September 24, 2015, the Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, spoke to the participants of the Annual Congress of the Quebec Federation of Municipalities in Quebec City. Here are his speech notes. 
The pronounced version is authentic. 
I thank you for the invitation. I am honored to address me to decision-makers and key players in our democracy engaged in the development of Quebec. 
Unlike some members of the government, we consider, to the Parti Québécois, that the voice of elected officials sitting in the city hotels counts as much as the voice of the deputies of the National Assembly. 
Let me salute Sylvain Gaudreault, Member of Parliament for Jonquière and spokesman for the Parti Québécois in terms of municipal affairs and decentralization, as well as Gaétan Lelièvre, deputy of Gaspé and spokesperson for the development of regions and fisheries, In addition to being responsible for our beautiful area of the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine. 
Beyond their vast experience in the municipal world and their achievements as former ministers, Sylvain and Gaétan are enthusiasts dedicated to the advancement of the regions. They have always been and will always be at your disposal and at your service, like all members of the Parti Québécois. 
I would also like to greet the elected of Chaudière-Appalaches that represent the star region of this year. Several reasons justify this choice, but will you be surprised if I remember the dynamism and spirit of entrepreneurship that animate this region? 
When I carried out the chairmanship of the entrepreneurship foundation, I had the opportunity to pronounce a conference at the Beauce Entrepreneurship School, a very beautiful realization that rays throughout Quebec. Congratulations to the Dutil family, which is at the origin. 
The Chaudière-Appalaches region is inspiring in many ways and I can not wait to exchange with its citizens. 
Also in the context of my presidency to the Board of the Foundation, I crisscrossed Quebec to promote entrepreneurship, as my father did it in his lifetime. 
He believed, like me, that Quebeckers can and must succeed in business in order to continue building a strong economy, and that we have any interest in having the control over our decisions. That's what I keep doing. 
Some reproached me for spending too much money during the campaign at the Quebec party leadership. Well, I want to tell them that I spent this money to meet those who live in our regions. Those who participate in the occupation of the territory. Those who build Quebec day after day. 
That's how I came to Thetford Mines, Montmagny, Lévis and Bellechasse, as in Rouyn, Alma, Granby, Sainte-Julie, Trois-Rivières, Baie-Comeau, Gaspé, The Pocatière, Cap-Cat and Matane, where I had the opportunity to meet with your colleague from Amqui, Gaétan Rest. 
I continued to do so as head of the official opposition to thaw, in Holy Spirit in Havre-Saint-Pierre, in Sainte-Florence, in Dolbeau, and I can tell you that I will continue because I ' Always considered it important to meet people. 
This is a principle that is dear to me and that I applied very early when I was in business. I consider this principle just as important in politics. 
I believe that as elected officials, our first duty is to listen to women and men who live on our vast territory. 
And I believe in business as in politics, decisions should not be taken solely from the head office, just as too often decisions are made in Quebec City for the municipal world. 
There is no Quebec without its regions. I have the intimate conviction. Our story is marked by the determination and strength of people who have built villages, then regions and who participated in the construction of this beautiful and great nation which is ours. 
We must never forget it, especially not in the name of a harmful economic doctrine and disconnected from reality. 
The Parti Québécois has always recognized and will continue to recognize the crucial importance of the dynamic occupation of the territory and, of the same breath, that local and regional bodies need concrete support and autonomy to develop according to their aspirations. 
It was true at the time of Mr. Jacques Leonard, who was Minister of State for Development as well as Minister of Municipal Affairs of the Parti Québécois, who created the regional county municipalities. I discussed with him yesterday and I can tell you that his interest in the municipal environment is still alive. 
Trust, respect and recognition are the foundation for decentralization to build strong and autonomous communities. 
In the hazards of the changes of government, the mood of ministers or the flavors of the day, as the regime of the austerity that the Liberal government is used to Quebecers, we will oppose an approach that offers stability, predictability and protection. 
Regional rights must be protected and I intend to discuss with you to determine the modalities of this protection. 
I spent more than 25 years in the world of the company. I would never have had success if I had to handle with uncertain or changing income assumptions. 
So, I am extremely well placed to understand your annoyance and lassitude to design a business plan and your budget without guarantee of stability, and without the certainty of being able to count on the means required to get there. 
This infeed approach must be put an end to the goodwill of the Minister of Municipal Affairs or the doctrinal approaches of the President of the Treasury Board. 
Currently, the Liberal government goes in the opposite direction and navigate against the interest of the regions. It does not understand that local decisions must be made by those with the ability to assess the real needs of their fellow citizens. 
Of course, the premier Couillard had promised something else. But, with the Liberals, the lyrics fly away and the damage stays: 
$ 80 million reduction in the budget devoted to local and regional development;  Cups of $ 130 million at agricultural financial financial;  Health and Education Cups, while they are essential services to the vitality of our communities. 
In this regard, the government has shown a lack of aforementioned vision with the abolition of elected regional conferences, which supported the organizations to combat school dropout. Even lack of vision with the cuts carried out in the youth-employment crossroads. 
The presence of young people in the region is one of the most important factors in the sustainability of our villages. What will happen to our regions and municipalities if our young people leave them to go to town? 
Crés and CEPs contributed to keeping our young people in the region and training them to hold a job. Our youth needs that we support it, not cut off the wings. 
This is exactly the same situation with the CLDs, which accompanied future entrepreneurs who, in turn, created wealth and jobs. 
The austerity deprives the regions of its young talents. And these losses, the Liberal government will never quantify them. Do not displease the President of the Treasury Board, the intangible, it exists. 
The list of compressions would still be long. I am sure you can complete it or cite concrete damage that these cups have caused at home.  Obviously, Prime Minister Couillap wants to balance public finances on the back of the regions. It does not propose any plan of growth or development, or economic strategy. 
This morning, I asked him the following question: How is it that after 18 months in power, we have no economic strategy, no strategic plan for Investissement Québec, our leverage for our economic development? 
I once again offered my cooperation to quickly bring together Quebec's economic players around job creation and wealth. Always the same categorical refusal. 
While the government is stored, our economy is getting bogged down. 
It is not just the economic slowdown that concerns the population. 
In recent months, I have met several citizens and elected worried about the important transport projects of hazardous materials. While the recent events in Quebec encourage us to exemplary caution, citizens feel abandoned, because of the lack of reaction from the Liberal government to Ottawa's negligence. 
My colleague Martine Ouellet, the member for Vachon, can also show the concerns of the population and the federal go through his tour of the Terminal heat project. 
The federal government has long abdicated its responsibilities for transportation and its role to protect the population. It is the municipalities who pay for this laxism. 
The reports of the Office of the Auditor General of Canada and the Transportation Safety Board are overwhelming. 
In 2009, Canada had an inspector for 14 crude tanks. In 2013, it was an inspector for 4000 wagons. Yet we are still sending 48 billion taxes and taxes to Ottawa. In addition, 40% of rail inspectors did not follow the training required to perform audits. 
If the east energy projects and heat terminals come true, hundreds of municipalities will see the risk associated with the transport of hazardous materials soaring. Yet these projects do not offer any positive impact for Quebec. That risks for our safety and our environment. 
British Columbia said no. The United States said no. Why should Quebec accept this market market? Because we are forced and that we do not have the legal and constitutional means to oppose us. 
The Constitution Act and the Jurisprudence of Canadian Courts, whose judges are appointed by Ottawa, are clear on this issue. 
Like you, I hope that the skills of Quebec be respected, that environments have the necessary information to ensure the safety of citizens. But we need more and you know what I think we need! 
The Federal Authority allows other interests to take precedence over the priorities of our communities. 
It is by realizing the independence that we can recover all the powers we need to ensure the prosperity of our regions and protect our people living near railways. 
I would like to finish by telling you that the best partnerships are mutually beneficial. 
Unfortunately, the government keeps the income for him, but he pelles the cuts in the courtyard of the regions. 
Il S'inspolus du Middle at the Encidet of the Torriture of the TRADETI LORSQUAZ LARÉGRÉ, give the verse Devption. 
Thus, Gaspé has been obliged to redeem his airport, but without the financial means associated with it. 
Rimouski's wharf is abandoned and jeopardizes the economic development of the city. 
The rail transport of passengers are abandoned in Gaspésie, and an anecdotal aerial server is reserved for the North Shore. 
The broken promises, the recurring cups and the absence of economic plan hurt regions as well as municipal democracy. 
Whatever the government says, a loss of $ 850 million over 4 years is not a gain. 
In the end, it is always the taxpayers and families of our regions that will see their amputated services or who will not be entitled to a rich and healthy community. 
Although some measures concerning working relationships appear attractive at first sight, I think we have to welcome them with caution, with great caution. 
It would be perilous to want to correct an imbalance by another. This may create more disturbance, without addressing the problem, in addition to opening the door to a costly and endless multiplication of judicial remedies and larvated conflicts. 
Let's not forget that it is always the citizens who pay the note. 
The devil is in the details and we must ask ourselves the following question, like many do today: do we deal with a poisoned gift? 
The government must provide free and accurate answers. But it seems that it will wait until next fall to do it. By then, all kinds of legitimate worries will arise. 
It is certainly not the climate in which we need to evolve to ensure useful, efficient and harmonious economic development. To wonder if the Liberal government of Philippe Couillard is not the government of the baffle. 
Gentlemen and ladies, you are unmissable partners in the construction of Quebec today and tomorrow. 
The government must stop having this paternalistic attitude towards the municipal environment. I consider more than legitimate the desire for autonomy of municipalities and I easily understand the benefits. 
You can count on the Parti Québécois to work at your side. I learned a lot while listening to municipal elected officials and citizens. 
There are no more beautiful riches than pride and desire to succeed. And this pride and this desire to succeed, they cultivate themselves in all regions of Quebec. 
Thank you and good congresses! 
