We are eight days of a crucial vote that will put in place a new team at the head of the government. For Montreal and for all regions of Quebec, this vote will be decisive. 
I consider that a person who aspires to become prime minister must meet Quebecers wherever they are. In this campaign, I will have visited all the regions of Quebec. It is therefore natural for me to be here today to explain my vision of the economic future of Quebec and the Montreal area. I am very happy to have this opportunity. 
Thank you for welcoming me. 
I will first talk about public finances. I have been Minister of Finance and also President of the Treasury Board. After my 2001 budget, he was created more jobs in one year in Quebec than in all the last term of the Liberal government. The employment rate has reached the record rate of 69%. I reduced taxes and I managed to make a payment of $ 500 million on the debt. I have a strong intention to continue in this responsible and rigorous path. 
This means reducing Quebec's indebtedness by paying debt payments and reducing the state's level of borrowing. It also means we are going to control our expenses. 
Overall, our goal is to limit the growth of state spending at 2.4%. This means that we will manage in a very tight way to achieve budget balance. It's a very demanding goal, but I've seen others. For example, the zero deficit I participated in the government of Lucien Bouchard. 
At the time, expenses have been negative. I have reproached the zero deficit for 15 years, but I have never denied these decisions that have asked for a lot of courage. 
Mr. Legault, who repeats this word to both of the two sentences, never lacks an opportunity to deny the Bouchard government's zero deficit. This attitude is sorely lacking courage. For François Legault, courage is a word, a slogan. For me, it's a reality. 
So much for expenses: growth limited to 2.4% per year. 
In terms of income, there will be two changes. A new mining royalty regime inspired by what is done in several countries, such as Australia. This new regime provides for a minimum fee related to the value of the extracted ore and a tax on excess profits. The value of royalties will accompany the ore price on global markets. 
The other change is to abolish the health tax by moving the sources of income. We will ask taxpayers who earn $ 130,000 and more to make an extra effort. We are not talking here about family income but individual. 
I note that this new tax level will remain lower than that of Ottawa and what I know, nobody accuses Stephen Harper to tackle the rich. 
Capital gains will be taxed up to 75% instead of 50%. I have never hidden and I repeat it very openly. We will blame us in some circles, but there is no hiding place. 
On the side of Mr. Legault, I will show you a little later that he has a lot of small unavoyable secrets and not just studies ...  I made the choice to help the families of the middle class and I want to govern with a keen sense of tax justice. 
With respect to business taxation, we will go back to the philosophy that has so well served Montreal and Quebec under the government of the Parti Québécois. In the 1990s, we deployed a clear strategy by supporting advanced sectors with significant investments and paid jobs: aerospace, multimedia, electronics and life sciences. 
It has been done in particular with tax measures that worked very well. We will come back with this vision of things.  In summary, a Quebec party government will keep a tight control of public spending to maintain a balanced budget and will not increase the tax burden on companies.  Now, I'll surprise you. While I was watching the CAQ in the right mirror, figure out that I got up left ... 
First, Mr. Legault anticipates additional expenses of $ 3.6 billion a year. It's almost four times more expenses than us. More surprising, Mr. Legault wants to move the inclusion of capital gains from 50 to 100%.  I know it's hard to believe, but you can check on page 4 of its financial framework. 
All tax expenditures of 416 million related to capital gains is subtracted. It is a puncture twice as important as ours. This morning, they tried to justify itself by saying that it was 75% like the Parti Québécois, but they were also going to impose more capital gains from companies ...  First news for me and no doubt for all Quebec companies. 
Mr. Legault has to clarify things today and tell us where exactly he intends to take these 416 million: in the pocket of individuals or in that of SMEs? What we know is that the CAQ wants to abolish tax measures for the advanced sectors: 
• 760 million research and development;  • 233 million for the development of electronic affairs;  • 113 million for multimedia. 
All these tax credits that have made Montreal's economic success, the CAQ wants them to disappear. 
For SMEs, it's even worse. Mr. Legault would like to abolish the reduced tax rate. We are talking about $ 468 million in extra burden for our small and medium-sized businesses. In all, it's $ 2 billion in corporate tax credits that the CAQ wants to eliminate. He wants to take this money and entrust it to Investisse Québec who would then distribute him discretionary, on a case-by-case basis. 
I met hundreds of business leaders and I never heard you make such a request. On the contrary, you request the most competitive business climate as possible without having to defend your investment projects on a case-by-case basis, without being at the mercy of arbitrary decisions. 
We are therefore in front of two completely opposed visions of the management of public finances and the taxation of companies.  Mr. Legault multiplies promises and expenses and he considers that he knows better than business leaders or entrepreneurs what is good for them. 
On the contrary, I believe that the state has to work with business people and entrepreneurs to maximize tax policies and help you sustainably enrich Quebec. 
So much for public finances and taxation. 
The economy now. In this campaign, there is a huge elephant in the room. This is our $ 25 billion trade deficit a year. All other parties are as if he did not exist. Yet, we are talking about $ 66 million a day coming out of our home to create jobs and wealth abroad. 
This represents a huge proportion of more than 7% of our GDP. We often talk about the US trade deficit that worries more than one. 3.5% of GDP, it is twice as much as ours. It is in my opinion the greatest of our economic challenges. We must absolutely reduce this deficit and aim to eliminate it. This is the condition sine qua non of our enrichment. 
How to do? 
We propose to get there in a variety of ways: 
• supporting the peak sectors that export what is produced here;  • by energy independence;  • investing in public transport;  • with a policy of food sovereignty;  • keeping our florets and their headquarters with us;  • supporting our SMEs;  • Keeping research and development. 
I will come back to the advanced sectors, but let's say first that the most powerful support of the state is precisely the tax credits of 2 billion that the CAQ wants to make disappear. 
We must not do that, a government of the Parti Québécois will keep them. 
Energy independence now. Last year we imported crude oil for a value of $ 12 billion. It's almost half of our trade deficit. We need to replace these oil imports with sources of energy produced at home. 
It will take time, but we have to do it. We have a lot of hydroelectricity, we have wind energy, solar, biomass and petroleum potential. We have energy sources and it's about seeing how we can substitute for imported oil. 
A party of the Parti Québécois will therefore adopt a new energy strategy. One can imagine the results if, for example, our imports were halved on the basis of the year 2011: there would have been an injection of $ 6 billion in our economy. It's enormous. 
One way to get there is to bet on our forces. Public transport is one. We manufacture buses, train cars and all our investments in public transit are at home. 
A good transportation system makes it possible to increase the productivity of people and the movement of the goods. This increases our attractiveness too. 
As I mentioned, a government of the Parti Québécois will give order and priorities in infrastructure work. We will be able to use some of the fixed assets already registered in the budget to invest more in collective transport. 
This is a nice way to enrich us. 
I also want a government of the Parti Québécois adopts a policy of food sovereignty. In 25 years, the proportion of food consumed from Quebec dropped by 45%. 
In 1985, the four-fifths of the food consumed by Quebec worked from Quebec. Today, it's only a third. You have to change that. If every Quebec consumer bought $ 30 more foods by year, sales would swell $ 1 billion in five years. At $ 90 a year, it would be $ 3 billion more that would stay at home to create wealth here. 
If I were Jean Charest it would be simpler: I would say Quebeckers to add 50 cents a day ... 
I also committed to the Filing and Investment Fund creates a $ 10 billion strategic fund to keep our businesses and our headquarters with us. There are still some recent examples of our florets that may disappear. 
RONA for example is the subject of a hostile purchase offer. It would be in my opinion very damaging to lose control of this company, lose a head office and jeopardize the sales of Rona's Quebec suppliers. If buy RONA is good for Americans, why it would not be good for Quebec? 
All countries in the world are taking steps to keep control of their strategic businesses. Even the very conservative Government of Stephen Harper blocked the transaction involving Potashcorp in Saskatchewan. The federal government has been able to do so by opposing its veto, simply. 
Quebec could do the same if it was a sovereign country. It would be much easier, but it's not a reason to stay the arms crossed. I want Quebec to start the conquest of the world and plays the game of free trade. We are able to draw our game pin. It has been proven, but let's not be naive and take the means to play equal weapons, let us be vigilant. 
One would not want, for example, to lose one of our florets because a member of the management decided to sell his block of actions without telling him to his associates ... 
Mr. Leblanc often speaks from the 16 large headquarters lost in Montreal for 10 years. To curb this exodus, we propose to review the law on corporations by stocks to do two things: specify the role of directors and in a second time strengthen their power. 
Administrators must obviously act in the interest of the shareholders, but also consider the broader interests of the company, such as its employees and suppliers. We want to strengthen the role of directors to make hostile purchase offerings much more difficult, as is done in several US states that make it more complying with the decisions of the boards, for example in Pennsylvania. 
If we want to keep control of our economy, we must give them the means. That's what we're going to do! 
The Strategic Fund will also be mandated to support vital sectors for our economic future. I want to develop a new industrial sector with the future: that of clean transport. We have all the elements in Quebec and in the Montreal region: clean energy, transportation of transport equipment, technology and our great capacity for innovation. 
We must not abandon the areas that are experiencing difficulties and remaining neuralgic. 
Despite the bad news of the last few months, Quebec remains an important pole of research in the field of life sciences. It is out of the question that Quebec loses foot in this sector of our economy. As the free trade negotiations are continuing with Europe, the federal government must be aware of it. 
For us, the life sciences sector will continue to be very important, especially since we can bet on two academic hospitals at the cutting edge of technology. It has cost us quite expensive, let's arrange to make it profitable! 
There are our florets, our SMEs and our entrepreneurs. I announced that a government of the Parti Québécois would create the Quebec Economic Development Bank. It is not a question of adding an organization more. This is the opposite: we will reduce their numbers by creating a one-stop shop of all our investment and SME support services. 
We will also ask the federal government to give us the specific economic development budgets in Quebec to offer a truly unique window. You know it, the SMEs it is very important in the Quebec economy, especially as our blooming tomorrow are today's SMEs. 
Same thing for our entrepreneurs. We will offer them a one-stop shop and add patient capital to the tax support measures that already exist. 
So that's the essence of our economic program: 
• Reduce and eliminate the trade deficit that threatens our economy;  • Increased investments in public transport;  • Food sovereignty policy;  • keep our florets and our headquarters with us;  • support our SMEs and contractors;  • Mise on research and development. 
There is a real long-term vision to enrich Quebec and Montreal sustainably. 
Last element of our program that is not first of all economic, but participating: culture. We have planned to give a good hand to the cultural sector by various measures. For example, increased financial support for foreigners who allow our artists, and at the same time in Quebec and Montreal, to radiate around the world. We will also support the Council of Arts and Letters more, as well as SODEC. We will eventually lead all cultural projects already enrolled in the government's budget framework. 
Culture is very important for the Quebec nation and also for our economy, our radiation and our pride. There are still 97,000 jobs and benefits of $ 12 billion. It's very important for Montreal. The whole sector can rely on our flawless support. 
The economic proposals of the CAQ are different. I have never heard Mr. Legault talking about the trade deficit, which worries me. 
In terms of public transport, he decided to act against the consensus that was patiently forged throughout the Montreal area. Everyone gets on the transport plan but he wants to do everything back to his head. He also wants to replay in the governance structures in Montreal. 
Our way of seeing things is completely opposite. I want to work with people, not against them. 
The transport plan of Montreal, we will implement it. Instead of multiplying crises, we will go for quick and concrete results for Montreal! 
A Quebec party government will create a ministerial committee and will be a minister responsible for Montreal.  I make a commitment to you today: we, Montreal, we will deal with it. 
In conclusion you will allow me to return to the elections that will take place in eight days. These elections are very important. 
In eight days it will be up to us, it will be up to you to choose.  Mr. Charest leads an old tired and worn government. Mr. Legault wants to put the trouble absolutely everywhere and multiply crises. 
I want to bring peace, put back order and get results for Quebecers. I want Montreal to be an international showcase for Quebec. I want French to be seen as an asset, culture as a great strength. 
I am thinking of companies as a factory moment that make us proud. I am thinking of the planes we build, to the drugs we are inventing, the video games we design and that we export all over the world. 
What I want for Quebec and for Montreal is telling us, we help and enrich us. 
I hope that Montreal becomes the metropolis of a rich, free and independent country. Thank you. 
