Here is the address of Pauline Marois, Prime Minister of Quebec, on the occasion of the opening of the Summit on Higher Education: 
The pronounced version is authentic 
"I would first like to thank you for being here, to participate in this summit on the future of higher education in Quebec. I thank you on behalf of all Quebeckers, because what we are going to discuss about all Quebeckers. 
"The first touchdown are of course students and teachers, researchers and leaders of our institutions. There are also those who are still any young and who may want to access higher education in five or ten years; the oldest, who might want to return to school and improve themselves; There are companies, which are increasingly dependent on the quality of the training of their employees and university research; all those who benefit from the presence of CEGEPS and universities in their environment; And, finally, all those who finance teaching and research with their taxes. 
"We have a collective responsibility to all Quebeckers. This requirement transcends each of us, each of our interests. We all have a success obligation, which will be measured according to our ability to move forward. 
"This is my first message: at the end of the summit, we will have to be able to move forward. 
"Each of us has his ideas on the way that our higher education system should take. However, I believe that most importantly, we agree. Our universities and colleges are one of our greatest collective riches, a valuable property that we need to support. 
"We all agree, too, that knowledge is the surest way to develop our society, our culture, our economy. Education is also the means par excellence of a person's fulfillment. 
"What we need to aim, as society, is excellence. The excellence of teaching, research, management of our institutions and, above all, the excellence of our young people, all those who have the talent and the desire to pursue higher education. 
"We want to build a knowledge society. This aspiration should not divide us, it must unite us. Quebec has just passed through an important social crisis during which we have insisted much on what divides us. Everyone can see that it has moved to Quebec society or higher education. 
"It's my second message: To move forward, we have to focus on what unites us. 
"Of course, it does not mean that disagreements will not persist between us at the end of the summit. This exercise is not intended to pay everything in a few hours. We will continue to work together on Wednesday morning. 
"The Summit is an opportunity to restore dialogue, rebuild bridges and disclose links between us. It is also time to give us common goals and to find together ways to reach them. 
"I have already mentioned it and I would like to give it again today: the government is firm on the principles, but flexible on the means. 
"On the goals, I think we all agree. For example, that higher education is one of the essential engines for our development as a society: we all get along that. 
"We agree that the funding of universities is a very profitable investment for the Quebec nation. So the government is ready to finance our universities adequately, durable and predictable. This funding comes from the pocket of Quebeckers and it is normal that they are assured that this investment is maximized. 
"On the student side, we have always stated that we were guided by two goals: 
"By canceling the exaggerated rise in tuition fees, we have reached a part of our goals. Quebec will remain the place in North America where higher education is the most accessible. Our young people will remain the least indebted students from the continent. We are determined to increase the accessibility of students, the first generation in particular. Universities, students and all Quebec will win. 
"Now, the means may vary. We are very open on that. 
"This is my third message: I ask you, to all, to open up. 
"Our presence at everyone testifies to our commitment to youth, and also towards our higher education institutions. We have the responsibility to move forward to build a quebec knowledge. It's time for everyone to make his way for the top, we move on to another step, we give himself a new momentum. 
"Let's fix common goals, ambitious goals. We will be able to reach them by maintaining a constant, permanent dialogue. 
"What I want is that Quebec restarts the pursuit of excellence, creativity, the development of each of our young people. That's our responsibility. 
"To go ahead, focus on what unites us and open up. 
"I wish you and I wish for all Quebec that we have fruitful exchanges. 
"Thank you again to be here. 
Good summit! » 
