(Jean-François Lisée) 
Yesterday, we enjoyed the extraordinary current and future team of the Parti Québécois. Today, I want to talk to you about my way of seeing my leader role, team leader. 
When I did the search for my book in the Eagle's eye, I plunged for more than a year on René Lévesque. On his way of being both the visionary, the leader, the soul and the animator of the first team of the Parti Québécois. Nobody can ever incorporate as well as he, I think, the people of Quebec. 
Then I had the privilege of rubbing at Jacques Parizeau and see how he led Quebec to a hair of his independence. It was a great school. As advisor, I was struck by the mixture of instinct and determination of Lucien Bouchard. As minister, I saw in Pauline Marois a flawless skill on the files, and a great talent to gather. 
I noticed how everyone has their own style, its own strengths, its own color leadership. 
I'm sometimes asked how I can still stay calm, optimistic despite the pitfalls. Because. Because Lévesque, Parizeau, Bouchard, Marois. 
In recent days, two columnists have used the term "captain" to describe me. I like this. There is this solid boat, the largest political ship in Quebec, the Parti Québécois. Under the direction of its previous captains, the ship led the nation to more social justice, a more modern economy, stronger regions, a more determined promotion of language, culture and identity. 
This ship, our ship, especially a clear Cape: the independence of Quebec. 
A captain is nothing without his crew. Officers, professionals, activists, each relying on the forces of the other to form a diversified and welded team, constantly renewed. Every day, I try to be a captain who knows how to lead, motivate, demand the best of everyone, listen, delegate, synthesize proposals. A captain who knows how to decide, and who knows how to assume. 
But you noticed that the captain always has a senior officer at his side. A lieutenant, a second, or in Star Trek a "Number One". Someone who supports him, who always puts him to the challenge of being better, who does not have the language in his pocket, who helps him correct the shot if necessary. Someone who looks in the same direction, yes, but with another look. 
It's been a long time since I think about it. Since I became leader, in fact, and more actively since the Congress where you have massively expressed your confidence. 
So, yes, having checked that in our statutes, nothing forbade it to me, I decided to appoint a vice-chief. And it's a good time because it's not the job that will miss this year. But how to choose? With all the talent there is in the team, I'm spoiled for choice. 
I thought I had to choose someone who is naturally close to people and demonstrating out of any doubt a constant and sincere concern for their well-being. Someone whose convictions are unshakeable, who knows the party well. Someone who knows how to work in a team and who has already been able to carry out complex files, who has succeeded where many others have failed. Someone who has demonstrated an unparalleled gathering capacity. Someone who loves to innovate. 
It should be done on purpose to choose someone who is complementary. 
I am among the youngest of the baby boomers generation. It would be nice to choose as vice-chief someone of Generation X, the generation that will form, on October 1, an essential contingent of the electorate. 
And, in this year when women take more than ever and impress by their courage and determination, in this year when we are going to form a parity government of the Quebecois party, it seems essential that this person be a woman. And that we say right away that this woman will be the Deputy Prime Minister of the Parti Québécois government. 
I present the first Vice-Chauffe of the Parti Québécois and the Future Vice-Prime Minister of Quebec, Mrs Véronique Hivon! 
(Véronique Hivon) 
Jean-François, I want to say to you first thank you for your trust. Thank you, too, to make the choice of the team, collaboration and collegiality, essential values in politics, where the reign of Egoi is counterproductive and exceeded. 
With this tandem that you imagined, your daring and your willingness to get out of the beaten path assert again once again. What is revealed, too, it's your listening. Your listening to this will of the population that politics presents other models. That it presents us, in particular, something other than solos. Your listening, I see it at work since you are chef and I had the chance to see it in action well before. 
I do not know if you remember this time I invited you as a speaker in Joliette, even before you wanted. It was an external activity in the day of heat wave, it was at least 35 degrees in the shade ... that day, you have not only pronounced a striker speech - that you have not shortened, Despite the heat, are we surprised - but you have taken the time to listen to the comments and answer people from people along and off, with a real concern for their views and their concerns. When you left, you left behind impressed people and delighted to discover, beyond your image of intellectual, a warm man, funny and accessible. 
It is with this same listening that you have seized, in 2014, the issue of social services as the opposition spokesperson, a file with which you were not familiar with and that we could judge far from your "Natural cast", but in which you have invested completely. And it was a great success. 
Whether in the environment of homelessness, in the defense groups of persons autistic or living with intellectual disabilities, with women and men who are struggling in intermediate resources, or with parents until To the end, people you have accompanied, with the heart and energy we know you, until the victory facing the government. A major gain, besides ... you left your mark. 
I am happy to team up with you. I believe that all, our all, will be bigger than the sum of the parties. 
(Jean-François Lisée) 
Véronique, you talked about my work with the deprived. I can testify that in all these people, you left a big brand. All organizations that take care of women and men in need know that you are their ally, boast your listening, your compassion, your patience. 
In fact, it's one of the aspects of our complementarity. I am prompt to seize the opportunity, to react quickly. You often have reason to tell me that you have to think a little more, take more time. I tend to decide in the vib, you tend to round the angles. 
I happen to have ideas, like that of proposing you to be vice-cheese, the next day of the September Congress. But I greet your sense you timing: it is you who insisted to open the year 2018, the election year, with this innovation. 
We have worked a lot together since I've been a chief, for 15 months. We learned to know each other and to rely on each other. This is our beautiful challenge today. We are different, we will stay. And it will happen that we say, even publicly, things a little differently. Journalists will get used to it. People must know that we have two different looks, but we look in the same direction. 
(Véronique Hivon) 
Thank you, Jean-François. 
It is a real honor and a great pleasure to be before you today, alongside our leader, to kick off this last right that will take us to October 1, 2018. 
If I believe in the strength of our tandem, I believe, especially that political parties do not resolve their leaders, and that their vitality is based first and foremost on all the people who are investing there. And that's you! You and the 80,000 members you represent, the largest activist force in Quebec. 
So ... are you ready to write the rest of the story with us? With us, with the impressive team of Quebec party members and with our just as impressive president, Gabrielle? But, above all, are you ready to write the rest of the story with Quebeckers and Quebeckers from all over the regions of all backgrounds? 
Are you ready, as we asked yesterday Régine Laurent, what the Parti Québécois is the engine to rebuild the bond of trust between the population, its elected representatives and its institutions? 
It's good, because it's the wrapped challenge I invite us! 
Because if I present myself before you today with enthusiasm, energy and hope, I know very well that many Quebeckers are currently feeling far from politics, disinterested, sometimes outright disillusioned. 
It is therefore urgent to give them confidence. Confidence in their elected officials and in their institutions, of course. But also confidence in them as a force of change, confidence in their ability to change things by their vote. 
Rebuild trust, it means to offer citizens in manner to stick to their aspirations, transparency, a democratic renewal, with a reform of the voting mode. It means to offer them more than the flavor of the day - which even changes, in some, according to the time of day -; Offer them of depth and rigor, as the program we adopted together in September the proposes. And that means them offering a party formed of people who have convictions and are not afraid to assume them. 
Today, with the gesture that our chef does is a clear step towards renewed confidence that we are crossing. And I am convinced that if we continue to dare and invest the work and energies required, this will not be followed by many others. We will be carrying hope and change, bold but responsible change, that Quebeckers and Quebeckers await. 
So today, I hand you hand. I hand your hand for all, we were tending in our turn. That we tend them as well to the opponents of yesterday as the friends of tomorrow who, beyond certain differences, share common values with us. 
Because, what do you know? The country of Quebec, we will build it with everyone: with the convinced of the first hours, as with young people who have been just a few months. We will build him with those who are not yet convinced, but who will become in the face of the relentless logic of our comment. And we will build it too with those who will never be because they simply have other convictions. But all, we will be together the founders of this country. And that's why we have this great responsibility to always maintain open dialogue with everyone. We have this responsibility to drop walls and build bridges. 
I liked the text of Nathalie Leclerc, yesterday, and I want to ask you: what would you say that we enjoy dreaming in Quebec? 
"They failed because they did not start with the dream. » 
Do you know this phrase of Shakespeare? Well, I have discovered it, and I tell you a little tasty anecdote, as part of a poetry event that stood in Joliette in the fall of 2008. Every window of the city center was decorated with A sentence of an illustrious author. We were then in the election campaign and what a phrase, do you think, had landed in the showcase of the local rented by my liberal opponent? Yes, I give you a thousand: "They have failed because they have not started with the dream. A phrase so revealing, right? And premonitory! 
Because they have failed in Joliette and I was elected! 
They also cruelly failed with their austerity, with their lack of vision, sensitivity and empathy. Well, I suggest that we rehabilitate vision, sensitivity and empathy in politics. 
And I am deeply convinced that yes, in 2018, even though many speak only of individualism, realism, that some are getting into defeatism, one can still dare the collective, idealism, progressing and independentism. ! 
They failed, yes, because they have not started with the dream. I suggest that we leave this sad sentence to our opponents and that we would rather hurt this one: 
"You have to have dreams big enough not to lose sight of them as they continue. » 
Because at the Québécois party, we have dreams. Like children, like parents, like grandparents, like workers, entrepreneurs, artists, newcomers ... we have dreams. What would be a life without dreams? What would a nation without dreams would be? We have dreams, dreams for Quebec, which turn into a visions then in projects. With the largest project for a nation, the most normal for projects, that of getting full independence. 
Yes! "You have to have dreams big enough not to lose sight of them as they continue. » 
A sentence that probably resonates to you, all, who work every day, in calm weather as in more stirred weather, for Quebec, inspired by your beliefs, our beliefs, the deepest. 
Dear delegates, dear members, it's time to engage. It's time to give everything. As every day Jean-François Lisée. 
It's time to keep writing together, with strong leadership, the history of the Parti Québécois. A story of pride, solidarity and combativity, a story in the image of the Quebec people. 
Thank you! Strongly the following! 
(Jean-François Lisée) 
We are inventing something new today together. You and me, you and us. The beginning of a new experience, a new bond of trust between the Quebec party and the women and men of Quebec. 
This tandem, this partnership, this ticket, we have a good idea of how to make it live, on a daily basis, in the Party, to the National Assembly and to meet people, from tomorrow. It will be a pleasure to make you discover it. 
And our task at all, from now on, is to let everyone know. For a gender parity, for a strong state in the service of people, for a strong state to succeed independence, you have to vote Lisé-Hivon 2018! 
