Here is the speech by Pauline Marois, Prime Minister and Head of the Parti Québécois, on the occasion of the opening of the National Council on Quebec's international relations. 
The pronounced version is authentic 
I'm really happy to meet you. I thought a lot of you in recent weeks. 
We have heard people say that volunteers in political parties no longer existed. It may be the case elsewhere but, the Parti Québécois, there are still thousands of volunteers. Quebeckers who spend time and energy forward their ideals. And the proof is there, in front of me: hundreds of devoted volunteers in Quebec and the idea that brings us together, that of making Quebec a country! 
The Parti Québécois, women and men gathered around this belief that to exist fully, Quebec must make its own decisions. 
There are more people in our party left and more on the right. There are 18-year-olds and others who are 88 years old. There are people from Gaspésie and others from Lévis. De Jonquière to Chibougamau, via Trois-Rivières and Baie-Comeau. From left, right, from east to west and north to the south, which brings us together, what we want is independence! 
We also heard Philippe Couillard assert that the Liberal Party had become a machine to pick up money and that he wanted him to become a party of ideas. It would be a whole revolution ... 
I still remember this famous time when a Liberal activist wanted to debate the creation of a commission of inquiry: not a single liberal dared to support it. 
The Quebec party, it is a party of ideas and convictions. 
Experience has taught us that it is a democratic culture that does not appear spontaneously. At home, they are the activists - volunteers - who build the program. Unlike others, the Parti Québécois is able to apply its ideas and change Quebec. We must do it by listening to people, listening to everyone. 
That the government fits along the way, it's normal and it's desirable. Our goal is not to be right all the time. Our goal is to move forward, to have changed. And since September 4th, if there is something I am absolutely certain is that Quebec has already changed a lot. 
We are going forward! 
