Quebec, the 19th of February 2020 - the member for Rimouski and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in terms of social solidarity and social services, Harold Lebel, as well as the member for the Madeleine Islands and spokesperson. Health, Joël Arseneau, in concert with several community organizations, whose right A-Cophan, claim an immediate adjustment to the calculation of the personal expenditure allowance for persons hosted in intermediate or family-type (RI-RTF) ) This morning at the National Assembly, they also filed a petition in this direction. 
IN SHORT 
The Governmental Plan of Action for Economic Inclusion and Social Participation 2017-2023 aimed to release 100,000 people from poverty; Unfortunately, some of the steps it contains come to do the exact opposite. "At the time, the providers of social solidarity living in a RI or a RTF - often people with intellectual disabilities, a disability or a spectrum disorder of autism - had been delighted to learn that the State would improve their personal expense allowance. But I let you imagine their surprise and disappointment when they realized that these few dollars would go directly into the pockets of the RAMQ, who took the opportunity to increase their rents! "Abstract Joël Arseneau. 
Indeed, on the one hand, the government has enhanced the $ 73 per month in 2018. On the other, the RAMQ found good to increase monthly RI-RTF rents from an almost equivalent amount. A directive temporarily has paced the problem, but it has not been renewed. As a result, in 2019, it was even worse; Some people have even seen their allocation of several tens of dollars! 
The hon. Member for Rimouski asks the government to show empathy. "We do not talk about astronomical sums! For the state, they are negligible. But they are significant for these 8,000 vulnerable people. The anomaly must be corrected now; Moreover, in 2018, François Legault that I know denounced this injustice, "he recalled. 
François Winter, spokesman for the rule, abounds in the same direction: "Nearly 1600 people today ask the Government of Quebec to respect its government policies towards the most vulnerable people in our society. The personal expense allowance must be increased; It's a matter of equity, "he claimed. 
