Welcome, Dear Delegates, to this extraordinary modernization conference, this reinvention conference, new horizons, at this congress for a new Parti Quebecois! 
It is with great pride that I graduate our extraordinary congress. Pride, because I look at the way already traveled since our national council last March and I see everything we have already accomplished! 
First, the decision taken together, unanimously to hold, for the first time in our history, a Congress before holding a clerical race. The decision, therefore, to take control of our modernization, to appropriate, as volunteer activists, passionate about Quebec and determined, our balance sheet, our failures and our successes, to appropriate the definition of the necessary changes to reinvent our party and Our country project. 
In the last few months, volunteer activists have led an unprecedented approach. It is the militant leadership of the national executive council and all the bodies that brought together thousands of sympathizers of independence and our political training to imagine and open a new future for the Parti Québécois. 
It is these women and men, like you and like me, who have their professional life, their family life and who choose to give pretty much everything else to our cause, by convictions, for love for Quebec. They are the ones who have planned, organized, trained, gathered, animated, coordinated, sought, written, proposed throughout the last few months, to arrive today, at this historical congress. 
If I had to measure my hope in the future of our party and our future country to the efforts, passion and professionalism with whom this congress approach was realized, I would say that I am without worry any for the following things. 
To complete this approach, we have worn out of lucidity, we broke taboos, we opened an unprecedented introspective window. Change is not a spring breeze, a flower garden or walking on the beach. It is not done very slowly. It is not done in one night or even in a weekend. But already, the last year has been the most contributors to profound changes for our political training. 
Now the new Parti Québécois will be clear and limpid: our actions will be guided, first and foremost, by independence. Because offering independence is to offer freedom. It is to offer to breathe, dream. It is to offer to decide by ourselves, for ourselves, which is good for us. To create a brand new country in the image of today's Quebec. It is offering the love and pride of our language, our culture, our identity. It is offering to share this identity with the world. It is to offer, to share, to enrich oneself with all the nations of the globe. 
And in this sense, it is a project that is fundamentally open, fundamentally accessible to all. All Quebeckers can win, we are convinced. And the new statutes we will adopt this weekend will give us the means to work in this direction and with formidable efficiency. They will give us the means to recover in the service of our nation and independence by addressing, on all occasions, the immense advantages of this freedom for all citizens. 
Indeed, this weekend, together, we will improve and adopt the reforms started in the spring. And although it is the culmination of an important chapter of our history, it is only the beginning of another, even more important because it will be for each of us to embody this new party Quebecers. 
What does that mean? Well we could start, tomorrow, by electing a new president, Dieudonné Ella Oyono, who perfectly represents this wind of freshness and gathering! We could then enjoy the complementary election in Jean-Talon, with our dynamic candidate Sylvain Barrette, to engage a dialogue with the citizens on their vision and our vision of a freer. And after, we could make our race to the chieftaincy, our orientation congress and the election of 2022 of opportunities to make the trial of the federal regime and the promotion of our country project! 
You see as our relaunch is well started!? How change is felt! Do you feel it ?? 
In fact, it's simple: enjoy every opportunity to advance the Quebec nation towards its full and complete freedom, it is to remain true, it is to be constant, solid, it is to offer Quebeckers deep beliefs. It is inviting citizens to share our project for reasons that are important to them, and adapt our project to today. It's proposing steps to find our collective pride. To increase the freedom of all and each. For everyone to win. 
And speaking to win ... 
I would immediately want to give the floor to the leader of the Bloc Québécois, Yves-François Blanchet! 
