It is a huge honor for us, parliamentarians, and for all Quebeckers, to receive you here in the enclosure of our National Assembly, one of the oldest parliamentary democracies in the world. 
Your presence in Quebec, Mr. President, testifies to the direct, privileged and fraternal relationship between our two nations. 
The unique links that unite us to France can be explained, of course, by this magnificent and rich language that we share. 
But this Franco-Quebec proximity, it also includes by a historical trajectory that was common to us for a while, for more than two hundred years. We have, since then, from each other. 
These particular links, we have been able to measure the sole and help to maintain them with you in the last two years. 
In this regard, let me thank you for the magnificent welcome you have reserved for the Premier of Quebec Pauline Marois during his French soil visits, in October 2012 and December 2013. 
Mr. Chairman, you reaffirmed the traditional position of France with regard to Quebec. You are for continuity, had you said then. 
We welcome your sensitivity towards Quebec, very real. 
Our nations grow up and face ever greater challenges. But we are well equipped. 
In this respect, I can not ignore France's magnificent performance, which was honored this year by receiving one, but two Nobel Prizes. 
First, the Nobel Prize for Literature, awarded to the novelist Patrick Modiano. He is the French 15eur receiving this distinction. 
Then, in another universe, it's Jean TirOle, a teacher of the Toulouse School of Economics, who was awarded the Nobel Prize for Economics. 
Since we are in the honors, I take this opportunity to recall the decision of the French Academy, which is not another year, did Dany Laferrière the first Quebecer to attach this prestigious institution. 
Mr. Chairman, we know the protector of the Academy; We are happy and proud that thus accessing immortal status a Quebecer from Haiti, a Quebecker "Tight Médéé" - to use an expression now consecrated here by the humorist Boucar Diouf. 
Quebec and France know how to make alliance, carry out fighting side by side and triumph. Our work has allowed great achievements. 
Let's talk about the UNESCO Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. 
Next year, we will celebrate the anniversary of this convention. We know that the battle for the cultural exception is not over. 
Since "losing languages is to undo the human biodiversity," says our great poet Gilles Vigneault, it is necessary to take up the digital challenge for the wealth that cultural plurality is to be preserved.  Frenchman occupies only 3% of space on the web, but still remains one of the first ten languages used. 
We must act together to enhance the creation and dissemination of francophone digital content. 
The routes must be found to strengthen the Convention and ensure that trade agreements take it into account, such as the very recent global economic and commercial agreement between Canada and the European Union. 
Together, together with the Member States of the Francophonie, we can and we must also lead the battle of the promotion of French in the world. 
Following the adoption of the Integrated French Language Promotion Policy at the Kinshasa Summit, it is a shared responsibility that we have to radiate the French language on the international scene.  The language of Molière, from Balzac, also that of Miron, Laferrière, and from so many others, must be heard proudly in all international forums. 
The power of French, on the world linguistic chessboard, recalls the interest of doing business in French and to contribute actively to the economic development of the world. 
According to the excellent report of Mr. Jacques Attali on the Francophonie as a driver of sustainable growth, "two countries sharing linguistic links tend to exchange about 65% more than if they did not.. It is not negligible. 
The economic potential of the Francophonie is enormous and must be further exploited. However, according to the demographic projections, the future of the Francophonie will emerge on the African continent. 
It is southerned that the growth of French speakers will be done. It goes without saying that French-speaking countries can continue to occupy ever more influential positions in the International Organization of La Francophonie. 
Africa, which particularly needs our solidarity right now, is also the Francophone economic space offering the greatest potential for prosperity. 
At the economic level, France and Quebec are already exceptional partners. 
The importance of foreign investment between our two territories testifies. And when they think in Canada, it is in Quebec that the vast majority of French subsidiaries are settled. 
Last year, trade in goods between Quebec and France were $ 3.7 million, an increase of almost 4% compared to 2012. This makes France the third economic partner of the Quebec. 
We must continue on this momentum by creating even more favorable conditions for the fruiting of these exchanges, the mobility of capital, entrepreneurs and students. 
The Canada-European Free Trade Agreement must also be an opportunity for marked growth in our economic relations. 
In Quebec, the place occupied by small and medium-sized enterprises is considerable. 
Our industrial net is very diverse. 
These SMEs provide 87% of jobs in our economy and now project on the world stage with great success. This must continue. These entrepreneurs need to feel accompanied at certain crucial moments of their development. 
In France, moreover, you support these companies in a variety of ways. 
The model of your public investment bank should be emphasized, launched in January 2013 on your initiative, which has the mission, in particular, to support businesses all over their life cycle in the national and international market. 
I therefore wish that the French success type of initiatives, promoting the priming, development and internationalization of companies, to continue and inspire us in the decisions we will have to take, here in Quebec. 
On the paths of the future, there are also many young French and Quebec researchers who only ask to use their knowledge for the benefit of innovation and development. 
It must be recalled, the peculiarity of the France-Quebec relationship is defined and has been weaving for a long time in the laboratories of our respective universities. 
It is France and Quebec who graduate the largest number of doctoral students in the world! 
These doctoral students, ever more mobile, supervised by masters of Quebec and France, are the links of this knowledge society that we desire always stronger and promising. 
This cooperation must also support the spirit of innovation that will allow the outbreak of dynamic young companies, creating jobs, and which will project our economies to advanced sectors, and respectful of our planet.  Because it must be said, Mr. Chair: Under your five-year, environmental issues occupy a place of choice. 
If you and I are more than favorable for continual warming France-Quebec, we do not see a good eye global warming. 
At the end of next year, Paris will host the United Nations Committee on the Climate. It is an important event for France, and for humanity; You have also sponsored a historical responsibility of France. 
Your special envoy for the protection of the planet, Nicolas Hulot, has come to Canada and Quebec recently to open roads. We recognize in him the carrier of one of the most important files of this century. 
At the national and international levels, the necessary decisions must be taken to combat, by all possible means, against climate change. 
Quebec scored its disagreement with Canada, which, unfortunately, was the first state to withdraw from the Kyoto Protocol in 2011. 
The Quebec National Assembly voted unanimously to reaffirm its commitment to the efforts undertaken in Kyoto. 
Quebeckers are deeply attached to the protection of their environment. 
You surely noticed it, our great river, the very one that Embrunta Samuel de Champlain in 1608, is a source of pride and wealth. This St. Lawrence River, which crosses time, our history and our territory, is our openness to the world. It reminds us every day the importance of ensuring the protection of the planet. 
We therefore wish a Conference of Inspirational Paris. 
In this regard, we share the wish expressed by your Government, that this conference is a "commitments and not of Laity". 
The synthesis of the report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, published Sunday reminds us of the urgency of immediate mobilization of all decision-makers, otherwise the impacts will be irreversible. 
Mr President, in this evolving world, where the challenges get complex, where the benchmarks change without shouting, in a world that continues to redefine, the sustainability of the direct and privileged relationship between France and Quebec takes all its value. 
Mr. Chairman, we know, a friendship still needs to be maintained. Nothing should ever be held for granted on both sides. 
Although the past is often guarantor of the future, it is important to take care of this particular relationship. 
Your presence here today is historic. It is in line with that of the great French leaders who, in the present, have understood the future. 
The Innable of the English PUISSIONS DELIANCE ALUVE AU LEV GIVET, and, he arises, traverser an oss ... et the the temperatures. 
Mr. Chairman, I sincerely say: long life to this beautiful friendship! 
