Shawinigan - Minister of Finance and Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, and the hon. Member for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, today met the various socio-economic actors affected by the Rio Tinto Alcan (RTA) production stop in Shawinigan. to discuss with them the future of the site. 
"The government is actively working to give a new life to Shawinigan alumiller. As soon as the factory is announced, we have gathered representatives of RTA, Investissement Québec and the Ministry of Finance and the Economy to accompany the company in its efforts to find a new vocation. facilities and thus preserve the local economy. Our government will continue to support workers and the Shawinigan area. I will continue to be regularly in contact with local stakeholders, including the member for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, "said Minister Marceau. 
"We are satisfied to have been able to take stock of the situation with local stakeholders. All partners involved - the elected representatives of the region, the leaders of the plant, workers and their union - actively contribute to the search for solutions for the future of the site. They will be able to rely on the support and resources of the government in this process. The challenge is great, but our motivation is even more so, "said the Blanchet minister. 
MP Luc Trudel emphasized the great maturity of economic stakeholders who, despite the blow, remain in solidarity. "We quickly made the search for solutions. Already, RTA, the city of Shawinigan and Investissement Québec work in the pursuit of industrial activities on this site. A local action committee will soon be put in place to oversee the slowdown of operations. The work carried out by the various stakeholders will limit the consequences of closing the alumiller and will allow Shawinigan to cross this period of change. I thank all the speakers encountered for their commitment. Together, we will get there! , "He concluded. 
