Quebec- Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, would pay tribute to the exceptional know-how of Quebec cheesemen, who has been recognized once More at the 30Congrès of the American Cheese Society, which took place in Madison, Wisconsin, from July 31 to August 3. In total, 23 decorations were delivered to companies from here, which includes 4 first places and 10 seconds. 
"We can only be proud of the success again this year by Quebec cheesers, especially since a record number of 1,794 cheeses from the United States, Mexico and Canada were in the running in this important competition. . Thanks to the talent of the craftsmen from home, combined with the expertise of the largest Quebec companies, our cheese sector is still full boiling. Quebec alone manufactures more than half of Canadian cheeses and it stands out by offering fine products, so innovative as originals. The honors conferred once more by the American Cheese Society at Quebec cheesers clearly confirm, "said Francois Gendron. 
Cradle of the first cheesery school established in Canada, Quebec can count on a more dynamic cheese industry. If we omit the 23 prizes harvested this year by the cheese factory Bergeron, the cheese factory the detour, the cheese factory The sheep, the cheesery Alexis de Portneuf (Saputo, specialty cheese division), the cheese factory 1860 Duvillage (Saputo, division of specialty cheeses), the FRITZ Kaiser cheese factory, the cheesery of the Abbey Saint-Benoît, the heritage butrarie, the new France cheesery and Agropur, Fine cheese business, 239 honors that have been granted to our Fromagers and their products in the context of this contest for the last 12 years. 
"Our excellent cheeses undoubtedly contribute to shape that strong identity of Quebec's food, which is a foundation stone of food sovereignty policy. Prestigious competitions like the American Cheese Society is an opportunity to make them radiant as they deserve and introduce them to a growing number of consumers. I am very happy! , "Added the minister. 
The American Cheese Society is a non-profit organization that has its headquarters in Denver, the United States. Founded in 1983, this association's mission is to promote the American cheese industry and support development. It now has 1,571 members, 36% of which are retailers, restaurateurs, distributors or brokers. Among these members, 31 come from Quebec and 41 from other Canadian provinces. 
Interested persons will find further information on the policy of food sovereignty by regularly consulting the blog (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.caou websitewww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and diet. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
