AMOS / - Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Minister responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue Region and MP Abitibo-West, Mr. François Gendron, today announced today on behalf of the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, the permanent implementation of the Programmetchnics of Delinquarteauceauceau Campus of Cégep of Cégep de Abitibi-Témiscamingue. 
Recall that since 2009, CEGEP could offer this curriculum on a temporary basis. Moreover, the number of registrations during this period reflects the need for training in the region. "This is an excellent news for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, but also for all future graduates in this area, as the demand for people with this type of qualification is favorable and recurring. I am very pleased to see the permanence of this program in our region, "said Minister Gendron. 
The ongoing authorization was granted to the CEGEP of Abitibi-Témiscamingue on May 28, 2013. The educational institution already has the necessary facilities and equipment to provide this training. The program can accommodate an annual cohort of 25 students from the 2013-2014 school year due to the needs of recurring regional workforce and good recruitment potential of CEGEP. As part of its provisional authorization, CEGEP already hosted over 25 beginners per year for this curriculum. Let us mention that potential graduate employers is the AMOS holding institution that commits new correctional agents each year. 
"The authorization to offer this program on a permanent basis aims to meet the needs of skilled labor in this area in Abitibi-Témiscamingue. The contribution of CEGEPs to the vitality of the regions is undeniable. In each of them, CEGEPs represent important poles of economic, social and cultural development. It is for this reason that we will take into account the reality of the regions as part of the work of the site on the offer of collegial training which derives from the Summit on Higher Education, "said Minister Duchene. 
Quebec now has six educational institutions offering, on a permanent basis, training in delinquency intervention techniques, while another CEGEP offers it interim. According to Employment-Québec, the employment outlook is favorable, the graduates of this program of study being very requested. At the provincial level, 75% of the graduates of the program are a job less than a year after completing their training. 
"Over the past four years, we have demonstrated the relevance of offering this program. This confirmation, which affects community and social domains, will allow CEGEP to better meet the many needs in the region. In addition, this training, originally supported by the Maisonneuve College, is very good in relation to the offer of university programs at the University of Quebec in Abitibi-Témiscamingue, "said CEGEP's Director General. , Mr. Daniel Marcotte.
At the same time last year, a first cohort of ten students had graduated and a second cohort of eleven students was about to receive it. "The existence of such training has a huge impact on a campus like ours. Indeed, this program currently includes about sixty students out of a total of 262 to our establishment. We are talking about more than 20% of the collegiate population of our campus, "said the director of the Amos campus, Ms. Dany Charron. 
