Quebec- One year after the election of the Government of Philippe Couillard, the hon. Member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, traces the record of liberal actions against families, against the regions and against equal opportunities. Quebec. 
"After one year, we find that the government has a plan: to rebate Quebec and put into crumbs the development tools we have given ourselves over the past 40 years. Quebeckers already have enough liberal cuts. Unfortunately for them, the worst is coming, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
"The Liberal Plan is not the zero deficit; It is to remove families and regions with the means to move forward. This centralizing government is wrong. Not only has it has no policy of economic development or stimulation of job creation but, in addition, the austerity it imposes hinders the economy and mine the confidence of entrepreneurs and families, which does not does not encourage investment. The result is that the government's budget estimates are unrealistic, based on a financial framework that does not hold the road. The budget balance will not be achieved, not to mention the draconian cups in health and education, "he added. 
Cups in the future of Quebec 
"Education is the best way for the future and development for Quebec. Philippe Couillard has decided, by limiting increases in education spending at 0.17%, to cut directly into the services offered to our young people. Healthy, more than half of the increase in expenses goes to doctors' salaries. What remains for patients?, Asked the Leader of the Official Opposition. 
Stéphane Bédard noted that disputes have many of the arrival of the government of Philippe Couillard. "To the Parti Québécois, we have managed to relax the general atmosphere and maintain social peace. Since the return of the Liberals, we have experienced a very large number of challenges: workers, families, vulnerable people, regions, community organizations, students ... all got up against toxic austerity, "he continued. 
Improvisation, retreats and slippages 
The weakness of the ministerial team has been very harmful for the credibility of the government. The departure of Yves Bolduc, after a series of unfortunate bounds, is only the symptom of this reality: the ministers are disconnected, far from the land and their respective partners. The only thing that takes precedence for them is to sell the dismantling plan of the Prime Minister and his President of the Treasury Board, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
An official opposition to the service of Quebecers and Quebeckers 
"We were pleased to welcome a new member in the riding of Richelieu, Sylvain Rochon. Liberal austerity was rejected by the population of this constituency. Our team is strong, well established. We defend the values of the Parti Québécois, we act for families, workers, regions, equal opportunities. This is what we believe, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
"Philippe Couillard is the Prime Minister who defends the interests of Quebec. For him, it is not Quebec's place that matters is to put Quebec in its place. He is unable to stand in front of the federal government to claim what Quebeckers are entitled. The country to which the Prime Minister believes does not exist. More than ever, it is the country of Quebec that must be given to the world, "concluded the official opposition. 
