Trois-Rivières- Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet, wishes to the point of former Aléris Aluminum Canada S.E.C. 
"The Department has taken care of all the work required to eliminate the health risks of the population. Liquid CBPs were eliminated in September 2012. Groundwater is continuously pumped, which limits contamination inside the field. Our priority is to ensure the safety of the population as well as the protection of the environment. Everything has been implemented so that the work is taking place quickly, and we will continue to act in this direction, "said Minister Blanchet. 
Recall that the former milling plant has been closed in 2008 without the appropriate environmental protection measures being put in place. The 70 years of industrial activities on the site contaminated buildings, floors and groundwater. As a result of the closure, the building and the field were sold at Tr inc Development Corporation. (CDTR), which also neglected to put in place the appropriate measures to protect the environment. The risks reached a level that required the intervention of the department. 
The factory dismantling started in 2009 and was interrupted in February 2012 by the MDDEFP due to shortcomings in the Environmental Quality Act. 
Due to the environmental risks of the site, orders were issued between February 2011 and June 2013, three of which are still in effect: 
the prescription # 581, served in CDTR in February 2011, requires the operation of a floating phase hydrocarbon recovery system and ground and groundwater characterization; 
the order # 609, served on May 17, 2012 at CDTR and recycling Arctic Beluga inc., aims at the elimination of hazardous materials present on the site and the cleaning of surfaces contaminated by these materials; 
"Inaction or incorrect management of the dangers posed by the site by the companies referred to in order to comply with the orders have ensured that the Ministry has taken the work in charge, a bit like in the cases of Pointe-Claire and Lac. -Mégantic. It therefore performs, at the expenses of companies, the required work, such as the operation of the groundwater pumping system to ensure that contamination does not migrate out of the site. Since June 2012, the Department has also granted several contracts, particularly in order to eliminate all liquid PCBs present on the site, carry out an inventory of hazardous materials and securely storing hazardous materials in containers, "said the Minister Blanchet. "The site has been stable since the department has taken over the work, which has eliminated the risks for the population," he says. 
In addition, given the inaction of the persons concerned, a public call for tenders will soon be launched in order to grant a contract for the elimination of residual and dangerous materials present on the site, the cleaning of the buildings and the realization of a Complete characterization study of the place. This study will obtain a precise portrait of the contamination of the land and thus determine the rehabilitation work to be carried out afterwards. The MDDEFP will then take the necessary measures to ensure that the rehabilitation of the site is carried out by the manner (s), whatever they are, and at their expense. 
"I can not enter more in detail not to harm the current procedures, but I can assure you that departmental lawyers have the case in hand and no recourse, anyone, is dismissed for To enable the implementation of the necessary measures that will guarantee a safe environment for the local population, and a valuation of this site for the trifluvian economy, "concluded the Blanchet minister. 
