Quebec- "Regularly, Quebeckers are witnessing inconsistencies in the francization of immigrant policies. This morning, what we learn in different media strengthens us in our belief that the Liberal government must adopt real francization measures in Montreal and Quebec rather than Anglicize immigrants. » 
This is what the member for Drummond and spokesman of the official opposition in terms of language and immigration, said, Yves-François Blanchet, after having read several cuffs this morning on the situation of French at immigrants. 
He points out that Quebec welcomes 50,000 immigrants a year, but that it is unable to deploy the necessary resources to francize them. However, the government spends millions for Anglicize them. "The problem is not just immigrants do not speak a fairly good English, but that English is required everywhere, including where the law requires French to be the language of use,", has he adds. 
The member for Drummond recalled that during the hearings, at the National Assembly, on the immigration policy filed by Minister Kathleen Weil, several stakeholders denounced the inability of the Quebec state to correctly francize newcomers. "We invite immigrants to Quebec by announcing a French society. But when they turn the ground, those who do not speak French realize that they can perfectly live in English and those who speak French realize just as fast as without English, they will have trouble finding a job there "Pursued Yves-François Blanchet. 
The Parti Québécois asks Minister Weil to correct this new inconsistency of the Liberal government in immigration and francization. "It should not be surprising now that half of immigrants who make a linguistic transfer to English. Minister Weil must put an end to this unhealthy ambiguity; The working language, the language of display and the common language in Quebec, it is French. The minister must deploy all the necessary resources to francize our immigrants and stop contributing to the Anglicisation of Montreal, "said Yves-François Blanchet. 
