Montreal- The Party candidate in the riding of Rousseau and Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, the candidate in Vachon and Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, the candidate in Saint? Jerome, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and The candidate in Montarville, Simon Prévost, reacted positively to the announcement of the partnership between Osisko and Yamana Gold. 
"It's a very good news for the Quebec mining industry. This industry is an important sector of our economy. Despite the global context, Quebec draws its gambling pin very well in this area. Quebec offers, with its new law on mines and a royalty regime adapted to the realities of the industry, a stable and predictable regulatory framework, which makes us very competitive globally, "said Minister Martine Ouellet . 
Indeed, an agreement was concluded between the two mining for the creation of a partnership which will hold the mining and exploration assets of Osisko, including the Malartic Mine, Abitibi-Témiscamingue. 
"Osisko remains, with the support of the Fund and Investment of Quebec, an independent listed company. The involvement of the Caisse allows to preserve the future of Osisko and to give it the means to resist other purchase offers. Thanks, in particular, in the action of the Fund, Osisko now has additional means to preserve a large head office in Quebec, "said Minister Nicolas Marceau. 
"The liberal approach for the Quebec mining sector is to leave it. Moreover, Philippe Couillard has proved it during the six months he has served on the Board of Directors of the Canadian Royalties mining. In the company of his associate Arthur Porter, he recommended the sale of Canadian Royalties assets to Chinese interests, "said Simon Prévost. 
This transaction demonstrates that the Caisse succeeds in fulfilling its money order and economic development mandate. The agreement between Osisko and Yamana Gold, with an overall value of $ 929.6 million, is made possible thanks to the investment of the fund. 
For two years, the assets of the Caisse in Quebec has increased by $ 12.6 billion, including 10 for the Quebec private sector. In comparison, in the previous two years, the assets of the Fund had grown only $ 3.8 billion for the same sector. 
"After having opposed for ten years at the Fund's Economic Development Mission, the Liberal Party took a 180 degree turn and announced at the beginning of the election campaign that it is now okay. For government funds deposited by the Caisse to be used to protect our Quebec florets. Will the real test of the Liberals be as follows: Will they support the bill that the Parti Québécois will give back to the Caisse de laptop its dual performance and economic development mission of Quebec? Do they recognize, finally, that the bill imposed by the gag by the Liberal government, in 2004, was a mistake we now have to correct? Asked Pierre Karl Péladeau, candidate in Saint? Jerome. 
The Government of the Parti Québécois announced in its latest budget that it would quickly follow the report of the Expert Group on the Protection of Head Office, in particular by amending the Act respecting corporations by stocks to give more power to the advice of 'business management. For public companies registered in Quebec, it will mean that they will have the means to block hostile shopping offers. 
Quebec will also pursue the work undertaken by the Autorité des Marchés Financiers to convince its counterparts from the other Provinces of the property to improve in this respect the protections offered to companies under the Securities Act. 
"The presence of social seats is essential to our economic development. We must remember the headquarters in Quebec, especially for our florets of the economy, as is the case with the Osisko mining. Only the Parti Québécois has a clear strategy for the retention of our headquarters, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
Watch press clause. 
