Here is the address of the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, pronounced on the occasion of the announcement of the new university pavilion in Sept-Îles. 
The pronounced version is authentic 
"My colleague, Ms. Lorraine Richard MP for Duplessis, President of the Committee on Culture and Education, 
"Mr Serge Lévesque, Mayor of the City  seven-Îles 
"Monsieur André Martel, President and Chief Executive Officer Albeette, 
"Mr. Martin Gauthier, Rector of the University of Quebec in Chicoutimi, 
"Mr. Donald Brase, General Manager of CEGEP of Sept-Îles, 
"I am told that Ms. Laurence Methot, Mayor of Port Cartier, is also with us ... 
"Today we are witnessing a brilliant demonstration of know-how and collaboration. 
"Administrators of the Cégep of Sept-Îles, from the University of Quebec to Chicoutimi and Aluminé Alouette collaborated together in a very fruitful way. 
"Thanks to their vision, thanks to their determination, the Eastern Community of the North Shore will grow up its offer of university training. 
"I am therefore happy to be among you to officially announce the construction of a new university pavilion in Cégep of Sept-Îles. 
"This pavilion follows an agreement between the Government of Quebec and Alumina Alouette signed on October 31, 2011. 
"It is part of the wake of the commitments contracted by Alumaerie Alouette in exchange for the allocation of a block of 500 megawatts of energy to allow the realization of the third phase of expansion of its factory. 
"Alouette will devote 10 million for the construction of this university pavilion of 2,700 m2. 
"This investment is an important legacy to the community of Sept-Îles. I want to salute this important commitment to Alumaerie Alouette to the community where it is implanted. 
"This project will also be creative jobs during its construction during the next year. I am told that at least 25 people will work full time, not counting outsourcing. 
"This project is also an eloquent example of a successful partnership. 
"In the first place, a partnership with the most important Employer in Sept-Îles, the largest amuminer of the Americas, the most efficient in the world in terms of energy efficiency: Aluminé Alouette. 
"Then, a partnership with the CEGEP of Sept-Îles and the University of Quebec in Chicoutimi, well anchored in their environment, and dynamify their region for more than 40 years. 
"This is a good example where universities and CEGEPs have brilliantly united their resources by competing to effectively play their role. 
"The University of Quebec in Chicoutimi and Cégep of Sept-Îles prove that they are real partners both in the field of training and research. 
"Together, they put forward a model of development of higher education in the region based on synergy between university and college education orders. 
"This is what makes the strength of a teaching network. 
"One of the goals that my department has settled, in the wake of last winter higher education, is to promote first generation academic graduates. 
"There is no greater pride for a family than to see one of them getting, for the first time, a university baccalaureate. 
"And often, this first success makes oil stain and encourages brothers and sisters, cousins or cousins, to borrow the same path. 
"We are convinced that the construction of this pavilion will encourage more and more citizens of the North Shore to undertake university studies to reach the Quebec average. 
"The Cégep-University collaboration and private enterprise is also one of the avenues that will be explored and put forward in the development of the new National Research and Innovation Policy. 
"We will have the opportunity to reduce shortly at the time of the launch of this policy. 
"In the meantime, I can still reveal that this policy will be at the heart of a project of society, in which Quebeckers will recognize themselves. 
"In compliance with government vision, today's announcement demonstrates that we are working to build a strong and competitive Quebec. 
"I congratulate the work of all, local stakeholders, private companies and representatives of the college and university. 
"You have responded to my expectations, among other things, the importance of building this project around existing regional poles that would join the needs of the community. 
"By promoting accessibility to studies, you are actively participating in the development of the region. 
"You can be proud of it. 
"I can not wait to see the realization of this pavilion and I will be happy to inaugurate it and visit it. 
Good luck in your work and of course, I wish a lot of success to all your future students! » 
