Trois-Rivières- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet, has drawn up a very positive assessment of the first months of the implementation of the global strategy for the Future of Lake Saint-Pierre, while it was a transition to Trois-Rivières, today, to announce the award of a $ 200,000 grant over two years to the Solidarity Cooperative of the Biosphere Reserve Lake Saint-Pierre (Coop). 
"Great progress has already been completed since the unveiling of this strategy last February. The many efforts have made it possible to obtain the first results: concrete achievements, increased sums committed, beginning of the fieldwork and setting up work and consultation structures, "said the Minister Blanchet. 
The co-op will thus have the resources to carry out its mandate, which is to see the implementation of concerted restoration projects, to develop Lake St. Peter's development projects and its biodiversity and to identify carrier projects. and job creators. "The Coop has been working for 10 years in the development of Lake Saint-Pierre. The organization has acquired a valuable expertise that will allow us to follow and support the development of the economic potentials of the lake in respect of the environment and citizens, "observed the minister Blanchet. 
Since the beginning of the implementation of the strategy, several financial commitments have been achieved, while other sums have been increased, especially those intended for research. Thus an amount of $ 100,000 from the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP) is now adding to the amount of $ 100,000 already granted by the Ministry of the Ministry. Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology (MESRST). This $ 200,000 fund will stimulate research to improve the knowledge needed to make certain decisions regarding Lake Saint-Pierre and its biodiversity. 
"Our steps for the safeguarding of Lake Saint-Pierre must take root in research and scientific advances. This is the basis of effective concerted action, guaranteeing concrete results. I am convinced that these new investments will serve as catalysts in the field of research. I also formally invite all organizations challenged by environmental issues or research areas related to Lake Saint-Pierre to contribute to this fund, "said Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science And technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne. 
In addition, all the work announced in February 2013 in the intervention plan are progressing as planned. Different work structures have been introduced to promote exchanges and consultation between actors engaged in the strategy and monitoring actions. The ZIP Committee of Lac Saint-Pierre continues to set up the Regional Consultation Table (TCR) from the beginning of 2014. The Interdepartmental Committee for a concerted action plan for the recovery of aquatic habitats at the lake Saint-Pierre (CIPAC-LSPI) has been fully active for a few months now, and a preliminary version of the action plan for the littoral zone is expected within two months. In the course of 2014, this document will be followed by an action plan for tributaries. 
Duck Unlimited Canada (CIC) initiated the restoration of Lavallière Bay and the Saint-Louis marsh. In particular, the ZIP Committee completed agricultural watercourse management work, posed to young people's awareness gestures and continued its approach to knowledge acquisition, including exotic species. The Department's Wildlife Sector has monitored fish populations, continued to cut cormorant and sterilization of egg sterilization aimed at reducing pressure on perchaude populations and has set up a voluntary license redemption program. fishing. 
The MDDEFP also coordinated the preparation and drafting of a summary document presenting the issues and issues related to Lake Saint-Pierre. Many departments participated in this project, which aims to raise awareness of a maximum of actors by proposing for the first time a synthetic and popular portrait. Accessible to all and based on advanced knowledge collected from recognized experts, it allows to share the portrait of the lake's state of health and restoration issues. The document is available for consultation at www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca/eau/lac-st-pierre. 
"This document is an essential resource for anyone who wants to have a global portrait of the current situation of Lake Saint-Pierre and related restoration issues. It responds to our desire to share quality information to allow all stakeholders to commit to the measure of their abilities in the Great Restoration Site of Lake Saint-Pierre. The success of the strategy is based primarily on the commitment and dedication of hundreds of stakeholders. Thanks to the synthesis document, they can now work from a common base, "the minister concluded. 
