The daily news subject to treatment of seniors in CHSLD and private residences give cold in the back. In press points this Saturday, while the Herron Residence of Dorval counted on 31 dead in the last few weeks, the Prime Minister tried to catch a denial for too long. "I mean Quebeckers: it's not acceptable how our elders are treated. It's his words are also ours and those of seniors' defense groups for years. 
It was already easy to assume that the situation was worse than shown in our media. Missing - even being deprived - care, some elders are abandoned, literally! How could we get there? As a spokesperson for the Parti Québécois parliamentary wing for elders for almost 4 years, I no longer have any interventions for reinvestment in CHSLDs, better supervision and support for Private residences for seniors (RPPs), nor how many times we got up to claim better working conditions for beneficiary agents. 
We demanded general states on the living conditions of seniors, to better adapt our society to the aging of the population. We have tried, without success, to integrate organizational abuse into the law to combat elder abuse. 
We even filed a bill to create a real "elder protector", but we always hit a wall. We had to satisfy us with blue flower speeches, of deputies, surprise visits by ministers, forums on good practices ... and a "lunch chsld" for the media. 
And now today, this blindness and inability to recognize the situation in which many more vulnerable seniors live in full face! That is because of this crisis, we recognize the work of nurses, nurses, attendants and beneficiaries. It should be remembered that they gained, in the private, around $ 13 per hour. And that without Covid-19 crisis, they would have lost, on March 31, a premium of $ 180 discount twice a year. We will also take care of reminding it, the time coming. 
Obviously, elders, more vulnerable because of their health or economic situation, are hit hard by the situation. What happens in the CHSLDs and some RPPs is more visible, but let's not forget that many seniors are currently living under conditions of loneliness, accommodation in terms of housing or food, and this for several years. We will call it again too. 
In Quebec, around 40,000 seniors live in CHSLD, and 3000 are waiting to get there. We want to make us believe that the 2600 places created by the Minister Blais - in a new concept of houses for seniors, more expensive to operate - will allow the situation. However, this is only a third speed that is added to a system that already has two, with public CHSLDs and private residences. Yes, it will be necessary to review the situation in the CHSLD, and yes, it will take to keep the practices in use in private residences. 
I also regret a kind of ambient age, exacerbated by the current situation. As if it was not enough that seniors are asked to clo itself, why should they, in addition, suffer the concerned or even accusers of others? As if they placed, all the burden of the transmission of the virus, which is totally wrong. In fact, they are the first victims! 
At the end of this crisis, we will take us, as a society, pull us up, stop procrastinating and take the necessary steps to better protect elders. It means massive investments, it also means a change of mentality. We have to finish with the beautiful speeches and act for a true respect of those who have passed before us and who left us this country. 
