Quebec- The member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Quebec's social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisé, denounces Minister Gaétan Barrette, who attempted 'impose a controversial method for drug supply at the same time. 
"By submitting, Tuesday, 20 new amendments to Bill 20, Mr. Barrette wanted both to weaken the Health Lobbying Act and impose a partial and risky reform on drugs, particularly in terms of the plan. The management of the shortages. In both cases, the President of the Commission, Liberal MP Marc Tanguay, judged the proposals of the minister inadmissible, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
"There is no doubt that the current method, in terms of drug supply, is to see again, but it should not be done in the room, in speed, on a corner of the table. For several months, I claim, on behalf of the Parti Québécois, a new approach to reduce drug costs in Quebec. We are willing to quickly review a bill on the issue and to hear the experts, including the Auditor General, who has devoted a chapter on this in his latest report. But we reject the authoritative approach of the Minister Barrette, which, at first, dumped $ 130 million in the pockets of pharmacists, and then unilaterally flush the rebates offered by the manufacturers, which weakens part of the industry. Industry . It is more than time that the government aborts structural reforms to focus on the revision of this policy and the proper use of public money used for the purchase of drugs, "added the member for Rosemont. 
Jean-François Lisé also considers that the Minister of Health reached "the height of absurd" by challenging the right of the deputy Diane Lamarre, former president of the order of pharmacists, to rule on related issues. to medicines. "The truth is that Diane Lamarre gave the example by asking for not being a spokesperson on these issues, while Gaétan Barrette is an ambulant conflict of interest who negotiates directly with his former union of conditions that He will serve when he returned to radiology, "he concluded. 
