Rouyn-Noranda- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, accompanied by the member for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue and Deputy Parliamentary to the Minister of Labor, Mr. Gilles Chapadeau, confirmed The award of non-refundable financial assistance of $ 138,175 to the Quebec Mining Exploration Association (AEMQ) to support a project estimated at $ 276,350. 
This project aims to create a standard for the Quebec mining industry leading to obtaining a certification in sustainable development. Several partners will be involved: The Mining Entrepreneurship Chair (EMC) UQAT-UQAM, the MISA Group, which represents the niche of underground techno-mines of Abitibi-Témiscamingue resulting from the Agreement, as well as Companies members of the AEMQ. 
"The application of the principles of sustainable development in the activities of the Quebec mining exploration industry is essential to the achievement of Quebec's economic and social growth objectives," said Zakaïb Élain. "The standard and certification from the AEMQ project will enable mining companies to combine both economic development, the protection of the environment and taking into account the interests of the communities. It is an initiative that will greatly promote the adoption of best business practices in exploring our mineral resources. » 
Quebec's Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, proudly announced that "by the creation of this new standard, the Government of Quebec applies the principles of the new Mining Act, adopted on 9 December 2013, and supports initiatives aimed at The responsible development of our mineral resources and dialogue with communities ". 
"For almost a century, Abitibi-Témiscamingue is the main mining region of Quebec," said Gilles Chapadeau. "Underground techno-mined niche members are actively working to recognize this north American and global niche for its innovative, competitive and safe activities within the mining sector. Above all, they make sure to conduct activities that respect the principles of sustainable development. The AEMQ project represents one step further in this direction. » 
Created in 1975, the AEMQ is a non-profit organization whose mission is to promote the sustainable exploration and responsible for the mineral resources of Quebec and their contribution to the Quebec economy. The AEMQ represents more than 250 corporate members and nearly 2,000 individual members. The development of a norm leading to a sustainable development certification is part of the AEMQ mission and promote the increase in mining exploration activities in Quebec. 
"We strongly believe in the importance of setting up a certification for mining exploration," mentioned the Chairman of the AEMQ Board, Mr. Philippe Cloutier. "The impact of the project for the Quebec mineral sector will be the improvement of corporate social responsibility, the development of the current and future competitiveness of the sector, with a sustainable development perspective, as well as the improvement of the Availability of financial levers. » 
The University of Quebec in Abitibi-Témiscamingue (UQAT), firmly anchored in its environment, recognizes that the mining industry plays a key and structuring role in the development of regions in Quebec. To this end, the UQAT and the University of Quebec in Montreal (UQAM) put their expertise in common to develop the UQAT-UQAM EMC. "As a project manager, the EMC mobilized two holders, three teachers and two students in the management of UQAT organizations in order to form a team whose expertise will ensure the success of the project," said Ms. Johanne Jean, Rector of the UQAT. "This research project meets the goal of the 2009-2014 Development Plan of the UQAT, or to contribute to the development of Quebec and the influence of our company internationally. » 
The Agreement (concerted action of regional development cooperation) is a priority for government action aimed at boosting the economy of the Quebec regions. This approach relies on the regional forces, the mobilization and dynamism of business people in the region as well as on the search for excellence in the key sectors of Quebec. It aims to build a competitive regional productive system on the North American and global level in each of the regions of Quebec, by the definition and development of niches of excellence that will become their brand image. 
The region of Abitibi-Témiscamingue has three niches of excellence: 
To learn more about the Agreement and Clovers and Poles of Excellence, consult the www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/accord. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
