Quebec- The Minister Delegate to the Regions, Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Islands-de-la-Madeleine Region and MP Gaétan Lelièvre, confirmed today, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, fisheries and food, François Gendron, the award of financial assistance that can reach 535,532 dollars with aquaculture Gaspésie. Thanks to this sum, the Gaspé company specialized in the Chevalier DeSemstone will be able to carry out a project to improve the environmental performance of its facilities. 
This grant from the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (MAPAQ) is granted under the Financial Support Program for the Development of the Fisheries and Aquaculture Sector and the Financial Support Program for the Improving the environmental performance of firms of salmonids-aquabeu. It is in line with the objectives of Quebec's sustainable water aquaculture strategy. 
The Gaspésian aquaculture project consists in particular by adding five fattening basins, optimizing the sedimentation basin and improving the filtration and oxygenation of the livestock system. These measures will make it possible to substantially improve the environmental management of the company and to increase to 90 tons metrics the volume of fish that can be produced annually. 
"Gaspésie aquaculture is reflecting the dynamism and creativity of our region and the vitality of its aquaculture sector. There is no doubt that the aquaculture project Gaspésie, which reflects its concern for sustainable development, will give it the opportunity to go further and that is why our government gives it its support with pride, " Told Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre. 
Recall that the MAPAQ has implemented, in 2013, the 2013-2018 Action Plan. Develop our fisheries industry and commercial aquaculture. This plan comes to abandon the food sovereignty that is the government's preferred tool to meet Quebec's food needs and support Quebec's economic prosperity. 
Also note that the Gaspésie aquaculture project fits perfectly with the objectives defined in the food sovereignty policy, particularly with regard to developing a prosperous bioalimentary sector, remunerative, employment generator, environmentally friendly and contributing to the dynamic occupation of the Quebec territory. 
"Sustainable development is at the heart of the activities and concerns of MAPAQ and also the policy of food sovereignty that we are to implement. In this context, it is all natural for our government to support companies that take steps to ensure that their activities are the most respectful of the environment, "said Francois Gendron. 
With investments of $ 2.3 billion and an annual food demand of nearly $ 34 billion generating 475,000 jobs, the biofood industry is an engine of the Quebec economy. 
For further information on food sovereignty policy, we invite you to regularly consult the blog devoted to it (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) or to visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
