Quebec- The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Chaudière-Appalaches Region, Ms. Agnès Maltais, is proud to announce, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, the award of $ 30,000 financial assistance at the Farm of Wild Thoughts, located in Saint-Aubert, for the implementation of a project Agro-ecosystem planning. This financial support is granted under the Pilot Support Program for Agriculture Multifunctionality. 
This program aims to encourage agricultural enterprises to implement projects that will benefit their community as well as to the community. The Farm of the Farm of Wild Thoughts is a good example of what the multifunctionality of agriculture represents, since it will allow to rehabilitate a tree falling land to make parcels intended for organic market gardening. Favoring biodiversity amenities will also be carried out. 
"We can only press dynamic businesses such as the farm of wild thoughts that participate in the vitality of the regions of Quebec. The project we encourage today between perfectly in the spirit of the food sovereignty policy we have unveiled last spring and in which the multifunctionality of agriculture occupies an important place, "said Francois Gendron. 
"I want to emphasize the audacity and great sense of innovation of the leaders of the Farm of Wild Thoughts who have chosen to build on the organic culture and on the model of agriculture supported by the Community. I have no doubt that this young company will draw its game pin and that its success will inspire other farmers to take this carrier for the region and for the whole bioalimentary Quebec, "said Agnès Maltais. 
To learn more about the Program for Support for Agriculture Multifunctionality, visit the websitewww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/multifunctionalite. For more information on food sovereignty policy, consult the blog dedicated to it (www.politicsa.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food ( www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
