Montréal- The Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Jean-François Lisée, has supported the Tablanes of the Chiefs, who today proceeded to the launch of his new School of cooking with social flavor, located at the Jean-Talon market. Government financial assistance, $ 20,590, comes from the metropolis' initiative and influence fund, administered by the Secretariat to the metropolitan area. 
"I welcome the social commitment of the Tablanes of Chiefs, whose mission of education and culinary training benefits many young people and families in the metropolitan area. By its actions, the Tablanes of Chiefs promotes the principles of healthy eating and contributes to the development of food autonomy. This is an honorable and essential mission that I am pleased to encourage, "urged the minister. 
Government funding has improved equipment from the organization's premises at the Jean-Talon market, including preparation, cooking and storage spaces. Newly equipped, the kitchen will allow the tables to increase both the number of culinary workshops offered to young people in difficulty and the number of meal preparation, which serve to support the social activities of the organization. 
In Quebec, the social economy sector brings together thousands of companies employing more than 125,000 people. These companies come out of community initiatives and contribute significantly to the vitality of our territories. In fact, the new law on the social economy, adopted by the National Assembly on October 10, recognizes the contribution of the social economy to the socio-economic development of Quebec and aims, in particular, to promote access to measures and programs. public administration for companies in this sector. 
"By actions centered on values such as job creation, the fight against poverty, social inclusion and school perseverance, collective enterprises participate very positively in the socio-economic development of their environment. That's why we recognize their contribution and support the realization of their activities, which benefit the community, "said the minister listed. 
This fund supports the completion of initiatives contributing to the development of the Montreal Metropolitan Region and its influence across Canada and international. It is administered by the Secretariat to the Metropolitan Region, which reports to the Minister responsible for the Montreal Region. 
Attached to the Ministry of the Executive Board, the Secretariat advises the Government of Quebec on any question or measure with a significant impact on the Montreal metropolitan area and its development. He assured the Secretariat of the Departmental Committee of the Metropolitan Region, chaired by Minister Jean-François Lisée. The Secretariat develops the consultation with its various strategic partners in order to promote the consistency and convergence of all interventions, as well as the growth and dynamism of the metropolitan area. 
