Quebec- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élaine Zakaïb, and the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Regions of The Chaudière-Appalaches and the Capitale-Nationale, Ms. Agnès Malteis, announced the establishment of three female entrepreneurship support organizations in the regions of the Chaudière-Appalaches, Lanaudière and Laurentians. 
With the establishment of these last three organizations, the network that offers funding and support adapted to the needs of entrepreneurs is now present in the 17 regions of Quebec. 
"Our government has committed to complement the offer of services for women entrepreneurs. It is now done, "rejoiced Zakaïb Élain. "The growth of our economy is based on entrepreneurship," she recalled. "Gold, more and more women decide to start business and their stakes are often different from those of men who make the same choice. The presence of the Femmessor network across Quebec guarantees all women entrepreneurs, from all regions, access to support for their reality and needs. » 
FEMMESSOR are non-profit organizations that offer funding adapted to the needs of entrepreneurs and offer supported support, training and networking activities, in addition to promoting female entrepreneurship. The FEMMESSOR network comes from a partnership with FILACTION, a foundation division. In each region, it enjoys the support of several middle organizations. 
"Thanks to the dynamism, determination and audacity of businesswomen who do not hesitate to take up challenges, women's entrepreneurship is booming in Quebec," said Agnès Maltais. "FEMMESSOR are the only regional one-stop shops for women entirely. They were born from the will of the business community of each region to meet the specific needs of women entrepreneurs, a desire I greet. Femmessor are really valuable allies in achieving our government's economic growth goals. » 
"It's a work started almost 20 years ago that ends today with the announcement of the creation of the last three Femmessor," said the President of the Femmessor Network, Ms. Gloria Lemire. "The tailor-made approach of FEMMESSOR complete and optimizes the services offered by the various economic development stakeholders in Quebec. Femmessor has been renewed over the years and impose itself as a key player in female entrepreneurship. The next big challenge will be to bring women to grow their business, and Femmessor will be there to accompany them in this way anywhere in Quebec. » 
The Minister Zakaïb concluded by welcoming the commitment of women entrepreneurs who participate in the boards of directors of the Femmessor organizations, including those now implanted in the regions of the Chaudière-Appalaches, Lanaudière and Laurentians. "Their determination allows us to optimize the future of female entrepreneurship in Quebec. » 
To learn more about FEMMESSOR organizations, visit www.femmessor.com. 
