Roberval- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, today confirmed the payment of $ 50,000 financial assistance to the social economy company Stagem, who evolves in the second and third processing sector. This support will achieve a project valued at $ 100,000, which will consolidate 32 jobs. 
"To ensure the prosperity of Quebec, our government privileges all entrepreneurial models, including the social economy," said Zakaïb Élain. "The strategic role of the social economy in the growth of the regions is no longer to be demonstrated. It is really this double economic and social vocation that is the strength of companies like Stagem and ensures their sustainability. We are therefore proud to support this dynamic company in a difficult but essential sector for the region, that of wood processing. » 
Founded in 1984, Stagem's mission is the social and professional integration of remote labor market. His interventions target the entire territory of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean and group together in three divisions: commercial, insertion and management. The project announced today affects the Insertion Company Division and seeks to optimize the performance of the wood palette component manufacturing chain. 
"The Stagem company contributes to the rise of a strategic business sector for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean economy," said the member for Roberval and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (component Forests), Mr. Denis Trottier. "Thanks to its immense forests, which account for 23% of Quebec's forest resources, Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, to develop, must be able to rely not only on private companies and cooperatives, but also on companies. social economy, including Stagem. The latter has proven itself in recent years. I am very happy with the support it receives today from our government. » 
"From our beginnings, we managed to surround ourselves with partners from various spheres, be it the public, parapublic, institutional, community, private or government environment, and to create a strong network," said the President of Stagem, Mr. Martin Larouche. "This network allowed us to make us known and put on several workers who needed a boost to participate fully in the economic life of the region. The support of the Government of Quebec will therefore help us to continue our mission essential to the economic and social development of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean. » 
