Quebec- Federal Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food, Mr. Gerry Ritz, and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, are pleased to Announce a financial support of more than $ 156,000 to the Interdisciplinary Federation of Quebec Ornamental Horticulture (FIHOQ) for the completion of two projects affecting the promotion of this sector of activity as well as research and innovation. Financial assistance is granted under the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, which is linked to Agri-Flexibility Fund for Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada. 
Thus, the FIHOQ has been granted a $ 130,250 for the preparation of a campaign to promote producers of the ornamental horticulture of Quebec and companies in this sector. The organization can also count on $ 26,474 to undertake a project related to the establishment of mandatory funding for the collective promotion of ornamental horticulture as well as research and innovation in This field of activity. 
"The Quebec sector of ornamental horticulture generates interesting economic benefits. The FiHoq has distinguished itself over the years and this investment of the economic action plan that we announce today will allow it to continue its momentum, "said Gerry Ritz. 
"Ornamental horticulture is a booming sector in Quebec and, to a large extent, the merit must be allocated to the FiHoq and its members who demonstrate a great dynamism and have a vision for inspiring future. . That's why we support these projects that will allow the ornamental horticulture sector to go even further and establish itself as an important bioalimentary Quebec player, "said Francois Gendron. 
Recall that the governments of Canada and Quebec announced on March 25, 2011 the implementation of the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, which benefits from an investment of $ 16.7 million over a 4-year period. . This program aims to promote both adaptation and growth of the various sectors of agri-food activity with regard to a business context of the most competitive and constant mutation. 
For a full description of the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, we can visit the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food website: www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/strategiesectoral. 
For further information on the policy of food sovereignty, one can regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and the Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politicsa). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
