Quebec- The Minister of Public Safety and Minister responsible for the Outaouais Region, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and the Fisheries. Food, Mr. François Gendron, the award of financial assistance up to $ 14,750 on the farm of our dreams for the realization of a cropping project of fried lands in Montcerf-Lytton. This financial support is granted under the Pilot Support Program for Agriculture Multifunctionality. 
This program aims to encourage agricultural enterprises to implement projects that have positive benefits in their environment. The project of the farm of our dreams is a good example of what the multifunctionality of agriculture represents since it will allow to relax ten hectares of land currently drops. These lands will be used for the grazing of the corporate butchery cows. 
"The multifunctionality of agriculture is at the heart of the food sovereignty policy we have unveiled last spring because it relates to each of its four axes. In particular, it affects the dynamic occupation of the Quebec territory and the valorization of the economic potential of the bioalimentary sector. In this context, we can only support companies like the farm of our dreams that contribute to the growth of the regions of Quebec, "said Francois Gendron. 
"Not only will this project allow the farm of our dreams to increase its activities and thus improve its profitability, but it will at the same time have a positive impact on the development of the landscape and the preservation of the agricultural heritage of the region. . This is a great news, especially since the enhancement of fried land is an important regional issue, "said Stéphane Bergeron. 
To learn more about the Program for Support for Agriculture Multifunctionality, visit the websitewww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/multifunctionalite. For more information on food sovereignty policy, consult the blog dedicated to it (www.politicsa.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food ( www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
