Quebec - Member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesman for the official opposition for seniors, Carole Poirier, is sorry to attend another festival of liberal ads who will not change the serious problems lived on a daily basis by our Elders. "While Marguerite Blais makes a real liberal propaganda tour just before the holidays, thousands of seniors are placed on waiting lists for obtaining an assessment of their loss of autonomy, to obtain care to Home or for a place in chsld. All this not to mention the horror stories experienced by seniors and their families who every day haunt new newsletters, "said Carole Poirier. 
The official opposition spokesperson is also worried about the devastating effects of the application of the new liberal strategy for home maintenance. "Currently, several CSSS proceed to a re-evaluation of all seniors who receive home care and many of them see the total number of hours devoted to home care be revised downward to allow those who are on a waiting list to benefit. This is the true face of the Liberal government's strategy that is a serious leveling down. By removing hours of home support to seniors who could stay at home, the Liberal government sends them even more quickly in an accommodation facility. In addition to cost all Quebeckers more, this logic completely contravenes the will of our seniors to stay as long as possible at home. It's very shocking! "Pursued Carole Poirier. 
The member is worried about the delay of the new liberal policy, age at home. Always non-existent on paper, this policy seems to be only another public relations campaign for Marguerite Blais who will not bring any significant improvement in the daily life of seniors. "Since his arrival at the Council of Ministers, Marguerite Blais collects the commitments left unanswered. Significant differences in the budgets used by CHSLDs for elder feeding always exist, the settlement to fix the maximum water temperature is still not filed, the team of 23 inspectors in private residences is not Still not in operation and support services promised to caregivers are still celebrating four pilot projects that generate more administrative heaviness than real direct support measures, "said the member. 
"We are not so reassured for the rest of the new liberal politics age at home. I wish the minister to do his homework well and come back in 2012 with something other than wind, "said the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier. 
