Quebec- Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, Announces Funding Assistance from $ 13,440 to the company Truites Genebel, located at Authiere, in the region of Abitibi-Témiscamingue, to improve its productivity. 
The company, specializing in the breeding of rainbow trout and fountain distortion for almost 30 years, with this financial assistance from the Ministry to optimize the potential of its site and thus improve its productivity and its profitability. To do this, it will place under green the eighteen new fiberglass breeding basins that it has just acquired. The new facility will promote a reduction in predation and improved breeding conditions. The acquisition of new devices for water analysis and power supply will complement the project. 
The financial assistance of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food is offered under the Financial Support Program for the development of the Fisheries and Aquaculture Sector. 
"In aquaculture, improved productivity is a major issue. The 2013-2018 Action Plan for the development of our fisheries industry and commercial aquaculture takes all its meaning here, since it provides for a support for projects that promote a better productivity of aquaculture businesses. This project, which will contribute to the sustainable development of aquaculture and the dynamic occupation of the territory, also joins the objectives of the policy of food sovereignty, "said Gendron. 
The Action Plan of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food concerning Quebec's fisheries and commercial aquaculture at the email www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca / pechesaquaculture. It is also possible to view the minister's video dealing with this topic at HTTP: //youtu.be/88bknic6dty. For further information on the policy of food sovereignty, it reads on the Ministry's blog (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) of the tickets published regularly in this regard or consult on its website the page www.mapaq.gouv. QC.CA/POLITIQUESA. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter (twitter.com/mapaquebec). 
