Quebec- The Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Elders and Minister responsible for the Estrie Region, Mr. Réjean Hébert, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François GENDRON, announces the award of $ 35,000 financial assistance to the Green Arpetes' Fish Focus for the realization of work to improve its competitiveness. 
Established for nearly 20 years in Sainte-Edwidge-de-Clifton, in Estrie, the company specializes in the breeding of trout and woods for seeding. The owners plan to carry out underground water survey and catching work to improve the quality of the water used in their fish activities. This work should contribute to optimizing the farming conditions of the company. 
Yavait "I am particularly proud to highlight the work of green survey farm owners. I congratulate them on this new project that testifies to their dynamism and willingness to participate in the sustainable development of freshwater aquaculture in the Estrie region, "said Réjean Hébert. 
"Encourage initiatives that affect the growth and competitiveness of fish companies is one of the measures included in the 2013-2018 Action Plan for the Development of Fisheries and Trade Aquaculture. The Government of Quebec is committed to supporting the projects of companies that use this route, "said Francois Gendron. 
The financial assistance of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food is granted under the Financial Support Program for the development of the Fisheries and Aquaculture Sector. This program supports the continuation of the objectives that are defined in the food sovereignty policy and aimed at ensuring and increasing the prosperity of the bioalimentary sector. 
For further information on food sovereignty policy, we invite you to regularly consult the blog devoted to it (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) or to visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
