Quebec- The hon. Member for Bonaventure and the official opposition on forests, Sylvain Roy, and the hon. Member for Saint-Jérôme and spokesperson for economy, entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports , Pierre Karl Péladeau, denounce the inaction of the Liberal Party, while forest products resolved today announces the judgment for an indefinite period of two machines at its Bay-Comeau factory, the stop for 30 days of the factory Amos and stop for four weeks of machine # 14 at its Alma plant. 
MPs also deplore the fact that the Liberal Party has abandoned forest workers. And it does not date from yesterday: from 2003 to 2012, while it was in power, it lost nearly 20,000 jobs in the wood industry, and more than 300 factories closed their doors so temporary or permanent. 
"No later than yesterday, the Minister of Forests, Wildlife and Parks, Laurent Lessard, told me to the National Assembly:" The world works in the woods, companies make money, sawmills go Better, we meet the needs of the paperies ". Obviously, the minister is completely disconnected and he says anything. More than 260 jobs are lost at Resolved. That's the liberal effect, "said Sylvain Roy. 
Government does not have an economic policy 
This week, the member for Saint-Jérôme also arrested the government about job losses. Among other bad news, 180 jobs were lost at Cascades, 300 were at the Shawinigan Laurentide factory and Kruger launched 98 workers. 
"In the face of these job losses, the government's sole action has been to create a group of officials, who were already in place, to manage closures. Austerity is not a vision. The government must recover and quickly deposit an economic development policy. The Minister of Finance recognized yesterday that he will not reach his job creation targets; Will there be more arms crossed? ", Questioned Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"We can see the liberal interest in the regions of Quebec and their workers. These are the costs of austerity measures put in place and budget cuts. The government must tackle the task to properly support regions, including the forest environment. The consensus obtained by the Government of the Parti Québécois, during the national rendezvous of the Quebec Forest, were destroyed by the Liberals. To them now to repair their mess, "concluded Sylvain Roy. 
