On April 6, we learned that Mr. Sivaloganathan Thanabalasingam will not suffer his trial for murder and that the accusations that weigh against him fell. The reason: Since the Supreme Court issued its judgment in the Jordan case, any legal deadline deemed unreasonable can lead to the abortion of a trial. 
You imagine how the family feels of this young woman who was murdered and whose husband, accused of murder, was released not because he was innocent or because there was a reasonable doubt about his Guilt, but because the system simply does not happen to fulfill its fundamental mission, to make justice because of unreasonable delays. 
The feeling of indignation, anger of the population, I shared it entirely, we all share it. 
Currently, nearly 805 requests for arrest of procedures, including 485 in criminal matters, which are on the Office of the Director of Criminal and Criminal Prosecutions. This is a real haemorrhage within our judiciary. The situation requires a quick response, while Quebeckers are worried about seeing people accused, thus released. That's why the Parti Québécois recently challenged the Quebec government: it must respond to the concern of Quebeckers and act. 
It has been several months since we ask the Government of vigorous actions and consider the derogatory clause to suspend the effect of Jordan. Already, Quebeckers attended, helpless, the release of criminal bikers, several accused of fraud or abuse of confidence, including alleged complicit from the former Mayor of Laval, Gilles Vaillancourt. 
There is urgency to act. And act firmly. Otherwise, they are potentially other accused of serious crimes that will escape justice. The Prime Minister compared the derogatory clause to a "nuclear weapon", while he himself had been used five times since 2014 in a pension plan bill. This has been used more than 40 times in Quebec and is still in effect in 11 laws. 
The derogatory clause is the most effective and fastest way to clog the breach created by Jordan in our justice system and prevent the hecatomb, time to put the house in order. 
Why does Philippe Couillard refuse to use it? 
As long as the Prime Minister pushes the idea of resorting to the derogatory clause, other alleged criminals are likely to recover their freedom, with the confidence of the population to our justice system, fundamental institution and pillar of our democracy. 
Victims of criminal acts are in uncertainty and they do not have to be abandoned to their fate because the system has been abandoned by the Prime Minister and his Minister of Justice, Stéphanie Valley. 
