Gatineau - in the assembly of inauguration in the presence of the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, the members of the Parti Québécois of the constituency of Hull have appointed Dr Gilles Aubé to represent them as a party candidate with a view to the next general election. 
"I trust in our region, in the future of Quebec and the Parti Québécois. I also have a huge confidence in Marois Pauline, his determination and commitment to the social, economic and cultural development of the riding of Hull, "said Gilles Aubé. I also trust my ability to inspire, motivate, accompany and represent all citizens of the riding of Hull. 
"The very high quality of our candidate demonstrates that we are determined to want to win in Outaouais. Gilles Aubé is a remarkable and devoted person to his community. His experience and expertise in the health network will be an important asset for our team, "said Pauline Marois. 
Father of two children, Gilles Aubé is urgentologist at the Hull hospital where he was head of the Emergency from 1995 to 1999. Trilingual, he has a lot involved in humanitarian causes, particularly with development and peace. Gilles Aubé also distinguished himself as a spokesperson for the Emergency Phase 2. Member of the Parti Québécois since 1976, he was the party candidate in Hull in the 2008 partial and general elections. 
"Healthy as in many other areas, Outaouais is neglected by the Liberal Party and Jean Charest. In 2003, the average residence deadline for this region was 15 hours and a half hours. Now the average wait is 22 hours, it's 40% more! This situation is unacceptable! Last Friday, at the urgency of Gatineau, the occupancy rate was 145% and that of Hull of 196%. That's the Liberal Party in Outaouais. They consider us acquired, "added Gilles Aubé. 
"At the Québécois Party We have ideas to change Quebec. What we propose to the Outaouais people as to all Quebeckers are real steps to improve the health system. We propose that nurses can do more to release time so that doctors have more time for patients. Upon our arrival, we will make all the provisions to accelerate the training of super-nurses. We will promote the rapprochement of family medicine and CLSC groups so that health professionals - psychologists, nutritionists, inhalotherapists and nurses - are even more available for the population. This is how we will be able to give access to a family doctor to every Quebecer and therefore improve access to health care, "said Pauline Marois. 
The Parti Québécois also proposes to deploy the necessary resources so that seniors can stay home as long as possible. Home maintenance is an important part of our health proposals as well as prevention, cancer fight and computerization of the health network. 
"As for François Legault and the Coalition Future Québec, the only thing they propose to deal with problems in the health sector is to increase the salary of doctors of $ 500 million. This is a simplistic solution that does not hold the road. It's not because they increase their salary that their work day will increase from 24 to 36 hours and that they will be able to see more patients. It is magical thought, "concluded Pauline Marois, recalling that François Legault's position with regard to the private health," we will see. " 
