Quebec- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élaine Zakaïb, confirmed the payment of a financial contribution of more than $ 4.7 million to the Quebec Community Credit Network (RQCC) , on the occasion of the annual general meeting of the organization. 
The delegated minister took the opportunity to reaffirm the importance of Community credit in Quebec's economic and social growth and individual and collective fulfillment. 
"Community credit is an essential lever for the growth of sustainable development in Quebec," said Zakaïb Élain. "It's an innovative solution that allows people made vulnerable to employment issues to participate fully in the economic and social life of their environment. The mission of the RQCC joins the orientations of our government not only in the fight against poverty and social exclusion, but also in terms of entrepreneurship. The benefits of Community Credit testify to the scope of the shares of the RQCC and its members and amplely warrant support granted. » 
Founded in 2000, the RQCC is a non-profit organization whose mission is to promote and develop the Community credit approach to enable individual and collective wellness and eliminate poverty by promoting entrepreneurship. The RQCC has 23 members divided into 13 borrowing funds and 10 borrowing circles. These different resources, based on mutual aid and consultation, offer access to capital from the Community as well as support to local populations in carrying out economic activities. 
In 2012-2013, more than 2,100 people were accompanied and 210 loans totaling $ 1.4 million were awarded, which helped create and maintain more than 1,000 jobs in Quebec.  "The RQCC helps people to become active again through entrepreneurial projects. It thus put on the creation of companies as a means for these people to come true at the economic and social plans, "said Roselyne Mavungu, President of the RQCC. "Too often, our clientele meets obstacles that prevent it from accessing traditional sources of funding. This is where RQCC member organizations come into play by offering individuals the opportunity to become entrepreneurs. The support of the Government of Quebec helps us to continue this mission indispensable to the growth of communities, a mission based on socially responsible investment. » 
To learn more about Community Credit, read the "Community Credit: an essential lever of prosperity, in solidarity" on the Blog of the Parti Québécois. 
