Québec- The Minister of the Family, Ms. Nicole Léger, announces the creation of the site on the quality and durability of childcare services to children and on the optimization of their funding. The establishment of this site reaffirms the government's willingness to ensure the sustainability of the network and optimize its financing. It also follows the agreements that the Minister of the Family concluded, last spring, with the Québec Association of Early Childhood Centers (AQCPE) and the Québec Council for Childcare Educational Services (CQSgee) relatively budget redevelopment measures for 2013-2014. 
"More than fifteen years after the establishment of our CPE network, it is now essential for me to take stock of these partners on their operation and evolution, in order to ensure the next generations of accessible child care and High quality, for parents and children of Quebec, "said Minister Nicole Léger. 
The yard will be general mandate to make a diagnosis on the current situation with regard to the governance and mode of financing of early childhood centers (CEP) and coordinating offices of the family custody (BC), and to propose Solution tracks to optimize the amounts invested in this network, while ensuring the quality and durability of the CPE and BC services offer. 
The site will be chaired by Mr Maurice Boisvert, former senior official with in-depth knowledge of the early childhood and public administration sector. It will consist of representatives of the AQPE and the CQSgee as well as representatives of the Ministry of the Family and the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory. The final report of the work of the site will be given to the Minister of the Family by December 31, 2013. 
"This site meets the demand made by the CPE network partners. Several issues challenge the entire network, it is important to post these discussions. By maintaining a continuous and constructive dialogue with the partners, we are working on improving the Quebec child care network, "said Light Nicole Minister. 
