Quebec- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the hon. Member for René-Lévesque, Martin Ouellet, arrested Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard on the changes to the Employment Insurance Plan in the last federal budget : Quebec workers who lose their jobs have been completely forgotten. 
"The decline of the manufacturing industry in Quebec continues in the complete indifference of the federal government. The manufacturing level of employment has been at its lowest for 40 years. Footout factories, the forest industry is in difficulty, and the federal government does not make its part. In terms of employment insurance, the changes made favors Canada and neglect Quebec. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister still stays there to do nothing to improve the fate of workers, here in Quebec, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"For Ottawa, the disappearance of 160,000 manufacturing jobs and 20,000 jobs in the forest sector in Quebec, it does not count. Can the prime minister say to the forestry workers who have lost their jobs in Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, his region, why his government says nothing when they are left behind? However, it should require the same treatment for Quebec workers as the one enjoyed by workers of the twelve regions favored by the federal government, "he added. 
In the last federal budget, employment insurance benefits are prolonged up to 20 weeks for twelve regions of Canada whose economy is based on commodities: Newfoundland, Sudbury, Calgary, North of L Alberta, South Alberta, Northern British Columbia, Whitehorse, Nunavut, Northern Ontario, Northern Manitoba, Saskatoon, Northern Saskatchewan. 
"People, at home, feel like shipwrecked: after the failure of the North Plan, they must cash this new setback. They are looking for jobs and do not get. Last year, 1139 people left the North Shore. In four years, it's the worst exodus. The federal government has just increased the duration of employment insurance benefits for people in Sudbury and Saskatoon, but has completely forgotten Quebec and its regions? Resources. Will the Liberal government defend the federal decision, or fight for our workers, especially those from the North Coast? ", Concluded Martin Ouellet. 
