Montréal - The Quebec government is pleased to announce that Astral Media has just confirmed a $ 1 million financial contribution to the implementation of the PromotionalLela Culture campaign changed my life. This initiative proposed by the Working Group on Cultural Philanthropy, chaired by Mr. Pierre Bourgie and attended by Mr. Jacques Parisien, will be implemented next year by the future partner organization. This campaign will serve as awareness of the Quebec population about the importance of philanthropy and patronage in the development of the cultural sector. 
This is the first initiative, since the publication of report, for a philanthropic culture in Quebec!, By which a private company poses a concrete gesture to place philanthropy at the heart of its action to encourage cultural life and support Cultural organizations. 
"Thanks to this investment for the establishment of a promotional campaign, Astral Media shows its commitment to Quebec culture and its interest in seeing it develop and radiate. I hope that this first action encourages other donors and businesses to support our cultural organizations and creators to introduce a philanthropic culture that will benefit all Quebeckers, "said the Prime Minister. 
"It is with pleasure that Astral Media brings its financial support to Campagnela Culture changed my life. Committed forever in the promotion of artists, artisans and cultural organizations, we want to value the gestures of sponsorship and philanthropy. We want to convince businesses and citizens to invest in culture, "said Jacques Parisien, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer at Astral Media. 
Remember that the Prime Minister of Quebec mandated the Ministry of Culture and Communications, so that, in conjunction with the Council of Arts and Letters of Quebec, it defines and put in place, by the fall. partner organization. Non-profit organization, partners will have to stimulate the mesh between cultural and business environments across all regions of Quebec. It will include mandate to implement the promotional campaign culture has changed my life. 
Reporting, for a philanthropic culture in Quebec! Aéé issued public on June 11, 2013 and it is available on the website of the Ministry of Culture and Communications. 
