Quebec- On the eve of the 2016-2017 budget deposit of the Government of Quebec, the Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the spokesman of the Parti Québécois in terms of finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, as well as the Spokesperson for school education and perseverance, Alexandre Cloutier, emphasized the government: it must imperatively file an economic budget, focused on support for the creation of businesses and jobs in all regions of Quebec , in addition to providing for a major reinvestment in education. 
"Quebec is in a concern economic situation. No job has been created for 10 months. The Liberal government leaving led to the abandonment of many projects: IFFCO, Stolt Lngaz, Mine Arnaud, Ferroatlántica, the investment planned to do in Saguenay and the one envisaged Century Aluminum at Lac-Saint-Jean. We have lost head offices, and the migratory flow of resource regions is negative. With such a portrait, we expect a resolutely economic budget to revive growth. Two years without a policy in this area have hurt the economic development of Quebec. For example, because of the current exchange rate, our exports should be much more vigorous. However, we find that our main actors in this area are in trouble. The government must, once and all, focus on economic development and support for job creation. We expect, tomorrow, to the announcement of a real research and innovation policy and a digital strategy, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"According to the National Bank, economic growth in 2015 will be 0.9%, never-seen since the 2009 recession. In addition, there is still no economic policy or strategic plan for Investissement Québec , Not to date that 42,000 self-employed and 33,000 small businesses will have to take care of tax increases from next year. This increase in their tax burden would be counterproductive and must absolutely be relegated to oblivion. In addition, our companies are missing the technological shift; They are less present online than their American and Canadian competitors, "added Nicolas Marceau. 
Education: a serious recovery needed 
For its part, Alexandre Cloutier recalls that the education system and services to students, especially those in difficulty, have suffered from liberal austerity. "During the 2004-2014 period, the budget dedicated to education increased by 3.6%, on average, per year. If the Liberals had maintained - just maintained - this rate of investment, there would be $ 1.4 billion in the budget of tomorrow for the network. But the Liberal government did not choose this path. He cut the two legs of the education system and he tries to be forgiven by buying a pair of shoes, "he said. 
The liberal effect is $ 1500 per family 
Remember: the Liberal government has repeatedly committed to abolishing the health tax it itself created in 2010. However, this will have little effect on the budget of Québec's families, each to assume, Since the arrival of the liberals in power, an additional annual invoice of $ 1500, several taxes and tariffs of all kinds have been increased. On the other hand, since the health tax is paid to the Fund of Financing for Health and Social Services, any reduction must be accompanied by an equivalent increase in health appropriations, otherwise they are the sick. 
"In addition to these $ 1500 in increases in taxes and tariffs, including those of CPEs, Quebeckers must assume a new $ 50 million invoice bill, decreed by Gaétan Barrette, and another $ 65 million to cover the recent rise. electricity rates. To sum up, let's say that for two years, the liberal effect is really expensive for Quebec families, "continued Nicolas Marceau. 
On the subject of child care, the official opposition leader pleaded the cause of families with insistence. "With its CPE reform, the government imposes a real tax shock to Quebec's parents, such as some financial institutions now offer them payment facilities! The Liberals therefore must urgently abolish line 434 of the Quebec's income tax return and return to the only rate acceptable for all families: the universal rate. Of course, like Quebec has always done so, additional support should also be made to the most disadvantaged families, "he concluded. 
