Québec- The member for Rousseau and Funding and Income Spokesperson, Nicolas Marceau, expressed the expectations of the official opposition for the budget to be presented on Wednesday. He asks the government to put in place strong measures for the economy and to promote job creation, in order to avoid a discount that would have serious consequences for families in all regions of Quebec in addition to jeopardizing The services to the population, among others those intended for the most vulnerable of our society. 
"We first ask the government to give up the $ 15 billion debt increase for investments in infrastructure. This liberal promise will lead Quebec right to the discount. If the government does not comply with its debt control plan, this will be inevitable and will have heavy financial consequences, which will reach 1 billion per year, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
"In addition, we have no signs of accelerating discussions on the Minister of Health and Social Services. Is that the President of the Treasury Board finally mingle with the file to move it forward? What the medico-liberal tandem will impose a special law for closing the negotiations? Without amendment to the agreement, all the government's financial room for maneuver will be devoted, at the expense of patient care and other public services, "added Nicolas Marceau. 
The financial situation requires concrete gestures, as important as those that the Parti Québécois government has set up in economic priority priority. 
"We expect support measures for our SMEs. What clear gestures will the government be able to electrify transport? To promote job creation, does the government renew economic development projects, just as it did for the Cement Place in Port-Daniel-Gascons? He wondered the spokesman for the official opposition. 
Regarding the tax burden on the population, Nicolas Marceau wishes to remember that, under the Liberals, taxes and taxes increased by $ 6 billion. "It's the same old liberal recipe. The tax burden of Quebeckers should not be greater, "he said. 
The hesitation and liberal retreats have sown a lot of concern among the most vulnerable families and people of our society, as well as community organizations. 
"The government has choices to do. Parents are waiting for the concretization of CPE's 28,000 places announced in all regions. Community groups are working with families, seniors as well as the most fragile people, struggling with situations of poverty and roaming. The government should not charge the poorest and families for its austerity measures, "continued the official opposition spokesman. 
Finally, the official opposition asks the Government to prove it, in the next fiscal year, that the couples planned will be done in the administrative and not in the services to the citizens. 
"Who will the budget hurt? The Liberals predict 1.3 billion administrative cuts. We will be attentive so that Quebeckers, especially the most vulnerable, do not make the costs, "added the member. 
"In the election campaign, the Liberals announced 340 million new promises for this year. They have been made with all causes, since Philippe Couillard then estimated the 2013-2014 deficit to $ 3 billion. What will the stop not be applied to make room for liberal commitments? ", Concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
