Quebec-Diane Lamarre, spokesperson for the health, accessibility of care and home support, says it is impossible to have a fair portrait of the situation in the hospitals of Quebec without integrating the Daily data on overflow units to emergency statistics. She asks the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, to make them public. 
IN SHORT 
** - Like statistics on patients waiting for emergencies, the number of patients in overflow units should be made public every day on the website of the Ministry of Health; These data already exist. 
"Despite three years and many reforms, it's a failure to fail for gaéan barrette. He failed to improve the first line except by sending people to the overflow units. But, wait in an overflow unit or wait for the emergency, it is the same to the same. Knowing that the department already requires hospitals a daily report of the number of patients in the overflow units, why not make these public data from the Internet from the Internet, as we do for emergencies? This would make it possible to have the real portrait of the situation, "said the member. 
"Several stakeholders claimed that we were trying to" camouflage "reality, including using overflow units. If the minister refuses our request, it will mean that it is an accomplice of this tactic, or even encourages it. And the last thing the health network needs, it is good that we head in the sand by embellishing the situation, "added the spokesman. 
Here is a table illustrating Ms. Lamarre's words; The first two columns describe the real live situation this Friday morning, April 28, 2017. The data comes from the Ministry of Health: 
However, according to data on the overflow units unveiled during the 2016 credits study? 2017, between April 1, 2015 and March 5, 2016, there were 58 people hospitalized daily, on average, in the unit of Overflow of the Cité-de-la-Santé in Laval. At one point, we even reached 96 patients! For Saint-François d'Assisi, an establishment of the Quebec City region, this average was 11, for up to 28 patients. If we take this average and that it is applied to the data of April 28, 2017 concerning emergencies, it considerably changes the portrait. 
"There would be 103 people waiting on stretcher, urgently or in an overflow unit. At Saint-François d'Assisi, it would be 50 people in total. That's a difference! For the sake of transparency, all the data must be made public, and this, daily, "concluded Diane Lamarre. 
