Quebec, March 18, 2019 - Forecasting the Caquist Budget, presented on Thursday, the member for René-Lévesque and spokesperson for the second opposition group in finance and economics, Martin Ouellet, summarized expectations From the Parti Québécois: this budget must mark the end of austerity and reinvestment in our health and education services. 
IN SHORT 
"Healthy, austerity and negligence of the Liberals have created enormous needs. In CHSLD, seniors must too often endure unacceptable situations. In hospitals, patients see how much nurses are overworked every day. And nothing has improved since October 1st; There is no more time to lose! During its budget update, last fall, the Caquist government could have reinvest urgently in these sectors, but it chose not to do it. So today, the population expects a massive health reinvestment, "first indicated the spokesman. 
Quebeckers have other great expectations, particularly with regard to young people. "Prime Minister Legault has placed the very high bar by committing to doing education and childhood his main priorities. He promised to restore the universal price of educational custody services; He must therefore do it without delay. In addition, a disturbing number of our schools require major renovations - the maintenance deficit was $ 3 billion last year. From this year, large sums must be added for that within 10 years, the deficit was eliminated, "said the member. 
Other areas can no longer, either, wait. "In the field, the CAQ has committed to make the Internet high speed available throughout Quebec by the end of the mandate. She can not deny this other promise! Major investments in this direction are therefore necessary from this first Cavoist budget. We also ask for concrete measures to accelerate the transition from Quebec to a green economy. For example, the time has come to include the environmental impact in government calls for tenders, or to provide SME tax credits that market clean technologies. Finally, let's be clear: it's this week, with the blowing presentation on budgets in Ottawa and Quebec City, that the Government of François Legault must get the full part of the federal funding for our collective transport projects, among others for the Structuring public transport network in Quebec City, "also insisted Martin Ouellet. 
