Quebec- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the spokesman for the Quebecois Health, Accessibility to Home Care and Home Support, Diane Lamarre, propose to tackle discrimination affecting cancer survivors, which are often unable to ensure or who have to pay very high premiums. They suggest the adoption of a bill that cancer survivors, after their healing, do not have to pay more than other citizens for their insurance. 
"Nearly one in two Quebecers will have cancer during his life. Fortunately, more than 60% will survive it beyond five years. But right now in Quebec, it is not because we have survived cancer that we cease to be victimized. For survivors, contracting life insurance, disability insurance, or even get a loan is difficult or impossible, even if the possibility of recidivism is negligible, even nil. This is a form of discrimination that we can not tolerate, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
The Parti Québécois therefore tends to the government to work on the filing of a bill in this respect at the next parliamentary session. "Quebec would benefit from drawing inspiration from the French example, which has devoted the right to oblivion. This right makes it possible to avoid surprise or the exclusion of an insurance by eliminating, after a certain time, the obligation to declare to the insurer the fact of having a cancer. For example, for survivors of 5 current cancers and hepatitis C, the delay of access to the right to oblivion could vary between 1 and 10 years, only ", detailed the spokesperson. 
There are now evidence on survival with several types of cancer. In France, people with hepatitis C or certain types of cancer - thyroid, breast, cervix, testicle, and some skin melanomas - may have access to unrestricted insurance or Exclusion after periods without treatment ranging from 1 to 10 years. 
"We all know people in this situation, and we can act together so that they cease to suffer the consequences of such a test, several years after their last treatment," concluded Diane Lamarre. 
