Quebec- The Minister of Public Safety, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, wishes to clarify as a result of erroneous information about the correctional services of Quebec and the reduction in expenditure at the Ministry of Public Safety. 
"Contrary to what has been conveyed, the Department of Public Safety does not intend to delete any correctional services agent (CSA). On the contrary, new AUC positions were granted by the Treasury Board, "said Minister Bergeron. Moreover, for the current year, two cohorts of 48 CSA graduated. A third is currently in training. Among this cohort, 24 people will be allocated to new positions and others will occupy vacant positions from December 18, 2012. The addition of these resources will allow for overtime costs. 
As for the closing of the reception and admission posts at night, it is only the workforce. Indeed, very few detainees are admitted between midnight and 7 hours. The majority of entrances are day or evening. Thus, night staff will be reallocated where the prison staff are. 
As for the control of sentenced persons who are serving a sentence in the community, it will be enhanced by the implementation of additional verification measures. Thus, while pursuing our field checks, we will increase the number of telephone calls to the bursts and will initiate the completion of a pilot project using new technologies. 
The assignment of certain CSAs to other functions is due to the fact that for the last year there has been a 4% decrease in the number of scholars in the community. With the entry into force of the Federal Law on the Security of Street and Communities, Law C-10, an additional decrease in these frames is to be expected. 
Finally, with regard to the expenditure reduction objective of $ 12 million, it is important to note that this objective is for the entire department, contrary to the information on some media. Decisions taken will not have a negative impact on operations or customer services from the Ministry of Public Safety. "We have the responsibility to ensure sound management of public finances; We need to optimize the allocation of our resources, "concluded Mr. Bergeron. 
