In the aftermath of the debate, things specified. The choice is clearer. 
The Parti Québécois offers economic development, the creation of the wealth and affirmation of our values: a vision for the future. The Liberal Party makes fears in the world. 
Upon the opening of the debate, Pauline Marois was very clear: there will be no referendum if Quebeckers do not want them. We are not referendists, we are sovereignists! Quebec's confidence must be reduced to their economies, the political class, their institutions, our collective capacity for change and development - with regard to the future. The mandate of the next government of the Parti Québécois is not to make a referendum, it is to govern Quebec, with good ideas, the right team and the good premier. This is what the Parti Québécois offers: better days for Quebec. 
But the Liberals do not like that. They have nothing else to propose that the spectrum of a referendum they use as a screen to hide that they do not have a political program to offer Quebeckers. Nothing new under the sun. Philippe Couillard, Jean Charest, even party, even vision, same ways to do. 
The choice is there: a vote for the economy or a vote for the return to old liberal cases. 
Nine years of corruption, collusion, coping. Eighteen ministers of Jean Charest who voted against the construction industry inquiry fee with Philippe Couillard in what the Liberal Leader dares a "new team". The accumulated vote of these Liberal candidates against a commission of inquiry in the National Assembly? 358. 
358 times no, no commission. Go back to that? No thanks. 
Returning to a party who gives himself an ethics code to control the reflex to first think of friends and the interests of the party, and who is then worried that it will make him lose from the world? No thanks. 
Return to the social crisis, the lack of vision, corporatism, false numbers to satisfy the message? No thanks. 
Return to the flat-ventry in front of Ottawa, to the signing of a shameful constitution that denies the national identity of Quebec, because religious accommodations have not been marked? No thanks. 
Face in the future, confident and determined. 
Since the debate, the choice is clear. It's forward or backward. It's working for Quebec tomorrow with Pauline Marois or return to the Charest era with Philippe Couillard. 
Fortunately, with Pauline Marois and his team, Quebeckers can turn to the future with determination, trust and conviction. Pauline Marois keeps the course: his vision is dolder and innovative, his plan is rigorous and solid. 
A government of the Parti Québécois will be standing up to assert the common values of Quebecers and Quebeckers. 
The Parti Québécois team, like its leader Pauline Marois, is up to dreams and aspirations of Quebecers and Quebeckers. For a more prosperous Quebec, more proud, more welcoming, more independent. 
We are honest. 
We have a heart to work. 
We are determined. 
You inspire us. 
