Quebec- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announces financial support of $ 35 per cent to Augustinians of the Mercy of Jesus for the restoration of the foundations of Notre-Dame-des-Angels of the Monastery of the Monastery General Hospital of Quebec City and the Presbytery. 
"The heritage value of the Monastery of the General Hospital of Quebec is unique. This vast set is patiently formed by the Augustines forms an all architectural and lovely landscaping. This financial support from the Quebec government is consolidating Quebec's cultural heritage, "said Minister Kotto. 
"Today's announcement is part of a vision of a dynamic Quebec, proud of its origins and cultural heritage. I am very pleased to associate with the conservation and development of the Augustine heritage of Jesus' mercy in the Quebec City region, "added Minister Maltese. 
The monastery of the General Hospital of Quebec is a classified heritage building since 1977. It was founded by Bishop of Saint-Vallier in 1692, on the field owned so far to the recollets, then he was then entrusted to the Augustine of the Mercy of Jesus. It constitutes a place of important memory of the War of Conquest and testifies to the evolution of architecture and construction techniques on more than three hundred years. Since 1999, the property has been transformed into a hosting center, under the responsibility of the Old Capital Health and Social Services Center. 
The sum of the work carried out is $ 87,900 and is divided as follows: $ 35,100 is allocated by the Ministry of Culture and Communications, under the Quebec Cultural Heritage Fund, and $ 52,800 are paid by the Augustine of the mercy of Jesus. 
Additional information concerning the monastery of the Quebec General Hospital as well as all heritage elements enrolled in the Québec Cultural Heritage Register are available on the website of the Cultural Heritage of Quebec (RPCQ), atwww.patrimoine-cultural .gouv.qc.ca. 
New cultural heritage dissemination tools are added to the RPCQ, allowing to discover all its richness and diversity, making it accessible to all. Part of the RPCQ content is now on the Open Data Portal of the Government of Quebec, atwww.donnes.gouv.qc.ca, as well as on the Social Pinterest network, in the form of virtual exhibitions, AWWW. Pinterest.com/rpcq. 
Online training is also offered, at the address www.formation-patrimoine.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. Composed of video capsules and learning activities, it presents the basic notions of the Cultural Heritage Act and explains the roles and responsibilities of each to promote the knowledge, protection, development and transmission of the Cultural Heritage. 
