Quebec- The member for Jonquière and the official opposition spokeswoman in sustainable development and environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, denounces liberal austerity and the cuts imposed on environmental organizations. 
Indeed, the Government has not renewed two support programs for the mission of environmental community organizations, the support program for the mission of national bodies and the Support Program for the Mission of Autonomous Community Action Organizations in the Environment . The financial impacts are very real and affect the financial sustainability of these organizations. "The affected environmental groups are genuine levers in the field to fight climate change, which should be the priority of the Ministry of the Environment. Why do the troubles that represent this first line of awareness and action? These critical programs need to be renewed on the protection of the environment, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The member for Jonquière adds that instead of blindly cut into support programs for environmental group missions, sustainable solutions are conceivable. "A working committee existed, the government, to advance group recognition tags and to give them predictable funding. Why not have continued meetings of the Working Committee? "He said. 
Let us add that environmental groups are also covered by the Canada Revenue Agency for political reasons and due to pressure from the Edelman Public Relations Firm as part of TransCanada's Communications Strategy. "While the environmental future is played with the TransCanada project, the Liberal government's cups prevent groups from dedicating to their mission," lamented the spokesperson. 
Remember, finally, that the government of the Parti Québécois acted on the front of the financing of environmental community organizations through, on the one hand, the renewal of the two programs concerned on an annual basis and, on the other hand, of the Implementation in April 2013 a joint committee for the recognition of environmental community organizations in order to put in place foreseeable financial support. 
