Quebec- The member for Rousseau and the official opposition for the finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, presented the expectations of the Parti Québécois in anticipation of the filing, Thursday, the next budget of the Minister of Finance, Carlos Leitão . 
"The government must put an end to toxic austerity for Quebecers. There is currently no effort invested for economic development; There are only cuts that affect this development. Moreover, the RBC bank said last week like Desjardins that the austerity practiced by the Couillard government has a negative effect on the growth of the Quebec economy. Throughout the region, people lose their jobs, families see the rates increase; It is time for this government to come back to reason, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
GODBOUT REPORT 
"We do not trust when the Liberals say they want to carry out changes to taxation, while maintaining the global burden unchanged, because they are" taxers "compulsive. The tax burden of Quebecers rolled up more than 6 billion under Jean Charest and nearly 1 billion, already under the government of Philippe Couillard. We are open to debates on taxation in Quebec. Nevertheless, it is out of the question for us to increase the QST or electricity rates; These increases directly penalize families in the middle class and the poorest, "added Nicolas Marceau. 
The hon. Member also recalls that the government promised, in the election campaign, to lower taxes, not to increase taxes. 
Financial reserves of 2 billion not registered in the budget 
Nicolas Marceau also points out that the most recent report of the Auditor General (VG) has highlighted significant information that has never been unveiled to the public: the government has considerable financial reserves, but are not included in the budget . "These reservations accounted for, according to the VG, three-quarters of the growth in expected spending on the government's financial framework. If they are not used, additional drastic cuts will have to be made. The government can no longer hide the public the use of amounts amounting to $ 2 billion; He must specify, in the next budget, what is this money for, "he added. 
Truncated economic portrait 
"Since his arrival, the Liberal Party has voluntarily tarnished the situation of public finances to be able to make its ideological cups. He overestimated the 2013 deficit? 2014 of 300 million; This has been confirmed by the VG. Nobody will be surprised that the budget balance is also improved for 2014-2015, since the corrections made by the VG are recurring. The correction of this amount of 300 million is the cause; Liberal management is for nothing. Expenditures, the growth of which is limited to 0.7% in 2015? 2016, will have a negative effect on our economy. In short, Quebeckers have not finished suffering from austerity, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
