Quebec- The member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Quebec's social services and youth protection, Jean-François Lisée, and the member for Lac-Saint-Jean and spokesperson in education and School Perseverance, Alexandre Cloutier, warn the Liberal government and ask him to not wait a few months before acting to meet the needs of autistic children and their families. 
"The needs are known and documented; Autistic children and their families expect services, not a forum! The announcement of this morning should not serve as a pretext for the government not to act and, above all, not to invest in order to improve access to services for people with autism spectrum and their families . Several concrete actions can be made now, especially in terms of the management of waiting lists and the accompaniment of young people and their families in the obstacle course to obtain a diagnosis and, afterwards , Services. In addition, the scientific literature demonstrates that it is before five years that early stimulus and rehabilitation services are the most effective; Is it necessary to pay tens of thousands of dollars to make it written in a group in a forum? Already, many reports - of the Auditor General of Quebec, the Protecteur du Citizen, a Working Group on Services for 21 years and over, etc. - have made recommendations that the Minister delegated to Rehabilitation, the Protection of Youth and Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, could apply quickly. We deplore that it seeks to save time instead of acting now to try to mitigate the effects of its government's cuts on vulnerable people, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
Let us add that the Liberals have an additional responsibility, since their cups in education have a direct impact on the services offered to autistic children in schools. "The government speaks on both sides of the mouth. On one side, it makes beautiful speeches; On the other hand, it cuts directly into services to children with autism spectrum disorder. At the beginning of the school year, there are fewer professionals to help young people. That's the reality that young people live and parents every day. It would be time for the Minister of Education to go on the ground to see the devastating effects of his cups. We will participate in the forum, but I am sure that the money that will be invested to organize would have been much more useful in Quebec schools, for autism, "added Alexandre Cloutier. 
Remember that it was the Parti Québécois who worked in the preparation and publication of the first autism action plan, which was published in 2003. In addition, in 2014, it was the only party to make commitments To help autism and their families. 
