Candiac- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élaine Zakaïb, announced, in the presence of the member for Sanguinet and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Finance and the Economy Mr. Alain Therien, the The government's attribution of a $ 600,000 loan to Automacad, a company specializing in the design and manufacture of automated machinery for the manufacturing sector. This loan, achieved through Investissement Québec, will allow the development of new products with high added value, including a line of molding and demolding and a robotic staining system for the concrete industry. 
"Automacad is a key player in the manufacturing sector that contributes to the economic dynamism of the region and the modernization of industrial enterprises," said the minister. "Its activities are exactly in the objectives of our industrial policy, which aims to increase the productivity of our manufacturing companies by encouraging them to automate and pouch their production. It is therefore self-evident, for my government, to support this dynamic company in pursuit of its marketing and expansion efforts. It is by investing heavily in the innovation projects that Quebec companies will be able to cope with the challenges of competition for the coming years. » 
As companies must constantly improve their productivity to stay competitive, Automacad is changing in a high growth potential. The company wants to market its products as early as September 2014, in order to meet the important market demand in the concrete industry. 
"Automacad has always been maintained at the cutting edge of its sector through significant investment in research and development and the use of innovative technologies in the manufacture of its products," said the Deputy Therrien. "This constant concern to be on the lookout for the new manufacturing methods has allowed the company to carve an excellent reputation here in the region, as well as the companies it serves. » 
"The support of the Quebec government has realized our innovation project," said Louis Hébert, a co-operation and president of the company. "We are very pleased to finally be able to achieve the development of the necessary products for the pursuit of our growth. We are planning to hire new employees in the coming years. » 
Founded in April 1999 by Mr. Louis Hébert and Ms. France Barbeau, the Automacad company specializes in the design and manufacture of automated machinery for the manufacturing sector. It is active, in particular, in the concrete, plastic, wood and steel industry. Thanks to its expertise, Automacad assists its customers for the automation of production processes. It also offers industrialization solutions energizing not only production chains, but also the entire market. 
