Quebec- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, has announced non-refundable financial assistance of $ 300,000 in Diagnostic Optina. The technological enterprise will thus develop a camera, called iris imaging scanner, to diagnose very early eye diseases such as macular degeneration or diabetic retinopathy and, in the medium term, several diseases such as diabetes, Arterial hypertension and Alzheimer. 
This project entitled "Adaptation of a retinal hyperspectral camera for first commercial applications" will allow Optina diagnostic to market this camera for the research market and to pursue a round of financing in the range of 6 to 8 million dollars. 
"I am pleased to announce this financial support to Optina Diagnostics, as this project will contribute to the development of the photonal optics sector in Quebec and will have a major impact in the Montreal area. The global market for ophthalmic diagnostic equipment is estimated at $ 850 million in 2013 and the market segment corresponding to the Optina project is estimated at 40% of the overall market. There is therefore a strong growth potential for the company and this will make it possible to radiate Quebec's know-how around the world, "said Minister Duchesne. 
Diagnostic Optina develops specialized molecular eye imaging systems that make it possible to detect early illness and improve treatment. Through its technologies, the Quebec technology company improves the health of patients. 
Thus, the iris imaging scanner allows ophthalmologists to visualize the molecular changes that occur in the eye, before the morphological modifications caused by diseases, making possible an early diagnosis, to better manage their progress.. 
"This project uses collaboration and partnerships, two elements that will occupy a major place in the future national research and innovation (PNRI), in addition to strengthening high-level jobs," added Minister Duchesne. 
Based in Montreal, the company currently employs three people. The grant awarded will contribute to the consolidation of five jobs, in addition to creating a dozen others by the end of 2014. 
"Optina's technology will make it possible to diagnose very early diseases that are currently only after irreversible morphological damage has occurred. The support of the department will help us to multiply the technical evidence necessary for our evolution, "said Optina Diagnostic President David Lapointe. 
The total cost of this project is $ 750,000. The contribution of the Government of Quebec represents 50% of the eligible expenses of the project. Thus, under the Innovation Support Program, component 1: support for technology start-ups, the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology provides financial assistance of 300,000 $. Financial assembly is complemented by $ 450,000 paid by capital stock and CLD-Ville Saint-Laurent. 
The National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI) is one of the four major strategic initiatives around which the Employment EconomicPriticity is articulated by Quebec government. In terms of research and innovation, PNRP represents an unprecedented $ 3.7 billion investment that will extend over five years. 
For more information on departmental programs and services, visitwww.messt.gouv.qc.ca. 
