Montreal- "We refuse to be the generation that will see Montreal marginalize French! We will not accept that Francophones are soon in the minority on the island and we will not let French lose its critical mass in the metropolis of Quebec. It is a real cry of the heart that the Québécois candidate has launched in Rosemont, Jean-François Lisée. 
The observation established in September 2011 by the Quebec Office of the French language (OQLF) is clear. As we have to rejoice in the progress of French as a second language in Montreal, the decline of the proportion of Montreal for which French is the mainly spoken language is very worrying. While this percentage amounted to more than 61% in 1971, it was barely 54% in 2006 and should fall, if nothing is done, at 47% in less than 20 years. 
"The weakening of the Francophone majority endangers our collective capacity to integrate newcomers into French in the metropolis and weakens the future of French, he said, adding that the future of French in Quebec will Playing on the island of Montreal within 20 years. It is more than surgery to affirm our firm political will to maintain a French-speaking majority on the island and opening a large construction site to get there. » 
Several measures already appearing in the Parti Québécois platform contribute to the achievement of this objective, including the language of work and that of education. After reporting general support measures to the French and stimulus of the metropolis, the Parti Québécois proposes two axes of action specifically aimed at the preservation of a French-speaking majority on the island of Montreal: the linguistic composition of Immigration and development of a friendly living environment for young Francophone families. 
The linguistic composition of immigration is one of the main variables that feed the decline of the proportion of Francophones in Montreal. A Parti Québécois government will change the selection criteria for immigration candidates to promote French candidates as a language of use and that meet other competency requirements. 
The departure of young Francophone families towards the suburbs at the time of the arrival of a child is the other main cause of the decline of French. A Parti Québécois government will open up a project to define, together with the elected representatives and Montreal actors working in the housing, transport, environmental, safety and sustainable development sectors, equities specific to Remember families on the island of Montreal. 
This second measure will be of general application and open to all citizens, regardless of language. Since most departures concern Francophones, the application of this measure will have a positive impact on the linguistic composition of the island. A ministerial committee will have the mandate to put in place an action plan for the designation of a majority Francophone Montreal during the first year of the mandate. 
"Faithful to the memory of René Lévesque and the spirit of Law 101, we intend to respect the present and act for the future. It is obviously no question of interfering in the language used by citizens in their private lives or to encourage them to change. We intend to influence the demographic trends to come to ensure the sustainability of French in the metropolis, the main location of the linguistic meetings and the integration of newcomers, "said Jean-François listed, by arguing that the maintenance of an Montreal Mostly Francophone is in the interest of all Quebeckers who wish to preserve a French-speaking francophone society in America for future generations. 
These measures are added to those already announced, including the adoption of a new Charter of the French language that will extend to new areas such as businesses from 11 to 49 employees, CEGEPs and vocational training schools. A government of the Parti Québécois will put an end to the gateways schools. 
"The Liberals did nothing, the Caquists and the Solidarities will not do anything. When publishing the results of the OQLF study in September 2011, Prime Minister Jean Charest has minimized the importance of the decline of French in Montreal by saying that these data needed to contextualize. Since then, never reappeared again, "he said. 
In Quebec Solidarity, the Françoise David spokesman said that these data were not worrying in itself, but they would be if the proportion of Francophones on the island dropped down 40%. The CAQ decays the question of the linguistic composition of the island of Montreal, which probably explains why fierce opponents by law 101, such as Robert Libman and William Johnson, call to vote for François Legault. These three parties are also opposed to other structuring measures, such as the extension of Law 101 at the collegial level and the introduction of a Quebec citizenship that will require new immigrants a minimal knowledge of French. 
"The Parti Québécois is the only one who has the courage to affirm high and the decline in the proportion of Francophones on the island of Montreal is unacceptable. The political will that we express today does not concern Montrealers. It concerns whole Quebec. We know that all Quebeckers are worried about the future of French in the metropolis. We know that all Quebeckers want to prevent a linguistic cleavage between Montreal and the rest of Quebec. The goal of a francophone majority on the island is and must be the goal of the whole nation, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
