Québec - Throughout the development process that led to the deposit of the Charter of Laïcité by the Marois Government, eminent lawyers were consulted to ensure that it is based on strong legal bases. Among them, let's mention Me Henri Brown, Professor at the Faculty of Law of Laval University, the Honorable Claire L'Heureux-Dubé, former judge at the Supreme Court, and Julie Latour, former boobs of the Barreau de Montréal. 
The official opposition spokesperson for the Charter of Laïcité and MP for Taschereau, Agnès Maltese, should remember that the draft Charter of Values is a choice of society that first raised the Quebec population and its duly elected representatives. "The elected officials of the National Assembly could not finish their work on the Charter of Laity. Once this legislative work is over, the courts would have been able to do their job as needed. In addition, the government of the Parti Québécois has always been confident of the solidity of the legal assizes of the Charter. Moreover, at the parliamentary committee, several lawyers have considered it constitutional, "said the member. 
On the occasion of the parliamentary committee consultation process, Mr. Henri Brown declared, on February 7, 2014: "With regard to validity, quickly, we all believe that Bill 60 is valid, including in What looks at Article 5, which restricts the right to make religious signs in certain limited circumstances. This belief, we found it on the recent evolution of constitutional law, of the case law, and we also fund it on the evolution to come, if I can say, of constitutional law. The state of the constitutional case law, at one point, can not and should not be considered as the end of history, especially since what deals with Bill 60 has never been submitted to the courts. We are in new matters. In any case, this debate should not, in any case, that the legalistic debate on the validity in comes to inhibit or blur the essential debate that must take place on the desirability of Bill 60. " 
"Will it be necessary to use the express derogation clause? I, my legal answer, it is no, pursued me Henri Brown. For the reasons we mentioned, we believe that this bill, in its entirety, is constitutional, is valid. But, in front of all that is said, we can not stop the ears anyway; I think there will also be a decision of an exclusively political and no more legal nature at all, absolutely political and administrative, to say: Will we live with 10 years of judicial battles on the same subject? And that, it could ruin this peace that we anticipate. But here there is a political decision, which escapes us. » 
Also during the consultations in the parliamentary committee, the former judge at the clear Supreme Court the happy? Dubé added, "This legal debate is reduced, in my opinion, mainly to the differing views of the jurists on the interpretation by the courts of the courts. limits to civil liberties guaranteed by the charters. Some, such as the Bar and the Human Rights Commission, among others, rely on a broad and expansive interpretation of these civil liberties by the judges, interpretation based on sincere belief, totally subjective, of a person to the effect that its practices fall within a religious obligation without other criteria; The Amselem and Multani stops that we have discussed a lot. For the lawyers for the institution and neutrality of the State, of which I am, this broad and totally subjective interpretation has since subsequent judgments to these two decisions which we report in our brief. » 
"All state employees are subject to, among other things, standards of loyalty and restrictions in their freedom of political expression, which has been found to be valid by the courts, has it added . In what a similar restriction on their freedom of religious expression would it be different? And there, I may answer someone who put it in doubt by saying yes, restriction with a secular state. Always put this parameter. » 
Finally, remember that Roger Tassé, former Deputy Minister of Justice of the Federal Government at the time of the drafting of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, "interviewed in December 2013:" Here, what are we talking about? ? We are talking about a prohibition that ultimately is quite minimal. [...] In my opinion, contrary to what some said, including the Quebec Human Rights Commission, "it is understood that it will be illegal," I am not convinced of that. I think an argument could be developed. [...] That's why it's important for the debate to take place at the political level, that all those who have views on that can be heard. And that the conclusions are drawn, and that the legislator decides on what will be in the Charter, and under what conditions. It seems fundamental to me. »
(Source: http: //ic.radio-canada.ca/nouvelles/societe/2013/12/28/002-pere-charte-canadienne-droits-liberttes-charte-valeur-quebecoise-laicite-roger-tasse.shtml ) 
There is a distinction between formal legal opinions and the legal opinions collected throughout the development process that led to the drafting of the Charter of Laity. The confidentiality of the government's formal legal opinions is a fundamental principle. 
"The Liberals are trying to hide behind a false debate on formal legal opinions compared to formal legal opinions to conceal their opposition to the establishment in Quebec of a real secularism. How to ensure equality between men and women, guarantee a real religious neutrality of the state and supervise reasonable accommodations, this is the true debate of Quebeckers, "concluded Agnès Maltese. 
