Quebec- On the occasion of the 2nd Forum on the religious heritage of the Religious Heritage of Quebec, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announces the signature of three notices of classification under the law on Cultural Heritage. These concern the church of the Saint-Jean-Baptiste Decollation, located in Isle-Verte, the Chapel Notre-Dame-de-Bon-Résêt, located in Montreal, and the Church of St. Dominique , located in Quebec City. 
"This announcement is another tangible expression of the commitment of the Government of Quebec in the protection of our religious heritage. These historic places are an invaluable wealth for our national culture; It is therefore essential to preserve them and protect them, "said Minister Maka Kotto. 
The notice of classification of the Church of the Saint-Jean-Baptiste Decollation is aimed at protecting the place of worship, including part of the field, and movable property with artistic and historical value. The heritage value of the Church is based, among other things, about the interest of its interior decoration of neogothic influence, one of the most completed done at the same time. The Challenge of Saint Jean-Baptiste, even a chalice and his patène are of interest to their historical and artistic values. 
This chapel is a significant patrimonial place for the city of Montreal because of its historical, architectural, artistic and ethnological values. The notice of classification aims to protect the chapel and three of its movable property, its archaeological site and a collection of objects that have been extracted. Among the protected movable property, mention the statuette Notre-Dame-de-Bonfire, the only object found intact after the fire ravaged the first chapel in 1754, as well as Levrai Portrait of Marguerite Bourgeoys, who would be the most Ancible painting painted by an artist born in the country. 
The notice of classification of the St. Dominic Church aims at the protection of the place of worship and its movable property for their architectural, artistic and historical values. The decor of the Church of St. Dominic, a major work of the Sculptor Laureate Vallière, is one of the largest carved wooden sets in Quebec, in addition to constituting an important witness of the influence of neogothic current. 
Additional information concerning these churches as well as all the heritage elements entered in the cultural heritage register are available on the website of the Cultural Heritage Directory of Quebec (RPCQ), atwww.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca. 
In total, it is 350 places of worship, 275 presbyteries, convents and residences of religious and nuns and thousands of religious movable property which are already protected under the law of cultural heritage. 
New cultural heritage dissemination tools are added to the RPCQ, allowing to discover all its richness and diversity, making it accessible to all. Part of the RPCQ content is now on the Open Data Portal of the Government of Quebec, atwww.donnes.gouv.qc.ca, as well as on the Social Pinterest network, in the form of virtual exhibitions, AWWW. Pinterest.com/rpcq. 
Online training is also offered, at the address www.formation-patrimoine.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. Composed of video capsules and learning activities, it presents the basic notions of the Cultural Heritage Act and explains the roles and responsibilities of each to promote the knowledge, protection, development and transmission of the Cultural Heritage. 
