Quebec, March 23, 2018 - February 23, 2018 - the federal announcement concerning the reduction of shrimp quotas in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, the official opposition spokesman for fisheries, André Villeneuve, as well as the holder. Word for the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Sylvain Roy, ask Quebec's fisheries minister, Laurent Lessard, to immediately put in "crisis management" mode to support Quebec fishermen and factory workers transformation. 
IN SHORT 
Federal Minister Dominic Leblanc has endorsed the draconian decline in shrimp quotas in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, recommended by the Advisory Committee. Fishermen will therefore be entitled to only 17,337 tons of shrimp, while reported 22,331 tonnes last year. "This dramatic reduction will have a major impact on the fishing industry in eastern Quebec. Minister Lessard must immediately switch to "Crisis Management" mode. Actions must be undertaken quickly to mitigate the consequences of this decision on fishermen and workers in Quebec processing factories, "said André Villeneuve. 
Sylvain Roy emphasizes that the Minister of Finance, Carlos Leitão, is at this moment even bring the latest changes to his budget. "Laurent Lessard must ensure that the next Tuesday submitted budget will include measures to mitigate the impacts of quota reduction. The minister does not have the choice to intervene with his colleague for our fishermen to find their account in the 2018-2019 budget, "he insisted. 
Remember that two weeks ago, Minister Leblanc announced a $ 400 million fund to support the Atlantic Fisheries Industry. "Quebec is excluded, even if its industry is struggling with the same difficulties. Dominic LeBlanc has shown a manifest favoritism towards his region, and Laurent Lessard must make him understand that Quebec is entitled to its fair share. An emergency meeting is necessary. If Mr. Lessard wants me to accompany him to Ottawa to show a united front in front of the federal government, I am ready to do it, "concluded the member for Berthier. 
