Quebec, on March 14, 2019- The hon. Member for Bonaventure and spokesperson for the second opposition group in forest, wildlife and parks, Sylvain Roy, is pleased that the CAQ decided to lower the rate for the Obtaining a small game fishing or hunting license, a first idea advanced by the Parti Québécois. However, it is of the opinion that this only measure will not be sufficient to address the problems of lack of succession and access to our collective wildlife heritage. 
IN SHORT 
Sylvain Roy qualifies the decision of the government of the CAQ of "special". "The minister seems to believe that the population does not realize that while the fishing and low-game fishing and hunting tariffs fall, those of big game permits are increasing. And that, it is not to mention the exorbitant amounts that we demand for the use of the launching ramps, or increases of the resort leases, which reached 530% in certain places! When will the minister tackle these other problems? He asked. 
A few months ago, the hon. Member for Bonaventure made a "fauna" tour, which led him to the four corners of Quebec. Its observation is very clear: to respond adequately to the stakes of the sector, a unique measure is not enough. 
"To sustainably support the wildlife economy, Quebec must create a research center in this area, develop a national water bodies access policy, re-acquire wildlife conservation officers, plan pilot projects. For fishing with bait fish and restore access to caribou hunting, including. These are, moreover, some of the solution tracks put forward by the Parti Québécois. If the government wants to give it other good ideas, we will do it willingly; He only has to communicate with us! Sylvain Roy said. 
Finally, the member hopes that the government took into account the impacts of its decision on the MFFP budget. "The Prime Minister has already affirmed very clearly: departments will have to settle for the current budget envelopes, they will not have access to the surpluses. So what will be the consequences of lowering the price of licenses across the wildlife sector? , "He raised. 
