Québec- At the end of the consultations on Law 36, the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élaine Zakaïb, said the comments received from the economic actors, the Future clients and partners of the Quebec Economic Development Bank (BDEQ), but very disappointed with the partisan attitude of the official opposition and the second opposition. 
"They have heard like me the widely broad membership of the development bank's objectives of the Development Bank, including its intention to facilitate the lives of entrepreneurs and access to venture capital," said Zakaïb delegate minister. "They have heard like me that entrepreneurs and regions impatiently waited for a tool better adapted to their reality and needs. They heard like me that the majority of the speakers saw this effective tool in the BDEQ. » 
The Deputy Minister Zakaïb stated to be abasourdished to see that political partisanship can take over a strong issue as crucial as economic development. 
"Ask amendments is one thing, but from there to reject the setback of a unified window and a decentralization approach, there is a step that a responsible opposition should have refused to cross She hamarked. "They will have to answer their actions to entrepreneurs, regions and the entire population of Quebec, which will make the costs of their partisanship. » 
The Deputy Minister recalled that the creation of the Economic Development Bank would make it easier to meet the needs of entrepreneurs and regions through a new approach. 
A regionalized approach that will have an office and permanent resources in each region and a strategy developed by and for them, in close collaboration with local development centers. This new proactive approach will also provide the Development Bank with the mandate to support entrepreneurs, while implementing strategic projects. Finally, this approach considers entrepreneurs as customers and adapts its services to their needs and not the opposite. 
The Delegate Minister, who has made his entire career in economic development, of which ten years in regional development, has, however, required to reassure entrepreneurs and regions. "It's for you," she concluded that I came into politics. I will not let me discourage. » 
