Here is an overview of the socio-economic groups who have hosted positively to Bill 36 creating the Quebec Economic Development Bank: 
"The ACLDQ is interviewing the government's willingness to consider local action plans for the economy and employment in its regional economic development strategies. » 
"We particularly appreciate the intention of the government to adopt a customer approach compared to companies with professionals who would have as a mandate to accompany them within the administrative ladies of the State and to accelerate the processes to access them to access them At a patient capital, said the President of the Council of Patronat du Québec, Mr. Yves-Thomas Dorval. 
"We would therefore have a positive orientations in the bill to accompany entrepreneurs in these respects," said Mrs. Martine Hébert, Vice-President, Quebec, from the Canadian Federation of Independent Company (FCEI). 
"The Quebec Federation of Municipalities (FQM) welcomes new promising commene for the future of Quebec regions. » 
"The creation of the Québec Economic Development Bank proposed today, with the deposit of Bill 36, according to Manufacturers and Exporters of Quebec (MEQ), to the need to better structure the government's action in respect of economic development. » 
"The government's intention to mandate the new Quebec Economic Development Bank to offer patient capital to social economy companies is welcome. » 
"The wishes to set up a one-stop shop and support businesses in all their phases of development correspond to the needs and realities of companies", according to President and CEO of the FCCQ, Ms. Françoise Bertrand. 
"Cape Finance, the network of solidarity finance and responsible to salutela the creation of the Quebec Economic Development Bank (BDEQ). » 
"The Quebec Council for Cooperation and Mutuality (CQCM) welcomes the proposal of the bill created the Quebec Economic Development Bank (BDEQ). » 
"The Government's intentional intends to ensure that BDEQ will support all sectors, both those from the more traditional manufacturing sector - especially if they are aimed at increasing competitiveness - than those of the new economy." 
"The UMQ wants this reorganization to help Quebec and foreign entrepreneurs create wealth in all municipalities. » 
"The creation of the Quebec Economic Development Bank combines several interesting elements aimed at facilitating and simplifying access to funding in the various regions of Quebec, with a view to sustainable development. » 
VIEW LASSONFERENCE OF PRESSELORS OF THE REGISTRATION OF BILL 36 Creating the Economic Development Bank. 
