Quebec- The member for Berthier and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in agriculture and food, André Villeneuve, stressed that certain groups, during the consultations in the parliamentary committee, took up gaps in Bill 54, Act aimed at improving the legal situation of the animal: it is concerned, in particular, the lack of inspectors allocated to animal welfare, the lack of supervision of religious slaughter and the fact that the law does not will not be applied in slaughterhouses under federal jurisdiction. 
"For all Quebec, only 15 inspectors are assigned to animal welfare. Everyone agrees that it is clearly insufficient. Despite the growing number of complaints, and despite the new responsibilities for them after the passage of Bill 54, the Minister does not plan to increase the number of inspectors. The government, hoping to silence this information, even went so far as to refuse to hear their parliamentary committee representatives, "denounced André Villeneuve. 
In addition, the minister says that with his bill, religious slaughter practices will be more framed. "Where is it writing? The bill does not mention it, nowhere. There is no article that requires an insensitisation of the animal before killing during a ritual slaughter, "continued the spokesperson. 
Finally, the groups heard, like the minister, confirm that the slaughterhouses falling under the federal government will not be subject to the new law. "The Minister will have to conclude a hypothetical memorandum of understanding that Quebec legislation applies to these slaughterhouses, which is not guaranteed. It is completely inconsistent, for a state that aspires to become a leader in the animal well-being, that two-speed standards apply in its territory, "concluded the member for Berthier. 
Because he subscribes to the principle of the Minister's bill, and in order to improve it as much as possible, the Parti Québécois will continue to exchange with the groups present in parliamentary committee. 
