The building of the Liberal Party of Quebec features everywhere. After a catastrophic parliamentary session, it is an earthquake that is currently shaking the Ministry of Transport. On the edge of the burst, the Government of Philippe Couillard continues to close your eyes as well on its internal problems and the wrongs that its policies cause to all Quebec society. 
And it is Quebeckers who pay the expenses of the indifference and stubbornness of the Prime Minister. 
250,000 jobs, you say? 
The lack of economic vision of the Liberal government and its obsession to cut everywhere to dismantle the Quebec model as quickly as possible give tangible results: 9500 jobs lost in Quebec from April 2015 to April 2016. 
Where are the 250,000 jobs promised? Who went astray to be the government of the economy? All economic indicators are down, as many signals that should react the government, which remains impassive before the disaster announced. 
While Quebec loses one of its headquarters, the Philippe Cuteillard government, rather than designing a safeguard plan, rather put all its eggs in the same basket by choosing to invest 1 billion US dollars in a transaction. Regarding a single project: Bombardier's cleries. 
It is a complete lack of economic vision shown by the Liberal Party government, and these are thousands of Quebec families who pay the price. 
The ax in the CPE 
Because, during this time, in addition to losing their jobs, Quebeckers see the custody costs of their children skyrocketing. With the new "Family Tax", some parents had to pay up to $ 2300 per child during the production of their tax return. What the Liberal Party tells us is "Pay more, we'll give you less". 
Indeed, it is in a real dismantling company of the public service network that the Philippe Couillard government has committed, with new cuts of $ 120 million this year. A transition allowance of 60 million given to CPE? It will largely serve employees and pay for their departure bonus. 
The Liberal Party therefore does not just be unable to create jobs: it finances job loss!  Full cake in education 
And the portrait is no longer encouraging on the side of education. The pseudo-reinvestment of 2.48% announced for 2016-2017 is not only largely below the average of the last 10 years and obviously far from catching up the 2 years of cuts of the Cutee government, but the Parti Québécois has discovered In the study of credits only a third of these amounts was funded by "administrative optimization measures", other words: other cuts! 
Not to mention that the Liberal government literally plays the Sorcerer apprentice with our education system: 2 years and 3 ministers of education later, it is learned that it gives up its second draft reform of school governance. Above the market, Minister Proulx's intentions remain unclear about things. We are two years old for the success of our young people, and without much hope for both who will follow.   Philippe Couillard even adds insult to insult by self-proclaiming the "Prime Minister of Education". How can we be so cheeky? 
Health failure failure 
On the health side, the balance sheet is disastrous. In the emergency, the Commissioner of Health assesses that the hours lost to wait have reached the hawstling number of 13 million, and that a person out of the premises without having been taken care of. 
Despite the reforms undertaken by Minister Barrette, one million Quebeckers are still without a family doctor. And the new cuts planned in 2016-17 will not help the situation: the billion dollars will be exceeded in budget compressions in the health sector only. 
Meanwhile, the fertile and barrette doctors continue to increase the salary of their colleagues doctors and have no intention of recovering the $ 400 million that has been paid too much. 
And to be sure to muzzle the criticism, Gaétan Barrette abolishes the position of the Commissioner in Health. Who can monitor the excesses of his leader now? 
Illegal coping and financing: the same good old liberal party 
Without being content with a catastrophic management of state affairs, the Liberal Party knew how to show us during the last parliamentary session that it had not changed at all, whatever by saying Philippe Couillard. 
Moreover, the latter, after having seen no problem at a return of Nathalie Normandeau to the PLQ before the 2014 elections, did not believe it good to condemn the culture of his party after the arrest thereby by The UPAQ last March, alongside the former minister and important Fund Collector of the Liberal Party, Marc-Yvan side. 
In addition, after a meeting with this same Mr. Côté has put Sam Hamad in the embarrassment due to the sudden rise of $ 1 million in a grant attributed by his department to the first tech firm, of which Marc- Yvan Côté is vice-president, the Prime Minister first expected that Quebecers's anger the strength to withdraw his position and his privileges to Minister Hamad - who had saved Florida - then wastened to whiten "all In fact, his friend Sam at the publication of the Auditor General's report, who had to remind him that nothing left him the opportunity to assert such a thing. 
For its part, Jacques Daoust did not do anything when his predecessor Robert Poëti advised him of irregularities at the Ministry of Transport. As for the Prime Minister, he rejected his "ignorance" on his cabinet director, making sure to offer him a job in another cabinet. Decidedly, Philippe Couillard does not want to clean the Liberal Party. 
Despite all these controversies related to the PLQ funding, its activists have not bothered to adopt a resolution last month to increase the limit of annual contributions to political parties, currently set at $ 100. 
Philippe Couillard was doing well to want the most transparent government in Quebec's history, but here is completely opaque on all integrity issues, both in the MTQ records and the Sam Hamad case as in the system of ministers at $ 150,000, which he also refuses to denounce. Its lighthouse measurement of government transparency, the dissemination of ministerial agendas, has proved to be a chimera, ministers that can do what they want despite the Prime Minister's directive. 
What has changed to the Liberal Party, exactly? 
A firm opposition 
Meanwhile, the Parti Québécois, we act on all these fronts to try to curb that government that wades in the most complete improvisation. 
Thanks to the hard work of Agnès Maltese in parliamentary committee, Minister Stephanie Vallée and the entire National Assembly finally ranked on the side of the majority of the population and almost all the Groups of the Corporation to reject the part of the project. Law 59 on hate speech, a major victory for freedom of expression in Quebec. 
The exit of the member for René-Lévesque, Martin Ouellet, and his colleague from Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, also allowed the adoption of an amendment to the draft law 83, thus ensuring that the mayors convicted of An offense in the Criminal Code may be dismissed, regardless of the sentence received. 
We are also very proud of Bill 599 deposited at the end of May by the member for Berthier and spokesman for the Quebecois in agriculture and food, André Villeneuve, for a law to counter the 'Check out agricultural land. These lands are a limited resource and have become a safe haven for some private investment funds, which has caused an increase in their price. In Quebec, we have chosen to keep agriculture on a human scale, so focus on family farms, a model that this new law will save. 
Note also the excellent work of Diane Lamarre, Member of Parliament for Taillon and spokesman for the health and accessibility of care, which presented a few days ago Bill 691, An Act to prohibit the Fees billing Accessories for insured services. This bill aims to remove the regulatory authority from decreasing ancillary fees that the Minister Barrette had held in Bill 20. 
While the Liberal Party sails crisis in crisis, governing itself in its own interest and full countercurrent of that of Quebeckers, Quebecois, we continue to hold the bar and work for a stronger Quebec and more just. 
Let us hope that Prime Minister Philippe Couillard eventually comes down from his pedestal to see the actual impacts of his policies and lack of leadership on the life of his fellow citizens. Could it know by the very fact not only caulking the cracks that gnaw his party, but also to renovate it from the bottom, because it is clear that nothing has changed to the Liberal Party. 
