Sorel-Tracy "a year ago, day for day, Ms. Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec's history," said, with pride and emotion, the hon. Member for Richelieu and Minister delegated to the Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb. "His first year at the head of the government has been marked by listening, political intelligence and determination. After putting order under his guidance, the Government of Quebec again has the means to act to build a stronger, more proud Quebec. " Government priorities are clear: the economy and job creation; solidarity and help with those who are in need; and finally, the identity and the measures to better live together 
Like his government, Élain Zakaïb has set up a positive record of his first year: "I came to politics to get things done for my region and for all Quebec. I am proud of the results obtained: things have advanced in the riding, particularly in terms of economy and jobs and the improvement of the quality of life by health, environmental, collective transport , in culture and support for families. And that's just the beginning!" 
Élain Zakaïb continued by recalling the files that have been successful or made progress since one year estimating the investment in Richelieu a few hundred million dollars. "But beyond these millions, what matters, emphasized Ms. Zakaïb, these are the concrete projects that have been supported and who contribute to our prosperity and quality of life." 
"The great projects, private or public, are long to put in masturbate, but they are the most bearer, by their ability to create sustainable jobs, has taken to remind Élaine Zakaïb. I have dedicated a lot of energies over the past year to advance some of these projects and I am confident in their next end. " 
She works with the CLD, his ministry and investment Québec to convince the company Terra Nova to come and settle in Sorel-Tracy: "Things are well, but they are efforts every moment." The minister has finally promised the next announcement of two projects in the food sector. 
The minister also recalled the recent announcement of construction, from the fall of the Sorel-Tracy detention center, which everyone was waiting with growing impatience. The construction will begin in this fall and the center will be ready to operate in early 2017. "This major project that is an investment of $ 266 million, will represent 300 direct jobs for the duration of construction and 150 more permanent jobs, Once the center is in operation. It is a major contribution for the region. Ms. Zakaïb also reported on the Interdepartmental Committee on the Corridor of Highway She co-chairs and who needs to develop a strategy for developing the Montérégie. 
She also wanted to remember that the real job creators remained entrepreneurs. That is why it regrets that opposition parties have rejected the Bank of Economic Development Bank, a powerful and indispensable development tool for supporting entrepreneurs and promoting private investments in all regions, including his. "We believe it and know that the demand is there. You will find a way to meet this demand. Ms. Zakaïb also announced for the fall of the implementation of the industrial policy to revive the manufacturer, who will be one of the pillars of the government's economic policy, in order to create wealth and durable jobs. 
It has finally recalled that prosperity could also go through the environment and culture: "The Georges-Codling Room, for which we have maintained $ 5.2 million last October, despite the difficult financial situation of the government, will contribute so much to cultural life and economic life of the region. " 
"In the perspective of sustainable development, the environment and economy go hand in hand," said Zakaïb, quoting for example the restoration of the Holy Louis marsh, in La Baie Lavallère where half a million dollars was invested. This project led by the Minister, jointly with the Minister of the Environment, Sustainable Development, Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet, will help strengthen the eco-tourism vocation of the region. 
The member also puts on the status of technopole in industrial ecology in the region to develop the economy. It continues to collaborate with the main partners to strengthen this status with innovative projects that contribute to the diversification and establishment of a sustainable development economy 
Élain Zakaìb welcomed the arrival of ten new family physicians in the region, a record cohort. "This is one of the most glaring needs in the region. I am pleased that we can finally answer them better. She took the opportunity to remind the population to register on the list. The government also granted CSSS Pierre-de Saurel more than half a million additional dollars for home care, another important need. 
To help young families, 68 new places were created in Saint-David, Saint-Roch-de-Richelieu and Yamaska. "This first phase aimed to meet the most glaring needs. New places will be announced soon, "promised the member. The government has also funded the creation of a school park in Saint-Joseph-de-Sorel and granted Cégep de Sorel-Tracy a new technique in childhood education. It is also reduced by 28% iniquity in the allocation of health uprights for the Montérégie, thus initiating the path to interregional equilibrium. 
Finally, recently, the MRC Pierre-de Saurel received $ 59,000 from the government to implement an inter-municipal collective transportation system. "It's a major contribution to our region, supported the hon. Member for Richelieu. This collective transport is an absolute need to ensure the vitality of rural municipalities. " 
Élain ZakaîB concluded by recalling that his office was always open and his political attachments available to answer on his behalf to the requests or to send them to him. It also reiterated its commitment to the region and called for the collaboration of all the actors concerned by its development. "It's together we will succeed in moving things forward for the entire region and Quebec." 
