Longueuil- It is at the House of Citizens that Martine Ouellet, Member of Parliament for Vachon and Spokesperson for Transport, Electrification of Transport, Maritime Strategy and Telecommunications, Diane Lamarre, Member of Parliament for Taillon and Spokesperson health and accessibility of care and Bernard Drainville, Member of Parliament for Marie-Victorin, Parliamentary Leader and Spokesperson for the Electoral Act and Access to Information, Ethics and Integrity, have Know their parliamentary session assessment. On this occasion, the three deputies of Longueuil have agreed on incompetence, injustice and inconsistency that the Liberals faced this fall. 
Our children pay the price 
"In the dogmatism that we know him, the PLQ cut $ 120 million to early childhood centers (CPE), this model development place for our toddlers. At this point, it is the survival of the CPE network and the jobs of thousands of educators who are threatened. Even if they had promised to invest in education, once in power, they cut the services to students and weakened our public education system. My colleagues and I have participated, with the parents, the human chains in front of our schools with the movement I protect my public school, whether it is the school of Iberville de Saint-Hubert, the Gentilly School or Still the Armand-Racicot School of Longueuil. Moreover, I invite all citizens to sign the petition a school commissioner of Saint-Hubert filed and that I sponsor to make public school a real national priority, available on the website of the Assembly national. (https://www.assnat.qc.ca/en/exprimez-your-opinion/petition/petition-5677/index.html) 
This fall I also had the opportunity to tour the dangers of oil transportation by train for export and particularly on the Terminal heat project. I went to meet the citizens and elected municipal elected representatives that would be affected. If he sees the day, 240 tank wagons would cross municipalities such as Saint-Lambert, Longueuil, Saint-Bruno and Mont-Saint-Hilaire, and those throughout the CN railway to Belledune New Brunswick. I met several elected municipal elected and groups of citizens and as a result of this great mobilization, the UMQ and several MRCs and municipalities have adopted a resolution asking the government to declare a terminal heat BAPE! Speaking of great mobilization, I congratulate all citizens, elected officials and organizations that have mobilized to prevent the toll on the Future Champlain Bridge, it is a victory for the entire metropolitan area and an example of success for all those who mobilize for Change things! "said Martine Ouellet. 
Question the government and question its real interests 
"Throughout the parliamentary session, I sought to get the best for the population. I asked clear questions to the Minister Barrette. He refused to respond to confuse his old role as President of the FMSQ with that of Minister of Health and Social Services responsible for a budget that belongs to Quebeckers! I denounced the introduction of an overload for patients for ancillary fees, because it is a diverted way to charge patients a second time for health services they already pay; An obvious form of a soft privatization compromising the principles of a universal health system and accessible to all. I filed a petition of more than 10500 names at the National Assembly against these costs, a petition which testifies that, unlike the words of the minister, the citizens of Quebec do not accept this unilateral decision which he imposed without debate public. Bill 20, now adopted, has also disassembled access and somehow privatized in vitro fertilization (IVF). The equivalent of a child by class (1/32) was born thanks to the IVF. Although we managed to earn some amendments to the parliamentary committee, the minister has put so many obstacles that access to the parental project becomes inaccessible for most of them. I repeatedly denounced, just like the Auditor General of Quebec, the surplus of nearly $ 1 billion remuneration paid to physicians while the health and social services network sudden for cuts of $ 450 million. 
Meanwhile, in Longueuil, 10,000 people a month must resort to food banks. In health, the state of the situation of customer access counters without a family doctor remains problematic in the region. The number of patients enrolled in these access desks climbed by 60% in just 10 months. In total, more than 73,575 people were listed on January 23, 2015, they were 45,849 to 31 March 2014. This government has an ideological approach; In addition to the lack of economic results, he cuts in social acquis. ", for his part declared Diane Lamarre. 
Integrity gestures to restore confidence to Quebecers 
For its part, the member for Marie-Victorin and Parliamentary Leader of the Official Opposition, Bernard Drainville, emphasized three important elements related to his parliamentary duties: 1. The adoption of the bill to put a Term with departure premiums of deputies leaving in the course of mandate without the reasons of health or family, 2. the end of the applause at the question period to clean up the atmosphere at the blue show and 3. To shed light on the Charbonneau commission, in particular by asking Mr. Renaud Lachance and Ms. France Charbonneau to become publicly explained, in parliamentary committee. 
"Quebeckers are thirsty for integrity and ethics. I realize it by chatting with the people of Longueuil, they want the truth. They want to understand why the Liberals derive so good in the report of the Charbonneau Commission. Why have protected the big gums of the Liberal Party, Marc Bibeau and Cie? 45 million later, does the Charbonneau commission served to whiten the PLQ? That's why we ask that Mr. Lachance and Ms. Charbonneau have explained on the conclusions of the commission of inquiry. 
It is for the same reason that I look forward to the end of the starting premiums being mandated. It's a beautiful victory! A beautiful victory for citizens, for Quebeckers and for our democracy! The law that was adopted is the bill I had filed myself with an element. I admit that I am particularly proud of it. It will have taken time, but we ended up winning this battle. It is again the proof that we must never let go. Thank you to all citizens who supported us, "said Bernard Drainville. 
In addition, the battle is continued to save the financing of the 16 poverty control projects in Longueuil. "Diane, Martine and I, the three members of Longueuil, we met with the Community Development Corporation (CDC) of Longueuil, in order to find a way to pursue these projects that really help our world and our community. Nothing is played yet, but for discussing it with Minister Sam Hamad, he has not demonstrated a great opening. Moreover, this government does not have the reputation of being particularly receptive to the demands of community organizations, "recalls Bernard Drainville. "We have the impression of a cold government that looks at us high". 
"We are facing a government that is going to look for $ 1,500 in the pocket of families, which tackles the principle of equal opportunities, which cuts in the services to students and dismantling CPEs, which cuts healthy and Privatize our care in soft and who wants to force social assisters to move. We are facing a government that does not listen to the population. It is this same liberal government, which, on the other side, pay $ 800 million too much to specialist doctors. It is austerity everywhere in Quebec, except for the colleagues doctors of the Prime Minister and his Minister of Health. This is unacceptable. Quebecers and Quebeckers are indignant and they are right. Quebec deserves better than an insensitive, stubborn, inconsistent and incompetent government, "have concluded members of the Parti Québécois. 
