Québec- On the occasion of the end of the parliamentary session, the member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, traced a severe report of government actions. As the population of Quebec has been able to take the entire, the Liberal government of Philippe Couillard has shown incompetence, injustice and inconsistency. 
"While the parliamentary session ends, Quebeckers have found that the Government of Philippe Couillard has no limit to the damage it is ready to cause to realize its austerity program, which it does not back down In front of any inconsistency and, above all, that the promised results are not at the rendezvous. Prime Minister Philippe Couillard said, in the election campaign, that he wanted to talk about "real affairs". It would be more than time that he governs for the "real world", instead of charging Quebeckers for economic incompetence and the doctrinary approach of his government, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
Incompetent: an economic slowdown that hurts the regions 
The current performance of the Quebec economy does not reflect the dynamism and immense potential of companies. Despite alarming signals, the Prime Minister strives to maintain his program of austerity, against all forms of great economic sense, against the regions and contempt for the messages sent to him by Quebeckers. And while he gets on, Quebec's economy is bogged down. The regions of Quebec live a complete disorganization, concrete gestures are lacking, there is no leadership. This is the return of the liberal currency: divide to better reign. 
Economic growth is down, from 2% to 1.5%. This decrease leads to a fall in autonomous revenues of more than $ 200 million and an increase in debt weight to 55% of GDP, a sad first since the 1990s. In election campaign, Philippe Couillard had promised to create 250,000 jobs. Since their arrival, the Liberals have created only 28,800 jobs, or 13.7% of jobs in Canada. We are light-years from their number one promise. 
"Clearly, the Prime Minister does not understand anything about the numbers. It is still unable to revive the economy, generate growth and creating well-paid jobs, while exactly what Quebec needs. In place, Philippe Couillard signed a badly negotiated agreement of $ 1.3 billion with Bombardier, without demanding anything in return, which allowed the company to relocate jobs to Mexico. Moreover, we are still waiting for the disclosure of this agreement, "insisted Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
Unfair: wall cuts in Education, CPE at the University 
The members of the Parti Québécois supported parents against liberal cuts in student services and to protect public school, aware that education is the best investment that a company can do. It is simply unacceptable to cut in the resources that allow our children to succeed. 
"The Liberals had promised to invest in education. Once in power, they cut off the services to students in difficulty, weakened our public system and conducted cups of $ 120 million that threaten the very survival of the CPE network as well as the jobs of thousands of educators. With the Liberal government of Philippe Couillard, the promises fly away and the damage remains, "illustrated the leader of the official opposition. 
Incoherent: $ 800 million more for doctors, while insured care and services are reduced 
"We denounced the introduction of ancillary costs, a diverted way to charge users a second time for services they are already paying. It is a soft privatization compromising the principles of universality and accessibility that are the basis of our health system. Dr. Barrette's bill 20 promised to facilitate access to a doctor. However, the work done in parliamentary committee and the recent outflows of the groupings of patients and professionals show us that it is exactly the opposite that occurs. Dr. Barrette's reforms, like the entire Philippe Couillard government, do not hold their promises, "he continued. 
The members of the Parti Québécois also denounced the end of the public coverage of vitro fertilization. An arbitrary decision that plunges several infertile couples into distress to achieve, according to Dr. Barrette, "savings of candlesticks". 
The Parti Québécois team: serving Quebeckers and Quebeckers 
"On the side of the Parti Québécois, we had to be present in the field, to put ourselves listening to citizens, to bring their concerns and concerns to the National Assembly. We wanted to carry out constructive and rigorous opposition work. This is what we have managed to do, thanks to a team of dedicated and competent deputies, to which Martin Ouellet joined, the new member for René-Lévesque, "added Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
Thanks to the work of this tremendous team, the Public Finance Commission has initiated a mandate on tax havens this fall, and an emergency debate has been required to ensure that the reception of Syrian refugees is a success. in all respects. 
"We have all been deeply affected and shaken by the courageous revelations of Aboriginal women. We went on site, in Val-d'Or, in order to reiterate our support for First Nations women and, thanks to the work of Carole Poirier, Guy Leclair and Pascal Bérubé, we managed to get the holding of A traveling parliamentary committee that will listen to Aboriginal communities and that will make recommendations to the government, "he continued. 
"We are facing a government that is going to look for $ 1,500 in the pocket of families, which tackles the principle of equal opportunities, which cuts in the services to students and dismantling CPEs, which cuts healthy and Privatize our gentle care, which wants to force social assistance to move and hurts the regions. We are facing a government that does not listen to the population. It is this same liberal government that, on the other hand, paid $ 800 million too much to specialist doctors. It is austerity everywhere in Quebec, except for the colleagues doctors of the Prime Minister and his Minister of Health. This is unacceptable. Quebecers and Quebeckers are indignant and they are right. Quebec deserves better than an insensitive, stubborn, inconsistent and incompetent government, "concluded the official opposition. 
