Quebec- The Head of the Official Opposition and MP Officer of Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, draws up a catastrophic record of the Parliamentary Session of the Prime Minister and the Liberal Government. "Philippe Couillard is a bogged and dysfunctional government, unable to move forward. Whenever this government moves is to back down or sink more in its own shifting sands, "said Sylvain Gaudreault immediately. 
"In terms of integrity, we found the good old Liberal Party of Jean Charest. The economic trio of the Liberals has been replaced by the Ethics Trio: Daoust, Hamad and Santis. Major crisis at the Ministry of Transport, serious contradictions in the Rona case, ethics failures on the side of Sam Hamad, and inconsiderate declarations of the Minister responsible for the electoral law; The government has a serious integrity problem, "he added. 
Jobs: Promise, Objective, Myth 
Philippe Couillard had promised to create 250,000 jobs. However, it has only been created 18,000 for a year; It's extremely weak. In addition, investments dropped by 2.4%. "What was a promise became a goal and is now a myth. Under the Liberals, the protection of our headquarters declined, with the sale of St-Hubert and that of Rona, which was presented as a "good news". Obviously, the Liberal Party is not the party of the economy, "also noted the official opposition leader. 
Academic success, great absent government priorities  "Yesterday, Philippe Couillard had the pellet to make his assessment in a school, while he leads the government who has at least invested in education over the last 15 years. The success of all students should be an absolute priority at an early age. However, the dismantling of the Public Service Network continued during the session, and the Minister of Education confessed with impotence against illegal schools. That's the liberal record, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Nothing for patients for two years 
Healthy, we found the damage caused by an approach of "all-aux-doctors". After two reforms and a huge increase in the salary of physicians, the results speak for themselves: more than a million Quebeckers still do not have a family doctor, and Quebec figure in the pack of platoon in West with respect to the duration of emergency waiting. "Innovative and effective projects, such as the Sabsa Nurses Clinic and Jonquière Mede, are threatened. And the centralizing reforms of the Minister Barrette are among the factors related to the crisis currently living by the youth centers, "also required to recall the leader of the official opposition. 
Gains for Quebeckers through PQ 
"Conversely, we, the Parti Québécois team, let's finish this session with the feeling of the accomplished duty. We managed to remove the party with the hate speech, which introduced a real police of thought. In health, it is the Quebec team team that introduced a bill to abolish ancillary costs. The same team also acted to protect our farmland, which are so necessary for the quest and maintenance of our food sovereignty, "says Gaudreault. 
"The lack of the state of Philippe Couillard, the scandals that multiply, the prime minister's inability to make the right decisions, to play frank-game and to create jobs, all of this cost the families of the Quebec, workers and workers. As for François Legault, who imagined prime minister as his party has been third since its inception, it will inevitably remain in this rank if it continues to show as much arrogance. Obviously, he has more ambition for him? Even to Quebec, "has also denounced the member for Jonquière. 
"As an official opposition, we have managed to realize many gains and we will continue to demand from this government to make accounts. The population can rely on the Quebec party team to defend the economy, education and families, as we have always done and as we will continue to do so to advance Quebec, "concluded the Leader of the official opposition. 
