Quebec-The Head of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, accompanied by his team, presented the balance sheet of the last parliamentary session. 
"The Parti Québécois has worked very hard to achieve concrete gains for the population, and to propose solutions to the problems that citizens live. The work of the deputies is impressive, just like the long list of our achievements! The only option valid to replace the current Liberal government is our team! We are proud to have been on the ground, close to people and their concerns. The PLQ and the CAQ are the parties of permanent austerity; We are the only ones to present another plan, that of success for Quebec! Jean-François listed immediately. 
IN SHORT 
Gains for Quebecers 
"Thanks to the work of André Villeneuve and the team, the increase in agricultural land taxes has been canceled, protecting 80% of farmers who were threatened. With Harold Lebel, we managed to protect the $ 500 per year for seniors, representing $ 77 million. Thanks to the work of Catherine Fournier, we have convinced the government to reverse on the publication of rent increase indices. In Education, with Alexandre Cloutier, we have worked to restore food aid to students who had lost it, and we pushed the minister to act in the inflated notes file. In court, in connection with Jordan, Véronique Hivon was the first to propose the use of the derogatory clause; It is also her who insisted that the minister finally reinvest resources in our judicial system, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
A plan for Quebecers 
"If Quebeckers want to know what a government of the Parti Québécois will look like, they can look at the proposals we have made and the initiatives we put forward. For example: the SME priority team, made up of three deputies having been entrepreneurs, Alain Therrien, Mireille Jean and Martin Ouellet. They met dozens of companies and organizations in all sectors of activity, all over the territory. Their work will lead to an innovative regulatory relief policy that will stimulate prosperity in all our regions. In addition, since the beginning of this year, I have personally started a tour of the Chambers of Commerce in Montreal, Quebec and in our regions. Everywhere, I noticed the great interest of our entrepreneurs for modern, robust and open economic nationalism. That's what we propose! ", Continued the leader of the official opposition. 
"With Nicolas Marceau, we showed Philippe Couillard how he could give respite to families, who must cash rates totaling $ 1100 since the arrival of his government. Welcome Carole Poirier, we proposed 20 concrete measures to promote Immediately the employment integration of Quebecers from cultural communities. The solidarity team in action, formed by MPs Catherine Fournier, Harold Lebel and Dave Turcotte, will go on the ground, with community organizations, so that we can propose real tracks of solution to poverty. Diane Lamarre introduced the law on the right to oblivion, prohibiting insurance companies from discriminating against cancer survivors. Then, with Maka Kotto, we proposed a bill to strengthen French as a language of work, "said the parliamentary leader of the official opposition, Pascal Bérubé. 
"The Parti Québécois team is strong, and our gains are concrete. We will continue to be on the ground, to meet Quebeckers, to present what will become the Government of Quebec in October 2018: a competent, progressive, pragmatic and honest government, for all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers ", Concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
