QuebecPauline Marois became the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec on September 4, 2012. The first year of office of his government is marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Quebec government has again a way to act so that Quebeckers regain theirfold. Priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help with those who are in need, and the pride of living together. Thus, the Parti Québécois government will take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger. 
The member for Taschereau, Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Regions of the Capitale-National and Chaudière-Appalaches, Ms. Agnès Maltais, is proud to present The balance sheet of the first year of the Parti Québécois government in the Capitale-Nationale region. "By targeted interventions and responsible choices, we have been able to advance many important issues for citizens in the region," said Agnès Maltais. 
Last November, Minister Agnès Malteis announced, with the Minister of the Family Minister, by the end of 2016 of 782 new places with reduced contribution in the Network of Care services for the region of The Capitale-National. "I am particularly proud to confirm that the government is committed to completing the $ 7 dollar service network, so that each family wishing their child to be careful to do so. It will finally be: a child, a place, "said the minister. 
The school boards of the Capitale-Nationale Region will share $ 37 million for the construction of two primary schools, the expansion of some schools and the addition of several new classes as part of the major investments planned in education in the region by the Government of Quebec. "These infrastructure investments will have direct benefits on the services to the population of the capital-national, as well as the well-being and quality of life of the families of several neighborhoods. By responding to important needs of premises and space for students and school staff, our government shows a real vision for Quebec, "added Minister Maltese. 
Last August, Minister Agnès Maltais confirmed the $ 20 million awarded $ 20 million to the National Capital Commission of Quebec for consolidating and maintaining newbashers in Old Quebec. This important investment is the first step in a broader project aimed at highlighting newbones, to give them a new vocation and, above all, to allow the people to finally have access to this jewel of our heritage. "The revitalization of this extraordinary site was a necessity for Old Quebec, but unfortunately the former government only announced an investment on this site, without budget the sums promised. It is therefore proud that I announced this investment to provide a lasting vocation to this extraordinary site. As it is now the rule since we arrived at business, the source of funding is clearly identified and this project will be realized, "mentioned the minister. 
The Quebec party government has also confirmed the $ 103 million funding required for the expansion of the National Museum of Fine Arts of Quebec. This major project is considered the most important project in the cultural sector in Quebec City. 
Finally, the Government has entrusted the Cultural Heritage Council from Quebec the mandate to keep a public consultation in order to establish a conservation plan of the Sillery heritage site. This announcement answers one of its commitments. 
As early as 2003, the member for Taschereau was involved in favor of the landfill of Hydro-Québec's sons in Limoilou and Saint-Roch neighborhoods and the dismantling of old lines and positions. The optimized layout of the underground line required for the permanent connection of the Limoilou d'Hydro-Québec station were unveiled last June. The underground line will be in service in the fall of 2015. "For more than 10 years, I have been actively working with citizens to reach a socially acceptable solution to eliminate the iron and rust horrors that are the pylons in Limoilou. Their dismantling complements the revitalization work of the Saint-Charles River and the Saint-Roch district, also designed and realized under the leadership of the Parti Québécois, "Ms Maltais said. 
In the spring, the Quebec government, in collaboration with the City of Quebec, has set up a vigilance committee of port activities in Quebec City. This committee has been put in place to allow more transparency and a better understanding of the environmental impacts of port activities in Quebec City, responding to the concerns of the population. 
The last year has resulted in the realization of several economic development projects in the Capitale-Nationale region. As part of the Capital-Nationale Agreement (Concerted Action for Regional Development Cooperation), the Government announced financial support of $ 215,000 to the establishment of a research platform in the field of biological manufacturing of Vaccines and other treatments. "I am proud to say that our government meets its commitments and invests in research and innovation in the capital. This synergy in R-D will strengthen the region's scientific and industrial leadership in international bioproduction. It is important to remember that the strategic positioning of the region in this area is the result of structuring decisions, more than ten years ago, by a government of the Parti Québécois, "said Minister Maltese. 
Also at the level of research, the Government announced a contribution from the Government of 198 $ 400 to the CEGEP of Sainte-Foy to realize its project selected under the last competition of the College-Industry Fund for Innovation (FCII) and which aims at the acquisition of research equipment for forest remote sensing for the Forestry Teaching and Research Center (CERFO) of the CEGEP of Sainte-Foy. These new equipment will allow the team of researchers to strengthen its partnerships with forestry companies. 
The government of the Parti Québécois has also committed to giving Quebec companies the means of their ambitions, to help them increase their productivity and thus promote their progress. For example, several companies in the region have obtained financial assistance, including Fibrotek, Foodelect Inc., Pavemetrics Inc. Systems. and Domeic Group Inc. who collectively received more than $ 1.8 million. Through these investments, the Government of Quebec contributes to the consolidation and creation of many jobs in the region. 
It is also with pride that the government has participated in the creation of the first microfinance mutual in Quebec, an innovative project that will contribute to the economic and social development of the region. "By participating in the creation of this new type of institution in Quebec, our government contributes to the emergence of new businesses and the wealth of the Quebec economy. Thanks to this community and solidarity commitment, we work to build a better future for citizens of our region, "added Minister Maltese. The Government has also confirmed the allocation of non-refundable financial support from $ 736,420 to Femmessor Capitale-National, a non-profit economic development agency dedicated to female entrepreneurship in the region. 
The government has also announced the renewal of the Tourism Partnership Agreement for Quebec in the amount of $ 3,943,750 and the Tourism Partnership Agreement for Charlevoix in the amount of $ 117,000. These agreements will make it possible to carry out several tourist projects in the region by 2015. Finally, the Government of Quebec has announced an investment of $ 10 million for the massif project that will serve in particular for rail shuttle service and standards From the new hotel La Ferme and the multifunctional room. 
In the last year, the government has confirmed the accreditation of a group of family medicine (GMF) in Quebec City, the GMF Duberger. "By this gesture, the government demonstrates that access to a family doctor for all Quebeckers in four years is one of his priorities. The deployment of family medicine groups across the province is one of the solutions to achieve our goal, "said the minister. 
The Government has also approved the University Institute of Cardiology and Pneumology in Quebec City (IUCPQ) to move forward with its project to expand and modernize the electrophysiology service. This project estimated at almost $ 32.7 million was duly registered for the Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI), thus allowing to reserve the amounts necessary for its realization. The institute can improve the services offered to people with heart rate disorders and better respond to increased demand for these services. 
Finally, the Premier confirmed the construction of the new Baie-Saint-Paul hospital at a cost of 376 million. The new establishment, which should be functional at the end of 2018, will include an emergency, an operating room with two operating halls and clinics with 16 rooms. It will also have 103 beds in long-term care accommodation. 
"Capital citizens can be assured that our government will continue its work to contribute to the region's vitality, including job creation. Solidarity will also continue to be at the heart of our political action. Thus, Quebeckers will be able to count on a government that help those who need it and those who support them, "the minister concluded. 
