Quebec, on December 6, 2019- This session will have been "the autumn errors" of the Caquist government, according to the parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois and deputy of Matane-Matapédia, Pascal Bérubé, who took stock of this morning. parliamentarians of the last months. 
IN SHORT 
First, the Minister of Immigration, Francization and Integration, and Minister responsible for the French language, Simon Jolin-Barrette, launched autumn by promising actions for French. "The session ends today and we still wait ... it was supposed to be the fall of the language; It has become the autumn of errors. Simon Jolin-Barrette has also undergone a major setback by presenting an improvised reform of the PEQ, the Quebec experience program. The Prime Minister had to force him to go backward! The Caquist Government was also forced to correct the shot on its parental insurance bill because it broke a promise to adopt parents. So many mistakes, so many interventions from the Quebecois party who contributed to highlighting them, "said Pascal Bérubé. 
The parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois believes that another serious mistake of the government is the stubbornness of which it shows in many cases. "Despite the staggering explosion of the four-year nursery costs, the government continues to sink into this project that answers a question that no one arises. At more than $ 1 million per class, it's a bad priority. Calciers also managed to create unanimity against them with their bill on electricity tariffs; They are preparing to impose a gag that will cost $ 600 million to consumers, without reimbursing the overpayments! ", he added. 
Any account does, the work of the members of the Parti Québécois will have been constructive and carrying out results for citizens. "The recent economic update has been marked by the decision to automate the payment of the Solidarity Tax Credit to poor persons; It was a fight led by the Parti Québécois for several months! And whatsoever about pesticides, ADHD or data leaks, we also brought the government to hold public hearings on important issues for Quebecers. It remains to ensure that these parliamentary committees lead to concrete recommendations, which the CAQ seems refractory. There is therefore work to do, and Quebeckers can count on us! ", Concluded Pascal Bérubé. 
