Quebec- While the year 2015 ends, the spokesman for the Quebecois family, Sylvain Pagé, take stock of the Liberal government in the daycare record. The portrait is dark: Liberal actions attack directly to Quebec families. 
"The main realization of the Liberal family party is to have increased child care rates up to 174%, while it had promised to be limited to indexing when being elected. With the Liberal government of Philippe Couillard, election promises have little importance. It is through this kind of lie that cynicism is maintained towards the political class, "said Sylvain Pagé. Let us add that the government recently released the new rates that will come into effect in 2016: it has been learned that families already affected by this year's increases will suffer from January 1st! 
Moreover, as if it were not enough, the Liberals finished the year by announcing cuts of $ 120 million for next year - adding to the $ 74 million of compressions made this year - which will directly affect the Quantity and quality of services offered by the CPE network. The government's message is clear: parents must pay more for less services. Liberals make a simplistic accounting operation, without any regard for quality. 
"In addition to directly affecting the quality of the services offered to children, and even jeopardize the survival of certain facilities, these cups will be able to carry out very many job losses, occupied mainly by women. For the President of the Quebec Women's Federation, Mélanie Sarazin, these are "anti-women" measures, because they attack them on two fronts: either women work in CPE or they need these services to be able to Staying on the job market once they become mothers, "added Mr. Pagé. 
The spokesperson fears that the draconian rise in child care costs encourages parents to use sales centers, who are not subject to the same rules. "We were learning, yesterday morning, that a survey conducted by the Quebec Institute of Statistics demonstrates that the quality of services is superior in CEPs, contrary to what the minister said this fall. We once again ask him to consider the facts and take the appropriate measures to ensure the well-being of our toddlers, "said the member. 
In the course of the year, the minister has managed to set up all his network against her. All associations of educational custodial services have allied to denounce rate increases and troubleshooting services. At times, the communication has been interrupted between the minister and the groups. Despite the current negotiations, we can only worry about the future of educational custody services. 
"The Prime Minister indicated, during his record of the parliamentary session, that he was still looking for ways to improve his team. Note, Mr. Couillard, no matter the person you are going to choose to occupy the position of Minister of the Family, it is the austerity doctrine "wall to wall" that we will have to rethink. During the year 2016, if you do not correct the shot, count on us to continue denouncing your government's excesses. Because, the Parti Québécois, we are committed to offering a chance equal to all the children of Quebec, "concluded Sylvain Pagé. 
