Quebec- At the end of parliamentary work, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, rejoices the positive impacts of the initiatives taken by his government in recent months. Three priorities guided all of his actions, the strengthening of the Employment, of the Quebec solidarity. It is to admit that the government team has imposed its match plan. And this has gave results for all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers. 
Strengthen employment  Since September 2012, the government has made employment its priority. On its own, the Employment Priority Employment Policy, deployed in recent weeks, will contribute to the creation of 115,000 jobs over a period of three years and will result in total investments of nearly $ 13 billion. Already, to date, results appear. "There have never been so many Quebeckers at work, with an annual average for the first time to more than 4 million occupied jobs," said Pauline Marois. 
The new economic policy involves flagship measures to stimulate growth in the short term and to develop the long-term economy. Among these is the ambitious file of transport electrification. "Positioning Quebec as a world leader in electrical transport, it is a great collective project that will allow us to enrich ourselves, to unite, to give us confidence in the future," supported the Prime Minister. 
Strengthen solidarity  With the opinion that "preparing for the future is also strengthening solidarity and action for social justice", Ms. Marois mentioned with ambitious and structuring initiatives to improve the living and working conditions of people more vulnerable from society. These measures act in three plans, support for people in need, support for caregivers and the preparation of the future. It should be noted that Quebec has declined in the number of people using social assistance. Since the current government entry, the number of income security providers has taken up from 459,620 to 445,400. At 6.7%, this is the lowest rate since 1975. 
Finally, the Premier welcomed the dedication of all stakeholders who came to help with meganticoises and the meganticois following the tragedy that struck them on July 6th. She recalled that 4 days after events, she already announced an emergency assistance of $ 60 million. In addition, she assured that no effort or resource would be formed until the city is rebuilt, adding that Quebeckers and Quebeckers could count on their government, a responsible and honest government, which has a vision and vision. who knows where he goes away. 
Strengthen identity  In the last few months, the Pauline Marois team has advanced several strategic files to assert the interests of Quebec. This is the case in particular of the changes made to the teaching of history, replaid of immigration and to the resources devoted to the reception, to LaFrancise and the integration of newcomers. 
In addition, the Quebec government has made sure that Quebeckers speak with one voice when it comes to defending their interests compared to the federal government, including on issues related to the Pont Replacement Timeline Champlain, the employment insurance or the tightening of the rail transport and transportation transport regulations. 
In addition, pursing so that Quebec remains a land of freedom and opportunities, which all are going together together and progress in harmony, the government has tabled Bill 60, affirming the values of neutrality of the state. , secularism and gender equality. "These values, they are part of the culture we have received inheritance and that we want to transmit to those who will follow us. Thus, we asked a brave gesture. We took our responsibilities to build a more united Quebec, "added Pauline Marois. 
"At the time of returning to our constituencies to meet our fellow citizens, I want to emphasize what characterizes my team: its determination to offer results to Quebeckers, its vision, which will bring us even further, its desire to build A richer, more solidarity Quebec, as well as its dream of giving a more free state, "concluded the Prime Minister. 
