Montreal- Today, the Quebec government has again a way to act so that Quebeckers returns to their pride. Priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and assistance to those who are in need, and the pride of living together. Thus, the government will take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger. 
The member for Bourget and Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, thus took stock of his action in the riding of Bourget over the past year. 
"Since September 4, 2012, in the riding of Bourget, my first concern is to ensure the collective wellness. My action is resolutely oriented on improving the quality of life of our families, our young people, and our seniors, to the extent of our means, "he said on the margin of the year 1 of the government of Premier Pauline Marois, a first year marked by listening, courage and determination. 
For example, the number of families being on the rise in Bourget in recent years, it has become imperative to meet the needs of school clientele for new classes. Thus was announced last June of $ 6.5 million investments for the expansion of Louis-Dupire School. 
"These 12 new schools and internal redevelopment of the school will allow students and all the staff to evolve in a more enjoyable and stimulating environment. This investment marks a new stage in the life of the school, but also in that of the whole community that has shown perseverance in this project that places school in the heart of its community, "said the member. Bourget. 
Minister Kotto takes the same observation against the beautification project of the Saint-Donat School, which benefited from a public investment in the order of $ 29,000. "The development of recreational surfaces with relaxation areas and green islands will also contribute to the well-being of students, but also all living families near this school." 
Still in the education sector, a grant of $ 773,838 was granted to Maisonneuve College for new research facilities at its Quebec Chemical Process Studies Center whose premises are located in the riding of Bourget. 
Moreover, in the perspective of a healthier environment, the extension of the boulevard of the Assumption and Avenue Souligny and the improvement of access to the Port of Montreal which were announced last May by the Ministry of Transportation will facilitate the displacement of people and goods and thus reduce pollution and noise in adjacent residential neighborhoods. 
The situation of seniors with health problems is of great concern to the member for Bourget who has concretely supported the pilot project of the Sesame Organization for the establishment of a home meal service to seniors in the state-of-the-art territory -from the island. This mobile food service would allow the elderly, many of which are alone at home, to feed themselves better and contribute to the maintenance of these in their natural living environment. 
Mr. Kotto is also proud to support the project of an independent district cinema, Vis station, which will allow the population of Bourget to enjoy a new innovative location dedicated to the cinema. 
In all cases, support for community organizations and many associations, both sporting and cultural, in support of their mutual assistance, is at the heart of the concerns of the member for Bourget and Minister of Culture and Communications. 
The list of Bourget organizations and associations have been found that have received financial assistance from the member for Bourget over the past year. 
