Dolbeau-Mistassini- The member for the riding of Roberval and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Forest Fund), Denis Trottier, is very satisfied with the work done at the end of his first year of this new mandate. First, because it has managed to unlock several records that had not had the support of the previous Liberal government, such as Cellular Telephony in Girardville ($ 700,000 grant). On the other hand, for maintaining the continuation of the Roberval Prison's file, the most important immobilization project in the region, while the Liberals allowed the desire to cancel this project by the government of the Parti Québécois once brought to power. This project requires an investment of $ 115 million that has and will have important benefits both locally and regionally and this, both during its construction and throughout its future operations. Then finally, for making the necessary representations in order to allow the realization of the central mini project in Val-Jalbert. This project estimated at $ 50 million has a future leader for the MRC Domaine-du-Roy, for the MRC Maria-Chapdelaine and for the Mashteuiatsh community, whose objective is to create a Community financial leverage reporting millions of dollars For decades to come. 
The member takes a very positive assessment of his achievements. Among these, highlight the arrival of natural gas at the resolved kraft pulp mill in Saint-Félicien (government contribution of $ 3 million), the announcement of investments for the repair of the Marina of Saint-Félicien ( $ 1.7 million contribution, the Cheddar Museum Development Project in Saint-Prime (aid of $ 336,500), as well as several infrastructure work in different cities and municipalities (several million $) and the realization of dozens of small important projects for municipalities, such as; The development of the inn in Saint-Edmond-les-Plaines, support for the convenience store in Saint-André-du-Lac-St-Jean, financial support for a feasibility study for the revival of the gardens of Normandin and several others applicant financial aid for more than $ 400,000. "And it's not over," promises the member. 
In addition, Denis Trottier has multiplied meetings with the various development stakeholders and middle organizations. "For me, it's important to stay in touch with the environment. Field people are best placed to assess the needs that will allow me to advance the reports submitted to our government, "said Denis Trottier. 
The Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Forest Fund) remains optimistic about the future of the forest industry. The government of the Parti Québécois has the desire to support and build the 21st century forest industry. "The adoption of the Bois Charter and the Law of Wood Use in Non-Residential Construction demonstrate the interest of the government for the forest world. However, we still have important gestures to ask and I work there. We must be aware that we can not correct in a few months a situation that has been persuring for years, "has supported the parliamentary assistant. 
On a personal note, the accident of which Denis Trottier was victim in the spring does not slow his determination to work for the better-live people of our riding as well as for those of the whole Quebec. "The population knows that it can count on a perseverant deputy, tenacious and working. These are values that my father passed me. So I put these in the service of the citizens and it succeeds, "said Denis Trottier. 
In closing, the member for the constituency reiterates his government's commitment to care for people in their best and in their best living wherever they are in Quebec. "The government of the Parti Québécois works on economic development and job creation in all regions of Quebec. He also works to facilitate the "better living together" we are a government that helps those who need them and all those who support them. We always believe in the need for sovereignty that will allow us to take 100% of our decisions for ourselves and we rely on solidarity to get there, "concluded the member for Roberval. 
