Montréal-Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec on September 4, 2012. The first year of office of his government is marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Quebec government has again a way to act so that Quebeckers find their pride. Priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help with those who are in need, and the pride of living together. Thus, the Parti Québécois government will take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger. 
The member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve Carole Poirier is very proud of the work done by the government of the Parti Québécois in the last year and works with energy in the constituency. Elected since 2008 in Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier became first vice-president of the National Assembly following the election of September 4, 2012. 
In the last year, projects hindering exclusion and social marginalization took place alongside cultural and sports projects that had a revived effect on the neighborhood. Cape St-Barnabe opened a hosting resource, Sainte-Catherine House, to offer housing for women in difficulty. Similarly, the Women's Housing Network has inaugurated 31 housing units with community support. Nearby, the Dopamine organization that prevention of psychotropic consumers has settled in new premises. 
On the other hand, the Olympic Stadium has been a new look with a programming of accessible activities that is proud of the citizens of Hochelaga-Maisonneuve. The social economy has also made a remarkable entrance to the stadium with the coming of the Station in Vivo Cooperative, a café-terrace overlooking the Avenue Pierre-de-Coubertin. 
"Our government also embodies dialogue. To find a sustainable solution to the financing needs and space of popular education centers, a work table with the Ministry of Education and the CSDM has been set up and the work is moving well. I am hopeful that the Hochelaga-Maisonneuve community education pavilion will come out stronger than the exercise, "said Carole Poirier. 
Recently, the member Carole Poirier proceeded with the Deputy Daniel Breton and the Minister of Health Réjean Hébert, at the announcement of a birthplace in the territory of the CSSS Jeanne Mance. "This project has been at heart for years, finally the women of Hochelaga-Maisonneuve will be able to choose from birth in a birth house near them, it's priceless," exclaimed Carole Poirier. 
After one year in power, the government of the Parti Québécois is active on all fronts and shows that it governs in the interest of all. Hochelaga-Maisonneuve is not left and his member Carole Poirier is more involved than ever! 
