Chicoutimi- Mr Stéphane Bédard, President of the Treasury Board, Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Region and MP for Chicoutimi, is proud of the work that has been made in terms of transparency since arrival and presents the Assessment of interventions that allowed them to advance many local, regional and national issues. 
Note that Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec on September 4, 2012. The first year of office of his government is marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Quebec government has again a way to act so that Quebeckers find their pride. Priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help with those who are in need, and the pride of living together. Thus, the Parti Québécois government will take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger. 
As a change in manners, the President of the Treasury Board has provoked the Quebec public administration at the end of 2012, with the unanimous adoption of Law 1 on public contract integrity. "With this law, our government has taken the means to tackle collusion and corruption. From now on, the integrity, transparency and protection of the public interest will be the foundation of government action in contract management, "said Minister Bédard. In addition, the Quebec government has chosen transparency, making it more easily accessible, on the portailwww.donne.gouv.qc.ca, information regarding the granting of public contracts. 
The minister has distinguished himself by his opening to the digital economy, with the measures adopted to promote the use of free software, by transparency with public access to the dashboard of IT projects on the sitewetwww.tableaudebordprojetsri.gouv .QC.caet by its interest in the results of the Internet Integration Survey at Business Processes. 
Recently, Chicoutimi's great seminar has been acquired by UQAC using $ 6.5 million to provide physiotherapy training in partnership with McGill University in Chicoutimi . 
Last July, the member and the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto announced the grant of $ 3,378,500 for the redevelopment project in the Saint-Luc Church of the school of Dance Florence-FourCaudot. 
In June, the Ministers Réjean Hébert and Stéphane Bédard announced the study of the project to build a sterilization unit of devices at the Chicoutimi Hospital Center. Both ministers also announced extension until March 31, 2014, genetic testing services for four hereditary diseases present in the region, thanks to an additional $ 120,000 envelope. 
$ 45,000 Financial Assistance has been granted to enhance Chicoutimi's cultural heritage at the Corporation of the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Museum and the Pulperie site for the archaeological exploration of the former trading post. Chicoutimi. 
In May, an announcement concerning buildings with six infrastructure projects at the Sacuenay School Board totaling more than $ 3 million for Chicoutimi schools. With regard to the St. Isidore / St-Denis Gymnasium, the file is closely monitored by the member and ensures that the request of the school board is well treated and possibly accepted. 
In January, several bodies of Chicoutimi we received an ad hoc financial assistance, the member for Chicoutimi has granted funding to four organizations either: the Chicoutimi curling club, look at the short film, the Jazz & Blues Festival and the Foundation Community of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, for a total of $ 100,990. 
Also in January, the hon. Member for Chicoutimi proceeded to an announcement of $ 312,500 in Saguenay broadcast for the purchase of specialized equipment for the new spectacle in Chicoutimi. 
In addition, he held his commitments concerning Chicoutimi Prison by announcing a solution in August by ensuring the maintenance of correctional services in the Saguenan metropolis with a draft detention center at the Chicoutimi courthouse for prison purposes identified by the middle actors. With the Minister of Public Safety, they indicated that a sum ranging from $ 10 and $ 20 million was reserved. 
A consultation committee has been established in collaboration with the city of Saguenay for the development of the Hill Park, this commitment to the families of Chicoutimi Nord is of particular importance to the member for Chicoutimi. Professionals are currently working to achieve a plan that will meet the needs of citizens. 
In June, Stéphane Bédard accompanied by Minister Réjean Hébert announced new annual budgets of $ 3,879,800 to improve home care and services for the region. Remember that improved home care was a priority at the last election for the Parti Québécois. 
Following a commitment, the government of the Parti Québécois took care of the tourism industry in the region. The Minister responsible for Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Hi the decision to grant $ 6 million for the realization of snowmobile durable trails. 
In May 2013, the three ministers of the region offered financial support of $ 22,000 for the establishment of the Institute for Aluminum History - North America (IHA-DNA). 
The project of the Bois Charter, initiated by the UQAC, proposed by our regional candidates of the Parti Québécois was finally presented at the end of April by the Government of the Parti Québécois to promote the use of wood in construction in Quebec. A concrete gesture for the forest industry valuing a renewable natural resource. 
Collaborating at the establishment of an agri-food research fund dedicated to Nordic agriculture dedicated to Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, a financial assistance of $ 300,000 has been paid for this purpose. 
Also, nearly $ 39 million was announced in April in extension of Highway 70, a priority issue for MPs and Ministers of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean. 
In April, the Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Region was proud to announce a Grant of the Government of Quebec from $ 400,000 to the Eco-Council Research and Intervention Chair of the University of the University of the University of the University. Quebec in Chicoutimi. Granting by his colleague Yves-François Blanchet, Minister of Sustainable Development, the Wildlife Environment and Parks, aid makes it possible to study the valorization of the sludge of paper mills in a context of climate change. 
In the end of January 2013, Mr. Stéphane Bédard announced, on behalf of the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, the allocation of $ 450,000 financial assistance to the mineral exploration research consortium (Consorem). 
In the same month, he granted $ 10,000 for the 100th of the municipality of Saint-Honoré to support the organizing committee in its activities. 
Also in January, the member for Chicoutimi, President of the Treasury Board and Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Region, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, on behalf of the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of work and minister responsible for the status of women, Agnès Maltais, accompanied by its four members of Parliament and Ministers announced that until 2015, the region has $ 4,115,787 million to fight against poverty and 'social exclusion. 
Finally, concerning the Dubuc Bridge, the hon. Member for Chicoutimi had committed and asked the Department of Transport to make the fluidity and safety study on the bridge, which was done at the end of August. A match plan will be developed to meet the needs of citizens before 2014 by the department. 
"There will always be work to do, but I am proud of the year's balance sheet of the Quebecois party. By investing healthy in health, research and projects of socially future, as well as by laws that meet the needs of integrity and transparency, we will eventually overcome the cynicism and irony of a MORE MANAGEMENT OF GOVERNMENT ADMINISTRATION. We will make sure that money associated with advertised investments is available in the chests unlike the previous Liberal government. It's only a beginning." concluded Minister Stéphane Bédard. 
