Verchères - the member for Verchères and Minister of Public Safety, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, draws up a very positive assessment of the work done, both on the national scene and in the constituency, at the end of the first year of the Parti Québécois government. "Relying on the four pillars set out by the Premier Pauline Marois at the opening of the work of the 40th Parliament of the National Assembly, integrity, prosperity, solidarity and identity, we were employed To fulfill our commitments, revive the economy, put order in public finances and eradicate corruption, "said Stéphane Bergeron. 
"To do this, the government of the Parti Québécois has put forward several measures and undertaken many actions to advance Quebec. On all these fronts, our efforts have been successful. Our government tackled corruption, including the extension of the mandate of the Charbonneau Commission; the adoption of Law 1 promoting integrity in the granting of public contracts and adds to UPAC a mandate in this area; The adoption of Law 12 creating the Office of Independent Investigations, the filing of a bill on the registration of firearms, as well as the establishment of the Spring Spring 2012 Event Review Commission " , said the Minister of Public Safety. 
The government has made social and economic development a priority. This is the case, for example, home care, for which $ 100 million more per year have been injected. An ambitious and autonomy insurance policy has been proposed to cope with the challenges arising from the aging of the population and to provide our elders more options as to where they will want to reside. Moreover, the government has been concerned about our children and young families by going from the front with kindergarten to 4 years in disadvantaged circles and creating 28,000 new child care places. 
On the local scene, Stéphane Bergeron has increased the interventions to move several files directly affecting the riding: the opening of the center of blood samples with rendezvous in Varennes, the announcement of the modernization of the municipal library of Calixa- Lavalée, the construction of a new primary school and the redevelopment of the Mother-Marie-Rose school yard in the same municipality. Moreover, the announcement of 62 new subsidized markets in conferery and 80 in Saint-Amable demonstrates the government's desire to better support children and young families. 
Several riding agencies have benefited from ministerial subsidies. This is particularly the case of phobias-zero, Sainte-Julie, who received $ 10,000 for the continuation of his mission, as well as the Foundation of the Vallée-du-Richelieu Sports Center, who obtained $ 20,000 for the Continuation of the project "The development of the TED child by the movement". 
Like what happens everywhere across Quebec, the electochères riding has recently been the subject of several very stimulating ads on the economic level. "We only have to think, among other things, to Jean-Coutu, who has announced the relocation of its headquarters and its warehouse to Varennes, to the investments made by Solmax and ArcelorMittal in order to increase their production, in addition From government investment in Enerkem Company for a biofuels manufacturing plant and green chemicals in Varennes, "says Bergeron. 
The hon. Member for Verchères welcomes the financial support of more than $ 3 million obtained by the municipalities of Varennes and Verchères for the replacement of several water pipes. He also welcomed the announcement of the updating of the permanent incentive parking of some 1,100 places in Sainte-Julie, a project very expected by the population and the municipal authorities. 
The work of Stéphane Bergeron and his team also contributed, inter alia, to the presentation and adoption of Bill 209 on the Eastern Eastern Eastern Economy Society (Sémecs) inc. allowing the progress of the Varennes biomethanization factory project, as well as the announcement of the ecotourism development project of Sainte-Thérèse Island, in partnership with the Government and the cities of Varennes, Pointe-aux-Trembles and Montreal. 
"In addition, I can only rejoice at the cultural development agreement between the City of Varennes and the Ministry of Culture and Communications, which will promote the development of our culture and wealth, which does not will not fail to contribute to improving the quality of life of the population, "said Minister Bergeron. 
"I am very proud of the balance sheet we present, only one year after our election. The actions of our government have also resulted in concrete achievements in the County of Verchères; My fellow citizens can have the assurance that we will deploy the same energy and the same determination to carry out many of the projects that are already in progress or under development, "concluded Stéphane Bergeron. 
