Quebec, on December 8, 2017- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, surrounded by the team of the members of the Parti Québécois, presented the balance sheet of the official opposition team, describing the many gains made for the benefit of Quebeckers, families, elders, regions and SMEs of Quebec. 
IN SHORT 
Gains for Quebecers and Quebeckers 
"Alexander Cloutier fought against the cost of school equipment, and against astronomical costs required for student monitoring at noon. Result: The government has been forced to move. He decided to give $ 100 per child. We wanted $ 150. With Carole Poirier, we made sure that the government abandons its very bad idea of a commission on racism. Philippe Couillard has even changed minister! In the ambulance file, it's a lot of Diane Lamarre's charge and Agnès Maltese who made the government act. Result: 22 more ambulances! Then, for patients, the superclinic do not add anything to access; Quebecers had the time just when Diane Lamarre denounced the subterfuge of Gaétan Barrette, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
"The President of the Authority of Public Procurement will be appointed two-thirds of the Assembly. We owe this gain to Nicole light. In the cannabis file, with Sylvain Pagé, we proposed the creation of a Crown corporation. The Minister of Finance first had fun of this proposal, but the government finally reconsidered its position. And we will not let go; Cannabis consumed here must be produced in Quebec. Finally, unlike Philippe Couillard, Maka Kotto, me and all the colleagues, we did not find that ridiculous to invite the traders to use "Hello" instead of "Hello / Hi". The Liberals are now ashamed of having said that French is the common language in Quebec, while we, the Parti Québécois, we are proud of, "he added. 
"If Quebeckers want to put an end to permanent austerity and progress towards independence, if they wish a real green turn and a forward-looking government, there is only one option. A party with ambition, history and renewed ideas. A party with a strong plan, worn by a competent team that will defend our values as our economic nationalism, and who will never ridicule to defend our language. A party that will work for the world, which will be standing for Quebeckers and for Quebec. This party, this team is that of the Parti Québécois! ", Concluded the leader of the official opposition. 
