Quebec- "Last year at such date, Quebec bathed in a climate of malpractice and impunity, Montreal was blocked by the social crisis, the finances were in disorder and the budget deficit was digging, and investments in infrastructure were announced without being budgeted. The only thing that worked at full speed was the liberal promise factory. We did the housework in the Liberal disorder and repaired what the former government had broken. The government of the Parti Québécois has been brave, responsible and determined. It's better in Quebec! , "Said the Prime Minister on the occasion of the end-of-session assessment. 
In identity, the government was standing up and defended Quebec's interests everywhere and at any time, Quebec, Canada or around the world. "From the sovereign governance, we have initiated several defense files for our interests, including the National Employment Insurance Review Board and the Battle to Amend Federal Workforce Formation Decisions , as well as on workers' funds, "said the Prime Minister. She also added that despite the blockage of the opposition, the government would continue to fight to advance French in Quebec. 
For several weeks, the government has addressed a new stage of its mandate, that of social and economic development. This is the case for example home care, for which $ 100 million more per year have been injected. The government has proposed an ambitious, responsible and necessary policy with autonomy insurance. And, in addition to working for seniors, the government works for children and young families by going from the front with kindergarten to 4 years in disadvantaged circles and by creating 28,000 servicing places. 
"We have also put in place a policy of food sovereignty so that we consume more food from home, which will help our producers and our economy. We had the courage to get Quebec from asbestos and nuclear. We prepare an ambitious transport electrification project. We have reduced the tax of 3 million Quebecers, and increased the banks. We have eliminated the liberal increase of 20% of electricity rates and that of 82% of tuition fees. In terms of solidarity, it's better in Quebec! , "Said the premier. 
This new step is also one of economic development in all regions of Quebec. "We have a new wood charter, a secretariat for Nordic development, a new royalty regime and a mines bill, which promotes processing in Quebec. We have put in place tax incentives to attract private investment. Our actions are starting to pay and everything indicates that the economic machine is strength. Economic growth is accelerating, pay jobs are created and private investments are multiplying, "she added. 
GDP growth for 2013, 1.8%, is stronger than 2012 and stronger than Canadian growth. More than four million Quebecers have been at work since January 2013, a record level. Compared with the same period last year, there are 80,000 more jobs in Quebec. Private investments are multiplying, which will make it possible to create even more job jobs in the coming months. The only downward economic indicator is the unemployment rate. 
"The Liberals and Caquists wanted to blacken the economic situation and worried many people by practicing the worst policy. Quebeckers can be confident and reassured: it goes better, it goes much better for the Québec economy! He said Pauline Marois, greeting the work done by his more and more heavy and determined government team. 
"It's better in many areas, it's undeniable. Which fell in Quebec, it's corruption and deficits. What is advancing, it is democracy and integrity, with the law on popular financing and that on fixed date elections. These results allow us to build for the future, "concluded the Prime Minister. 
For more information 
