SALABERRY-DE-VALLEYFIELD- "Madam Pauline Marois has become the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec History on September 4, 2012. The first year of mandate of his government is marked by listening, courage and determination. After putting order, the Quebec government again has the means to act so that Quebeckers find pride. Priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help with those who are in need, and identity and measures to better live together. Thus, the government of the Parti Québécois undertakes to make Quebec stronger, "said the member for Beauharnois, Guy Leclair, at the time of taking stock of the year 1 of the Parti Québécois government. 
The hon. Member, at the same time, particularly rejoiced the impressive amount of good news that were announced for the district of Beauharnois during this first year. 
The hon. Member first mentioned that attentive listening and the speed of action of his colleagues sitting on the Council of Ministers have made it possible to bring the trilogy of the bridges in Salaberry-de-Valleyfield. Indeed, the works are already ongoing on the salaberry and fabre bridges, while the plans and quotes are in full swing for Bridge Mgr Langlois. In the latter case, the work can begin, as expected, in the spring of 2014. "In the record of the bridges, we unlocked in less than 6 months the files that the Liberals could not settle for years," observed Guy Leclair. 
The member's deputy also highlighted the role played by the government to diversify the economy of the constituency. "The government has been very intensely involved in several major projects that will bring hundreds of jobs and millions by economic spinning into our riding," he said. The member has cited corporate cities (350 jobs, 600 during construction) and Nemaska Lithium (120 direct jobs), who have chosen to set up in the constituency and who have received a help from the Pusquer government. 
Guy Leclair subsequently recalled the exceptional response of the Council of Ministers of the Parti Québécois in the face of his requests for financial assistance for the Community organizations of the constituency. In all, 17 organizations were able to share $ 64,500 for the continuation of their activities, thanks to the contribution of 15 different ministers. These sums were added to the budget of the volunteer support program (SAB) through which the member for Beauharnois already gives more than $ 85,000 a year to the non-profit organizations of the constituency. "This exceptional harvest allowed us, for this year, to almost double the financial assistance offered by the Government in support of volunteer action at the Community organizations of the constituency", reproached the member for Beauharnois. 
Finally, Guy Leclair highlighted the fact that the SOIGNO CSSS was able to benefit from a recurring additional amount of $ 500,000 to improve its home care offer. This amount has indeed allowed the CSSS to hire a social worker, a nutritionist as well as many additional auxiliary nurses, which should significantly improve the efficiency and accessibility of home care in the region. "Our government has, as soon as it comes in,, indicates that improved home care would become a must-see priority. We therefore respected our commitment in a brilliant way and the residents of the district of Beauharnois will be among the first to benefit ", concluded the hon. Member for Beauharnois. 
