Baie-Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec on September 4th. The first year of mandate of his government was marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Quebec government has again a way to act so that Quebeckers find their pride. Priorities were clear, and are still so much: the economy and job creation, solidarity and assistance to those who are in need, and the pride of living together. Over the past year, the Quebec party government has taken all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger, and it intends to continue in this direction in the coming months. 
At the end of his first year as a member of Dubuc, Mr. Jean-Marie Claveau is proud of the legislative assessment of the government of the Parti Québécois whose action was strongly oriented towards solidarity and the creation of jobs. It points out, among other things, the CPE implementation program, announced by the Léger Minister, which made it possible to fill large gaps in the early childhood services in the county, and the adjustments to the Régie du Buseling which allow the maintenance. last gas stations in small municipalities, thanks to remote monitoring. It also mentions the mining policy, driven by Minister Ouellet, who guarantees promising benefits in Dubuc, where the main mining projects in the region are concentrated. According to the wording of this new law, no fee will now be required on the stone, the sand and the gravel extracted from a sandbrush or a career for the construction or maintenance of the paths carried out or maintained by the many ZECs of The constituency. 
"From a regional point of view, it is necessary to invoke the publication of the decree allowing to initiate the construction of the railway which will serve the port of Grande-Anse and the announcement of the Minister of Transport to revive the project of the highway. Alma-La Bay. These are crucial economic assets for my county and for the entire region, which rely on such infrastructures to facilitate the exploitation of our mines and the export of our production, "notes with enthusiasm Cleaven. 
In addition to large regional records, the balance sheet of the Government of the Parti Québécois must also take into account the many interventions of its members who ensure the well-being in each of the small communities that make up their constituency. In this regard, the list of achievements of the member for Dubuc is long. 
"As I mentioned on several occasions, my way of proceeding, it is first of all to listen to my environment, to be available for the people of my county and, then, to select the good government sector to help them. My constant concern to support the communities in my riding, some of which are faced with the devitalization, among other things, allowed me to save the development agent positions in the different municipalities of the constituency, to revive the Valibois sawmill of Saint- David-de-Falardeau, to improve the facilities of Cap-Jaseux Coop by providing them with a drinking water treatment system, unlock substantial sums to support many SMEs like the bistro of the handle -Saint-Jean and Petit-Saguenay Artisan Park companies, engage unparalleled investments for the overall improvement of the rural road network, to fix the difficulties for the advancement of structuring projects in different backgrounds, such as the Implantation of a food cooperative in Petit-Saguenay or the restoration of the Val-Menaud Auberge of Saint-Charles-de-Bourget, "lists the member for Dubuc. 
The Saguenay city districts found in Dubuc County have not been left out. Mr. Claveau has increased its efforts to finalize incomplete files under the previous government to finally be built the Shipshaw Multisports Center and the Shipshaw Multiservice Center and to improve the Bay Multisport Center. By working with an agreement with the riparian owners concerned, it also made it possible to unlock the extension of the bike path of the bay in the Barachois sector, a file that had been stagnating for nearly ten years. It has also ensured grains so that mobile classes are arranged to avoid a change of establishment to students in the place, pending the necessary funds for the expansion of the School of Jolite- Near. 
"The help I could bring to the various county social and community organizations is equally decisive as these Grand Ads. I think among others at the house of the bay families, at the association A.B.C.S. For disabled people in Saint-Ambrose, to the small side ups, at the Zip-Saguenay which intervenes on a large part of the riding. A member must also support festivals and parties organized in his county; What I did for the International Festival of Floors of Saint-Honoré in the Wind, for the Shipshaw Forest Festival, for the great vigils of the bay, for the village of the 175th of the Anse Saint-Jean For the holidays of the 100th anniversary of Saint-Honoré, the international exhibition of rivière-eternity crèches, "adds with a smile Mr. Claveau. 
By adding the modest punctual interventions, carried out in their respective constituents, to the major legislative reforms voted in the National Assembly, the members of the Parti Québécois can draw up an enviable balance sheet after a single year in the orders of the State and in a context of the state minority. Imagine a real mandate from the majority government! 
