Carleton- On September 4, 2012, Pauline Marois became the first woman's first woman in Quebec's history. After putting order, the Quebec government again has the means to act for Quebeckers to regain their pride. Priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and assistance to those who are in need, identity and measures to live better together. 
The Parti Québécois celebrates its first anniversary as a government and Sylvain Roy, a member of Parliament for Bonaventure, is not undencuting what has been accomplished during this year, not only by his political training, but also for his county. 
Indeed, no file has been neglected; Significant investments and expected opportunities have touched all sectors. To name a few, remember the renewal of the forestry worker program on the forest side; in health, the investment of 4.5 million for an outpatient outpatient service project at the CSSS of Rock-Percé; In Education, the funds for the renewal of the CCTT of the Carleton College Center for the next five years; Not to mention the contribution to the level of collective dwellings, transport, environment and recreationourism. Also note the support for the Mi'gmaq Nation Council for the fishing industry as well as for the Mi'gmawei Mawiomi Secretariat, representing the three Aboriginal communities of Gaspésie, to consolidate their mandates of development of their community. Finally, the wind industry is on a real momentum. Sylvain Roy has convinced the government to continue in this direction, and offers all its support to companies involved in the development of local skills and manufacturing of the necessary products and equipment. 
In twelve months, the important place that the region has gained from the government is also non-negligible. Mr. Roy asserts that this is the result of a committed and constant work that he has done in collaboration with the deputies of the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Pascal Bérubé, Gaétan Lelièvre and Jeanine Richard. This major interest is ultimately manifested by LePlan of strategic development of Gaspépreside by Ms. Marois herself. It did honor the region to present this plan to Bonaventure, and visited the constituency twice since its election, a beautiful mark of appreciation. 
The outcome of this fruitful year is no less brilliant than the previous months. On the 28th and 29th of August, the PQ held its pre-sessional caucus in Carleton-sur-Mer, a great demonstration of recognition according to the member. Added to this the appointment of Mr. Roy as a parliamentary Adjoint to the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks (Fauna and Parks). All this represents not only the culmination of a year of hard work, but also a stepping stone for the coming years. 
"In the coming months, no less than twenty announcements are to be done, files they are missing only some details to refine. Following my election, I said wanted to learn to walk before running; Count on me to continue on this road. As the saying says "the past is guarantor of the future", and my lived with the citizens of Bonaventure suggests me a glimpse of collaboration, projects and success, "said Sylvain Roy. 
