Jonquière - Ms. Pauline Marois became the first woman Premier of Quebec History on September 4, 2012. The first year of his government is marked by listening, courage and determination. After putting order, the Quebec government again has the means to act so that Quebeckers find pride. Priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and assistance to those who are in need, and identity and measures to better live together. Thus, the government  of the Parti Québécois is committed to making Quebec stronger. 
This first year of the Parti Québécois government has seen many commitments and projects come true for the people of Jonquière. The member for Jonquière, Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Sylvain Gaudreault draws up an excellent record of the actions he has made for the citizens of his constituency. 
Rehabilitation of the ARVIDA aluminum bridge at a cost of $ 3.5 million, the construction of a new Gym at Ste-Cécile School in $ 1.65 million, work of $ 2.7 million For compensation in the school infrastructures of Jonquière, the investment of $ 1.25 million for the expansion of a municipal garage in Jonquière as well as the agreement with forest products solved on pension plans resulting in a gain of 240 $ million for workers testify to the conscientious commitment to the people of Jonquière. 
Substantial investments in the social and community field have also been announced in the last year. The necessary authorizations have been granted to allow the extension of the activities of the vessels of the ARVIDA plant. Sums have also been invested in developing community groceries at the Center's premises Lac-Keno Solidarity Cooperative. "Our government is making concrete gestures for the social and economic development of Quebec. These investments consolidate jobs for our world. We acted to restore social peace and the economic situation in Quebec, and it carries fruit "continued Mr. Gaudreault. 
The 2013-2015 road work planning demonstrates the government's desire to better manage infrastructure and pay the right cost for public investment. "The expected correction of the wharf path curves in the Courley Gagnon sector and the announcement of the work on Highway 70 reflect my concern as a member and minister:" We say what we do, and we do what 'They say, "added Sylvain Gaudreault. The $ 6 million financial assistance for the realization of durable trails of quad and snowmobile (VHR) is also the demonstration of a government listening to the population. 
"I am particularly proud of our government's gestures to restore integrity and advance the economy. Thanks to the responsibility and determination of the entire government team led by Prime Minister Pauline Marois, the people of Jonquière know that a major shift is initiated and that a large household is underway in Quebec, "said Mr. Gaudreault. 
"Since 9 months, we have been taking the necessary means to restore the population and to ensure the good administration of public funds. The adoption of Bill 1 ensures that companies show "white paw" if they want to do business with the state. Our government is in action to support the integral entrepreneurs and anxious to respect the law, "said the member for Jonquière. 
In addition, new transitional rules on municipal political financing for the next election campaign entered into force. They come from a law that Minister Gaudreault has proposed and adopted. "Our government stands up and defends Quebec's interests everywhere and at any time. Since my appointment as minister, I have the same meaning of the duty and sense of belonging that lived in 2007. I am honored with the confidence that the people of Jonquière and I intend to continue to represent them with integrity. Advance the whole community, "concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
