Repentigny- Although in the neighboring riding, the announcement of the gradual closure of the electric plant in December 2010 has created a shock wave in the population of southern Lanaudière. The closure of the plant, scheduled for 2014, will result in the loss of 1300 jobs, without counting its effect on subcontractors and traders. 
Aware of the impacts of this announced disaster, the member Scott McKay joined the Grande Mobilization of the Assumption's Political and Socio-Economic Actors of the Assumption to form a committee to find tracks of creative solutions of New jobs. As a first step, a caregiver's guide has been designed to overcome psychological distress in electrolux employees. Subsequently, a technical and academic training program has been established so that interested employees improve their employment prospects. More than 400 employees benefited from this training in the workplace. 
Finally, the Committee has developed an economic recovery strategy that promotes job creation in the region. In parallel with the canvassing undertaken to attract major players on the very site of the electric plant, four structuring projects have been put forward to breathe a wind of dynamism into the territory of the MRC. This is the establishment of a Collegial Technology Transfer Center in Sustainable Design (CCTT), a center of interpretation of plant biotechnologies, the establishment of a technological city of companies in connection with the Education Network, and the creation of an agricultural incubator dedicated to the training of persons in the start of a company in the agriculture sector. 
According to Scott McKay, "the steps undertaken since the announcement of the closure of the electric plant are the result of a collaboration and demonstrates the self-help that exists within the community in these difficult times. Our government helps those who need it and those who support them. Solidarity is at the base of our political action. In addition, we are inhabited by an obsession with employment, so we are proud to place job creation at the heart of priorities. " 
