Shawinigan - Ms. Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec History on September 4, 2012. The first year of office of his government is marked by listening, courage and determination. After putting order, the Quebec government again has the means to act so that Quebeckers find pride. Priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help with those who are in need, and identity and measures to better live together. Thus, the government of the Parti Québécois is committed to making Quebec stronger. 
It is in front of a recovered and improved electoral sign that MP Luc Trudel convened the media to mark the first anniversary of his electoral victory. "The people of Saint-Maurice have given me their trust and I take two days to meet them and tell them thank you. It is for them that I will fight and defend the region. " For him, the parliamentary function is demanding, but it is especially a fabulous experience and a privilege; "It's an intense life, at the heart of action, it feels like acting and changing the world". On the other hand, the requirement of work is also felt at the family level, "it requires good compromises for the family. I owe them a lot, especially for all the support they bring me ". 
"I offered last year my political experience, my knowledge of the recognized records of Trudel. My youth was also a determining factor for obtaining an important majority while the people of Saint-Maurice were looking for a representative embodying the passion of the new generation, "says Luc Trudel. 
"It is with honor that I represent the citizens of Saint-Maurice County since the last year and I do not want to spare any energy to defend our beautiful region." The franchise and transparency of the new member have been noticed while it has not been bothered to take strong positions in several files. 
Very early, important records were put forward. In particular, Gentilly-2 where Mr. Trudel was called to intervene directly in the heat of the action in a hot file. Subsequently, Hydro-Québec has monopolized the public place with the marking of the Saint-Maurice River and the difficult relations with the environment that resulted in a meeting organized by Mr. Trudel in order to mitigate the grumpy and to conclude from favorable agreements between the parties. 
In the meantime, it is important to highlight the realization of other files such as the first payment of a million dollars in phase 1 of the Shawinigan Entrepreneurship Center and the Turtle-des-Bois Primary School of Saint -Mathieu-du-Park which got the agreements in order to build its gym. 
Pauline Marois's team arrived in an unstable and precarious political climate caused by the previous government who had left well surprises in all respects: corruption, student crisis and public finances. "We received the mandate to defend the population, but the situation forced us to make difficult choices." 
For Luc Trudel, the priority of the next year is clear, "an action plan for the economic development of Shawinigan will be implemented. We have to work together to give Shawinigan a chandelier that could recall the prosperous era that she has known. " Other records will also be planned either; Drinking water in Shawinigan, Grandma's Laurentide factory, sanitation of the waters of Saint-Mathieu-du-Park and Lac-à-la-Turtle. "It's another hectic year that awaits us. I want to solve the drinking water folder to finally kick off the lake-to-turtle. I said I did not want to promise in the air, but I especially said that I wanted to act and that's what I do, "says the member. 
