Quebec -en Press Conference This morning, the member for Charlevoix and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pauline Marois, and the hon. Member for Chicoutimi and Parliamentary Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, described as a real mess the work done by The Charest government during the last parliamentary session. The hon. Member for Joliette, Véronique Hivon, the member for Gouin, Nicolas Girard, the member for Marie-Victorin, Bernard Drainville, and the hon. Member for Verchères, Stéphane Bergeron, were also present at this press conference. 
"The integrity of the government has been roughly proven this fall. The Duchesau report on corruption and collusion in the construction industry as well as the report of the Auditor General of Quebec on the partisan allocation of day care places have been blowing to the Charest government by confirming its mismanagement, " Declared Pauline Marois, adding that the Liberals also made a mess by renouncing defending our identity and our pride. 
"The Charest government has completely failed with regard to the defense of our language. The situation is very worrying. More and more, in businesses and businesses, people are forced to work in English. Even within the Caisse de filing and Placement of Quebec Unilingual frameworks impose English as a working language. We can not tolerate such drift. French must become the only official language in Quebec, "added Pauline Marois, by committing to what the Parti Québécois straightens the situation by adopting a new law 101 when it comes to power. 
"The defense of Quebec's interests against Ottawa is another failure of the Charest government. Quebec has lost all the line. Whether it's the abolition of the Firearms Registry, the Crime Bill, the decrease in Quebec's weight in Canada, the loss of nearly $ 8 billion in contracts for the construction of federal vessels, The appointment of unilingual anglophone to high functions or the return of the symbols of the monarchy, Quebeckers are no longer recognized in the values that the Harper government imposes us, found Pauline Marois. The inaction of Jean Charest against the federal government is totally unacceptable. 
"The management of our natural resources is a major issue where our vision is diametrically opposed to that of the Liberals. At the Parti Québécois, we want the profits of our natural resources to benefit the entire community. We want royalties to be higher and that companies transform raw material in Quebec. Unlike the Liberals, we refuse to sell our natural discount resources. This wealth belongs to all Quebeckers and they must all benefit, "she supported. 
"In the fall, the work of the official opposition has been constructive on several plans. We have tabled two important bills, one on the language and the other on the occupation of the territory and decentralization. We have made significant improvements to Bill 16 on seniors and facilitated the adoption of the pharmacists' law that we have been asking for more than two years, "said Stéphane Bédard, recalling that the fierce work of the opposition In the construction industry file eventually allowed Quebeckers to obtain the public inquiry claimed by all. 
"By his mismanagement, Jean Charest places Quebec in a situation of weakness by refusing to defend our interests and values. Whether in terms of its integrity, the defense of our identity or the management of our natural resources is Quebeckers who are the great losers of the Liberal regime. The Parti Québécois has ideas to advance Quebec and defend our values, our identity and our language, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
