Ste-Agathe-des-Monts- The member for Bertrand and Vice-President of the National Assembly, Claude Cousineau, is very satisfied with this first year of mandate of the new government of the Parti Québécois. 
Elected Member of Parliament for the first time in 1998, the role of MP has no secrets for Claude Cousineau. "For 15 years, I meet my fellow citizens and works for them. The files are numerous and we try to settle them, to find satisfactory solutions to the stakes. The best possible decisions are always sought after, taking into account the regulations and laws that frame us. » 
The member, became vice-president of the National Assembly during this year, must now work by having a reserve duty to certain decisions and positions of the government. "I must be attentive to the delicate subjects and do not get involved or pronounce with too much ardor on hot folders. I must keep the trust of all my colleagues from the National Assembly. That said, it's not because I'm not on the public square, that I can not work the records of my county. » 
Moreover, the member mentions that several infrastructure projects are in the process of carrying out the county thanks to the decisions taken by the responsible ministers. "We worked together the files and it wears fruit. » 
The member mentions the construction of a fire station in Ste-Anne-des-Lacs, the renovation of the Val-des-Lacs Church in the Community and Cultural Center, the construction of the Marais Theater, the enlargement of The Library of Val-David, as well as projects of  Aqueduct and sanitary network in various municipalities. 
"This week, we inaugurated in Val-David a new residence of 26 affordable dwellings for seniors on a slight loss of autonomy.  Then, in Sainte-Adèle, the site visit of 40 affordable housing that will be rented primarily to families and workers in this municipality. Other projects are currently on the table in other municipalities and we work there, "expresses the member. 
On the other hand, the member mentions that he solicits his colleagues ministers for financial assistance for county's projects. "I bump at the doors of different ministers to have additional subpoons to support organizations. At our $ 95,000 County Budget for Support for Volunteer Action, is added roughly the same amount by my colleagues ministers, "says Cousineau. 
Always as passionate and stimulated by her work, the member also says looking at the warmer records that affect county citizens. "Whatever the file or the project, when people interlee me to share their concerns, I work to find solutions to situations, win-win solutions". 
Finally, Claude Cousineau concludes by thanking his fellow citizens for their confidence throughout these years and ensures his desire to accompany them and to represent them in the National Assembly and the Government. 
