Rimouski-Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec on September 4, 2012. The first year of office of his government is marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Quebec government has again a way to act so that Quebeckers find their pride. Priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help with those who are in need, and the pride of living together. Thus, the Parti Québécois government will take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger. 
Drawing up the assessment of the first year to the power of the Péquist government and its re-election, Irvin Pelletier, Member of Parliament for Rimouski and President of the Committee on Public Finance, is very satisfied with the work he has done so much on the parliamentary hill as in his riding. 
"Intensive and rigorous work is done in Quebec City and, as President of the Quebec Public Finance Committee, I can confirm that the members work with professionalism in the best interests of Quebec despite the differences of sometimes sharp opinions, "says the member. 
As President of the PSC The member recently chaired the important work on the sustainability of the Quebec pension system. A report on this subject will be deposited this fall. 
Re-elected for a third term on September 4th, the hon. Member for Rimouski is very proud to have completed the Minister of Justice, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, to the announcement of the renovation and enlargement of the palace of Justice of Rimouski. This is a project of 72 million expected for many years, the work of which will take place until 2018. 
On the side of the daycare, two constructions are announced for a total of 158 new places in CPE in Rimouski. The member is confident that the Minister of the Family next announces one or two new projects, thus making it possible to carry out the electoral commitment of 240 places during his mandate. More than 1000 children are waiting on the Bila list in the Grand Rimouski. 
The hon. Member for Rimouski was pleased to announce, with the Minister Zakaïb, the $ 450,000 grant for the municipality of St-Narcisse-de-Rimouski. This major project for the high-country community is an example of missionable mobilization and perseverance. 
The Cooperative Paradis project proceeds round and the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, maintains its willingness to contribute financially to this innovative, structuring and mobilizing project for the Cultural Environment Rimouskois. 
To overcome the lack of affordable housing, social development projects have been realized and others are very positively evolving in the constituency. First, Nicolas-Rioux dwellings, a construction of six Community dwellings in St-Eugene de ladrière, has been inaugurated recently. Headed by the Municipal Residential Office of Rimouski, the invitement, a home project for anyone alone, will appeal very soon. Finally, a multifunctional building that will host six social housing units to the Trinidad-des-Monts, is currently under study at the Quebec Housing Corporation. 
In the field of health and social services, the housing project, which consists of improving the living environment of people with a mental health problem received three new units as part of the rent supplement program. The hon. Member hopes to receive four others by the end of the year to fulfill this election promise. 
The fourth ice cream project in Rimouski has seen changes since several groups of citizens are now asking the city of Rimouski to analyze the feasibility of a multisport complex possibly including a swimming pool and an interior soccer field. A committee, set up by the city of Rimouski, will submit the fruit of their reflection shortly. The hon. Member for Rimouski will follow the path of this file with great interest and undertakes to support the project selected by the municipal elected officials. 
According to the hon. Member for Rimouski, several actions since his election has made it possible to untie impasses or to advance projects, small and old. "I work for citizens and citizens of my riding with respect and prior to consultation. I'm still in solution mode with people who interlepe me and I think the results are good. We often find the right intervention in order to advance the file, "conclude Irvin Pelletier. 
