Quebec- The Minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation, Bernard Drainville, presented the assessment of citizen participation on the government proposals of a Charter of Quebec values. This campaign, which took place between September 10 and October 1, 2013, generated more than 200,000 visits to the website website.gouv.qc.ca, including more than 160,000 by unique visitors. No less than 26,000 comments have been received on the site, not having nearly a thousand telephone messages. 
"People have consulted our proposals, either on the site or by reading the leaflet we've sent them, and many of them have spoken over this important issue, both to express their support as their disagreement. This massive participation of Quebeckers testifies that this debate should have been done for a long time, and that it is more time than the government regulates this issue, "said Bernard Drainville. 
"We are able to talk to Quebec, in respect of the opinion of all, despite our disagreements and in order to move forward together. I like, on behalf of the Government of Quebec, to thank you, to thank all those who took the time to write to us, to call us, who took the time to reflect on the Charter of Quebec values and in Discuss, "added the minister responsible. 
Following the comments expressed by the population, changes will be made to the original and integrated proposals to the bill that the government will table by the end of autumn by the end. 
"The ball is now in our camp, and we are working to present a bill that will meet the expectations of Quebeckers, by the end of autumn. A bill, I repeat, which will affirm the religious neutrality of the state and equality between men and women and which will mark reasonable accommodations. This is what we need is what the people want and that's what we will present, "concluded Bernard Drainville. 
The assessment of comments received on the Charter of Québécois Values is available on the website Webnosvaleurs.gouv.qc.ca 
Consult the summary table with the 26,000 comments received on the Quebec Value Charter: http: //go.pq.org/dkq 
