Laval- "On September 4, 2012, while Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec, the citizens of the new constituency of Sainte-Rose granted me the very great privilege of representing them at the National Assembly. The first year of mandate of our government was marked by listening, courage and determination, "says Ms. Proulx immediately. 
The member for Sainte-Rose and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister responsible for the Status of Women is pleased today to publicize the assessment that supports the persevering and assiduous work that it has made for them in the constituency and the National Assembly, since its election. 
Commitment woman, she put ahead of several concrete actions, together with different social actors, not only to advance important files but also to establish solid foundations that will ensure the sustainability of programs that are important. In this regard, emphasize its ability to mobilize the entire community around the music program that is offered to 800 students, from the 3rd year of primary school to the fifth year of secondary school. She had committed to raise $ 150,000. With the support of the Cré (elected regional conference), the Foundation Right to Talent, the OSL (Laval Symphony Orchestra), its colleagues ministers and deputies as well as the many participants in the profit concert, which she initiated, she has reached its goal. 
Also emphasize its involvement to ensure increased safety rules and standards in private residences. "Minister Hébert has heard the voice of seniors and their concerns following the Fire of the Villa Sainte-Rose, and granted us $ 15,000 to carry out a project in collaboration with FADOQ and other organizations. 'Elders. The project that will do prevention and awareness among the Laval population, is in the process of carrying out, "said Proulx. 
Its proactive approach has also been guided by its solidarity with women and families who wish to have a child. That is why it is openly supported by Laval, which it participates in all their information or financing activities and intervenes with decision-makers to advance this file. "The Laval population will be winning when booking better in Laval will be able to offer all the perinatal resources necessary for the optimal development of children who are born here," continued the member. 
It should not be forgotten his action with women who are candidates for the next municipal elections. With the intentaged intent to show them that we can do politics otherwise, it has invited the candidates of all parties and the independents, to a non-partisan brunch where we discussed the importance of solidarize around certain issues. 
Finally, despite a busy schedule, Ms. Proulx was very present on the ground and participated in a large number of sports, recreational, cultural, educational and community activities. She was also present at the tragic events that shook Sainte-Rose this year. It supported the affected citizens and intervened with the authorities concerned to ensure rapid resolutions in these files. 
Also mention that the hon. Member has granted a sum of more than $ 70,000, in support of volunteer action, since January 2013, to the organizations of his county as well as several regional organizations. 
"This first year has been a real challenge. Our government has been responsible for it and acted for the well-being of Quebeckers, despite the little room for maneuver that the previous government had left and the lack of collaboration of the opposition parties. Today, the Quebec government again has the means to act for Quebeckers to regain their pride. Priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help with those who are in need, and the pride of living together. Thus the government of the Parti Quebecois will take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger. I am proud of our balance sheet and I intend to continue in the same vein to serve the citizens of the riding of Sainte-Rose in order to meet their needs and ensure a better quality of life, "concluded Suzanne Proulx. 
