Quebec - As the consultations on the 50% environmental protection rule end, the member for the Assumption and the Official Opposition on the Environment, Sustainable Development and Parks, Scott McKay , asks Minister Pierre Arcand to clarify his intentions. 
"On the one hand, Prime Minister Jean Charest argues that industrial activity can be allowed in protected areas, while Pierre Arcand affirmed the opposite last week. The government speaks on both sides of the mouth and sows worry. The confusion is real, he must specify his thought and intentions, "said Scott McKay. 
"Minister Arcand, by his statements, could literally put the forest industry and the thousands of jobs attached to them. His ambivalence is inexcusable. At the public consultation session in Saguenay on September 22, Minister Arcand declared that "there are possibilities without a problem of wood cutting". A few weeks later, in another forum, he suggested that forest cuts be considered as an industrial activity, making them impossible in the territory of protection, "added the member for Roberval and spokesperson on forests, Denis Trottier. 
For the Parti Québécois, it appears to be clear that these contradictory statements illustrate the improvisation of the government on this issue. "There are a lot of shadow areas about the actual protection intentions. For attending some of these consultations, I note that the government has created immense expectations that it will obviously be unable to realize, "said Scott McKay. 
The member for the Assumption notes that the information presented at public meetings by the Liberal government is insufficient. "Minister Arcand must make public impact studies public in order to know the positive and negative effects of the protection of the territory for communities. It is a minimum to reassure the population, unless the minister has no studies, which would be an eloquent demonstration of a dangerous amateurism, "said Scott McKay, which requires these impact studies to be made. before the submission of the bill to come. 
The government goal of protecting 50% of the Nordic territories is based on bad seasures. "Sustainable development is both ensuring the preservation of Nordic territories with high ecological value, while allowing people living in these areas to thrive and ensure their development responsibly with the natural resources that surround them. . Current procrastination only causes fears and suspicion about the real intentions of the Liberal government. Sustainable development, it requires transparency, information and a real dialogue with local communities. Minister Arcand, renifying his word, broke the bond of trust and betrayed the principles of sustainable development, "concluded Scott McKay. 
