Trois-Rivières-The member for Champlain and Chair of the Planning Commission, NoëlThe Champagne, set out the assessment of the first year of the Parti Québécois government. The member for Champlain took the opportunity to emphasize the historic moment of September 4, 2012, when Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec. 
According to the member for Champlain, the first great action of the Parti Québécois government was to reconnect with financial responsibility. "In view of the state of public finances upon his arrival, the government of the Parti Québécois has been obliged to make often difficult decisions, so that Quebec finally finds its budget balance for 2013-2014. Moreover, in terms of expenditure control, our government has delivered the merchandise, with growth of 1.7% in 2012-2013, the best performance of the last fifteen years. Continue in the spiral of indebtedness handcuffed the future of Quebec. It was necessary for a healthy management of public finances and that is what the government of the Parti Québécois had prioritus. 
With the slowdown in global economic growth, the Parti Québécois government was facing a great challenge, particularly with public finances in pitiful state. MP ChristmasThe Champagne stated that the economic situation of Quebec compares to that of its neighbors, despite what the Liberals can say. "The latest employment data demonstrate that Quebec has 70,000 jobs more since the beginning of the year, compared to the same period in 2012. Employment growth in Quebec (1.8%) is higher than that of Ontario (1.4%), Canada (1.4%) and the United States (1.6%). In the current context, it's not so bad. It is obvious that we can do better in the coming months. The Liberals claim that we desecrate the economy and that they alone are the great tenors. Everyone remembers that the Liberals inflated Quebec's debt by 33% in nine years and plunged Quebec deficit. If this is to take care of the economy, the performance of the Parti Québécois government is much more honorable. " 
The government of the Parti Québécois has made the decision to close the Gentilly-II nuclear power plant located in Bécancour. This difficult choice obviously had impacts on the regional economy of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. A $ 200 million fund has therefore been made available to Mauricie and Center-du-Québec to revive both regions. "It's obvious that it was not an easy decision to take. I have always mentioned it, you have to get up the sleeves and use this $ 200 million fund to create new jobs and stimulate our economy. I can assure you that good news is imminent and that they will have significant impacts for our region, "said Christmas Champagne. 
"The government of the Parti Québécois has quickly intervened in terms of integrity. The population of Quebec, however, demanded it for several years without any evidence being realized. The adoption of Bill 1 promoting public contract integrity, the adoption of Bill 2 limiting $ 100 per elector the annual contribution to a political party and the law 10 for provisionally lifting one municipal elected its functions are three concrete examples. When we discover what is unveiled at the Charbonneau commission, it becomes unavoidable to clean up and continue in this direction. We have already done more in one year than the Liberals in nine years! , "Said Noëlta Champagne. 
All the nations of the world promote their identity in order to enhance collective pride. For MP ChristmasThe Champagne, Quebec must also act in this way, because it is a matter of respect for what we are. "The government of the Parti Québécois has the courage to present a charter of values, which will put in place clear tags to allow Quebeckers to live better together. Our government will also strengthen the teaching of national history at primary school, secondary school and college to offer more in-depth training and valuing Quebec identity and culture. It's time to get to know each other, "said the member for Champlain. 
For the member for Champlain, several policies are promising. "I am thinking of setting up the policy of food sovereignty and an economic development and innovation policy. In terms of solidarity, the bill should be emphasized for end-of-life care and the White Paper on the creation of autonomy insurance. From this autumn, transport electrification will become the great ambitious project for the future of Quebec. In short, despite a tight management of public finances, we can now affirm that the basics to make Quebec stronger are in places. 
"The government acted quickly. All his achievements could have easily been able to run over four years, but they materialized in a single year. Rarely has been seen as exhaustive as a short time. It is the urgency of the situation with a concern and a constant degradation social climate that pushed the government to fast actions. Errors have been committed, certainly, and a lot of work is still to be done, but Quebec is on a beautiful launched after a difficult year, especially for the Mauricie. After Gentilly-II, the pyrrhotite file will remain a priority record considering the magnitude of the situation. You can look at the future with hope, "concluded Christmas Champagne. 
