Edmonton- The 102nd meeting of the Council of Ministers of Education of Canada (CMEC) ended today in Edmonton. The Quebec delegation was led by Mr. Pierre Duchesne, Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology. This meeting allowed the Minister to make known to his colleagues from the provinces and territories the position of Quebec about the recent federal government's international strategy. 
The minister indicated that Quebec considers the federal international education strategy as an encroachment on its exclusive education jurisdiction. For this reason, Quebec intends to withdraw from the programs arising from the implementation of the federal strategy in addition to applying for full financial compensation. 
"Quebec intends to remain master of its priorities and its orientations in education and higher education, including internationally. However, I recalled at the CMEC meeting that Quebec will contribute to the efforts of the international education provinces and territories, but that the role of the federal government must be limited to supporting the interventions of the federal government by shrugging without Condition, transfers to the provinces, which remain the best placed to determine the allocation of these resources, "said Minister Duchesne. 
This meeting will also have enabled ministers and their representatives to discuss major educational issues and work on CMEC's planning for the months and years to come. In this regard, the ministers confirmed the holding of a joint symposium with the ministers responsible for the labor market next summer in Charlottetown. 
"This symposium will be an excellent opportunity for Quebec to demonstrate and enhance all of its workforce training initiatives as well as why the federal government should respect them," concluded Minister Pierre Duchesne. 
The 102nd meeting of the Ministers of Education was preceded by the third high-level consultation on cooperation in education between the provinces and territories and the People's Republic of China. 
This third meeting with the People's Republic of China will have been an opportunity for Quebec to highlight its expertise in teaching mathematics and vocational and technical training, to position itself as a dynamic partner in the eyes of the Chinese party And to testify to its desire to develop a solid cooperation with its Chinese partners. 
