Québec- "After only 100 days, the government has reduced corruption, has changed the political party financing rules, has put order in public finances, has supported economic growth, restored social peace, given air to families, strengthened the place of French and defended the interests of Quebec in all forums. Quebec has recovered, "said Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois on the occasion of the early 100 days of the action of his government. 
The first commitment of the government was to combat corruption and modernize democracy. In this sense, the government did more in 100 days than the Liberal government in nine years. Two important bills have been adopted, including the one that limits $ 100 per elector the annual contribution to a political party. This is a project that in depth reforms the financing of political parties, as we committed there. In addition, the adoption of the bill promoting public contract integrity ensures that there will be no escape for faulty companies. In total, no fewer than seven bills to combat corruption have been filed during the parliamentary session. 
"The anti-corruption message sent by the government has yielded concrete results. Important changes occurred in Montreal, Laval and Mascouche. The searches carried out by the police show that no one is safe or above the laws. After only 100 days, corruption declined, "said Pauline Marois. 
"The Parti Québécois had committed to putting Quebec on the road to sustainable prosperity for all Quebeckers by rectifying our finances and accelerating economic growth. To ensure that we achieve the budget balance and to repair the damage left by the former government, we had to file a budget from the fall, a responsible budget, focused on rigorous control of public expenditure and on a plan. Debt reduction, "she added, recalling that the proposed measures were well received by the population. 
Quebec will find the budget balance in 2013-14, the debt will be reduced by $ 1 billion and the management of public infrastructure is already tightened. For example, the government has saved $ 124 million to Quebeckers by renegotiating the Otish Highway Contract. The government has also engaged in better control of public spending by limiting 1.8% their rise. 
To accelerate economic growth, the government is putting on private investment. Very aggressive tax measures have been put in place, including a ten-year tax leave for investment projects of $ 300 million and more. The government has also released Quebec from nuclear and asbestos. As expected, a 200 million fund for the Mauricie and Central-Quebec regions was created following the decommissioning of the Gentilly-2 plant. Another $ 50 million fund has been set up for the asbestos region. 
The government has favored the conditions for creating wealth. A $ 125 million envelope is reserved for research in the biopharmaceutical sector. A $ 200 million fund has been put in place for clean transport and clean technologies, a sector of the future for Quebec. To coordinate the development of North for all, the Nordic Development Secretariat has been created. 
"In terms of solidarity, the contrast with the former government is striking. Let us remember the state of crisis in which Quebec was plunged there is barely a few months ago. Events were held every day, Quebeckers were divided. Since September 4, social peace has returned and it does good, "said the Prime Minister, proud to cancel the increase in tuition fees and repealed the law 78. The approach leading to the holding of the summit on the summit Higher education is as well initiated. 
The government has also asked a number of gestures for Quebec families. Some 3.1 million Quebecers had a tax reduction following the abolition of the liberal health tax. The Government has canceled the 20% increase in the electricity rates announced by the Liberals, to replace it with an indexation, thus giving a resident of several hundred dollars to each family. The establishment of tax credits for physical, artistic and cultural activities of young people is another commitment held by the government. 
The creation of 28,000 new childcare places is a realization that makes the pride of the government, as well as the price gel of custodial services at $ 7. For seniors, the government has respected its word by investing $ 110 million more for home care. Finally, 3000 social housing units per year will be available to shelter the poorest of our society. 
Comes Hiking Engine trails in Cénfor Engiar - The Sangliestand City Termecing St Sangue in French Alps who cake Standelé and the language de Service in the Commerce. There are a première fois at 35 ans procrele to a longity Duiuvénet of the Roying of Valoriser et de Protéger The Nation. 
The government has been present at the international level as well as in Canada. In three months, the Prime Minister will have represented Quebec on three continents: in Africa, for the Summit of La Francophonie, in Europe, on the occasion of a fruitful visit to Paris, and the United States, with a visit to New York next week. In all forums, the government defends the interests of Quebec. 
Finally, the government has demonstrated its willingness to give new life to relations with Aboriginal nations and the Inuit nation. The Prime Minister had fruitful meetings with the Grand Chief of the Grand Council of Cree, Matthew Coon Come, and with the head of the Quebec First Nations Assembly and Labrador, Ghislain Picard. The Prime Minister and several members of the government also participated in the Tritures and Resources summit with First Nations in order to revive our relationships on new bases. 
"Quebec has recovered and many things have changed since September 4th. Social peace has returned, corruption declined, public finances are under control, conditions conducive to sustainable prosperity for all are in place, solidarity is found, and the families of the middle class can breathe. Quebec is regaining confidence and finding hope, and that is the safest way to convince us to become masters from our destiny. It took us barely 100 days to hand over ", proudly concluded the Prime Minister. 
