Saint-Eustache- "A year already and I always have the same passion for representing the population of the constituency of two-mountains in the National Assembly, and that despite the difficulties related to the exercise of power and the limits imposed on A minority government, "said the deputy Daniel Goyer. 
Interestingly, it is the only member of the government member of the riding over the last 10 years. "I have the privilege of asserting the records and concerns of citizens of the constituency directly with the ministers and the Prime Minister. The power to act and the privilege of participating in decisions is a rewarding human and professional experience, "he says with satisfaction. 
This exercise also allows him to discover the workings of the governmental administration while establishing valuable contacts and developing networks, in order to better understand the pulse of the constituency. 
"Placed at the center of government decisions, I am part of this government that dared to give serious strokes to make Quebec stronger," he says. And on that, to quote as an example the closing file of Gentilly 2 that it describes as a courageous decision with, for consideration, the development of the wind to give a significant orientation for the future, with among others better protection of the environment. 
During this first year, the member discovered parliamentary life. This is where legislator, he participates very closely in the adoption of laws that have a direct impact on all citizens. 
"Some among them, he supports forcefully, have led to cleaning in the field of construction, in the financing of national and municipal political parties, to end the strike in the field of construction and to restore the social peace with students. We are a responsible government that acted in the interest of society and I am happy to participate. » 
"It is with enthusiasm that, upon my election, I met citizens, organizations and local decision-makers; I listened, supported and represented the community from here to the government, "says the member who had led drum beating a real dating marathon, says" the member's tour ", with many community organizations and companies . 
"My most expensive desire, expresses Mr. Goyer, is to live up to the mandate of Digne elected representative of the population of the constituency of two-mountains, obtained just a year ago. » 
In keeping with his role as a member of Parliament, Mr. Goyer intends to support the economic and harmonious development of the region. "As I supported it during a lunch at the Chamber of Commerce, I believe in the essential character of the development of an industrial niche specific to our region, able to give it an" identity "called to be recognized on a basis national and international. » 
He says, "We have companies and entrepreneurs who can easily contribute to giving that identity. It is also in my farms intentions to make sure that with such a wearing niche, the citizens of here can work here, at home! And I will be there to support this idea with strength and determination! » 
The year 1 of the Marois government was devoted to restoring social peace, and to work on a better financial situation of the state, in one sentence: a responsible government for a stronger Quebec. 
"For my part, I am very proud to participate and I appear the second year with optimistic alongside the Prime Minister Ms. Marois. He declares in conclusion. 
