Saint-Hyacinthe- Mrs. Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec History on September 4, 2012. The first year of office of his government is marked by listening, courage and determination. After putting order, the Quebec government again has the means to act so that Quebeckers find pride. Priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help with those who are in need, and identity and measures to better live together. Thus, the government of the Parti Québécois is committed to making Quebec stronger. 
The riding of Saint-Hyacinthe, in one year, benefited from investment of $ 22,303,980. Among the major projects include the revitalization of the Sainte-Rosalie Library and the installation of a new computer system at the Maskoute media library ($ 564,000), announced in the presence of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the occupation of new premises at the Saint-Hyacinthe galleries for the continuing education program, Synor of Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe ($ 2.8 million), inaugurated by the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and technology, Pierre Duchesne and several envelopes given by the Ministry of Transport to municipalities in order to carry out work on the road network. 
The Expo of Saint-Hyacinthe also benefited from the arrival of a government of the Parti Québécois while a whole new exhibition pavilion which will also house the Hall of Fame in Agriculture of Quebec will be constructed. For the first time this year, for a period of three years, the Expo is also recognized as a major tourist event in Quebec. "A first in 75 years! I was really delighted to announce to the organizers that this recognition would be accompanied by a grant of $ 110,000 a year. It was a nonsense that this event, attracting a bad year more or less 200,000 people, is not recognized, "says Emilien Pelletier. 
The unemployment rate was, for the second quarter of 2013 to 6.6% for the Montérégie. It was 7.8% for the whole Quebec. The region is slowly getting closer to full employment. 
In one year, the Government of Pauline Marois respected many of its election promises by adopting several integrity laws, putting in place a moratorium on the exploitation and exploration of shale gas and Ending the activities of Gentilly 2. A new charter project on the French language has been tabled and the government will present this fall a draft charter of Quebec values. "Giant steps have been made so that Quebec citizens get the society they deserve, a society that looks like them and in which fraud and lies have no place," adds Pelletier. 
The government has proven in one year, that it was putting on solidarity and assistance to those who need it most in order to make Quebec stronger. The decrease in taxes for three million Quebeckers and the cancellation of the liberal increase of 20% of the rates of the electricity heritage block benefit from the poorest citizens of society. 
Across Quebec, back to school has been marked by the school benches of thousands of four-year-olds. "This new program, called up to scale over the next few years, will allow customers at risk of stalling to be supported earlier and, in the long term, to improve statistics for graduation" , says Emilien Pelletier. 
The new agricultural policy presented by the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron is beneficial for the economy of the region. "Put Quebec on your plate must be more than a slogan. It must be simple when the citizen is found in front of the displays of our merchants to be able to prioritize a product grown and transformed in Quebec. All benefit from the benefits of these purchases. 
The abolition of the 25% tightening measure of agricultural income stabilization insurance as well as the agricultural land acquisition bill also will also have direct benefits for Farmers in Saint-Hyacinthe. 
During this year, Emilien Pelletier has listened to the needs of citizens of his riding. It was thus able to announce that the Ministry of Transport of Quebec undertakes to provide the funds necessary for the completion of a feasibility study by the Metropolitan Transport Agency for the purpose of bringing the suburban train to Saint-Hyacinthe. . "In 2013, this mode of transportation is a real need for the citizens of Saint-Hyacinthe and the surrounding area. I hope to see the people use the suburban train quickly to Saint-Hyacinthe, "says the member. 
Several organizations also struck at the Gate of the member for Saint-Hyacinthe to put in place carrier projects for the community. Among these, contact Richelieu-Yamaska presented the Litness project that was intended to open an apartment to offer people with roaming for a short period of time. It is through the discretionary envelopes of the Minister Delegate to the Protection of Youth and Social Services, Véronique Hivon, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois and my volunteer action support program that the government has Put nearly half of the amount necessary for the operation of the program for a period of one year. 
Similarly, a group of students from the Versatile Hyacinthe-Delorme was looking for funding to carry out a physical and mental health prevention project. "The project plays the right card finally won the finals of the entrepreneurship competition. Many ministers responded positively to the request for help. I thank them and reiterated my congratulations to the students who have been involved, "says Emilien Pelletier. 
Faithful to his habit, Emilien Pelletier took advantage of the summer to meet the citizens on the ground by attending different events like the festivities of the National Day or festivals held in the municipalities of the constituency. "I had some interesting discussions with several citizens who brought me new ideas that I can not wait to share with my colleagues from the Quebecois party on ongoing and future projects," concluded Emilien Pelletier. 
