Gatineau, September 4, 2013 - The Minister of Public Safety and Minister responsible for Outaouais, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, draws up a very positive assessment of the work done, both on the national scene and in the region, at the end of the first year the government of the Parti Québécois. "Relying on the four pillars set out by the Premier Pauline Marois at the opening of the work of the 40th Parliament of the National Assembly, integrity, prosperity, solidarity and identity, we were employed To fulfill our commitments, revive the economy, put order in public finances and eradicate corruption, "said Stéphane Bergeron. 
The government has made social and economic development a priority. This is the case, for example, home care, for which $ 100 million more per year have been injected. An ambitious and autonomy insurance policy has been proposed to cope with the challenges arising from the aging of the population and to provide our elders more options as to where they will want to reside. Moreover, the government has been concerned about our children and young families by going from the front with kindergarten to 4 years in disadvantaged circles and creating 28,000 new child care places. 
The Outaouais is not, as evidenced by the thirty tours made so far by Stéphane Bergeron and his ministerial colleagues in the region. These have often given rise to significant investment announcements, which are all good news for the Economic and Social Development of the Outaouais. 
In the field of health and social services, the government has quickly demonstrated its willingness to cope with the challenges of the Border situation of the Outaouais. He first announced the maintenance of what was called the "special status" and the upcoming held of a regional public consultation charged with establishing a state of status. It was subsequently announced measures to solve the problem of ambulances, granted additional appropriations to initiate the catching up of inter-regional inequity, as well as to implement a plan for the repatriation of the clienteles, not to mention the bet In place a dialysis unit at the Papineau Hospital and additional budgets for improving services to young adults suffering from invasive development disorders as well as elders. We are talking about new amounts invested in the order of $ 36 million for a year, in a context of rationalization of expenses. 
Numerous organizations and events in the region have benefited from ministerial subsidies for the continuation of their operations. Several projects were announced in municipalities in the region, including an investment of $ 342,000 to allow the construction of a municipal garage in Duhamel. As part of the Access-Logis program, investments in the order of $ 12.3 million will result in the construction of 160 new housing in the region. Finally, the victims and the authorities of the affected municipalities, who were quarantine, received financial support from civil security following the Storm of December 21 and the floods from April 19 to May 30th. 
Very expected investments have also been announced in the education sector. Thus two schools will be constructed and another will be enlarged in the territory of the Portage-de-L'Ataoua School Board, while the School Board of the Dravers can count on a new school . Another of the great achievements of this first year is the inauguration of the last stretch of Highway 50, connecting Gatineau to Lachute. Saved for more than 40 years, this is the culmination of a long-term project undertaken in 2000 under a government of the Parti Québécois. More than $ 195 million will be invested over the next two years for carrying out roadworks, with 91 the number of road projects in the region, including the extension of Highway 5 on 6.5 kilometers between Chelsea and fishing. 
"I am very proud of the balance sheet we present, only one year after our election. The actions of our government have also resulted in concrete achievements in the Outaouais. We have thus demonstrated the importance we give to the region; Our fellow citizens may have the assurance that we will deploy the same energy and the same determination to carry out a number of projects that are already in progress or under development, "concluded Stéphane Bergeron. 
