Val-d'Or-Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec on September 4, 2012. The first year of his government's mandate is marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Quebec government has again a way to act so that Quebeckers find their pride. Priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help with those who are in need, and the pride of living together. The government of the Parti Québécois will take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger. 
The first elected MP in Abitibe East, Mrs. Elizabeth Larouche, who is also Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs, draws up a very positive record of the work done during the year. 
"As a government, our first year was at least busy! We have undertaken a change of major Cap that already benefits from all Quebeckers. The context was difficult because of the damage left by the previous government. We worked hard and Quebec is doing better. I can not wait at the start of the parliamentary school to continue working for my region and for Quebec! "Said Madame Larouche proudly. 
Ms. Larouche emphasizes his involvement in the local economy with, in particular, the investments of his government with the Element and Techno-Techno companies, investments used for the training of employees and the construction of a new factory. The hon. Member also mentions the establishment, in partnership with local agencies, paid workplace internships for Aboriginal youth as well as the support for the Val-d'Or taxibus collective transportation project. 
Elizabeth Larouche has more devoted to many health and social services issues. The issue of housing, ambulance, homelessness and unity of family medicine are just some of the files that the member leads from front. It also wishes to report efforts in the expansion of the vocational training center. 
"As a member of Abitibi-East, I worked with determination to carry out several important projects for the constituency. At the Parti Québécois, we do politics to help families and regions. Solidarity is the basis of our political action, "said Elizabeth Larouche. 
Minister Larouche recalls the role she exercised during discussions surrounding the adoption of the new mining tax system: "The mining industry occupies a place of choice in the region. It is important to listen to the concerns of all stakeholders. I have also created a space for dialogue that, I am convinced, is beneficial to all citizens of Abitibi-Témiscamingue, "said the member. 
