Quebec, June 12, 2020 - The member for Matane-Matapédia and parliamentary leader of the Parti Quebec, Pascal Bérubé, the member for Joliette and Spokesperson for Education, Family and Justice, Véronique Hivon, as well as the member from René-Lévesque, parliamentary leader and spokesperson and for the Treasury Board, Martin Ouellet, are forced to see that the cakes surrounding Quebec's death as well as the odious bill 61 on infrastructure testify to the slow tumble of the Calciste government at this end of the parliamentary session. 
IN SHORT 
"We have to give that to the government: during the first phase of the pandemic, he communicated. The Prime Minister and his team, with the collaboration of the nine members of the Parti Québécois, managed to arouse Quebecers' accession to the instructions and containment measures, "first declared Pascal Bérubé. 
"However, chained Véronique Hivon, during the second phase, it was more difficult. We realized that the government had very poorly prepared the CHSLDs, with the fatal consequences that we know. Among others, we have never had clear guidelines to formally prohibit the movement of staff! » 
The Parti Québécois believes that it is during the third phase, that of the deconformation, that the tumble of the CAQ has accelerated. "In several files, we have seen cadarling: the schools no longer know on which foot dance, the cultural environment wants actions, the tourist environment is entangled in government contradictions and, while the artists were waiting, the government took out the checkbook. For billionaires who possess the Cirque du Soleil, "illustrated the member for Joliette. 
Then, unfortunately, the government has lost a lot of credibility when the experts followed one another in parliamentary committee to demolish his bill 61 on infrastructure. "Corruption, collusion, discretionary powers, prolonged state of health emergency indefinitely ... This bill, as it was presented, is unacceptable. The government must make its MEA culpa and admit that it was a serious mistake to arrogate all the powers, "claimed Pascal Bérubé. 
For its part, Martin Ouellet has stressed two significant gains that mark this end of parliamentary session, and we owe the Parti Québécois. "With the collaboration of the other three parliamentary groups, Véronique has finally obtained the introduction of parental leave for MPs, an important measure to attract and retain more parents and women in politics. In addition, after having made two unanimous motions in this direction, we managed to convince the government to present a bill abolishing once for all the limitation period imposed on victims of sexual crimes. These are beautiful victories, "said the member for René-Lévesque. 
The members of the Parti Québécois held, finally, to wish a very nice national holiday to all Quebeckers. "We must reinvent himself, certainly, but do not leave the pandemic hindering our proud pride! , Launched Pascal Bérubé. 
