Beloeil, September 4, 2013 - A year ago today, Quebec fell from the first government led by a woman in her history, the government of the Quebecois party, with his head Madame Pauline Marois. 
"From the first day, the Prime Minister had to show courage and leadership," said the hon. Member for Borduas and Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Pierre Duchesne, the opportunity of the first anniversary of the election of his government. 
A first year of mandate marked by listening, courage and determination, argued the member. He believes that after putting order, the Quebec government again has the means to act so that Quebeckers find pride. "Ms. Marois surrounded himself with a team that works tirelessly and with determination to the advancement of Quebec in a context of minority government, which can be very complex. I am very proud of the actions that our government has carried out since the election of September 4, 2012. " 
Priorities are clear, he added: the economy and job creation, solidarity and assistance to those who are in need, identity and measures to better live together. "Thus, the government of the Parti Québécois is committed to making Quebec stronger! » 
For the member for Borduas, the balance sheet is positive in many ways but what it is most proud of it is the advancement concerning heavy transport on Route 133. The leadership demonstrated by the member Duchesne allowed to restore The bridges between the region, the Quebec Ministry of Transport and the mayors of the municipalities concerned by this problem. In addition to this case, also remember the addition of nearly four hundred service places, support for free CLSC parking, and not the least of the achievements, the participation of the region concerning mobilization in favor of A moratorium on shale gas. 
"I thank all the citizens and the citizens of Borduas for trusting me and it is with conviction and energy that I will continue to represent you at the National Assembly of Quebec. » 
