Saint-Constant-Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec on September 4, 2012. The first year of office of his Government is marked by listening, the courage and determination of all of his deputation. Today, the Quebec government again has the means to act for Quebeckers to regain their pride. 
Priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help with those who are in need, and the pride of living together. Thus, the Parti Québécois government will take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger. 
Several achievements have been made from the first months of the government, including the abolition of the increase in tuition and the return of social peace in Quebec, the end of nuclear power and the closure of Gentilly, the end of asbestos subsidies , the return of integrity with law 1 and the recondition of public finances. These are all important issues for Quebeckers on which the Marois government has put the emphasis at the beginning of its mandate. 
Mr. Therrien took advantage of this first year to meet people from various media. Whether community organizations, people from the business community or public bodies, the member for Sanguinet works in concert with all these actors to make the riding a place where the quality of life is optimal. 
For the Roussillon region, it is a total of 574 new CPE places that have been granted by the government that will emerge in the coming years. "A significant proportion of the places granted in Montérégie will be in our region," added the member for Sanguinet. 
It is also a total of 78 million for investments in education for Montérégie, including the construction of a new school for the School Board of the Great Seigneuries. An important element to meet the needs of the growing population. 
We must not forget the major investment of 39 million in health and social services in the Montérégie region. This measure aims to reduce the regional iniquity of 27.4%, which had dug under the Liberal Party government.  "I am also very proud of the achievements of my government with respect to collective transportation," said Mr. Therrien. Several millions of dollars will be invested in collective transport in the context of road congestion mitigation measures, in the introduction of new parking spaces, in improving services as well as for capital projects. 
The Marois government also has the economic development of the Montérégie with heart. After the official opening of Highway 30, last February, the Government considered essential to establish an interdepartmental committee, involving 9 ministers, dedicated to the economic development of the new Highway Corridor 30. 
Finally, last June the member for Sanguinet had the honor of being appointed by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. "I welcomed this appointment with enthusiasm. This allows me to multiply meetings with economic players in Quebec and internationally, "said Mr. Therrien. 
Thus, twelve months after this election, Mr. Therrien draws up a positive assessment of the first year of his mandate. "For a year, I have also been working on many important projects that will be unveiled in the coming months. I can not wait to let you know. ", Concluded Alain Therrien. 
