Quebec- Pauline Marois became the first woman Premier of Quebec on September 4th. The first year of mandate of his government is marked by listening, courage and determination. The hon. Member for Masson, Diane Gadoury-Hamelin, and the member for Terrebonne, Mathieu Trash, took the opportunity to draw up a positive assessment of the last year: "Our government has put strong gestures for integrity, of the solidarity, prosperity and identity. The respect of our commitments took advantage of our region since we have asked several actions to restore equity over several plans. If Quebec has been better since the arrival of the Quebecois party at the head of the government, we can proudly affirm that our fellow citizens come out largely ". 
"In this annual assessment, it is impossible to ignore one of our most important achievements for our region, to restore equity in financing our health and social services network, as we were committed to to do it. Following the significant investments announced last April, we saw our average gap falling from 22.5% of a single feature, thus passing a shortfall of more than $ 40 million to $ 31 million. Several other advertisements have demonstrated all the will of our government to act for the citizens of Terrebonne and Mascouche to improve our health network. Whether we think about the expansion of the Pierre-Le Gardeur Hospital and the progressive implementation of midwives services, we went from the word to acts! Said the hon. Member for Masson, Diane Gadoury-Hamelin. 
In addition, quotas have been lifted in CLSC Lamater and Best sampling centers. "We have also been lobbying that the Lanaudière Health and Social Services Agency will grant to the levy centers a recurring additional budget of $ 120,000 to help cope with the volume. This amount comes from additional amounts injected by our government, demonstrating that money is primarily invested to improve service to users, "says the member for Terrebonne. 
"Integrity is a key element of our government. For this purpose, the very first gesture we asked is to adopt the bill promoting the integrity of public contracts. Also, we have made, by the adoption of Bill 10, that it will now be possible to meet its functions an elected municipal accused of criminal. After having introduced a popular funding of political parties by reducing individual contributions to $ 100, we propose to our fellow citizens to hold fixed date elections, in accordance with the commitment taken in the field campaign. In short, we ask gestures to restore the bond of trust between the population and democratic institutions, "said Gadoury-Hamelin. 
"In terms of infrastructure, our government has heard the needs of a region that benefits from sustained population growth. Thus, the citizens of the plain who lose valuable time on the road network because of the high traffic density on Highway 337 will benefit from the enlargement of this path as announced by the Minister of Transport, Sylvain Gaudreault, in Last June "explained the hon. Member for Masson. 
In the area of the West Terrebonne, the citizens have also been heard since Minister Gaudreault has announced that the Highway 19 project passed the next step with the deposit of the Environmental Impact Assessment at the Ministry of Sustainable Development , the environment, wildlife and parks (MDDEFP). "This reflects the importance of our government over the completion and confirms our commitment to this infrastructure. In addition, with the amendments made, the project enters a perspective of sustainable development where public transport takes a large place. Again, our government has advanced the file more quickly in eight months than the Liberals had done it for the last three years! Reaffirms Mathieu Traversy. 
Once again listening to the needs of young families in the region, the construction and expansion of several schools have been announced and several works are already underway. "I am pleased that parents have access to enough places for their children to go to school in their neighborhood. These investments of nearly $ 24 million for schools in the County of Masson and $ 11 million for those of Terrebonne represent the will of our government to meet the needs that flow from the strong population growth known by our region for a few years. "Explain the member. In the MRC the mills, it will be a total of 63 new classes and 4 gyms that will be built. 
The cry of the heart of the parents has also been heard by the members and their government since in Lanaudière, 1425 new custody places at $ 7 will be offered and granted according to the needs of the MRC: "In accordance with our commitment, our government will make available , within 4 years, 250,000 places with reduced contribution to meet the needs of Quebec families. In Lanaudière, there are 3336 new places that will be offered to parents by 2016, in addition to existing places. We are very proud! "Retrieves Mr. Traversy. 
Remember that the result of the last call for projects should be known towards the end of autumn. In addition, the realization of these places will begin in 2014 and will continue until 31 December 2016. In order to comply with the parents' preferences, these 15,000 places will be created in installation, that is to say 85% in centers. early childhood (CPE) and 15% in subsidized daycares. 
Both members also wanted to recall the announcement of $ 143,300 financial assistance on Moulins Regional Television (TVRM) to enable the station to acquire specialized equipment as part of a Relocation project: "We are proud of this happy denouement for this television close to people because it is based on a solid regional identity whose Lanaudois are proud. This important investment demonstrates the importance of the government to the diversification of information as well as the cultural and social developments of our community, "they indicate. 
"Many needs in the southern region, health, education or transportation. We understood it and our government is working to improve the situation of our fellow citizens so that they finally have their fair share of investments. We are on the ground, listening to people and we work to improve their quality of life, "conclude members. 
