Sept-Îles-Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec on September 4, 2012. The first year of office of his government is marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Quebec government has again a way to act so that Quebeckers find their pride. Priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help with those who are in need, and the pride of living together. Thus, the Parti Québécois government will take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger. 
The member for Duplessis, Lorraine Richard, elected for 10 years now, is more proud than ever to be a member of the Quebec party team. The last 12 months were marked by record investments in the county and an active listening on the part of the government. 
"The Liberals and the Caquists are liked to say that we have slowed the development of the North. What I note, after a year to the government, is quite the opposite. There was acceleration from government initiatives to support Northern Communities in all areas. Whether in terms of municipal, health or tourism infrastructure, the government has been present, "said Lorraine Richard. 
The hon. Member quotes in particular the millions granted to the municipalities of Havre-St-Pierre, Sept-Îles, Port Cartier, Fermont and Schefferville in the context of Nordic development. Minganie got its aquatic complex and the Roman Complex Services Center will be installed in Havre-St-Pierre. On the side of tourism, the government has renewed its agreement with the ATTR de Duplessis, funded the Coste travel agency as well as a maritime link between Rivière-au-Tonnerre and Anticosti. The Minister of Higher Education, on his side, has completed the dossier of the university flag in Sept-Îles. 
In addition, the proposed expansion of the Gustave-Gauvreau residence will be able to move forward and new places to CPE were created. The Premier, Ms. Pauline Marois, as well as the Minister of Health, Mr. Réjean Hébert, both committed to failing mergers between health centers. 
As for the transport budgets, they were maintained in the region and the Pakatan Agreement, which beat the wing, was canceled. 
"Although we are a minority government, several important laws have been adopted. We have set up the Nordic Development Secretariat and soon, the satellite antennas will be implanted. Our work is just beginning. We will move on Quebec and the riding of duplessis even further, "the member concluded. 
