Lachute- "On September 4, 2012, I reiterated my desire to make politics otherwise as a member of Argenteuil. A year later, I consider he held the word, said the hon. Member for Argenteuil, Roland Richer, as part of the balance sheet of his first year as a government deputy. 
"I gave myself the bearer of the files that animate my fellow citizens and my fellow citizens of Argenteuil, the advocate of the stakes who concern them, and the pride liter of our so beautiful area and his people. I tried to be as often as possible on the ground, meet and listening to citizens. I worked to represent them in the most fair and equitable way, "he added. 
One of the first important files on which the member for Argenteuil worked is that of the Intermunicipal Argenteuil / Deux-Montagnes (Riadm). After several years of inaction of the previous government in this case, Mr. Richer took things in hand and made the necessary representations at the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory (Mamrot). Result: Two independent mediators have been appointed by Mamrot in order to restore healthy management within this regional organization. 
When the Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane de Courcy announced Bill 14, Roland Richer did not wait for the reactions. He quickly summoned the minister to compete with the mayors of the eight municipalities - out of ten in the Laurentians - the bilingual status of the riding of Argenteuil. Following this meeting, the hon. Member for Argenteuil proposed that the historical presence of the English-speaking community and the significant participation of its members be elements to be considered for the confirmation or revocation of bilingual status. These proposals were selected by the Minister of Courcy. 
To ensure that the Argenteuil MRC remains a priority region in the deployment of high-speed Internet, the member for Argenteuil organized a meeting between representatives of the MRC d'Argenteuil and the President of the Treasury Board, M . Stéphane Bédard. They had the opportunity to demonstrate the quality of their file and assert the importance of the deployment of high-speed Internet in our region. In addition to recognizing the priority at the MRC d'Argenteuil, Mr. Bédard invited the latter to participate in the reflection as part of the repositioning of the development of the digital economy throughout the territory of Quebec. 
Over the past year, the member for Argenteuil has spokesman for various riding files in the National Assembly. He has : 
The riding of Argenteuil is great, it has 17 municipalities in four different MRCs. Despite this, Roland Richer has made a duty, even a pleasure, to go to meet people, on the ground. Since its first election on June 11, 2012, the member has developed very good links with the different actors of the constituency, whether in the municipal, economic, community or other field. 
"The part of my work that I prefer is to meet people, to hear their concerns. I try as often as possible to answer "present" to the many invitations I receive. But when it's impossible for me, I know I can count on my team to represent me beautiful and good ways, "Richer expressed. 
Being present on the ground is, of course, meeting people and participate in various activities, but it is also proposing projects. Over the past year, Roland Richer has initiated two important projects in the riding of Argenteuil. The first is to mobilize stakeholders from different backgrounds to work on the establishment of an offer of college studies in Argenteuil. Worried, as many, from the dropout rate in the region, the member believes that the establishment of a college center would have a greatly positive effect on the academic perseverance of our young people. 
The second project is to decreet on 12 June of each year "Regional Day of Non-Violence", in memory of the terrible assassination of Aylin Otaño-Garcia in 2000, a girl then 15 years old. Because these atrocities should not be forgotten, a second phase to this project is currently on the table. 
"With a year of experience in my luggage, I feel well prepared to represent and defend the interests of the riding of Argenteuil, recognized the hon. Richer. The next year will be filled with beautiful and great challenges and I hear them with vigor. » 
For more details, check out the comprehensive balance sheet of the member [PDF]. 
