Mrs. Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec History on September 4, 2012. The first year of office of his government is marked by listening, courage and determination. After putting order, the Quebec government again has the means to act so that Quebeckers find pride. Priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and assistance to those who are in need, and identity and measures to better live together. Thus, the government of the Parti Québécois is committed to making Quebec stronger. 
Jean-François Lisée, Member of Parliament for Rosemont and Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, draws up a positive record of the work done in its riding in this first year of office. "I am pleased with the challenges and accomplished achievements in just one year. Rosemont is a living riding where citizens are involved and creative. We managed together to create the foundations for several years of collaboration. » 
"It's important for me to be listening to Rosemontois and Rosemontoises. In the last twelve months, we have proposed various formulas that allowed me to meet citizens, institutions and organizations of Rosemont: individual meetings, homage tribute to the volunteers of the agencies, public meetings of the member and day citizen without appointment. I am proud to say that I met hundreds of citizens as well as the majority of Rosemont's agencies and institutions that have a major impact on the daily lives of our neighborhood. "Supported the member for Rosemont. 
During the year, the member for Rosemont intervened in several files brought to his attention to untie dead impasse or advance projects. "I am always in solution mode with the people who interlee me. Often, we find the intervention that makes the file forward and the outcome is favorable. For example, I participated in the safeguarding of HAIDAR - Refuge Project for Refugees, allowed the settlement of an administrative problem for residents of dwellings new avenues, supported the solidarity organization of parents of people with disabilities for its reorganization And supported the new artistic creation of toxic sidewalk. Jean-François listed by talking about the member's work. 
During the year, the member for Rosemont also announced several good news for the Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital: the beginning of the 3rd phase of the expansion of the emergency, the functional redevelopment of the medical unit. Family and the construction of a new building to host the dialysis service. "I am very proud of these ads because the work will better meet the needs of the population. Our government has made access to specialized and front-line health care a priority. For us, this accessibility does not only mean that services are available, but also that they are in the right place and in the right conditions. » 
"Another big file that is particularly important to me, as a member of Parliament, is the fight against school dropout. I decided to concretely support the social integration companies in our neighborhood: Insertech Angus, projects share, buffet inserts-young and urban shoots. It's incredible to think that young people who are taking in hand and decide to hang up must wait on a list. During my visits to these companies, I met these young people, attended their diplomation and I could see their desire to succeed despite the difficulties. Very inspiring! "Said the member for Rosemont. 
The member for Rosemont wishes to remember that Quebec is better since the arrival of the Marois government. "In matters of integrity, Quebeckers can regain confidence in their institutions: fixed date elections, limits contributions to political parties at $ 100 and integrity in public contracts. Resolutely solidarity, our government has announced 28,000 new child care places, $ 110 million for home care, the introduction of 4-year-old kindergartens and the creation of 3,000 social housing. It was also a year of prosperity, efficient and responsible management of Quebeckers since the fiscal balance will be reached in March 2014. Finally, the Quebec identity is better protected by the filing of a new charter of the French language. » 
"A year ago, I told you that what I wanted was to make Rosemont's priorities. We are moving forward in this direction. Some realize and many remain to be done. You can count on me to continue to press high and strong. Be aware that some files are very active right now: the development of more efficient public transport, notably by the increase of reserved routes and the extension of the blue line of the metro or the accessibility to social and affordable homes in particular for families . » 
"Rosemontois and Rosemontoises, I thank you for the trust you have given me a year ago today. Together, we can advance our priorities. Together, let's work to improve the quality of life of citizens of our neighborhood and Quebec. Concluded Jean-François Lisée, deputy for Rosemont. 
