Montréal-Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec on September 4, 2012. The first year of office of his government is marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Quebec government again has the means to act for Quebeckers to regain their pride. Priorities are clear: the economy and creating jobs, solidarity and pride of living together. Thus, the Parti Québécois government will take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger. 
The hon. Member for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques is proud of his first year in the government: "A year ago, you have been more than 36% to go. I introduced myself with the deep conviction of making this neighborhood an unparalleled living environment and to make our nation a country ", 
"After a year spent on your service in addition to being in charge of the parliamentary assistant file to the Prime Minister (transport electrification component) I am still highly honored to represent you at the National Assembly of Quebec," supported the deputy. 
In a context of minority government the member supported: "During this mandate I dwell on the real issues facing my neighborhood: health, education, fight against poverty, social exclusion and improvement of quality. life of the residents ". 
"As soon as I arrived on September 5, 2012 I found solitude, isolation and lack of support for both gay and lesbian young, students, families or seniors. This observation that did not reflect the values of respect defended by Quebec made me redouble with effort in my work. So I met several leaders of community organizations. Thanks to their knowledge of the field and their expertise, we have formed a solid core. It is essential to meet people on the ground in order to know the concerns to bring these files to my colleagues, "said Daniel Breton. 
The hon. Member for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques welcomes some achievements of his government in Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques in health and education. 
"The very first: the creation of a birthplace. This accessibility approach was very important for me since more and more women and families are doing today the services of a midwife. This birthplace will allow mothers who wish to have their child in an intimate and personalized setting, while enjoying an environment specifically designed for natural births. This additional offering of front-line services in perinatality will remove pressure from the hospital environment. This project, I believe it, demonstrates how much our government is listening to people of their concerns and needs. The citizens of Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques and East of Montreal demanded this birthday for a long time and I am happy with its realization. » 
"The second: the implantation of student residences in the heart of the Latin Quarter. The realization of this first student residence offers a future at the traveler island. This revitalization and these new homes will energize a whole sector. This innovative solution will allow more than a hundred students to have a room and allow community solidarity cooperatives and to move in addition to creating jobs. This vision of sustainable growth will ensure that Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques continues to be a great place to live, work and raise his family, "proudly declared the member. 
He has at heart the social and economic development of his neighborhood. On the social level, think of home care, for which $ 100 million more per year injected. The government has proposed an ambitious, responsible and necessary policy with autonomy insurance. In addition to working for seniors, the government is working for children and young families by going from the front with kindergarten to 4 years in disadvantaged circles and by creating 28,000 day care. Not to mention the ambitious transport electrification project. 
"The colossal work made by Madame Marois after only a few months in power is impressive by its nature of the initiatives taken. We members of the Quebecois Party Let's build the future and, we intend to keep the course in this direction. As for me, I am in action and I work strongly to leave a sustainable legacy in this neighborhood, "concluded the member for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Daniel Breton. 
