Montreal- "The 2011 economic record of Quebec is the most negative in Canada. Quebec has lost 51,000 jobs while in the rest of Canada, it's rather created 250,000. For a second year in a row, Quebec ranked 8th out of 10 in the field of economic growth. Behind the Canadian average ". This is the sad assessment of the member for Rousseau and the official opposition on the finance and economic development, Nicolas Marceau. 
"Worse, the current 8.7% unemployment rate brings us ten years back. It is now higher than those of Ontario, the rest of Canada and the United States, Nicolas Marceau, recalling that when Quebec's economy was better than that of its neighbors, the Prime Minister attributed the merit. Now that Quebec is the only province to have lost jobs in 2011, that the 69,500 jobs lost in the last three months represent a record of mediocrity and that our economic growth is lower than that of our neighbors, should also Assign the merit to Jean Charest? » 
Quebec's disposable income also declined in 2011 and the year 2012 begins suggests the worst. "With the many tax increases and rates in effect since January 1, which lead to an additional tax burden of about $ 2 billion, it further reduces Quebec's disposable income. In concrete terms, all of these increases will slow down our economic growth by 1%, "added the member for Rousseau. 
In 2011, the share of non-residential private investment in Quebec represents 13% of Canada's total. "Whenever a dollar is invested by the private sector in Canada, only 13 under return to Quebec. The underperformance of the private sector combined with the government's massive borrowings to invest in infrastructure has created a long-term unsustainable situation. For the first time in Quebec, there are more public investment than private investments. This is a unique situation in North America, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
The Minister of Finance has also confirmed the analysis made last fall by the Quebecois party that the government can no longer increase its investments to counteract the effect of a new slowdown. The debt increased by $ 55 billion. "The situation is all the more worrying as Quebec is at the limit of what its indebtedness can bear. Quebec's debt increased by more than $ 10 billion for a second consecutive year and grew $ 55 billion under the Liberal government. The share of debt in our economy will reach 55.5%, which brings us back to the situation that prevailed before the zero deficit under the government of the Parti Québécois. Since 2003, debt has increased by 42%, "concluded the member for Rousseau, worrying about the true political legacy of Jean Charest. 
