Alma- The member for Lac-Saint-Jean and Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, does today the record of his interventions that have made it possible to advance many files its riding over the past year. 
"I am very pleased that my interventions combined with the supported work of my team have been so fruitful. The last parliamentary session gave rise to major investments of nearly $ 52 million in the riding of Lac-Saint-Jean. Beautiful ads have realized and others are coming in the coming months, "said Minister Cloutier. 
The last year gave rise to several economic development projects in Lac-Saint-Jean. Thus, it was with enthusiasm that the minister proceeded to the inauguration of Milot Energy, a subsidiary of the Petit Paris Forest Cooperative. Contributions of $ 524,375 from the Government of Quebec have helped the company to highlight the by-products of forest operations to produce renewable energy. In addition, St. Nazaire's Green-Day Serres Workers' cooperative has benefited from $ 1 million Government financial assistance for energy efficiency work. The latter also uses forest byproducts for the heating of its greenhouses which allows it to reduce its operating costs as well as its environmental footprint. 
Alma's Fribperie Coderr received a $ 380,181 government grant to help improve its facilities, consolidate its 13 jobs and to create 2 new ongoing jobs. Leader in terms of recovery and collection of residual materials, Fribperie Coderr has a positive impact at the social and economic level in our constituency. 
In order to ensure the accessibility of snowmobile trails on the territory of Lac-Saint-Jean-East until 2014, Minister Cloutier has announced a financial contribution of $ 20,000 from the government. "The economic benefits related to snowmobile activities are important for our community. I am proud to support the efforts set up by environmental partners and thus ensure accessibility to trails in Lac-Saint-Jean, "said Mr. Cloutier. 
With regard to sports infrastructures, the aid granted in Lac-Saint-Jean demonstrate the importance that the Quebec government grants the quality and healthy lifestyle of the population. The municipality of Sainte-Monique has received financial support from $ 506,764 from the Government of Quebec to allow the renovation of the Recreation Center and the development of a covered rink. In Alma, Minister Cloutier took advantage of the first shovel of land marking the launch of the modernization of the Mario-Tremblay Center to announce the financial commitment of $ 1 million from the Government of Quebec for the implementation of Phase I of this project. . "After five years of work in collaboration with the partners of the community, I was very pleased to participate in the launch of modernization work. The Mario-Tremblay Center is essential for the people of Alma and Lac-Saint-Jean, "said Minister Cloutier. 
Families will also benefit from additional daycare places in the constituency. These are 44 new places that will be available soon. Thus 21 places are created in Hébertville, 21 in Metabetchouan-Lac-à-la-Croix and 2, in Alma. These new places to $ 7 in our municipalities will help young families. 
The member emphasized the major progression of the Isle-Maligne bypass route file that was the subject of a decisive announcement. Thus, the Government of Quebec has confirmed its willingness to realize the project to build a new circumvention of the Delisle and Isle-Maligne sectors in Alma. The 2013-2015 programming provides for investments of $ 2.8 million primarily to finalize the preparatory steps. In addition to improving the safety and quality of life of residents of the sector, the project will provide an efficient and stimulating road link for the Lac-Saint-Jean-Est economy and its surroundings. "After years of hard work on this issue, I am extremely proud that our government has clearly demonstrated its willingness to move forward with Isle-Maligne's bypass," said Alexandre Cloutier. 
In order to ensure the protection of the population on fire services, the Government of Quebec has granted $ 185,250 to allow the municipality of Lamarche to cover 95% of the cost of acquiring the new fire truck that replaces the which had reached the end of its useful life. 
Minister Clouter and his colleague Minister Réjean Hébert confirmed that the Lac-Saint-Jean-East Health and Social Services Center will be authorized to start its expansion and emergency redevelopment project and external clinics of Alma's hospital. This project, which is estimated at $ 40 million, has been duly enrolled in the Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI). "This is an excellent news for our community. With this long-awaited announcement, the Alma Hospital will be modernized and adapted to the needs of the population and health professionals. In addition to allowing greater clinical efficiency and better coordination of care, the work will generate many economic benefits for companies here, "said Alexandre Cloutier. 
In partnership with municipalities, we want to ensure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services for current and future generations. Thus, Minister Cloutier had the pleasure of announcing the contribution of the Marois Government for several files aimed at replacement of drinking water pipes, wastewater and stormwater as well as sewer separation. For this work, the municipality of Ascension-de-Our Lord has been awarded financial assistance of $ 909,000, that of Saint-Bruno aid of $ 2,166,900 and the municipality of Saint-Nazaire It benefited from a government contribution of $ 2,150. From the Québec-Municipal Infrastructures Program These financial aid not only ensure the sustainability of infrastructure, but also to enhance the quality of life of the population while creating jobs with us. 
Several district organizations have benefited from one-off subsidies. In particular, the center of international solidarity, the harvest of Alma, the house of the friends of Pierrot de Desbiens, the center of excellence of the drones, action center and bike freedom. 
"In the past year, my team and I came to help more than a hundred citizens who needed support from government departments or agencies. This aspect, often unknown to the member's work, is very important. When people no longer have solutions, the member's office is often the last resort for these people who live difficult situations. We help them and make every effort to find solutions to address their problems, "concluded Minister Cloutier. 
