Quebec- The hon. Member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, traced the record of the parliamentary session by qualifying the Liberal government of disappointing. 
"The government is hesitant, carefree and insensitive to the needs of the population. He introduced Lebudget broken promises, without vision and without structuring measure for job creation and development of our regions, "he said. 
"After having retreated about just about all the promises they made during the election campaign, the Liberals recoil on another promise: the creation of 250,000 jobs. It has been found; The liberal effect, it is the loss of 50,000 permanent jobs in two months. Obviously, the government confuses rigor and austerity, "continued the Leader of the Opposition. 
Grateur à The Course of the part Isaecés du Part Thisbeam, the Government to Toutefis Entire home or reclitufued Plaieurs de Ses Corsi et ses politiomes. Lists, threes longers, comprehension notament: 
Also emphasize the unacceptable opening of the shale gas stream, of which Quebeckers do not want. The Government has even refused to accept the moratorium proposal that the opposition made him in parliamentary committee. 
After 18 months of social peace, we learn today that more than 100 firefighters in Montreal are retiring. In addition, workers are angry about the Pension Plan Program. The difficult equilibrium to which the previous government had arrived on the large files is now broken. 
"When we arrived in the government, social peace in Quebec was broken. Nobody can wish, in Quebec, to revive moments where, precisely, people are in a situation of insecurity or instability in relation to this social peace. I invite the government to listen and go to meet people, "added Stéphane Bédard. 
Unlike the CAQ, which is complicated with the government and has a complacency, the Parti Québécois team intends to the concerns of families, regions, workers and the poor. 
"We are a constructive, vigilant and intractable opposition on certain points. We will not let institutions be fragilized. This week's events demonstrate once again. Quebec families will not be left to be the victims of austerity policies that the Liberals want to impose. We will make the voice of the regions of Quebec and the poorest. Quebeckers can count on the solid team of the Parti Québécois, "concluded Stéphane Bédard. 
