Joliette- On the occasion of the first anniversary of the election of the Government of the Parti Québécois, the members of Northern Lanaudière, Véronique Hivon (Joliette), Nicolas Marceau (Rousseau) and André Villeneuve (Berthier), set up a record of their actions From the most positive: "After a decade of indifference to our region, Lanaudière again receives the full attention it deserves from the Council of Ministers. Major gains have been obtained since September 4 and others, just as important, are coming. In addition to the aspirations we bring for Quebec, we have always had and will always have the interests of the Lanaudois. » 
"On August 13, 2012, at the heart of the election campaign, we had become firm commitment, in front of the CHRDL, to restore the fairness of the financing of the Lanaudish network of health and social services. At this time, we had an annual winger of $ 42.5 million and the regional allocations were attributed to a historical basis, which disadvantage us greatly. Today, we are very pleased to announce that this annual lack has been reduced by almost a third in a single year and that our government is now taking into account the disgracing demographic growth that Lanaudière knows. Also, an additional budget of $ 1.8 million has been allocated to our region to add services to persons autistic or living with a disability, investment, only five underfunded regions have benefited. No government had gone so far in his quest for interregional fairness, "said Northern Lanaudière deputies. 
Another flagship realization of the Marois government: the creation of 28,000 new places at $ 7 in custody services throughout Quebec, including Lanaudière obtained the share of the lion. "We are proud to be part of the government that created the CPE network in 1997 and today has the intention of completing it! After having been seriously neglected in this chapter by the Liberal government, our region has got 3334 places over the past year, nearly double of our demographic weight, "they specify. 
"As for the major investments in school infrastructure in the order of $ 59 million in Lanaudière, for the construction of three schools and the enlargement of eight others, the positive history has been repeated: our region has got a little more From twice its demographic weight due to the glaring needs that were felt. With a Quebec party government, Lanaudière gets its fair share and caught up with delays under the Liberal government, "rejoice the members. 
"Two files in which I had been involved with conviction, first as a member of Parliament for the opposition, has been realized over the past year. This is the standards of the Joliette Art Museum, accompanied by an envelope of $ 10 million, and the construction of a new school in Saint-Paul, which should open its doors as of September 2014 . In both cases, the ministers holding files have been a great openness and I have the real feeling of the accomplished duty, "says the member for Joliette and Minister responsible for the Lanaudière region, Véronique Hivon. 
"Our government has also expressed all its solidarity towards people by booking the $ 20 million needed for the development of premises at the Chrdl dedicated to child psychiatry, adult psychiatry, surgery of one day and Intensive care, currently ongoing work that was expected from the hospital. Moreover, with the authorization of the construction of 3000 social housing per year in Quebec, projects for seniors in slight loss of autonomy such as Crabtree, Notre-Dame-des-Prairies and Sainte-Mélanie were able to Crossing new steps for their implementation. Our government has a heart in the right place! "Confirms Ms. Hivon. 
"After years of delay for purely political reasons, the circumvention of Saint-Lin-Laurentides will finally be realized since it is now registered in the government road planning. It was for me a very important commitment and I am happy to have delivered it as quickly. In addition, the construction of a new school in Sainte-Sophie and Fire Barracks in Rawdon and Saint-Hippolyte, as well as the allocation of several subsidies for municipal aqueduct upgrades, are concrete examples that illustrate Well the concern and eagerness of our government's action to meet the needs of people here, "says the member for Rousseau and Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau. 
"As a minister responsible for economic development, it is clear that the announcement made last June at the International Aerospace and the Paris-Le Bourget Space, of the establishment in Quebec of a new company born of The association between the French firm Loiretech and VCI composites of Saint-Lin-Laurentides, rejoices at the highest point. This is an excellent new since quality jobs will be created in the short and medium term. In addition, the major investments made at the Atlantis campsite of Saint-Calixte and the unison company of Saint-Roch-de-L'achigan will certainly contribute to the economic vitality of our region, "says Marceau. 
"In such an extended riding that Berthier, the maintenance of local services is for me a fight every moment. In health, I worked together with the partners of the environment for the abolition of the quotas set up at the center of Lavaltri samples as well as for maintaining the service point of Saint-Alphonse-Rodriguez threatened with closure. With respect to community resources, I am proud to have found, with the help of my colleagues from the Government of the Parti Québécois, substantial additional funds to help about fifteen organizations working for the well-being of poorer and families from here. In particular, the findings of Mandeville requiring emergency assistance following a fire that suddenly forced the body to rebuild ", explains the member for Berthier and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the territory, André Villeneuve. 
"Who says great territory, also says important road network. After having put my colleague with the transport of some of our challenges, the necessary sums were released to carry out priority work in Mandeville, Saint-Didace and Sainte-Geneviève-de-Berthier, as well as to rebuild a bridge signature. Berthierville, to name but these. Our government is sensitive to the realities of Northern Lanaudière, "says Villeneuve. 
