Longueuil - Ms. Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec History on September 4, 2012. The first year of office of his government is marked by listening, courage and determination. 
"After putting order, the Quebec government again has the means to act so that Quebeckers regain their pride. Priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and assistance to those who are in need and identity and measures to better live together. Thus, the government of the Parti Québécois undertakes to make Quebec stronger, "declare of a single voice Mrs Marie Malavoy, Member of Parliament for Taillon, Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport and Minister responsible for the region of Montérégie, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, Member of Parliament for Vachon and Minister of Natural Resources and Mr. Bernard Dainville, Member of Parliament for Marie-Victorin and Minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation. 
The Québécois government has announced decisive progress for Longueuil since September 4, 2012: 
In order to increase the attractive power of the Longueuil agglomeration and to increase its development, the government has set up a working group on the agglomeration of Longueuil and established a ministerial committee on economic development along of the A-30 corridor. "We have put forward gestures to make our region more attractive to new job creative investments. We are listening to community stakeholders to identify solutions, "Marie Malavoy said. 
The layout of an anti-lifting wall by the city of Longueuil on the edge of the road 116 from this fall, which significantly reduces the sound impact of the traffic, will rejoice Martine Ouellet. She had also required to meet the Regional Directorate of the Quebec Ministry of Transport on this file. "This anti-haired wall will allow Longueuille to benefit from a more humane and pleasant living environment. The city of Longueuil has already served its intention to extend the anti-haired wall. It can count on my support and my entire collaboration, "added Martine Ouellet. 
The member for Marie-Victorin also welcomed the achievements of the last year for Longueuil: The Soccer Field of Gérard-Filion School; The hemodynamic hall of Pierre-Boucher Hospital; The revitalization project of Charles-Le Moyne Square, which will guarantee better access to the Longueuil metro; Support for the development project of the Sainte-Clair School, as well as that of the school of small explorers, the house St-Jean-  Vianney. "We had made commitments for the people of Longueuil and deliver," added Bernard Drainville. 
The Parti Québécois begins the second year of its mandate with the objective of making energy a powerful lever for economic and social development for Quebec. The new energy policy will build on energy efficiency and will make transportation electrification a real economic pole, as well as multimedia and aeronautics. "With the electrification of transport, both collective as individuals, we will develop a whole new economic sector, will consolidate the presence of emerging companies in the electrical components and ensure the growth of transportation vehicles," said Martine Ouellet. 
The Parti Québécois also wants to give themselves a long-term vision for wind in its future energy policy. "In the long-term commitment to the wind industry, we will maintain more than 2,000 structuring jobs for the regions of Quebec and will support the manufacturing activity in the long term," added Martine Ouellet. With the new Mining Bill, the Parti Québécois government is the tools for maximizing processing in Quebec. Knowing that the transformation creates 3 to 4 times more jobs than simply extraction, we want Quebec to give them the means of its ambitions. With the adoption of the wood charter, for greater use of wood in construction, the Parti Québécois consolidates and create new jobs in the region and promotes a tangible contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gases. The establishment of the Nordic Development Secretariat will, for its part, enable the support of communities and businesses for the creation of promising projects for Quebec. In this regard, the 100% financial guarantee required to the companies that has been adopted ensures that it is no longer possible to have orphaned mining sites in Quebec. 
After years of liberal scandals, the government of the Parti Québécois has made integrity and ethics a priority. "Quebeckers had lost confidence in their institutions and elected officials. Although there is still work, by our actions we have helped bring back integrity and trust. We adopted the antipare-name bill, which limits $ 100 donations to political parties, the bill allowing the vote
On CEGEPS campuses, universities as well as vocational training centers, and the draft law enforcement on fixed date in Quebec. Three bills adopted unanimously. Our Government has also changed the rules for financing municipal political parties, imposed new rules in the granting of government contracts and allowed citizens to demand the suspension of a mayor accused at the criminal, "added Bernard Drainville. 
