Quebec, December 5, 2014 - The hon. Member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, traced the assessment of the last parliamentary session. What is held, especially that the Liberal government directly attacked families, regions and workers of Quebec with austerity measures and tax increases, completely breaking the promises made to Quebecers by Philippe Couillard. 
"The Prime Minister broke all the promises he made to Quebecers during the election campaign, and even later in his opening speech. He was not elected for that; He now has a clear deficit of legitimacy, a loss of credibility and he no longer inspires. Liberal arrogance is back. I was raised in the idea that families is the most important thing. However, the government imposed them with a shock by modulating the rates of child care. It has, in addition, totally hampered the development of the places expected by the parents. Moreover, while he had promised a positive liberal effect on the economy and not to raise taxes, the last economic update will result in an increase in the price of gasoline and that of car insurance. , as well as by the abolition of the work premium and tax credits for trade union or professional contributions; In short, families will be more taxed. This will have a major impact on their purchasing power, it will harm our economy. It will take, cafes, to make them forget that. It is a real shot for families and for regions, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
"The government does not know where it goes, except when it comes to its policy of austerity and increased taxes, tariffs and taxes for middle-class families. The Prime Minister and his economic trio have only one way to see things, only one obsession: austerity. The Government of Philippe Couillard, with the complicity of the CAQ, applies its plan for Quebeckers. As a result of unprecedented centralization in regional economic development and in the health system, decisions and resources will move away from the reality of people. The government is completely disconnected from Quebec citizens. Developing Quebec, it's not cut, "added Stéphane Bédard. 
The resources for the socio-economic development of our regions are also cut by the Liberal government. "While jobs are lost in the region, the government cuts resources: CLDs, Crés, CJEs. All that supports and helps entrepreneurs, SMEs, young people, among others, is cut off. This centralization is harmful to our regions. The government must hear the voices that rise everywhere in Rouyn-Noranda, Gaspé, Baie-Comeau, Trois-Rivières, "continued Stéphane Bédard. 
Quebeckers were blurred in the election campaign and they are still so that the Prime Minister continues to advance figures invented as to the deficit to realize his great dream: reach the Canadian average. The masks fell when the Minister of Finance filed the public accounts, this week; The year 2013-2014 concluded with a deficit of 2.8 billion. No 5.8 or 7.3 billion, as the Prime Minister repeats each day. 
No economic policy  "In all regions of Quebec, it has become more than 52,000 full-time jobs since the arrival of the Liberal Party in power. For the first time in a long time, the Minister of Finance has planned a decline in employment for this year. The government does nothing to support job creation; He relies on any economic policy. He relies on the North Plan and an imaginary maritime strategy that will not create jobs before several years, "added the leader of the official opposition. 
The Parti Québécois team makes earnings for Quebeckers  "The Parti Québécois team, it is known, it is credible and talented. We defended the values of the Parti Québécois, whose responsibility, but also solidarity with families and support to the regions of Quebec. Faced with liberal arrogance, we chose responsibility. We have made significant gains for workers in Bill 3. Thanks to our work, the government has declined on the closure of the conservatories. With respect to Bill 15, we obtained that the Network of the University of Quebec and UPAC are not subject to it. In addition, at the initiative of the Parti Québécois, a commission on violence against women will be held, "continued Stéphane Bédard. 
"We have also made the voice of Quebecers heard in the Energy project file; A bill has been tabled to assert that Quebeckers must have the last word about what is happening on their environmental territory, which the Prime Minister has not even been able to affirm today HUI. It is clearly infeed in Canada, and Canada's energy policy it embraces, it is not ours. We will never accept this to-flat-ventry for a shecquation check, "he concluded. 
