Quebec-Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec on September 4, 2012. The first year of office of his government is marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Quebec government has again a way to act so that Quebeckers regain theirfold. Priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help with those who are in need, and the pride of living together. Thus, the Parti Québécois government will take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger. 
The member for Taschereau, Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Regions of the Capitale-National and Chaudière-Appalaches, Ms. Agnès Maltais, is proud to present The balance sheet of the first year of the Parti Québécois government in the Chaudière-Appalaches region. "By targeted interventions and responsible choices, we have been able to advance many important issues for citizens in the region," said Agnès Maltais. 
Last November, the government announced the creation by the end of 2016 of 866 new reduced contribution places within the Child Care Network for the Chaudière-Appalaches region. "I am particularly proud to confirm that the government is committed to completing the $ 7 dollar service network, so that each family wishing their child to be careful to do so. It will finally be: a child, a place, "said Minister Maltese. 
In the last year, $ 55.6 million investments have been confirmed for school infrastructure in the region. From this envelope, $ 9.7 million is intended for the construction of a primary school in Lévis, Sector Saint-Nicolas while 2.83 million will go to the expansion of a school in Saint-Anselme, in The MRC of Bellechasse. 
Government has also made the announcement of financial support for $ 240,000 to the city of Montmagny for the development of a multifunctional synthetic surface. 
The last year has resulted in the realization of several economic development projects in the Chaudière-Appalaches region. The government of the Parti Québécois is committed to giving Quebec companies the means of their ambitions, to help them increase their productivity and thus promote their progress. For example, several companies in the region have obtained financial assistance. In order to support its growth, the Creaform company, a Lévis company specializing in the development of digital solutions in 3D, has benefited from financial support of more than $ 1 million from the Government of Quebec. These amounts will be devoted to the implementation of a training plan, research and innovation activities and to develop new products. In addition, ADS inc. received a $ 2.5 million government loan for the acquisition of a brand new production chain for its Texel division, located in Sainte-Marie. This project will have an important economic impact for the region, with the creation of about fifteen new jobs. The Baldor Electric Canada (Baldor) has also been awarded non-refundable financial assistance of $ 600,000 to modernize the facilities of its Sainte-Claire plant and thus increase its production capacity. Finally, financial assistance was granted to the company Moldexpert Inc.For its modernization project, aimed at increasing its competitiveness. 
In order to promote the development and economic diversification of the region, the government has also supported the Beauce Entrepreneurship School (EEB) for the development of two new programs, including the Emergence Program. Financial assistance of $ 814,500 was granted for the completion of these projects. 
"I am proud to support the efforts set up by the economic partners of the Chaudière-Appalaches. Through these investments, the Government of Quebec contributes to the consolidation and creation of many jobs in the region, "said Maltais. 
After the regions of Montreal and Montérégie, Chaudière-Appalaches is the region where the government of the Parti Québécois has invested most massively in road infrastructure for 2013-2015. Last May, he was therefore announcing road investments of $ 654,509,000 for the territory of the Chaudière-Appalaches, investments of more than $ 126 million for the City of Léviset's road network confirmed the continuation of extension work. and duplication of the highway 73. 
After only 8 months in office, and while the population was waiting for the outcome of this file for more than three years, the government of the Parti Québécois gave the green light to the reconstruction of the road 112Entre thetford Mines and Saint-Joseph-de- Coleraine. "This is an important announcement because the reconstruction of this road was expected ardently by the community. In addition, the 112 is a vital artery for the economic development of the region. The restoration of this structuring link for the region can only bring benefits, both for traders and to the users of the road network and residents who live near this area, "said the minister. 
The government has confirmed an investment of $ 177 million for the project of a radiotherapy center at the Hotel-Dieu de Lévis which, once open at the end of 2018, will allow to de-line the facilities greatly solicited from the hotel. -Dieu de Québec. "This is an excellent news for the community. With this announcement, the Hotel-Dieu de Lévis will be better adapted to the needs of the population and health professionals. In addition to allowing greater clinical efficiency and better care coordination, work will result in many economic benefits for businesses here, "said Minister Agnès Maltese. 
The government has also invested considerably in boiler-appalaches to provide the affordable housing population, including $ 2.6 million in Lévis, Charny sector, and East Broughton at $ 2.7 million. Seniors Lightly loss of autonomy of these 2 municipalities will now have access to 35 additional affordable homes. 
"Citizens of the Chaudière-Appalaches region can be assured that our government will continue its work to contribute to the region's vitality, including job creation. Solidarity will also continue to be at the heart of our political action. Thus, Quebeckers will be able to count on a government that helps those who need it and those who support them, "the minister concluded. 
