Quebec- The hon. Member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, as well as the member for Chicoutimi and Parliamentary Leader, Stéphane Bédard, accompanied by members of the Parliamentary team of the Parti Québécois, have drawn the balance sheet of The parliamentary session, during which the official opposition has been constructive, effective in the service of the citizens and the defense of the interests of Quebec. 
"This parliamentary session was busy, and a unique and singular intensity. Today, I am particularly proud of this great political training that is the Parti Québécois. Our results are up to our ambitions for Quebec and the goals we set ourselves, "said the entry, the leader of the official opposition. 
"Contact with citizens is what inspires us, which gives meaning to our commitment and what motivates us to offer responsible, constructive and effective opposition. Many times, during the session, we have made your hand to the government and offered our collaboration. In particular, we proposed the creation of an observer post for religious fundamentalism, which would allow us to act effectively to prevent the radicalization of our young people, "he continued. 
"We also proposed to the Prime Minister to bring together all social actors related to the economy and employment. We remain persuaded with the need to hear, consult and bring together all the strong forces to provide an ambitious Quebec policy and vision that are currently lacking in the government, "supported Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"This parliamentary session has shown that the Parti Québécois is the only possible replacement solution and plausible to the current government. We proposed bills bonded to the concerns of citizens: the one on the creation of a post of parliamentary budget director, the bill? Zero emission ", simple and bearer, who could make Quebec a leader of the Green economy, the one to affirm the primacy of the environmental jurisdiction of Quebec, and I go from it. Let us mention that today even has been adopted Laloi proclaiming Nelson Mandela, an initiative of our colleague Maka Kotto. l 'Adoption unanimously of the motion recognizing cultural genocide with respect to Aboriginal nations, deposited by our Chief, also represents a particularly solemn and significant moment of this parliamentary session that ends "," said Stéphane " Bédard. 
The parliamentary leader has also recalled the initiative mandates that we owe the Parti Québécois. "We want parliamentarians to look at the living conditions of Aboriginal women, on those of the adults hosted in CHSLD, on the resale of day care permits, and on tax evasion and tax havens, among other things" , he added. 
"During the session, we started promising work. The results are encouraging and indicate that we are going in the right direction. We build on solid foundations, with a team of dedicated and competent deputies, as well as enthusiastic activists. We build with the goal of working well-being of all citizens of Quebec. These, moreover, can count on the Parti Québécois team; We will continue our work so that austerity gives way to ambition, success and hope, "concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
