Montréal-Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec on September 4, 2012. The first year of office of his government is marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Quebec government has again a way to act so that Quebeckers find their pride. Priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help with those who are in need, and the pride of living together. Thus, the Parti Québécois government will take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger. 
"Since that date, many important records have progressed in Quebec. We did the housework in the Liberal disorder and repaired what the former government had broken. We have been brave, responsible and determined, "said the member for Pointe-aux-Trembles and Minister of the Family, Ms. Nicole Léger. 
In addition, the Quebec government posed concrete gestures in solidarity. "We have proposed an ambitious, responsible and anchored policy on the reality of seniors with autonomy insurance and end-of-life care. At the same time, we are concerned about the development of our young people and the well-being of Quebec families. That's why we went forward with the creation of 28,000 new custody places at $ 7. Of the large number of projects I announced, also mention those selected in the field of summer care and support for the commitment of fathers, "said the Minister of Family, Nicole Léger. 
As Chair of the Eastern Montreal Development Committee, Nicole Léger is satisfied with the important work done by the East Community who led to the adoption of an action plan in the spring of 2013 To make the world a strong and proud region thanks to concerted economic, social and environmental development. In addition, the progress made in the east train file will undoubtedly improve the quality of life of the families here. The development of the island Sainte-Thérèse by the development of an ecotourism project is also a file that is particularly important to him because the citizens will benefit from this haven of peace with natural and unsuspected historical wealth of the metropolis. 
In addition, the long-standing support of Nicole Léger on the Community project Sainte-Germaine-Cousin and the accompaniment offered to the team of the Mainburg Corporation led at the beginning of the construction work in April 2013 of this building which will include nearby. 175 affordable housing units for seniors in slight loss of autonomy and loss of autonomy, in addition to sheltering within the preserved church a child of early childhood and a community hall. "This type of project mobilizing and innovative for community players is inspiring, especially since it offers a solution to a real need in the region," said the member for Pointe-aux-Trembles. 
Affected by the distress of the citizens who have recently suffered serious damage to their residence as a result of a subsidence of soil, Nicole Léger has also made many approaches to ensure that the City of Montreal reinstates its grant for the stabilization of the Foundations, equally financed by the City of Montreal and the Government of Quebec from the Rénovation Québec program. 
At the same time, Nicole Léger closely follows all issues related to oil supply for Quebec. "Unlike the previous government who had crossed his arms at the announcement of the closure of the Shell refinery, I hear up to act upstream to ensure that the petrochemical industry continues to be a flagship of the Eastern Montreal economy and an example of innovation by the development of state-of-the-art methods, while ensuring that Quebec has a transition plan to clean energies, " Commented the member for Pointe-aux-Trembles. 
Many other health issues, academic perseverance, home, sport and the environment are also at the heart of the member's concerns, always listening to the needs of citizens and care for the region's vitality. 
"Which fell in Quebec, it's corruption and deficits. What advance is democracy, responsible management and integrity. These results allow us to build for the future and take care of our world, and it was done during our first year. The Quebec party government will build on job creation and the economy, in addition to working on the two pillars of solidarity and identity. We will continue to support and help the population, "concluded Nicole Léger. 
