Quebec-Diane Lamarre, Member of Parliament for Taillon and spokesman for health and accessibility to care, has arrested the Minister of Health this morning, on the balance sheet of the two years of Liberal government and austerity in health. "The only observation that can be done is that once again, it's the patients who are scooping. And the answer only the minister to offer them as to the lack of access is to wait another two years, in case it goes better, "launched the member. 
"With an announcement, in the 2016-2017 budget, of new investments of $ 88 million for care and services, one has barely 15% of all the liberal compressions made for two years, which amount to nearly $ 700 million. For patients, it resulted in a degradation of access and an even greater gap to make up that it was upon arrival of this austry government, "said Diane Lamarre. 
"It is not to mention the minister's refusal to leave independent experts assess the effects of his reforms and arbitrary decisions. He does not listen to the criticism of the Auditor General, nor those of the Protecteur du citoyen, and he recently announced the unjustified abolition of the Commissioner for Health and Wellbeing. In addition, since May 9, the Minister has the most recent report of the Commissioner on the performance of the health network; What does he expect to make him public? If his choices and decisions are so good, why is it afraid that others evaluate them? , "Added the spokesman. 
"Today, we challenged the minister about the needs of patients and the problems of access they live on a daily basis. We told him about patients - not structures, not doctors, on which the minister attempts to make all the responsibility for improving access, while the front-line work and patient care. must not rest only on the shoulders of doctors. It is more time to take advantage of the skills of other health professionals, develop solutions that take into account the patient first. And that, it goes among other things by nurses who are given the means to put all their skills to profit, by pharmacists who can vaccinate, like that is everywhere else, and by more psychologists in the public system " , concluded Diane Lamarre. 
