Islands-de-la-Madeleine - Ms. Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec History on September 4, 2012. The first year of office of his government is marked by listening, courage and determination . After putting order, the Quebec government again has the means to act so that Quebeckers find pride. Priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help with those who are in need, and identity and measures to better live together. Thus, the government of the Parti Québécois is committed to making Quebec stronger. 
The member of the Madeleine Islands at the National Assembly, Jeannine Richard, is proud of the work done for the Islands of La-Madeleine and for Quebec during the first year of his term. "I am proud first of all to represent my fellow citizens and our fellow citizens of the islands and to work to improve their living conditions. During the year, I met hundreds of citizens, promoters and representatives of associations and paid them particular attention to finding solutions to the financing and advancement of their projects. Since the election of September 4, 2012, island's records have received good listening in Quebec City. Hundreds of thousands of dollars have been invested in economic, community and cultural projects from government programs, discretionary budgets available to ministers and budget support for volunteer action for the county. , "Says Jeannine Richard. 
In addition to having been designated "parliamentary fisheries assistant" in September 2012, Jeannine Richard is a member of the Parliamentary Transport and Environment Committee and, more recently, has been appointed on the Parliamentary Health and Social Services Commission that will study, at the Fall, the bill on end-of-life care that follows the special commission die in dignity. 
"As a member of the islands and the Parliamentary Assistant to the Fisheries, I actively worked on fisheries' files. The 2013-2018 Commercial Fisheries and Aquaculture Action Plan was announced in Cap-aux-Meules by Minister François Gendron. This action plan, this year, a budget of $ 12.5 million, a 20% increase compared to the previous year. Financial assistance of $ 290,000 was granted to the Association of Fishermen Owners of the Islands for Lobster Ecocertification. The main islands transformation plant, Cap sur Mer, has been awarded a $ 5 million loan to save the 400 jobs attached to the Grand Entrance and Gros-Cap factories and has received a clear signal from the part From the government to change how to manage the company with the arrival of a business recovery expert whose mission is to present a new business plan that will ensure the viability of the two factories. Special financial assistance of $ 1.5 million to support the flotilla of Quebec lobsteries is available this year to support businesses that are difficult because of the low cost price on markets this year. "Explain Jeannine Richard. On the side of the wolf resource, financial support was granted to the association of seal hunters and at the 2013 Loup-Marin rendezvous. 
"In the islands, the files concerning environmental issues are of great importance. I am pleased with the visits of the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet, and the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, on our archipelago. In addition to the holding of public hearings of the BAPE last June and the recent announcement of the Committee on the Energy Issues of Quebec in the Islands on 23 September, these visits have made it possible to sensitize ministers to reality Island and fragile of our territory and to allow constructive exchanges on different files with the actors and organizations concerned. "Continues Jeannine Richard. 
Among the highlights of this year, there was the Federal Government's Employment Insurance Reform, which visibly penalizes communities with seasonal savings. Supported by the large mobilization of the population and socio-economic actors of the islands, Jeannine Richard denounced the impacts of reform on several forums. A motion denouncing the attitude of the federal government, presented by Minister Agnès Maltese on November 13, 2012, received the unanimous support of all parties in the National Assembly. "I am pleased that the Government of the Parti Québécois posed a concrete gesture to protect the interests of Quebeckers by creating the National Employment Insurance Reform Review Board, which stopped in the islands last week and which will submit its report this fall to the Government of Quebec. He says the member of the islands. 
At the level of Government of Quebec, the member of the Islands stresses that his party has succeeded in reducing corruption, restored social peace, has changed the rules of financing political parties, put order in public finances, Gived the families, allowed the vote of young people in educational institutions and defended the interests of Quebec in all forums. As the Prime Minister says: "Quebec has recovered. » 
The Deputy of the Islands continues: "We have also set up the food sovereignty policy so that we consume more food from home, which will help our fishermen, our producers and our economy. We had the courage to get Quebec from asbestos and nuclear. We prepare an ambitious transport electrification project. We have a new wood charter, a secretariat for Nordic development, a new royalty regime and a bill on mines that promotes processing in Quebec. We have put in place tax incentives to attract private investment. We reduced the tax of three million Quebecers through the elimination or reduction of the health tax. We have eliminated the liberal increase of 20% of electricity rates and that of 82% of tuition fees. In terms of solidarity, it's better in Quebec! » 
The member of the islands at the National Assembly is confident that the next session will advance entire Quebec and the Madeleine Islands in particular. "Several projects we have worked in the first year of the mandate will eventually come in the coming months. The Gaspésian Region Government Development Strategy - the islands will be implemented in a concrete way to recognize certain particular projects in the islands. He concluded the member Jeannine Richard. 
