Quebec - Ms. Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec History on September 4, 2012. The first year of office of his government is marked by listening, courage and determination. After putting order, the Quebec government again has the means to act so that Quebeckers find pride. Priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and assistance to those who are in need, identity and measures to better live together. Thus, the government of the Parti Québécois is committed to making Quebec stronger. 
"Last year, at such a date, Quebec bathed in a climate of social crisis and a foul atmosphere of malpractice and impunity; The finances of the state were in disorder and the budget deficit was growing; Public investments were announced without even being budgeted. The only thing that worked at full speed was the liberal promise machine. We did the housework in this clutter and repaired the offssed pots by the former government, "said Minister of Public Safety, Stéphane Bergeron. 
"In just one year, the Québécois government has put forward several measures and undertaken many actions to advance Quebec. On all these fronts, our efforts have been successful, "add Mr. Bergeron. 
Moreover, in terms of public safety, the government of the Parti Québécois has: 
Finally, the effectiveness and speed with which civil security has taken over the management of the event, the consultation of the partners, the deployment of the support measures to the citizens of Lac-Mégantic affected by the tragedy of 6 last July. The consequences of this tragedy are extremely heavy, especially with regard to losses of human lives. The Ministry of Public Safety, under the coordination of the Prime Minister, quickly orchestrated the development of the aid plan, which has immediately been adopted by the government of the Parti Québécois and implemented to meet the urgent needs of the community. Disaster of Lac-Mégantic. 
"The achievements and advances that have marked this busy year reflect the desire, shared by all the staff members of the Department of Public Safety and its organizations, to cope with the issues and to advance the strategic files falling within their responsibilities. I want to congratulate them warmly. Such results are the result of the work of a passionate and dedicated team of people who have chosen to put their expertise and know-how for the benefit of the safety of Quebecers. I am particularly proud of the balance sheet of this first year of teamwork, "concluded Stéphane Bergeron. 
