Ibervilleun An after re-election in September 2012, the member for Iberville, Marie Bouille, draws up a very positive assessment of the first year of this second term. "It was a year of hard work and, even with a minority government, we managed to adopt progressive measures for our fellow citizens. By conviction and solidarity, I still have several projects in mind and I am confident that I can do it with and for the people I represent, "says the hon. Member for Iberville. 
For families in the riding of Iberville, there has been the creation of nearly 400 new cover places at $ 7, the construction of a new primary school in Marieville and the opening of a class From kindergarten four years in Saint-Georges-de-Clarenceville. "The population increases in the territory and services must also follow. These are good news for families here! "Emphasis added the member. Not to mention that Marie Bouillé raised more than $ 17,000 for Leucan Montérégie by participating in the razed heads challenge. 
In addition, based on public transport, the member for Iberville in collaboration with his colleague from Saint John, announced an investment of $ 125,000 for a feasibility study for the establishment of a suburban train connecting Iberville, Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu and Montreal. It should also be noted that some roads in the territory had a serious need for refurbishment, such as the route 227 whose work is done this summer in San Sebastián and Marieville. A new layer of asphalt has also been added on Highway 112 in Saint-Césaire while waiting for the major work. 
The Government of the Parti Québécois has proposed this year many measures to improve the quality of life of Quebeckers. In particular, the investment of $ 110 million for home support, the moratorium on shale gas or the filing of a policy of food sovereignty. The member for Iberville is also proud that his Government has taken the bull by the horns to address the problems of ethics, corruption and collusion with the adoption of laws aiming for the integrity in the granting of public contracts and the Tightening policy funding rules. 
Marie Bouillé is convinced that the future is promising for people in his riding. For example, in order to attract new doctors, Marie Bouille is actively working on the establishment of a family medicine unit in Iberville. This new clinic would allow medicine graduates to complete their training while offering their services to the local population. "There is no doubt that it is sorely lacking in family physicians in the region. The implantation of a family medicine unit is more than a need, it is a necessity. You can count on me: I will not let go! , "Says the member. "In another order of ideas, I note that everywhere in the constituency, there are concrete examples of economic growth and I am proud of it," says Brouillé. 
As Chairperson of the Committee on Agriculture, Food, Fisheries, Energy and Natural Resources, Marie Bouille led the work of many energy records. She also participated in the commission dealing with the breast milk bank for great premature. The member also chaired the working group on the welfare of pets and managed to establish a climate of sound collaboration between the multitude of stakeholders sitting on this committee. "The overpopulation of cats and abandoned dogs, as well as the existence of puppy factories and domestic animal abuse must be settled," concludes the member for Iberville. 
