Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu-Madame Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec History on September 4, 2012. The first year of office of his government is marked by listening, courage and determination . After putting order, the Quebec government again has the means to act so that Quebeckers find pride. Priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help with those who are in need, and identity and measures to better live together. Thus, the government of the Parti Québécois is committed to making Quebec stronger. 
In this regard, the member for Saint John at the National Assembly and Deputy Whip of the Government, Dave Turcotte, is pleased to the statement of the first year of his mandate as a deputy ministerial, and wishes to highlight his contribution to the government's balance sheet. By sharing the work done in different sectors of activity during this last year, with the support of the government. 
Indeed, Dave Turcotte has settled, since it is a member of Parliament in 2008, many files and even more in this last year to the government by working with the partners involved. "It's getting better and better in Saint-Jean and I worked with the environment to give tangible results for our fellow citizens and it is clear that we have results for Saint John with the support of a government Listening, "said Dave Turcotte. 
For education, the member supported the implementation of Processive Area and the Grand Brothers, great sisters program, the promotion of vocational training and adult education, but also the consultation of the region to give the region. Taste of reading to our young people and to combat illiteracy, struggling encouraged by the granting of $ 97,463 at the open door, Literacy and Francization Center of Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu. Education is also the maintenance of our infrastructure with an investment of $ 3 million for 29 school infrastructure projects in 19 establishments, as well as other investments for Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu schools, either $ 2.2 million for a new gym at the School to Four-Vents, in addition to the beginning of the construction of 8 new classes, $ 2.03 million for the addition of 5 new classes at the School St- Johns. For Cégep Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, it is a program of technical studies granted, the management program and the agricultural enterprise technologies, as well as a grant of $ 50,000 for the acquisition of new equipment. For the Chanoine-Armand-Racicot vocational training center, it is a new professional curriculum that will be implanted, contemporary catering pastry. So, we are truly at work for education! 
Whether for families where 276 new servicing places in the constituency have been granted and more than 300 new places will be created in the region, either to support and support our community organizations that are at the heart of our social development. Social development To whom $ 82,482 were distributed as part of the volunteer support program or whether for the establishment of two community gardens in buildings from the Up Richelieu Municipal Office with a grant of $ 5,000, the member is present! For our immigrants, $ 54,600 granted to the right organization to work to live better together. For our youth is supporting the project of youth complex to give a real versatile center to our young people as well as the right to vote in schools, which will allow 4,000 students to benefit. The involvement of the member Dave Turcotte for young people is reflected, in addition to his presence to many activities, by his participation in the Quebec Tour of Youth Consultation. He also won the Prize Politics Involvement in the contest "I take my place" from the Montérégie Youth Forum is, for his involvement in his community and living environment, thus giving the example to our young people. 
For health, it is our government that proceeded to the expansion of the Hospital of Haut-Richelieu, an investment of $ 105 million. Health is encouraging the development of healthy lifestyle with the inauguration of the new Saint-Blaise-sur-Richelieu sports complex and support for the Cégep Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu Health Credit Program. It is also investing in the region over $ 260,000 in supporting natural caregivers to help build a local health health system, it's 66 more beds in CHSLD in Saint -Jean-sur-Richelieu and the inauguration of the birthplace of the Health Center and Social Services High-Richelieu-Rouville. So, we are at work for health! 
Culture is at the heart of Dave Turcotte's actions. Count the partnership with the zoom contest on my city, the book and surroundings, on our regional built heritage, the book what it should not be said, on our urban legends, the bright boxes in the heart of Old Saint-Jean , the steps for the monument to the memory of Félix-Gabriel Marchand, the grant of a grant of $ 7,500 for a heritage study on the heritage fell in Saint-Blaise-sur-Richelieu, not to mention the constant support At the cultural agencies of the region and the signing of a $ 210,000 cultural development agreement between the City of Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, the RCM of the High Richelieu and the Government of Quebec. 
For road safety, we repair our infrastructures! The project of the urbanization of the Saint-Luc Boulevard is well started, the installation of the traffic lights of the intersection of the Road Grand-Bernier Nord and Deland to Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, the replacement of the culvert of the road 223 in Saint-Blaise-sur-Richelieu and Acadie's are over, as well as the Paving of Highway 35. For Saint-Blaise-sur-Richelieu, are investments of $ 39,266 for the improvement of the Municipal Road Network and $ 12,356 for the Maintenance of Signaling at Level and Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, $ 25,278 for Acadie Road Network and $ 24,713 for passages to Level, in more than $ 1.3 million for the collective transport of people, not to mention the announcement of the reconstruction of the Gouin Bridge, a major project of nearly $ 80 million for the revitalization of Old Saint-Jean. So, we are really at work for the safety of citizens! 
The economy is also developing our SMEs and stimulating succession is to exchange with our entrepreneurs to know them better and support them. Investing $ 626,326 to support two of our businesses, Logistik Unicorp and Protec-Style. It is also the establishment of a business transfer center at home, an investment of $ 198,000 over three years, as well as $ 635,000 financial assistance at the International Montgolfières of Saint-Jean-sur -Richelieu, event that generates annual economic benefits of $ 18 million. It is also the member's initiative to hold a forum on the situation of the economy and employment in order to draw up a portrait and prioritize action. Job creation and economic development are priorities for the member Dave Turcotte. 
The member distributed 3,000 trees in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu and obtained a feasibility study, with $ 125,000 aid for the establishment of a suburban train linking Saint-Jean- Sur-Richelieu in Montreal. With this mobilizing and sustainable project, we are at work for the environment! 
"You see it, the riding of Saint-Jean goes in the right direction, I have the conviction. Every day, the region is successful with these many job creators, which is already reflected in a decrease in the unemployment rate by 5.66% in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu since 2012. This first year, this is just a beginning, to see everything you have done in one year, imagine four years! With integrity and sovereignty at the base of our political action and with all these concrete actions, we are truly at work for Saint-Jean and the whole Quebec ", to conclude Dave Turcotte. 
