Montreal- Partician candidates in the constituencies of Gouin and Borduas, Nicolas Girard and Pierre Duchesne, rejoice in the direction that the election campaign takes. "Jean Charest has moved over the summer period to trigger the electoral campaign believing that the population would lose interest in politics. This is the opposite happening in the towns and villages of Quebec. The enthusiasm of citizens for the Parti Québécois is confirmed. People want to get rid of Jean Charest and elect a government integrity and competent, "he said. 
"Pauline Marois makes a positive campaign. She goes to meet citizens anywhere in Quebec and explains Quebec's commitments for a better Quebec. She has already met several thousand citizens, visited 28 constituencies and traveled more than 3000 kilometers. At each of the activities, it is welcomed warmly. People have the taste to change government and more and more, it is to the Quebecois party they are turning, "specified Pierre Duchesne. 
"Rarely has been seen as a team as competent, which brings together women and men of experience from horizons as varied. Having managed to recruit as many headliners demonstrates the leadership and unifying qualities of Pauline Marois. This team rallies not only around an integrity and competent leader, but also around an exciting project and concrete and innovative ideas to advance Quebec, "Nicolas Girard noted. 
These three words summarize the project of society that we propose to Quebeckers. To assert itself, we will defend our language and our culture and stand in front of Ottawa; To get rich, we will raise royalties on natural resources and give us the means to become masters home; To help each other, we will take care of the youngest to the older. 
Since the beginning of the campaign, we have already made concrete and realistic commitments: 
"These are realistic commitments that hold the road. At the Québécois party, we do not make promises in the air to look for points in polls. We have too much respect for Quebeckers to do so. Our commitments are quantified and we will respect a rigorous financial framework in the current context of public finances. We refuse to start in an expensive promise. Since 2003, Jean Charest has shown too many promises that he has never realized, "concluded Pierre Duchesne, specifying that change goes through the Quebec party, his renewed team and his competent leader, able to govern Quebec. . It's up to us to choose. 
