Sherbrooke-Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec on September 4, 2012. The first year of money's mandate is marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Quebec government has again a way to act so that Quebeckers find their pride. Priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help with those who are in need, and the pride of living together. Thus, the Parti Québécois government will take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger. 
One year after the arrival of the new government of the Parti Québécois, the Minister of Health and Social Services and MP from Saint-François, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and his colleague the member for Sherbrooke, Vice-President of the Commission of the Public Administration and Permanent Member of the Committee on Institutions, Mr. Serge Cardin, rejoice in the profound and sustainable changes that take place in Estrie with the implementation of several measures and directions of the Government of Quebec. 
"In one year, we have settled, in Estrie, several files that the Liberal government had left behind: lack of childcare, shortage of social housing, deficiency of a first line strong in health, lack of a renewed vision Economic development for mining regions and lack of prioritization of infrastructure projects that meet the ability to pay taxpayers, while changing the ambient social climate. Our first year in power will have allowed us to address many issues for several estrian clienteles, whether you are young families, seniors, low-income people, entrepreneurs or researchers, "said the two members of the National Assembly. 
Minister Réjean Hébert recalled the work done in the Female-Youth-Family Center of the Chus, which was confirmed last spring. The $ 121.7 million were duly reserved for the Infrastructure Québec, which guarantees its achievement by 2017. "This infrastructure, expected in the region for more than 10 years, can finally see the light of day and will provide High quality services for guests from 0 to 18 years old, "said Hébert. 
In order to contribute to the development of a first strong and efficient health line, more than $ 13 million have been invested in Coaticook, Magog, Windsor and Richmond hospitals over the past year for expansion or renovation. Added to this is an envelope of $ 6 million on the renovation of CHLSD in the Estrie region as well as a $ 4 million to improve home care and services in the region, on an envelope national of 100 million. It should also be noted that nearly $ 600,000 were granted for projects to improve the quality of life of caregivers of seniors in the region, through the Estrie Support Organization. Finally, in terms of customer support with particular issues - mental health, addiction, intellectual and physical disabilities, etc. - The Estrie has been awarded more than $ 6 million shared between several partners working in these sectors. 
"In May last, we confirmed the construction of two new schools in the Rock Forest sectors and expansion in Saint-Denis-de-Brompton, which represents the opening of 43 new classes, to overcome the demographic explosion of These sectors. This is an excellent news for the quality of life of young families and the vitality of communities, "said Minister Hébert. 
"In terms of young families, we were committed, in the election campaign, to meet the needs of CPE places in Estrie during a first 4-year term. In less than a year, we announced the creation of 1,226 new CPE places in the territory of Estrie, many of which are already available for toddlers, "added Cardin. 
"Whether in the economy sector, with financial aid for business diversification, transport with the extension of the 410, in education by the construction and expansion of schools, in research with the pavilion of Applied research on the cancer of the University of Sherbrooke or in the housing sector with the construction of affordable housing, we have noted the challenge! "Said Serge Cardin. 
In terms of the sustainable transformation of the local and regional economy, Minister Hébert recalls the repositioning of the niche Biotech Health Agreement to focus more towards the development of products and services related to aging and autonomy. "Sherbrooke is an internationally recognized capital of knowledge and know-how in the gerontology sector. It is essential to transform this knowledge into companies and jobs. It is for this reason that we have started the repositioning of this niche agreement while injecting $ 300,000 to support the development of this new economic axis, "supports Minister Hébert. 
Over the past year, the government of the Parti Québécois has worked to equip tool entrepreneurs aimed at allowing a value to a value-added economy. In Estrie, this is reflected in the implementation of the Asbestos Region Economic Diversification Fund. "We were committed to actively accompanying the Asbestos region in the gradual transformation of its economy, which was almost entirely based on asbestos. In recent months, we have played an accompanying role, including the establishment of a $ 50 million diversification fund, and working closely with the socio-economic stakeholders in the region, "said Mr. Hébert. 
Also, emphasize that $ 175 million investments have been reserved for the Estrian region for road infrastructure projects for the 2013-2015 period. "In the past year, we reviewed the wide range of Highway 410 in order to put it back on the rails responsible, while the Liberal government has increased the unrealistic promises in this file for years. Thus, the component 1 of the extension of Highway 410, from University Boulevard to Highway 108, is in progress and ads will be done shortly for the rest of things, "said Minister Hébert. 
The government has also financially supported several socio-economic, cultural, tourism projects in the region. "It's several Sherbrookoises and Estrian companies that have been financially supported by the government so that they can continue to radiate in the region, but also on the national and international scene. ", Mentioned the member for Sherbrooke. 
The year was marked by the tragedy of Lac-Mégantic on July 6th. As Regional Minister, Réjean Hébert has played an active role in this issue from the early hours of tragedy and continues to be involved, especially in the reconstruction phase earmarked a few weeks ago. 
Minister Hébert and MP Serge Cardin mention that the year that begins will be equally charged. "Several projects are currently under construction, whether in the field of culture, economic development and agriculture. We will continue to demonstrate solidarity, responsibility and integrity, "said Serge Cardin. 
