Québec- The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in terms of public safety, Pascal Bérubé, draws a dark government assessment of the year 2015 in this field. Throughout the year, the ministers let the doubt plan and refused to act in several primary records. 
Since the arrival of the Liberals, for example, the UPAC works in slow motion. After a disappointing first year, the boss of the UPAC and the minister had both promised shots in 2015, including in the political world. "This promise is a resounding failure. At least two liberal funding surveys do not succeed, "said Pascal Bérubé. 
Then, after refusing, last year, that the boss of the SQ be appointed by the National Assembly, the Government added by opposing the idea that the number one of the UPAC, which is currently investigating. On the Liberal Party, named by elected officials. "The Liberals maintain a situation that arouses a great discomfort. They must evaluate the work of the boss of the UPAC, while his investigations could put people from their own government in prison. Can not guarantee the independence of UPAC under these conditions, "said the member for Matane-Matapédia. 
In terms of the fight against radicalization, the minister procrastinated for months, while young Quebeckers are being indoctrinated. She even went so far as to say that jihadists are radicalizing to "save lives". "These remarks are unacceptable to a Minister of Public Safety. We also remember that the Prime Minister himself said that fundamentalism "is one of the personal choices of each" ", continued the member. 
The minister and his department also propagated contradictory information, particularly during the error liberation of Francis Boucher, the son of Maurice "Mom" butcher. "Stratagem or administrative error, the uncertainty of the minister during the escape of the son of Maurice" Mom "Boucher was worrying," added Mr. Bérubé. 
Also mention that in addition to refusing to prohibit the quotas of contraventions at the SQ, the government has even denied its existence, while internal guidelines had demonstrated. "The Liberals see the contraventions more like a milk cow as an instrument to secure our roads," lamented Pascal Bérubé. 
Finally, the government refused to small municipalities the financial assistance needed to train their volunteer firefighters, even though this training avoids dramas like the one in Isle? Green. 
"In short, the Liberal government is crisis in crisis; Its indecision and contradictions have contributed to worrying Quebeckers, who are calling for clear information and concrete actions. In addition, the minister has always found a way to blame his officials when she was embarrassed. Unfortunately, Pierre Moreau's arrival has not changed the government's cavalry attitude, which prefers to minimize the concerns of Quebecers rather than responding to it, "concluded the member. 
