Sainte-Scholastique- The member for the constituency of Mirabel, Mr. Denise Beaudoin, "says" very proud to belong to the Government of Pauline Marois, a government that, even minority, acted, and has made difficult decisions, but necessary , a government entirely dedicated to its population. We did a lot of time: the assessment we present it still guarantees better tomorrow. » 
The hon. Member recalls that last year at such date, Quebec bathed in a climate of malpractice and impunity, Montreal was blocked by a social crisis, public finances as left by the Liberals were in disorder, the budget deficit is dug and investments in infrastructure were announced without being budgeted. The only thing that worked at full speed was the liberal promise factory. 
Mr. Beaudoin Updes: "We did the housework in the liberal and repaired mess that the Charest administration had broken. The Marois government has shown courage, a great sense of responsibility and fierce determination. That's why we can say that it's fine better in Quebec for a year! » 
The hon. Member stresses that at the "National Plan, the Quebec government will have in particular restored integrity by severely struggling against corruption; He piloted the important summit on higher education and the five sites that have derived from them; He dared to force the file of fixed date elections and deeply modified the method of financing political parties. » 
In identity, the government was standing up and defended Quebec's interests everywhere and at any time, Quebec, Canada or around the world. "From the sovereign governance, we have initiated several defense files for our interests, including the National Employment Insurance Review Board and the Battle to Amend Federal Workforce Formation Decisions , as well as on the workers' funds, "said the hon. Member for Mirabel, adding that the government would continue to fight to move French in Quebec despite the blockage of the opposition. 
For several weeks, the government has been more substantially addressed a new stage of its mandate: that of social and economic development. This is the case, for example, the improvement of the home care system, the autonomy insurance, the establishment of kindergarten at 4 years in the disadvantaged circles and the creation of 28,000 childcare places including several have been allocated in the constituency of Mirabel. 
Mr. Beaudoin emphasizes the economic plan, "the establishment of the policy of food sovereignty - which does not leave the farmers, our local producers and consumers - our ambitious transport electrification project, the withdrawal in Quebec of the asbestos and nuclear power; We have eliminated the liberal increase of 20% of electricity rates and that of 82% of tuition fees. In addition, Quebeckers will count on a new royalty regime as well as a new law enhanced on mines. 
"In short, concludes the hon. Member in this chapter, our actions begin to bear fruit and indicates that the economic machine is distributed. » 
"In addition to my work at the National Assembly in Quebec City and my participations in the work of parliamentary committees," said the member, I have invested a lot in my riding. The order was abundant and varied and I involved in all sectors to develop our economy, in harmony with the environment and agriculture. 
In the area of culture, I want to mention a marking realization that I initiated, the establishment of Claude-Léveille Square in Saint-Benoît, Mirabel. 
How to ignore the important file of the train station in Mirabel: I have contributed greatly that the future Mirabel station is located at the appropriate place where the smallest negative impacts and not on farmland. Thus, this sector of the constituency of Mirabel can now remain a place of agricultural production contributing to its measure to feed Quebec rather than becoming a place of speculation, all in accordance with the new policy of food sovereignty announced by the Minister of Agriculture, fisheries and food, François Gendron. 
I announced, with the ministers concerned, important investments for the construction of new primary schools in the constituency, one in Saint-Augustin and the other in Saint-Joseph-du-Lac as well as the enlargements of the Sainte-Anne Schools in Saint-Canut and Mer-and-World in Mirabel-en-Top. 
In terms of health, the member Denise Beaudoin, with his colleagues from the Caucus of the Deputies of the Laurentians, obtained from the Government of Quebec the reduction of interregional financial inequity in the Laurentians and a major investment for the new day service In mental health at the Regional Hospital of Saint-Jérôme. 
The member also represented the government at two parliamentary missions abroad with, among others, the President of the National Assembly. 
Ms. Beaudoin concludes on these words: "As a member of Parliament, I make a duty to be present to my principals and listen to them. I am on the solution mode, very proud to serve the population that trusted me, and to do it in a responsible government! » 
