Carleton-sur-Mer- Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet, today announced its intention not to support the choice of the environmental complex of Saint- Michel for the realization of one of the treatment centers of organic matter by biomethanization and composting on its territory. He invites the City of Montreal to favor another site than it. 
"We recognize the efforts made by the City of Montreal to identify adequate sites, but it is clear that social acceptability is not at the rendezvous in the case of the Saint-Michel environmental complex. I do not want to support a project that has been very clearly rejected by the population and the elected representatives of the sector, "said Minister Blanchet. He clarified that the other sites retained did not show, in his opinion, of major obstacles as to their realization. 
The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities, Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language and MP for Crémazie, Ms. Diane de Courcy, welcomes this position that meets the legitimate concerns of citizens of his riding. "As a member of Parliament for Crémazie, I accompanied the citizens in their approaches to the Minister Blanchet who has demonstrated openness, listening and transparency in order to arrive at a concrete result for the good of the population of cremazie. I wish to salute the members of the Ahuntsic committee against the composting plant in Saint-Michel Park which allowed a voice to those who did not, "said Madame de Courcy. 
Minister Blanchet challenges the federal government whose financial contribution, which could represent one-third costs, is conditional on the completion of the entire project within a prescribed period. Since the site change will have as consequence to lead to additional time, the Minister Blanchet asks the federal government that it maintains its financing in accordance with the same parameters, but with a prolonged period. "I intend to challenge my federal counterpart in the coming days to make sure," said Minister Blanchet. 
Remember that the biomethanization and composting organic processing program provides for the payment of financial assistance to municipal and private applicants for the establishment of treatment facilities. The City of Montreal's project involves the construction of five infrastructure, including four organic matter treatment centers. The costs of this project are estimated at nearly $ 240 million and facilities could be in service starting in 2016. 
