Forestville- Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, and the hon. Member for René-Lévesque, Chief Whip of the Government and Head of the North Shore, Marjolain Dufour, Announce The allocation of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 394,800 to OPCO Technology Inc., specializing in research and development in the forest sector and, more recently, in that of bioenergy. 
Financial assistance will be used to develop a forest biomass generator that will produce heat and electricity. The markets covered by this new product are low-power generators. The operating principle selected for the system is that of the "organic rankin cycle", which consists of a closed circuit using an organic liquid to operate a turbine and a generator. 
"More than ever, Quebec must count on companies that place innovation at the heart of their business strategies to prosper and distinguish themselves at the international level," said Élaine Zakaïb. "The OPCO Technology project is an eloquent demonstration of this visionary and innovative spirit that animates our entrepreneurs. By developing a new technology that will enhance forest biomass, the company shares with us the vision of a Quebec focused on sustainable development and is positioned as a leader in the green technology sector. » 
"The Quebec government is proud to support OPCO technology in achieving its major economic benefits project for the North Shore," added Marjolan Dufour. "This project is a good example of collaboration and partnership between Quebec companies, while some of the region will manufacture and market the forest biomass generator developed by OPCO Technology. » 
OPCO Technology is a company specializing in research and development of urban and forestry equipment. It develops sophisticated products (vehicles and fasteners) with a technological breakthrough that is not found on the market. The company carries out research and development in the forestry sector and in that of bioenergy. 
"Thanks to this project, we want to increase our market share in a promising business sector, that of forest biomass," said OPCO Technology President Guy Gaudreault. "The support of the Government of Quebec will allow us to have a technological and competitive advantage in this booming sector. » 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
