Quebec- The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane de Courcy, said deeply disappointed with the breakdown of the negotiations with the Coalition Future Québec on the program 14. This bill aimed at amending the Charter of the French Language, the Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms and other legislative provisions in order to strengthen the use of French in different spheres of activity of Quebec society. 
The government had agreed to address with the coalition all aspects of the bill that the latter judged unsatisfactory. Minister Diane de Courcy believes that he was opening up against the concerns expressed by certain civil society actors at public hearings in the Parliamentary Committee last spring. 
"Although I consider our balanced and responsible departure proposal, I touched on this exercise with a lot of openness, because I believe in parliamentary work deeply. I was firmly convinced that at the end of the process we were going to find solutions to devote the right of all Quebeckers and from all Quebeckers to live and work in French in Quebec. I was ready to make some compromises, but not to the point of emptying the bill of its substance. However, the members of the Coalition discussed the negotiations without a whole vision and by constantly changing throughout our 13 hours of discussion. As for the Liberals, I recall that they have chosen, from the filing of the bill, to do as in 1977, that is to say, to reject everything in block and to make systematic obstruction, "lamented the minister. 
Following the general consultation, Minister Diane de Courcy announced to the CAQ its intention to adjust the bill to eliminate some irritants. For example : 
"In order to introduce a climate conducive to a reasoned negotiation, we have a play of play demonstrated our good faith," said the minister. 
Recall that the heart of Bill 14 consisted of strengthening French, language of labor. Among the points on which the discussions have stumbled, mention the rejection of the most important provisions aimed at generalizing the use of French in companies from 26 to 49 employees. The bill proposed that these companies participate in the collective francization effort of the workplaces, taking into account their reality, including the region where they are implanted and their sector of activity. 
"We already proposed a flexible formula, through which small businesses should have made sure that French is the normal and usual language of work, but without having to obtain a certificate of francization as must do the companies of 50 employees and more . We were even ready to accept that the application is gradually being done, starting with the most sensitive areas and sectors of activity. It was too much to ask the Future Quebec coalition which, despite his speech, preferred the generalized status quo and bilingual workplace, "said the minister. 
Another of the disputed elements concerned the provisions of the CEGEPs bill. Several English-speaking CEGEPs admit more students than expected by their quotes, and Dawson College has even become the biggest college in Quebec. In this context, Bill 14 planned to protect the law of English-speaking students from being able to attend anglophone college institutions. This would have made it possible to maintain a healthy balance between French and English-speaking networks without depriving Anglophones from the possibility of frequenting English colleges if they wish. 
The coalition opposed the fact that the conditions for admission to English-speaking CEGEPs promote English-speaking students. "We were committed to that these measures come into force only in five years, after we are assured of enriching the teaching of English and French in both networks. Strengthening language learning and maintaining the balance between the networks were part of our approach: the coalition preferred to leave it, which is irresponsible both linguistic and on that of public finances, "denounced the minister Noting that the coalition's approach could lead to English-speaking Cegeps enlargements, while Francophone CEGEPs in the same territory would have vacant premises. "Again here, the CAQ prefers the status quo, or even the development of the anglophone college network at the expense of the Francophone network," says the minister. 
In addition, the government has been successful with the coalition the fact that municipalities are major players in the promotion of French as language of work and language of public use. The coalition opposed the fact that some municipalities currently enjoying bilingual city status could lose this privilege to the extent that they no longer satisfy the starting conditions. 
Yet Minister Diane de Courcy proposed that this withdrawal can not be done without the local will to speak and that a committee of experts, including three members of the English-speaking community, was consulted by the government. "The withdrawal of bilingual status has been marked and limited to the most critical situations. It has always been our intention, supported the minister, but our proposals made it possible to reassure those who feared a wall-to-mural approach by ensuring associating local representatives on reflection. Nevertheless, the Future Québec Coalition demanded that each municipal council have a veto right. Once again, the coalition advocated the status quo and the impossibility for the government to intervene, "deplores Ms de Courcy. 
The minister has stressed that with these negotiations, "the Coalition Future Québec had the opportunity to rise above the partisanship and act concretely to reaffirm the use of French in all the spheres of the public life in Quebec. While the coalition had supported the principle of strengthening the Charter of the French language and had expressed publicly and repeatedly to Quebecers and Quebeckers the importance it accorded to the French, it is clear that its members and chief n. 'did not know about speech to acts. Do I need to clarify that Bill 14 was not just legislation? The measures accounted for as many concrete gestures to ensure the future of the French language, the maintenance of our identity and our inheritance, "she said. 
Despite the disappointment that it feels about the outcome of the negotiations surrounding Bill 14, Ms. de Courcy remains engaged in concrete actions for French, including the integration of immigrant people into the labor market. The minister recently announced an investment of $ 57 million for the next three years, of which $ 13.5 million additional devoted to the diversification of francization services offered to immigrants abroad and Quebec. This flagship measure of the plan of action a Quebec strong of its immigrant feature of the 24 measures to maximize the contribution of immigration to economic, cultural and social development of Quebec, as well as the increased importance given to French since 1 August in the selection grid of immigrant people. 
"We act for French, with the powers we have as government. However, to succeed in curbing the decline in French, a strengthening of the Charter of the French language remains necessary. Also, when we are the majority, we will do it, "conclude the minister. 
