Québec- In the light of the latest financial results of Bombardier, the official head of the official, Pierre Karl Péladeau, asked Prime Minister Philippe Couillard to renegotiate the wrong deal that his government has concluded with the company. 
"The results show a very difficult situation. Bombardier announces the removal of 7000 jobs, including 3000 in the aerospace sector. The Liberal government has decided to invest $ 1 billion in a transaction concerning only the CSeries project. It is ready to take all the financial risks associated with this project, while the experts say that this transaction is badly crafted. Already the initial agreement was bad, it is even more so today if you take into account lost jobs. The former Minister of the Economy did not even believe it to provide for a clause providing the maintenance of jobs in Quebec. The government needs to renegotiate this bad deal before it is definitively signed. I ask the Prime Minister to protect all Bombardier's jobs here in Quebec, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
An economic and industrial policy 
"The aviation industry is a neuralgic sector of the Quebec economy, and is in difficulty. Bell Helicopter has removed 1000 jobs for two years, CAE has also announced the abolition of 350 positions. In the meantime, we are waiting here in Quebec, the implementation of a real economic and industrial policy from the government. When will the Prime Minister finally do his job? , "Added the leader of the official opposition. 
"The Prime Minister must renegotiate the wrong deal of principle and the letter of intention he has signed with Bombardier. But he must also take his phone and call the Prime Minister of Canada to participate in Bombardier's recovery effort. For three months, nothing has happened. Yet, let us remember, the federal government has not hesitated as much when it comes to saving the automotive industry in Ontario. Can the Couillard Prime Minister intervene so that the federal government ceases to procrastinate, and before it is too late? ", Concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
