Quebec- The member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and sentence of the official opposition in terms of international relations, Carole Poirier, and the hon. Member for Verchères and spokespersons in ethics and integrity, Stéphane Bergeron, denounce The many partisan and ideological appointments of the Liberal Party Government. 
"The good old liberal party is back! We put an end to the mandate of competent people, who have proven themselves and, above all, who were not supporters. They are reminded in Quebec at great fees to appoint two former ministers and an former member of the Liberal Party. How much do these decisions cost taxpayers? The government cuts in the public services on behalf of austerity, but allows you to spend thousands of dollars from breaking contracts, repatriating people earlier than expected and send liberal friends abroad. It's aberrant! "," Said Carole Poirier. 
The hon. Member for Verchères did not fail to report, for his part, that the name of the former Minister Line Beauchamp was mentioned during the work of the Charbonneau commission. "The least of things, in the case of Ms. Beauchamp, would have been to wait for the Commission's report to be tabled before conducting an appointment. In a context of fiscal rationalization, the greatest caution is needed before making changes that involve unnecessary costs. After having clarified more transparency in the appointments, it is surprising to note that the Liberal government does not seem to want to apply the conclusions of the Perrault report. Obviously, the Liberals are absolutely incapable, once both hands in the butter pot, not to serve straightly and not to make their friends enjoying, "added Stéphane Bergeron. 
Remember that yesterday, the government has made several partisan appointments. In addition to having named as representatives of Quebec Line Beauchamp (UNESCO), Christos Sirros (London) and Eric R. Mercier (Mexico), the Liberals attributed the position of President and CEO of the Quebec Housing Corporation. Michel Gagnon, and that of Deputy Minister Tourism in Marc Croteau, respectively former Cabinets of Marc Bellemare and Jean Charest. Since 2003, the Liberal Party has thus carried out more than 527 partisan appointments. 
