Seven-Islands - Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, accompanied by the member for Duplessis, Ms. Lorraine Richard, today announced investments totaling more than $ 16 million for two projects. vocational training that will be carried out at the Iron School Board. 
"Thanks to these major investments in vocational training, we encourage the attraction, retention and diplomation of young people from here, while contributing to the development of skills and know-how indispensable to the economy of the region of seven Islands, "said Malavoy Minister. 
The government is currently investing $ 5 million in the redevelopment of the A.-W.-Gagnary Vocational Training Center to modernize it and conform to the requirements of consolidation programs (5295) etcchanique industrial construction and maintenance (5260). The project will also redevelop facilities for some study programs in the administration and health sectors. 
"If vocational training in Quebec enjoys an excellent international reputation, is that our curricula are regularly updated and that our centers have the necessary equipment to provide training that meets the most High quality standards. The investments that will be carried out here will have spin-offs on the regional economy and, of course, on the quality of life of the population, "said Richard. 
In addition, Ms. Malavoy released an investment of $ 11 million for the construction of a multifunctional center near the vocational training center A.-W.-Gagné. 
This new center will have two large-scale multi-purpose workshops, administrative spaces and premises necessary for student services, with a surface totaling nearly 2,800 m2. Thanks to the new facilities, the programs of study offered in the workshops can be modified according to the time according to the needs of labor. 
These ads are part of the economic lapolitics: employment priority, rendered on October 7th and intended to create jobs in all regions of Quebec, in the short and medium term. This government policy aims in particular to make improvements to vocational training institutions and invest in the development of Northern Quebec. 
"The population Quebec recognizes the importance of obtaining solid qualifications. For many, it helps to awaken and fuel the taste to learn. We must ensure that every student, whatever his age, can go to the end of his abilities, by offering accessible and diversified training routes. A strong and prosperous Quebec needs to rely on women and men we have given every kind and support to obtain a diploma or qualification, "concluded Malavoy. 
