The Vice-Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron is proud to announce bonuses for $ 6 million in the diversification support program and to the regional development of the Québec's agricultural financial financial (FADQ). The second registration period to this program will begin on 10 March and will continue until May 9, 2014. 
Nine million dollars invested to diversify, develop and facilitate access to Quebec products  It should be remembered that the program's implementation, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food in Quebec (MAPAQ) as well as the FADQ wanted to support the development of nearly 300 agricultural enterprises. Under the expansion of the eligibility criteria and the improvement of the program, it will now support more than 600. In addition, the financial assistance granted now translates into a repayment of interest up to $ 15,000 per company. , rather than $ 10,000. 
In this regard, Minister François Gendron says, "Without the success of those who have the passion of Earth, Quebec agriculture can not have a future. The bonus announced today is part of the government's desire to support our entrepreneurs in their desire for expansion, diversification and improvement in order to better feed Quebec. » 
On the other hand, Mr. Robert Keating, President and CEO of Québec's Agricultural Financial, supports: "By participating in the diversification and development of our agricultural enterprises, we act as a responsible organization that plays its role as leader in the economic growth of the agricultural environment. » 
Its objective is to promote the diversification and productivity of agricultural activities of the company by aiming for the operation of new products and services. To be eligible, the projects must meet the following criteria: 
Its objective is to promote the improvement of the Quebec agricultural territory, for example by aiming for the realization of drainage or cropping work of fried land. To be eligible, the company must demonstrate: 
Its goal is to promote greater availability and a better diversity of Quebec products throughout the year. To benefit from this program, the company must demonstrate: 
Any other serricole company may file a request for participation regardless of maximum gross income. This feature, however, remains specific to the SERRICOLE component of this program. 
Diversification projects submitted will be evaluated in collaboration with the MAPAQ. Finally, more information regarding the new program of support for diversification and regional development available at www.fadq.qc.ca 
By offering quality products and services for funding, insurance and income protection, Quebec's agricultural financial financial firms promotes the development and stability of more than 25,000 Quebec agricultural and forest companies. Moreover, it places the agricultural succession at the heart of its priorities by providing direct financial assistance and adapted to its reality. With insured values that amount to $ 4.7 billion and a loan guarantee portfolio reached $ 4.4 billion, it is actively involved in the economic growth of Quebec and its regions. 
