Quebec- Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, offers best wishes to nearly one million young people and Quebec adults who enter or return on the benches of School in this new school year. It also wishes to wish a good start to the teachers, teachers and school staff and school boards. 
"I want students to develop the taste to learn new things, whether they have on their way to teachers who will cultivate their curiosity and help them better understand what's going on around them" , said the minister. 
The minister takes the opportunity to emphasize the arrival of the 4-year-olds who start full-time maternal in the disadvantaged. This new service, which is part of the fight against school dropout, is made possible as a result of the adoption unanimously by the National Assembly, last June, of Bill 23. About fifties School boards will open a new class of kindergarten to more than 600 students. 
"I want to recognize the sustained effort of school boards, school directorates, teachers, teachers and parents, who have only a few weeks this summer to put youth in kindergarten. It is thanks to our joint efforts that we have begun this promising project, "Ms. Malavoy continued. 
This return is also a major event for children with precarious immigration status. As a result of administrative amendments announced last June, the government has facilitated access to Quebec schools for these children. 
"No government before ours had acted to tackle this problem. Today, thanks to our action, children previously excluded from the school will be able to access it, "added the minister. 
"All and all had to demonstrate a great solidarity to set up kindergarten 4 years and to facilitate access to school for all children. It is in mind that solidarity that characterizes us that I want to wish for the best returns to students, teachers and the staff of Lac-Mégantic schools who have had a difficult summer. Know that we are wholeheartedly with you, "concluded the minister. 
