The first parliamentary session of the fortieth legislature began yesterday at the National Assembly with the election of the President and Vice-Presidents. Today, I will pronounce the opening speech that will give the broad lines that my government intends to follow for the mandate entrusted to it by the Quebec population. From Thursday, it will be the return of the question period. It is with great enthusiasm that I enter this first session of the new government of the Parti Québécois. We will have to deal with strong opposition, but we will be attacking because we are convinced that the stroke of bar that we have begun will please Quebecers. 
In recent weeks, my ministers and I worked tirelessly to read our respective records and put us on the task as soon as possible to provide Quebeckers with the long-awaited change. In the context of the Charbonneau Commission, Quebecers expect from the government to take steps to put an end to collusion and corruption practices in the public apparatus - and quickly! After all, it's the management of their taxes and taxes referred to. 
I already told you: as a premier, I will be uncompromising in terms of integrity. I want to reiterate my deep intention to act quickly in this direction and clean the political sphere of the influence of money. It is more time to bring the interest of the citizens of Quebec at the center of government decisions. 
The former government has focused a lot on division policy. On the contrary, the new government will support what unites us. We will make the change by taking the path of listening, dialogue and action. Let's be flexible in the means, but remain firm on the objectives. 
In closing, I remember that we form a sovereignist government. We have this intimate conviction that the future of Quebec is becoming a sovereign country. The important thing for our people is to move forward. Beyond the destination, beyond the paths we will have to borrow or not, always keep the course on the fundamental and historical aim of our people, this aim that must all guide us, gather, to exceed ourselves: the one freedom. 
