Quebec -Bien that he welcomes the establishment of a carbon scholarship, promised and announced for several years, the member for the Assumption and Spokesman for the Official Opposition on the Environment, Sustainable Development and Sustainable Development and From Parks, Scott McKay, notes that the market to transact emissions credits will be too limited to have a real impact since only Quebec and California participate. 
"We must seriously question the fact that the carbon stock market does not include, from now on, the transport sector that alone represents 40% of greenhouse gas emissions. The reasons given by Minister Pierre Arcand are unconvincing. When one has ambition, we set goals and we take every means to achieve it. In this case, the decision to postpone the transport sector in 2015 is questionable, "said Scott McKay. 
He also criticizes the Liberal government from acting in the opposite direction of its own goals using 2008 as a reference year. "It's in perfect contradiction with the Government's Climate Change Action Plan. Quebec companies have been disadvantaged to reduce their GHG emissions before that date, "said the member. 
In addition, the member for the Assumption finds incongruous that Minister Arcand takes over the fact that free credits will be distributed to mining in the context of the North Plan. "The efforts of the Quebec industries will therefore be canceled by the pollution of foreign mining. It is exactly the same phenomenon that we will see with shale gases whose fugitive emissions will explode the Quebec emissions ceiling, "said Scott McKay. 
The Parti Québécois reiterates the need for a concrete GHG reduction plan, particularly targeting the transport sector. "We must have an ambitious plan by developing poles of excellence in the advanced transportation sector, by electrifying public and commercial fleets of vehicles and promoting, with massive investments, transport systems. collective. This is how we will effectively and significantly reduce our GHG emissions, "sued Scott McKay. 
"Today, we have attended, once again, a cosmetic announcement to allow the Liberal government to maintain a green speech while in fact, it goes beside the real environmental issues. What's more, during this time, the federal government is about Quebec on the international scene. Nothing is done to counter the threat that Quebec products suffer a European border tax because of Canadian delinquency. The absence of Quebec in Durban remains suspicious, "concluded Scott McKay. 
