For a democratic and developed society, the help of last resort is a gesture of great solidarity, and must ensure sustainability. 
One of the deepest convictions of the Marois government is that the best way to fight poverty is employment. We decided to make every effort to get there. Politically, it requires courage and audacity - and we have it. 
Starting in 2014, the number of people of working age will begin to decrease significantly. Within three years, nearly 700,000 jobs will be filled. In less than 10 years, it will be 1.4 million jobs. 
Quebec changes. Thus, we must update and adapt our ways to do according to this evolution. The government has decided to take the bull by the horns because this turn must be taken now. 
Young people under 25 will be systematically met at their first social assistance application, and regular follow-up will be undertaken to support them in their active job search. 
Moreover, in 2013, mid-fifty or raising a child are no longer barriers to employment. Quebec needs all its workers, their multiple talents. In short, all persons fit for work must contribute. 
The commitment of employment services and to "escape anyone" is a major change in the government. Each person will be encountered and accompanied in his efforts, as long as she will have the desire to pursue an approach towards employment. Those who are concerned must know that we will not let them down! 
The individual meetings process will help terminate several cases of isolation. People with health problems will be informed of the approach to obtain an additional allocation (temporary constraints for health or severe job constraints). 
Help the greatest number, that's what the government wants to do. 
An accountability process will be put in place for the public to follow our work in any transparency. Thus, next October, national data with regard to job interventions-Québec will be made public. 
In addition, the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Agnès Maltese, called for the opinion of the Advisory Committee on the Fight Against Poverty and Social Exclusion on Service Engagement. We will have the right time, and that independently. 
The government works to deliver, at the next school year, an action plan that will focus on further fighting poverty in Quebec. This approach will translate with conviction and audacity the meaning we want to give to solidarity as a central concern of the State's action in our society. Several departments will be arrested, because only a global, concerted and interdepartmental approach will be able to achieve also ambitious objectives. 
Since last fall, so we have worked to rethink solidarity to act so as to improve the living conditions of the poorest. The fight against poverty and social exclusion continues; This is a battle of all moments to improve the living conditions of our fellow citizens, and in which we are firmly engaged. 
