Quebec- The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, confirmed the entry into force of the four amendments to the Aid for People and Family Regulations and unveiled the commitment of employment services and "do not escape anyone". This commitment aims to intervene quickly and proactively with the providers of last resort financial assistance to enable them to benefit from the opening of the labor market and to integrate a job to improve their financial situation. 
"The financial assistance of last resort is a gesture of a great solidarity that must be ensured. The fight against poverty requires additional efforts that do not exclude that it should be adapted to reality. One of the deepest beliefs in our government is that the best way to fight poverty is employment, and we have decided to make every effort to get there. We have the courage to take this political decision and to commit to action on an ongoing basis of social assistance providers to escape anyone, "explained Minister Maltese. 
The service commitment provides that each of the providers concerned by the regulatory amendments will be met so that a personalized intervention plan will be offered to promote its employment integration. As soon as the provider is part of this course, he will receive the planned employment assistance allowance. If participation in an active job measure does not lead to employment, providers who wish to be offered other measures to promote their employability. 
Particular attention will be paid to youth. Temploi-Québec will accompany all young people under 25 years of age, seeking financial assistance from last resort. They will be met regularly to support them on an ongoing basis in their employment integration approaches. 
For the sake of transparency, the Government also intends to publish national data on a quarterly basis for the interventions carried out with the persons concerned to follow the evolution of the approach. The minister will also ask the Advisory Committee on Fighting Poverty and Social Exclusion to provide an opinion on the follow-up of this  commitment of services. 
Quebec lives significant demographic changes that have an immediate impact on its labor market. The combined effect of retirement departures and job creation related to economic growth will ensure that 700,000 jobs will be available by 2016. This number will reach 1.4 million in 2021. 
"Quebec changes and we need to adapt our financial assistance programs accordingly. Several challenges keep the job market and we will need all of our workforce to meet them. People who have the potential and desire to work can do so, so I decided to move forward with the regulatory amendments proposed in February, "said Minister Maltese. 
It has indicated that it has taken an interest in the various positions expressed during the consultation period and made adjustments to the final draft amendments to the Aid for People and Family Regulations. The minister also recalled that no provider will see its basic benefit affected by the amendments. 
Thus, the regulation which will enter into force on the 1st July provides: 
All the people involved in the changes to the monthly allowance for temporary constraints will be contacted and encountered. These individualized meetings will also identify the most vulnerable people, to provide them with measures adapted to their needs, considering their integration potential and, where appropriate, their limitations. Some people  could then be awarded an additional allowance due to health problems or due to severe job constraints. 
The goal is to help these people improve their situation and participate more for Quebec's social and economic life. Several people involved are isolated and have not met with agent for a long time. This is a new impetus to fight against poverty and social exclusion. 
