Quebec- The Minister of Health and Social Services, Réjean Hébert, the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announce the establishment of a committee that will focus on reuse, outside the health and social services network, buildings that will soon become surplus at the University of Montreal (Chum). and at the McGill University Health Center (MUHC), following the realization of each of the modernization projects. This interdepartmental committee will be piloted by the Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Jean-François Lisée. 
"With the construction of the new facilities of the two major university hospitals in Montreal, it is clear that many buildings will no longer be required by both institutions. These buildings are estimated at more than $ 200 million, and it is essential to find the best ways to valorize or dispose of them. Our government is also aware of the remarkable heritage value of many of these buildings, which calls for the greatest discernment in the search for their new vocation, "said Minister Hébert. 
An interministerial committee has been set up to define disposition scenarios of these excess assets. In addition to the Ministry of Health and Social Services, the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology of Quebec, the Ministry of Culture and Communications, the Secretariat at the Metropolitan area, Quebec Real Estate Company and the City of Montreal. The Secretariat at the Treasury Board attends work as an observer. 
"This is an important issue for the future of the metropolis and its built heritage. We will therefore consider it by giving us a global vision and avoiding hasty decisions to the room. The Departmental Committee will undertake all the necessary steps to assess all possibilities while taking into account the specific context for each building, and to make the appropriate recommendations, "said Minister Jean-François Lisée. 
"I look forward to the training of this committee, because it is clear that this project requires an important work of collaboration and consultation with all the stakeholders involved. We recognize the emblematic nature of these heritage buildings and historical sites, dear to Montrealers and Quebeckers, "added the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto. 
To help it define the best way to optimize this approach, the committee will mandate a group of experts from different horizons: economic, social, patrimonial, environmental, real estate. The expert group will be able to solicit and receive opinions of interested parties and to conduct consultations. Its recommendations should be made to the Interministerial Committee no later than December 31, 2013, so that decisions on the provision of surplus buildings may be announced in 2014. 
