Montreal -the official opposition spokesperson for health, accessibility to home care and support, Diane Lamarre, as well as the member for Joliette, Véronique Hivon, ask the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, To quickly confirm the construction of the new laundred public laundry in Lanaudière, and thus respect the commitment it made in that respect in March 2016, that is to say, to preserve the services in the public brief. 
IN SHORT 
"It's been over a year since the minister has announced that the Lavrendary public laundry project would go forward, after issuing a call for tenders and submitted the results to an independent firm for analysis. The conclusions were unequivocal: public projects have shown that they were less expensive than those in the private sector. Why are things slow as much to getting into jerk in Lanaudière? What blocks? Asked MPs, at a joint press briefing with representatives of the Confederation of National Trade Unions (CSN). 
"We are concerned that the minister barrette seeks a pretext to return to his decision and privatize the service. The minister recently indicated that subsequent analyzes were requested. He would have in his hands a study commissioned by a private provider who obviously has a financial interest in seeing the laverendary project fail, "said Véronique Hivon, stating that the laverendary project is self-financing. 
"Let's not forget the 50 workers, as well as their families, who swim in full fog! They live with a sword of Damocles above the head, not knowing what will happen to their jobs. Their future is at stake! This saga never ends, and I share their lively worry. The government must stop looking for falsefuying and respecting its commitment, which was based on an objective analysis of the situation, "said the member for Joliette. 
"Laundry services are crucial for health facilities. Hospital clothes, lingerie and all other fabrics that circulate must be cleaned and disinfected according to the highest quality standards. We strongly stop the minister between the situation with the situation and finally move forward with the project, in the interest of the entire population, "concluded Diane Lamarre. 
