Quebec, February 26, 2018 -Prequest for Quebec's requests for the federal budget, the official opposition to finance and relations Québec-Canada, Nicolas Marceau, calls, inter alia, the end of Tax injustice. "Of course, the tax treaties that have courses with tax havens must be canceled and the agreement with Netflix, torn. But, in addition, the federal government must introduce concrete measures for transport electrification, finance cell coverage in the region, provide fishermen from Quebec equitable support and make firm commitments for the Davie shipyard, "A-T- he listed. 
IN SHORT 
Restore tax justice: the Parti Québécois proposed a solution 
Nicolas Marceau pointed out that the Trudeau government recently signed two new agreements with tax havens, Grenada and Antigua and Barbuda, in addition to having concluded another, odious, with Netflix, whose products are exempt from Taxes. "We submit two concrete measures to Justin Trudeau to restore tax justice, since he claims to defend the middle class. First, by canceling the tax treaties that bind us to recognized tax havens, we will cease to make tax evasion legal. Then, teasing the agreement concluded with Netflix and forcing the multinational to collect taxes, like any local trade, the "two weight, two measures" will end, "he detailed. 
The spokesperson recalled the zero cost solution for the taxpayers he proposed: Establish the mandatory perception of taxes on all goods and services (tangible or intangible) purchased on the Internet, while offsetting the effect on the burden tax with an equivalent decrease in the overall tax rate. "Just applying this simple measure, the rules of the game would be much more accurate for our traders," continued Nicolas Marceau. 
Regions, investments, environment: Quebec must be treated equitably 
The Québécois party also calls for Ottawa that it treats Quebec fairly, and that it is committed to the regions. "The Trudeau government has set up a $ 400 million fund for the fisheries industry, but the Atlantic fishermen have access to it. This injustice towards Quebec fishermen must be corrected. In addition, in 2018, all regions must be served by an adequate cellular network; This is essential for the safety of the population and economic development. In Charlevoix, it was necessary to wait for the G7 hold for the federal government to provide a cell coverage. However, there will probably not be of G7 in Abitibi or Gaspésie in the foreseeable future, Ottawa has to devote money to ensure the development of the network. Finally, Justin Trudeau suggested that the Davie site would possibly obtain a contract in connection with four icebreakers. But the words are not enough; The budget must contain a firm and firm commitment in this regard, "said the member for Rousseau. 
Finally, Justin Trudeau, who likes to appear in the environmental champion, does not encourage, in fact, the growth of electric vehicles. "Ottawa must put in place three concrete measures for electric vehicles. First, offer, like Quebec already does, a discount when buying such a vehicle. Then give Quebec its fair share of investments for the installation of charging stations - because we currently receive only 9%. Finally, correct the aberration of the innovation fund for the automotive sector, which helps only the manufacturers of Ontario, while the Quebec industry is full of innovative SMEs that require little support from the Government, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
