Quebec- The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, today tabled the 2014-2015 budget. "The goal we have settled in terms of expenses is demanding. It corresponds to a conviction. We are convinced that job creation and prosperity it allows can only be sustainable if they rely on a healthy financial situation. The challenge is to bridge the gap between expenditures and revenues that has been dug at the time of the 2008-2009 recession. Unlike the former Liberal government, we have chosen not to further increase taxes and taxes of Quebecers, "said the minister. 
The minister confirms the government's responsible approach to achieving a balanced budget in 2015-16. The 2014-2015 budget maintains the advance deficits of $ 2.5 billion in 2013-2014 and $ 1.75 billion in 2014-15. "The impact of these deficits on the debt will be fully offset by additional payments to the Generation Fund, starting in 2016-17," said the minister. 
"Thanks to the effort shared by all my colleagues, I am proud to emphasize today that for the first time in ten years, the government achieves its targets of spending," said the minister. 
The efforts made have been rewarded. The 2012-2013 Public Accounts have shown that the government has respected its targets of expenditure, creating rigorous control, while protecting services to the public. "In 2012-2013, program spending growth has been limited to 1.2%, which is the best performance of the last ten years," the minister reported. 
"In addition, for the year 2014-2015 and the next two years, program spending growth is 2.0% per year, while under the former government, the increase in program spending has been More than double, 4.4% per year, "added the minister. 
To achieve these expenditure objectives, the minister announced that the government intends to agree on an agreement with state employees taking into account the ability to pay taxpayers. "The government wants a negotiated, fair and equitable agreement for all parties," added the minister. The Government also wishes to agree with the physicians of a new agreement taking into account, in particular, to maintain significant compensation and evolution relative to the rest of Canada. 
The Governor wants to increase the quality and efficiency of public services by implant patient-oriented funding in the health network. In addition, efforts are requested from public bodies in the management of their expenses. The minister adds that the government would like to assess the effectiveness of the organization and the modes of service delivery offered to the population. 
In order to ensure the quality and durability of child care, as well as to continue the development of the network, the minister announced that as of September 1, 2014, the rate for child care will increase to $ 8 per day, Then at $ 9 the following year, and will be indexed for subsequent years. In addition, while recognizing the undeniable contribution of foreign students to Quebec society, the government intends to review all the exemptions and tuition fees applied to them. The amounts released will be used to finance universities. 
The fight against tax evasion, work in black and crime is a priority for the government. Minister announces the implementation of modules  Sales registration in bars and restaurants in the fall of 2014. Additional measures will also be put in place in the construction sector. 
The government's desire is to increase the efficiency of the services offered to the population, to optimize the services offered for every dollar spent by the state and to respect the ability to pay citizens. The government has chosen not to further increase taxes and taxes from Quebecers. "It is by managing public finances effectively and responsibly that we will ensure that every taxpayer will have for his money and that we will be masters and prosperous at home," the minister concluded. 
To know everything about the Quebec budget 
Consult all the following press releases 
Masters and prosperous with us 
More than $ 280 million to strengthen solidarity 
Ensure the prosperity of the regions 
Patient-oriented funding in the health sector: the expert group report welcomed by the government 
Culture: both reflection of our identity and economic engine 
Publication of the Report of the Working Group on the Protection of Quebec companies 
See also the "budget at a glance" document 
Visit the Department of Finance website atbudget.finances.gouv.qc.ca 
