Quebec- "The government will improve the fate of families. This budget will restore essential tax justice to the proper functioning of our society. The families of the middle class that struggle to buckle their ends of months will therefore see their financial burden decrease. In return, the state will require more fortunate an additional effort. To the extent of its means, the Government will also help parents of young children, these families who build the future of the Quebec nation on a daily basis, "said the Minister of Finance and the economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, at the occasion of the 2013-2014 budget deposit of the Government of Quebec. 
The minister has announced the abolition of the uniform health tax and its replacement by  A progressive health contribution from 2013. 
"We have chosen to improve the situation of the greatest number. In total,  4.4 million Quebeckers, more than two-thirds of taxpayers, will pay less or  Will be exempted in 2013. In addition, the new progressive health contribution will be based on individual income. From now on, each person will pay according to his own financial capacity, "the minister explained. 
In addition, to offset the government's decline in government income as a result of  modifications to the health contribution and even better share the effort, the minister has  Announced that the tax rate for income exceeding $ 100,000 will be increased by 1.75 percentage points. 
"All revenues from the new health and rising contribution of the  tax rate for income exceeding $ 100,000 will be paid to the  Financing health and social services institutions, "he argues. 
"Always in order to help families, we relieve them of a rise  important electricity rates announced by the previous government. Eventually  This increase of 1 ¢ / kWh over five years would have resulted in an increase in the invoice  20% electricity, or $ 408 per year for a medium-sized house. This  Rise is abolished, "said the minister. 
"Like several government tariffs, the price of heritage electricity  will now evolve to the rhythm of inflation. After five years, for a house of  Medium size, this will be a saving of $ 288 a year, "he explained. 
The minister emphasized that several Quebec families do not have the resources  financial for their children to participate in sports activities,  artistic or cultural, which allow young people to stay in health, from  Discover talents and flourish. 
He announced that the government will introduce from 2013 a credit  refundable tax for the physical, artistic and cultural activities of  young people aged 5 to 16 years old. This tax credit will reimburse 20% of eligible expenses up to $ 500 or a maximum amount of $ 100 per child. It will be available for families whose income is $ 130,000 and less. 
The tax credit will be implemented gradually over a period of five years, to  from the 2013 taxation year. Thus, in 2017 and for the following years,  The amounts devoted to this measure will be $ 35 million. 
"From 2014, the cumulative effects of these three measures will allow a couple having  Two children and an income of $ 70,000 to save $ 334 a year. For a  Couple having two children and $ 35,000 income, the economy will be $ 534. AT  term, savings for these two families will reach $ 688 respectively and  $ 888, "said the minister. 
"Several families still find it difficult to find places in  Daycare for their children. Nearly 222,000 places have been created, but needs  are estimated at 250,000 places. For this reason, I announce that we will finance 28,000 new child care spaces at $ 7, which will fill these needs. We can finally say with pride: a child, a place, "said the minister. 
Several low-income families have difficulty finding housing. For  help them, the minister has announced the construction of 3,000 new housing  affordable. 
"The cancellation of the increase in tuition fees decreed by the Government  previous and the repeal of the unacceptable provisions of the Law 12 were both  First decisions of our government, "said the minister. 
He pointed out that the Prime Minister Pauline Marois, and his colleague, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, invited all the partners of the environment to a Reflection and a summit on university issues in February 2013. 
"Our government places great importance to Quebec culture. That's why I am particularly pleased to announce that the budget of the Ministry Culture and Communications will be increased by 2.1%. The culture of crifting 1% of government program spending, "said the minister. 
In recent years, some retired workers have had painful situations, while their pension plans were affected by financial focus. This turmoil continues to create strong financial pressures on pension plans. "The question of pension plans is carefully studied by the Committee of Experts chaired by Mr. Alban d'Amours. As soon as we receive his recommendations, in consultation with all the actors concerned, we will act, "said the minister. 
He also indicated that the government continues to reflect on improvements that could be made to basic public schemes. In addition, for workers who do not have access to a pension plan, the government will provide them with additional retirement savings-saving means that they can use on a voluntary basis. To this end, he will file in the months coming a bill establishing voluntary retirement savings plans. 
"These are measures that give a respite to Quebec families and who meet their needs, to the extent of our means. These are the first milestones on which we will construct to strengthen solidarity, an important value of the Quebec nation, "he concluded. 
Check out the Department of Finance and Economic InternetIn all the details. 
