Québec- The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau said he was worried about the federal budget tabled today. "The federal government is working to protect its financial framework while provinces, including Quebec, face multiple budget pressures. With the budgetary surpluses announced today, the federal government has no reason that justifies the clipping of labor market agreements, as well as the ones it has made to the main federal transfers since 2008, "deplored the minister . 
"The federal government has just confirmed today that we are entitled to a fiscal imbalance. While the latter will record significant budget surpluses in the short term and that the provinces will continue to undergo strong pressure, particularly in terms of health expenditure, everything is in place for a return to the fiscal imbalance, "said Marceau. 
Unilateral decisions taken by the federal government bring us back 10 years, namely a return of the fiscal imbalance that places the provinces in a precarious financial situation where they will be forced to increase their tax burden to maintain the quality of services. offered to the population. 
It is therefore essential that the federal government restore the provinces the financial maneuver it has withdrawn by its unilateral changes to the main federal transfers since 2008. 
The federal stubbornness to maintain its March 2013 decision to slash in the financing of labor market agreements, to put in place its own Canadian employment grant initiative (CES), is quite unjustified in The context where all provinces recognize the merits of current labor market agreements and want their renewal in current modalities and funding. 
"Not only does the Harper government maintain its announcement, but it is a barely veiled threat in Quebec and other provinces. The budget indicates that if a province does not agree with the federal government before April 1, it will itself pay the SCE through Service Canada, which would cause a diversion of $ 70 million for Quebec. Bias of the Canada-Quebec Agreement in the Labor Market (EMT). This is an unacceptable encroachment in one of our fields of competence. This is an unacceptable encroachment and Québec requires a withdrawal with full compensation for federal programs, "said Marceau. 
The minister has made it reminding that this agreement has a significant impact on the financing of employability measures for customers who are not eligible for employment insurance in Quebec. "The measures financed by this agreement play a vital role in fostering a maximum integration of Quebec labor market workers and to meet the competent workforce needs of Quebec companies. Quebec has proven itself as to the effectiveness of the measures offered to its population. Federal cuts are therefore quite unjustified, "said Minister Marceau. 
The minister also lamented only as he balances his budget on the back of the provinces, the federal government is pursuing the many encroachments it does in Québec's exclusive areas of expertise. 
"By creating a new $ 1.5 billion funding fund, wanting to invest in colleges to support social innovation or dedicating $ 420 million for new graduate scholarships, the Harper Government continues the great federal tradition of interfering in the field of higher education. Rather than finance new initiatives in our skills, the federal government should focus on bringing the Canadian social program transfer (TCPS) at its 1994-1995 level. This underfunding represents a shortfall of $ 800 million a year for Quebec to finance in particular post-secondary education, "said Marceau. 
The Minister also notes that the federal government is committed to building a Pan-Canadian securities commission despite the clear decisions of the Quebec Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court. In addition, the federal government has decided to interfere in the regulation of derivatives. "Once again, the federal government tries to set foot in the door. It is out of the question of allowing the federal government to interfere in this exclusive jurisdiction of Quebec and we will vigorously fight any federal intrusion to this effect, "said the Minister of Finance and the economy. 
Since it has announced in great pumps in March 2013 its new infrastructure plan for the next 10 years, the federal government has not blown with the new parameters of the Building Canada Fund. "Worse, it adds in the budget that it is still in" consultation "mode. It is not acceptable only after a year, the federal government has still not started negotiations with the provinces. At the rate where things go, I worry that our partners can not carry out infrastructure projects, with federal financial assistance, during the 2014 construction season, "said the Minister of Finance and economy. 
"If the federal government adopted the approach proposed by Quebec, or to pay the funds of this new plan in the form of a" en bloc "transfer, it is clear that everything would be settled with Quebec and that projects would be ready to start from this spring. Instead of proceeding with efficiency, the federal government prefers to negotiate in the play, make micromanagement and to split the work of Quebec, "added the Minister of Finance and the economy. 
As it has been the case for several years, the federal government once again demonstrates investing in the Ontario automotive industry rather than supporting the Quebec forest industry. 
"Over the next two years, the federal government will spend $ 500 million to support innovation in the automotive industry while it does not intend that more than $ 45 million for innovation in the industry forestry. This is another proof that the Harper government has abandoned Quebec, "the minister concluded. 
