Quebec- On the occasion of the 2013-2014 budget of the Government of Quebec, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, announced a healthier management of infrastructure spending and new sources of diversified income. To reduce the weight of the debt. 
"The Liberal government has made decisions that lead to an explosion of expenses. He has simply mortgaged the future. This is the case, for example, infrastructure spending. These decisions add an untenable pressure on current expenditures, "said the minister. 
He indicated that several gaps had appeared with respect to the management of infrastructure projects. Some investments were not listed in the Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) and therefore escaped the management and monitoring framework. In addition, project costs increased significantly between the time they were announced and where they were realized. Legitimate questions also arose on the prioritization of certain investments. In addition, an analysis, commanded by Infrastructure Québec, of 18 recent priority projects demonstrated that the final costs were 78% higher than the costs initially planned. 
"Our fears about the management of infrastructure projects were founded. We must completely change the ways of doing things. We will tighten the planning and project management rules to make a better sense of infrastructure spending. We will ensure that all projects will be included in the PQI. We will also evaluate the current asset park in order to have an overview that will prioritize needs. In short, we will make sure that Quebeckers have and will have it for their money, "said the minister. 
He added that the pace at which infrastructure spending has increased in recent years was unsustainable. "Our government makes a big turn to bring us back on a trajectory compatible with our ability to pay. The level of all capital investments will be established up to a maximum of $ 9.5 billion on average for the next five years, a $ 1.5 billion reduction from the 2012-2013 budget levels He announced. 
"We need to make sure that infrastructure investments respect our ability to pay and cease to debate more. This level of $ 9.5 billion a year remains considerable and will maintain the quality of our public infrastructure, "said the minister. 
"I have already meant that we intend to respect the objectives set by the debt reduction law. The previous government wanted to reduce debt by imposing a 20% increase in the electricity bill. We will instead adopt a balanced approach, "said the minister. 
Thus, he announced that the price of heritage electricity will be indexed annually at the cost of living from 2014. The resulting income will be dedicated to the Generation Fund. In addition, all the mining royalties, an estimated $ 325 million will be paid to the Generations Fund as of 2015-16. The $ 100 million revenues from rising alcoholic beverage tax will also be paid in 2014-15. It will be the same for the income that will result from the increase in the profit of Hydro-Québec following the abandonment of the rehabilitation of the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant, which will represent $ 215 million a year to from 2017-2018. 
Finally, he noted that the reduction of public infrastructure investments will help reduce debt growth. 
"In addition, it seems important to make a gesture to repay the debt right now. In 2013-2014, $ 1 billion of the Generation Fund will be used for this purpose, "said the minister. 
"Overall, all the gestures I announce today will allow us to respect the debt reduction targets based on the GDP established in the law. This means that next year, the weight of debt as a percentage of GDP will begin to decline, "he concluded. 
