Quebec- The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches, Ms. Agnès Maltais, presented the measurements of Dubudget 2014-2015, among other things, the growth of the MRC des Etchemins. 
"Economic Lapolitics Priority Estairs Our Government and the measures announced under the 2014-2015 budget will have a positive effect on the economy of the regions of Quebec, including the Chaudière-Appalaches and the MRC des Etchemins," said Agnès Maltais. "These measures represent real levers of economic development for each of them and are a pledge of prosperity for all Quebec. I am particularly pleased with the announcement of concrete measures that will support the growth of the MRC des Etchemins. » 
Since 2001, Desjardins Regional and Cooperative Capital (CRCD) has played an important role in financing Québec SMEs, particularly those located in the resources, and cooperatives. In recent years, CRCD has participated in major initiatives to promote SME growth and cooperatives and to encourage entrepreneurial succession. 
Aimed at pursuing its financial interventions in the different regions of Quebec, with an additional effort to help companies located in territories facing economic difficulties, CRCD invests at least $ 10 million over four years in territories in difficulty . 
The 40 regional county municipalities (MRCs) or equivalent territories of Quebec presenting the lowest economic development indices observed in recent years will be targeted for these interventions. 
"Thus, for a four-year period, sixteen MRC of the central regions, including the MRC des Etchemins, will be added to the recognized territories for the purpose of evaluating the regional component of the CRCD Investment Standard," said the minister. 
Forest biomass is a source of renewable energy, available and often abundant. The use of residual forest biomass for energy production is an option to reduce fossil fuel consumption and thus contribute to achieving our energy independence objectives. 
As part of the 2014-2015 budget, the Quebec government is committed to investing $ 10 million in a new fund to accelerate the development of the residual forest biomass sector. 
The government will collaborate with Fondaction and the Quebec Federation of Forest Co-operatives (FQCF) to set up a fund whose minimum capitalization will be $ 20.2 million. The objective of this fund will be to respond to the challenges of starting this new industrial sector, demonstrating its relevance and effectiveness and to be a critical mass of projects in this sector, such as physical conversion projects for heating facilities. using fossil fuels or the implementation of processing and packaging centers. 
As part of the Employment Priority Economic Policy, the government has announced a measure to take advantage of electricity surpluses, the Tariff Offer Investments-Jobs. The objective of this measure is to use our electricity surpluses to attract investment and create jobs, thanks to advantageous rates. 
The Tariff Offer Investments-Jobs will target several sectors of activity, the primary sector to the tertiary sector. 
Local Investment Funds (FLIs) aim to stimulate local entrepreneurship by promoting access to capital for the start or expansion of traditional businesses and the social economy. They are the main tool available to the 120 local development centers (CLDs) to support businesses in their territory. 
Given the importance of the FLIs in supporting local entrepreneurship, the 2014-2015 budget provides for the postponement of the FLI reimbursement for a period of five years, which will allow for liquidity to ensure the maintenance of their interventions in the region. In addition, the modalities of the FLIs will be relaxed to support future entrepreneurs in their business acquisition approaches across all regions of Quebec. 
With these amendments and carryover, the CLD will be able to carry out additional annual investments of $ 25 million from 2015-2016 to 2019-2020, with the current capitalization. 
The refundable tax credit promoting the modernization of the tourist hosting offer aims to accelerate and intensify infrastructure investments in accommodation facilities in the regions of Quebec. 
In order to allow tourist hosting companies to better plan their work and go faster forward in the realization of their renovation or improvement projects, the annual threshold of $ 50,000 will be replaced by a single threshold. $ 50,000 for the entire period of application of the measure. 
This amendment represents additional assistance, $ 100,000 in 2014-2015 and $ 200,000 in 2015-16 and 2016-17, for the improvement of the tourist accommodation offer in the region. 
"The 2014-15 budget measures are based on increased mobilization and consultation of economic stakeholders, including businesses, institutions and departments," said Maltese minister. "Combined with the considerable assets of the MRC des Etchemins, such as its tourist attractions, forests and agricultural lands, the budgetary measures and the efforts of the partners will promote the prosperity of all the citizens of the MRC, I am convinced! » 
To view the 2014-2015 budget, citizens can visitwww.budget.finances.gouv.qc.ca/budget/2014-2015/index.asp. 
