Quebec- The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, said he was very disappointed with the federal budgets. "Once again, the federal government acts unilaterally and announces new measures to break with existing agreements without prior consultation. In addition, this budget contains measures that harm Quebec. It's a frontal attack against Quebec that goes against our interests and our ways to do, "deplored the minister. 
In the first place, the minister expressed his misunderstanding of the federal decision to slash $ 70 million a year in transfers to the Government of Quebec for the labor market agreement to create a new program that will complicate the Access to training measures for people looking for a job. 
"In the wake of Employment Insurance reform, the Government's decision Harper to renegotiate labor market agreements with Quebec responds to our efforts to reintegrate workers in the labor market. The new employment grant announced today will require the Government of Quebec and employers to spend $ 70 million each year for access to their share of federal funds. Why does Canada want to set up what Quebec is already doing and, in doing so, to force workers to hit two doors rather than one? Marceau said. 
As regards the infrastructure, the Government of Quebec is disappointed that the federal government has not committed to paying the funds in the form of a "en bloc" transfer, which would have accelerated the implementation. As a project site and, therefore, to promote better support for economic growth. "Instead of proceeding with efficiency, the federal government prefers to renegotiate new agreements, selecting themselves projects, impose conditions, make micromanagement and split work," added the Minister of Finance and the economy. 
What the federal government has described as a "new" infrastructure plan responds to the Building Canada Plan, which will expire in 2014. "While Quebec and municipalities have significant infrastructure needs, the Federal funding is not up to, "said the minister. 
He also indicated that the Government of Canada still missed a great opportunity to quantify its participation in the new Champlain Bridge. 
The Minister pointed out that the announcement of the abolition of the federal tax credit on a workers' venture capital corporation, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ and Fondaction CSN, considerably harms important tools that Endowed Quebec to promote its development. 
"Taxpayers, businesses and Quebec workers are the main beneficiaries of this measure due to the significant contribution of workers' funds. In fact, the abolition of this measure will create a switzerland that will cost $ 312 million to Quebecers in five years of $ 355 million that the federal government will save by abolishing tax credit, "has Indicated Mr. Marceau. 
While the federal budget today confirmed technical changes to the Equalization Program, Mr. Marceau recalled that Quebec asked for the withdrawal of the program imposed on the program since 2009. "These ceilings have generated substantial financial losses for Quebec. $ 7.6 billion since 2009-2010. Added to the shortfall resulting from the 2011 federal government's unilateral decisions, Quebec will be deprived of $ 8.6 billion between 2014-15 and 2024-2025. Taken together, these unilateral changes have a major negative impact on Quebec's public finances. The Government of Quebec asks the federal government to return to these unfair decisions, "said Minister Marceau. 
In addition, the minister does not understand the federal fierceness to want to set up a Pan-Canadian securities commission despite the clear decisions of the Quebec Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court. He also said surprised by the extension of the mandate of the Canadian Transitional Transition Office of the Federal Government. "It is out of the matter of letting the federal interfere in the management of securities, an exclusive competence of Quebec," he concluded. 
