Quebec- "Governing is to choose. The Liberal government has made the choice to tax taxpayers in the middle class and today, it distributes small electoral candies. The Liberal Party deliberately chooses to manage appearances rather than tackling the challenges facing Quebec. This budget confirms, once again, that the Liberal government is perpetuating injustice while Quebec stagnates. » 
That said the hon. Member for Rousseau and the official opposition spokesman in economic development and finance, Nicolas Marceau, in response to the budget discourse presented today by the Minister of Finance, Raymond Bachand. 
Indeed, reading this budget, the government seeks to enjoy everyone, sprinkling multiple measurements. "It's a small budget filled with small measures, but the biggest challenges are ignored; There is nothing for school dropout, nothing either for accessibility to a family doctor and debt swells to eye. Jean Charest retains his title of the Prime Minister who will have the most indebted Quebec, "said Marceau. 
Despite the avalanche of tax increases and tariffs imposed by the Liberal government in recent years, taxpayers will now see that their government has lost control of its expenses. "The Ministers of the Charest government promised that the state would do the largest share for the return to fiscal balance. It's wrong. The achievement of fiscal balance will be done because the government transfers its debt expenditure increases. This passenger trick is shameful, misleading and irresponsible, "laundered, for his part, the member for Richelieu and the official opposition on the Treasury Board, Sylvain Simard. 
The official opposition also points out that the Auditor General stressed three weeks ago that the Liberal government would spend $ 9.3 billion more than it presented the Balanced Balance Plan. However, we are learning today that in three weeks, this gap has just increased by $ 1 billion and will reach $ 10.3 billion more than the starting forecasts. 
For its part, the member for Rousseau noted that if the fiscal balance is reached by 2013-2014, this is thanks to the Tax Harmonization Agreement. "For 2014-2015, Minister Bachand is looking for another $ 1 billion. It is therefore a sign that in two years the risk is great for Quebec to be found again in deficit, "he warns. 
Nicolas Marceau also notes that Minister Bachand rates his own target for debt control. "In 2010, the minister planned that gross debt would reach $ 192 billion in 2015. The Auditor General told us three weeks ago that it would ultimately be $ 202 billion. We are told today that it will be $ 203 billion. Clearly, the government can pretend to control its expenses, but it remains fictitious: it increases the debt to get there, "reproached the member. 
He also regrets the disability of the Liberal government to restore more vigor to our economy. "The figures of the Ministry of Finance confirm that economic growth is lower in Quebec than elsewhere in Canada. This situation will continue again for the next two years. We need a real economic vision, a real strategy that will give Quebec on the rails, "added Mr. Marceau. 
The Parti Québécois denounces the ways of making the Liberal government that wants to suggest that it does our best to get the best of the exploitation of our natural resources. "Despite an orgy of words, it hides an implacable fact: royalties will only report $ 350 million to $ 400 million a year within five years. Meanwhile, standing in front of the mining lobby, the Australian government makes the courageous choice of taxing the overprofit mining companies that exploit non-renewable resources. The marketing plan for northern Jean Charest is not the good strategy to enrich Quebec, "said the member for Rousseau. 
The Parti Québécois is particularly surprised and worried that the Minister of Finance announces in his budget that the Fund and Offering will began in the development of a railway line. "Notwithstanding the doubtful nature of this orientation, how can the minister explain this proximity between him and the Caisse while he continues to claim independence? Nicolas Marceau wonders. 
For its part, MP Sylvain Simard noted that the Liberal government claims to deploy multiple measures for employment assistance. "It can be considered that it will only be pious vows; Just read the schedules to find that the Liberal government is $ 25 million. It frankly misses consistent, "said the hon. Member for Richelieu. 
Surprised that the Government launched the RVER prior to the findings of the Love Report, the official opposition is concerned with the few guarantees provided on the costs of administering such plans managed by the private sector. "Why do not have put financial institutions and investment fund managers as well as government managers in competition in a call for tenders? ", Wonders the member for Richelieu. 
He adds that Quebec must start a real turn to improve the quality of life of our elders. "Investing in home maintenance is modernizing our health system and it's contributing to our elders live better at home. The Bachand budget goes completely next to this major issue. Increase the $ 93 per year tax credit to support a natural caregiver, it's laughable, "said Sylvain Simard. 
"This budget characterizes the failure of the Liberal government, unable to have courage and make decisions. The 8th plan is to curb the forest crisis, the 4th working group to advise the Government on the financing of health. It becomes ridiculous, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
