Quebec, on February 27, 2018 - Following the federal budget, the official opposition for the finance and relations Québec-Canada, Nicolas Marceau, can only see the indifference of Justin Trudeau when 'There is talk of the interests of Quebecers. Indeed, the budget tabled today completely ignores the needs of people and businesses by, which confirms how the Canadian Prime Minister and his finance minister, Bill Morneau, are disconnected from Quebec reality. 
IN SHORT 
"Today, Justin Trudeau has missed a new opportunity to meet the needs of Quebecers. While they demand tax justice, Ottawa responds that it will continue to promote the use of tax havens. Because it is the laws, conventions and tax regulations that need to change to combat tax evasion and abusive tax avoidance; Add resources has only a marginal impact, because the use of tax havens remains legal. Another example illustrating that the Justin Trudeau government persists in protecting the ultrarich and multinationals is the agreement with Netflix, which is maintained. The company still does not have the obligation to harvest taxes, "lamented Nicolas Marceau. 
The Parti Québécois also requested specific measures to support the regions of Quebec. Unfortunately, the federal government turned a deaf ear. "There are first of all our fishermen who, who does not have access to the $ 400 million federal fund, will continue to undergo the unfair competition from the Atlantic provinces, which may benefit. Then, the Davie shipyard must always be content with the crumbs offered by the federal government, while Halifax and Vancouver shared tens of billions in contracts. Yet Justin Trudeau did not have insinuated recently that good news was coming for Davie? Finally, many of our regions have some glaring needs for the improvement of the cellular network, but remain empty-handed, "continued the member for Rousseau. 
With respect to transport electrification, Ottawa continues, too, to drag the paw. "In Canada, 45% of electric or hybrid vehicles ride in Quebec, but the Trudeau government does not have its share to develop the recharge terminal network. It does nothing, either, to increase the number of these vehicles on the roads - it could, for example, could establish a financial incentive to the purchase, as Quebec does, but preferred to remain the arms crossed. In addition, the federal investments, already significantly insufficient in Quebec, will continue to be unfair in comparison of the millions received by Ontario from the innovation fund for the automotive sector, "he added. 
"Note that the Philippe Couillard government had virtually nothing asked, except for the TGF. However, far from confirming the realization of the project, the federal government announces that the financing of a study and even takes the sentence to specify that no additional sum is planned for the replacement of the wagons on the Windsor-Quebec line. In short, this budget is that of the multiple missed opportunities for the Trudeau government, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
