Quebec- Reacting to the federal budget, the Quebec party spokesperson for Quebec-Canada relations and finance and income, Stéphane Bergeron and Nicolas Marceau, can only deplore the stream of the Flat - Liberalventing in Quebec City. 
"Not having struggled to get gains in Ottawa, the Quebec government gets, unsurprisingly, absolutely nothing for Quebec. Whether in terms of economic measures, health transfers or employment insurance, the budget tabled yesterday confirms: Quebec is still ignored. Forty Liberal deputies were elected in Quebec on October 19, including Trudeau Prime Minister himself, and they stringently bring anything for Quebeckers, "said Stéphane Bergeron. 
The federal government continues to boast investments of 10 billion over 10 years but, in fact, only 4 billion will be invested this year. "Federal commitments for massive investments in infrastructure are not at the rendezvous. The Eldorado promised remains a mirage, and the Government of Quebec has still not obtained an agreement guaranteeing that our fair share will be paid into block and without conditions. On the contrary, this budget multiplies interference in the skills of Quebec, whether in education or health, "added Nicolas Marceau. 
While the federal government allows these new encroachments, no change is announced to the Canadian Transfer of Health (TCS): the share of funding for care by Ottawa will continue to decline. "After promising to solve the insufficiency of health transfers, the Liberal government rather adopts the same line of conduct as its conservative predecessor. It's black written on white in the budget: Cups in the TCS are maintained. Even worse, the Quebec government, in its budget tabled last Thursday, declined even before having started to negotiate, giving the federal period a period of 10 years to make the catch-up, yet necessary now. With the status quo for the TCS and Equalization, the fiscal imbalance between Ottawa and Quebec is also pronounced as before the budget tabling. The Trudeau government also intends to follow up on the Conservative project of a Pan-Canadian Securities Commission in Toronto, to the detriment of our financial sector, "continued Nicolas Marceau. 
The federal budget also includes improvements to employment insurance, extending benefits in some regions, but none of Quebec. "It's an excellent budget for Saskatoon or Fort McMurray, but there is no additional week if you live in Gaspé, Shawinigan or Chicoutimi. In addition, the Government of Quebec remains solely to assume the risks of investment in Bombardier, the budget containing no announcements in this regard, while support measures to the Ontario automotive industry are there. And, as if it was not already enough, Minister Daoust suggests that if the federal government should not contribute, Quebec could organize alone. He capitulates before even delivered battle! It's a whole negotiation position, that, sir! Stéphane Bergeron concluded. 
