Quebec- On the occasion of the 2014-2015 budget of the Government of Quebec, the group of experts for patient-oriented financing has given its report to the following patient money and the three technical bookcules accompanying the Minister Finance and the economy and the Minister of Health and Social Services. Chaired by Ms. Wendy Thomson and composed of MM. Roger Paquet and Pierre Shedler, the Expert Group Forms Fifteen Recommendations to implement patient-oriented funding in the health sector. The group of experts proposes an overall strategy with three priority intervention departments. It also offers initiatives to bring together the necessary conditions and to manage change, particularly with respect to clinical and financial information. 
On behalf of the government, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, welcomed all the recommendations presented. "The Government immediately reserves $ 15 million in 2014-15 to improve clinical and financial information about the care provided and the results achieved," he announced. 
The Group of Experts proposes to the Government an overall strategy to build on patient funding to meet the challenges facing the Quebec health system currently facing, accessibility to care, the quality of the quality. care, equity in the distribution of financing and pressure on expenses. The group of experts defines a pragmatic approach, spread over a period of three to five years beginning in 2014-15. 
The group of experts recommends acting in three directions considered priority, namely: 
In the 2014-2015 budget speech, the Minister of Finance and the Economy announced that the Government intends to give rapidly following the recommendations made by the Panel. He added that "the government will explain in a detailed way" the follow-up to these recommendations. 
The Panel for Patient Funding Group was put in place in March 2012 to propose the government the steps to be undertaken to implement patient-oriented funding in the health and social services sector. This mandate was confirmed and specified in the fall of 2012 by the newly elected government. 
Patient-oriented funding is a resource allocation mode establishing a direct link between the patient, the care provided and their funding. The resources are allocated according to the type and volume of services provided, which differentiates this mode of the traditional system, where resources are allocated on a historical and global basis. As the name suggests, patient-oriented funding is strongly impregnated with a philosophy that patient choice has an influence on the delivery of care and resource allocation. Patient-oriented funding has been introduced into health systems in most developed countries. 
"I would like to thank Ms. Wendy Thompson and MM. Pierre Sandleur and Roger Package for their excellent work, "concluded the minister. 
The report of the expert group for patient-centered financing, so that money follows the patient, can be consulted on the website of the Expert Group atwww.santefinancementactivity.gouv.qc.ca. 
To know everything about the Quebec budget 
Consult all the following press releases 
Masters and prosperous with us 
A successful expenditure control and good public finance management 
More than $ 280 million to strengthen solidarity 
Ensure the prosperity of the regions 
Culture: both reflection of our identity and economic engine 
See also the "budget at a glance" document 
Visit the Department of Finance website atbudget.finances.gouv.qc.ca 
