Quebec, on March 10, 2020 - The member for René-Lévesque, a parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois and spokesperson in finance, Martin Ouellet, deplores, reading the 2020-2021 budget, that the government spends without the surpluses Quebecers' budgets in its obsessions that had been poorly planned at the base. 
IN SHORT 
The poorly planned promises of the CAQ continue to be very expensive to Quebeckers. Having inherited historical surpluses, François Legault's government invests head down in 4-year-old kindergartens and seniors' houses. "The more we learn about the houses of the Elders of Marguerite Blais, the more expensive it is, mentions Martin Ouellet. The budget confirms that the 2600 promised places will cost extra more than $ 495 million! While the CAQ spends without counting in this expensive project, our elders still wait for their situation to improve, especially in CHSLD. » 
The CAQ also continues its hides on the cost of kindergarten 4 years. "Once again, the government refuses to register black on white the cost of building new classes. In addition to hiding information, we are learning today that the simple deployment of his kindergartens will cost another $ 136 million more. It is starting to be time for costs to leap, "added the spokesperson. 
While these costs are increasing, the CAQ, for a second year in a row, reduces capital assets to build new CEPs. "Parents want CPE but, pure stubbornly, the CAQ puts all its efforts and all our surpluses in the deployment of a parallel network for two years, neglecting the one that already works very well," says Ouellet. 
The member also worries about the absence of amounts encrypted for the third link. "The government increases the Quebec Infrastructure Plan - the PQI - of $ 15 billion, but is still not able to say how much its tunnel election project between Quebec and Lévis will cost. In addition, the government claims that the PQI's share allocated to collective transport exceeds that devoted to the road network, but it is based on hypothetical, non-budgeted sums. The reality is that the share of the collective transport really budgeted remains equivalent to only half of the one for the roads. As long as this situation continues, the government can not affirm that its budget is "green", "he supported. 
Currently, the government struggles to spend all the amounts provided for in the PQI. "By adding $ 15 billion, not counting the ever-hidden cost of the third link, the CAQ may create overheating in costs and aggravate labor shortage," says Martin Ouellet. 
The government encourages our businesses and SMEs to invest in new technologies, but announces no bonus for high-speed Internet deployment in the regions. "The CAQ prides itself on giving tax credits for the digital transition in the region, while in the entire brick of the budget, there is no mention of the deployment of high-speed Internet in the region," says Ouellet. How can an SME in the remote region invest in new technologies if it can not use it, do not have high speed internet access? » 
In addition, for the sixth year in a row, the government announces the budget balance for the financial year that begins. At the end of the last five, the reality has shown immense surpluses. "The CAQ continues with the Liberal method: hide the surpluses at the beginning of the year, to accumulate a magot at the end of the year. Quebeckers are entitled to the truth: what is the real margin of maneuver of the government? Considering the instability of the markets and the CVIV-19, a complete transparency on the state of our public finances is necessary. The Prime Minister mentioned the possibility of putting Quebec deficit. We must have access to the real figures to assess the level of preparation of our nation in the face of the challenges of being faced, "added Martin Ouellet. 
Finally, the spokesman for the Parti Québécois is disappointed with the lack of actual nationalist demands in the budget. "We expect a government that claims to be nationalist that it uses the budget to get gains against Ottawa. Unfortunately, it is not the case. For example, we would have hoped to see the Minister of Finance request the repatriation of cultural budgets, as well as the transfer of tax points, "he illustrated. 
Nevertheless, Martin Ouellet wishes to emphasize that the 2020-2021 budget includes significant amounts for hosting centers for women victims of violence. "Véronique Hivon and Megan Perry Melançon have been fighting a battle for several months so that victims of violence are better supported and better equipped. These investments are a first step in providing victims of domestic violence access to the services they need. Hope that other ads will enhance these sums, "concluded the member for René-Lévesque. 
