Québec- On the occasion of the 2014-15 budget, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, today announced that the government will invest $ 270 million for the construction of 3,250 new housing affordable. The Minister of Finance and the Economy has announced that "among the 3,250 new homes built in the Framework of the Program AccessLogis, 500 units will be reserved for people with homelessness." 
The Minister also announced that "the government will invest in 2014-2015 an additional $ 6 million for local roaming services, particularly to provide support for health and social services as well as Community support ". This announcement is part of the next publication of the first national homelessness policy, as well as the plan of action defining its implementation. 
The main mission of the site of the social economy site is to promote the expansion and development of collective enterprises by improving access to financing for social economy companies. 
"In order to allow the Trust to invest more, the interest leave on the government contribution will be extended for an additional five-year period. This interest holiday represents an investment of $ 2.5 million throughout the period, "said Minister Marceau. 
As revealed by the Events of Lac-Mégantic and Isle-Green, volunteer and part-time firefighters play a leading role in small municipalities. In the same way as firefighters, volunteer and part-time firefighters are subject to training requirements. 
"In order to ensure that Municipalities and the MRCs of Quebec have the ability to intervene properly during claims, the government will invest $ 4 million a year to provide financial assistance for the training of volunteer firefighters and to part time, "unveiled the minister. 
"Solidarity is a fundamental value of Quebecers. This is one of the pillars of government action. With the 2014-2015 budget, the government is acting to strengthen solidarity, "he said. 
---------------- 
To know everything about the Quebec budget 
Consult all the following press releases 
Masters and prosperous with us 
A successful expenditure control and good public finance management 
Ensure the prosperity of the regions 
Patient-oriented funding in the health sector: the expert group report welcomed by the government 
Culture: both reflection of our identity and economic engine 
Publication of the Report of the Working Group on the Protection of Quebec companies 
See also the "budget at a glance" document 
Visit the Department of Finance website atbudget.finances.gouv.qc.ca 
