Quebec- "Here we have the budget of the preelectoral year. After three years of demolition, the Liberals promise to patch up. After cutting in the services and increased the tax burden of $ 1500 per family, the Liberal government today promises a partial refund to patients, elders, students and families. Let's not be fooled; It only repairs the damage in education and health networks in the pockets of families and in the regions of Quebec. Big cups, then partial repair: it is the liberal recipe. This budget is clearly an admission of the guilt of the Liberals, but their apology is well insufficient, "said Nicolas Marceau, spokesperson for the official opposition in terms of finance. 
Disappointing findings 
Incomplete reinvestment in education and health 
In election campaign, Philippe Couillard had committed to maintaining a 3.5% rate of increased education spending, and 4% healthy. If he had respected his promise, there would be, in addition to the announced repayments, $ 1 billion more allocated to education this year, and $ 1.4 billion. Patients and students will still suffer from this shortfall. 
"Why do we believe the Minister of Finance, this time? Electoral investment promises in education have been broken, the promised reinvestments have not been found on the ground, despite all the ads. This fall, the Liberals promised a 4.6% increase in education, targeted that they have never reached, "has also specified the Quebec Party spokesman. 
One year without services for a student in difficulty, it's a year of lost forever. Same thing for child care; The Liberals cut about $ 300 million and do not even reinvest half of this amount. After cutting the chain saw, they reinvest in the dropper. 
Another example of a liberal smoke screen: 2000 specialized nurses have been promised. Over the next two years, an amount of $ 10 million is planned. In 24 hours, we went from a promise worth $ 1.4 billion to $ 10 million. It's a joke! Doctors can sleep quiet, their monopoly is not at risk; It is not tomorrow the day before that the specialized nurses will take more room in the network. 
This year, the budget for patient care increases by 3.6%; It is under the target set by the Prime Minister. But, even worse, it will become only 1.7% if doctors retain their privileges. There are two budgets for health: the priority budget, that is, the salary of the doctors, and the restant budget, that for patient care. 
The member of the Parti Québécois also deplored the very low investment for community organizations: only $ 10 million is planned this year. "We had also proposed to increase the solidarity tax credit, first of all $ 100 immediately, to overcome the rise in the cost of the food basket. The government preferred to lower the wealthy taxes. » 
Lower economic growth than our neighbors 
"Despite the rain of small measures announced, the Liberals still predict lower economic growth than that of Ontario, Canada or the United States. In 2016, non-residential business investment decreased by 2.6%. Exports stagnated at 0.2%. The promise to create 250,000 jobs gets away even more. On average, the Liberals will create a little more than 28,000 jobs annually. We are still far from the promise to create 50,000 per year, "added the member for Rousseau. 
"The Prime Minister had committed, on December 8, to give loan guarantees to the timber industry if the federal government did not do it. But there is still nothing for our 60,000 jobs at risk; It is a new break of promise from the Liberal government, "he also deploor. 
The tax burden is still increasing 
"Despite the abolition of the health tax, the Liberal government itself notes that since its arrival, Quebeckers have undergone an increase in the tax burden of $ 900 million a year. Including last year, they will pay cumulatively $ 4.3 billion more than their pockets. The budget precise black on white: the tax cut will be only $ 55 per person. The increase will be another $ 1,000 per family, "he continued. 
Confirmation of worries for REM 
"The concerns we had for the project of the metropolitan electricity network is confirmed. Not only does profitability are not at the rendezvous and will require operational grants, but, in addition, an 8% return is guaranteed to the Caisse, at the expense of taxpayers. Through this dubious accounting, on which the Auditor General should focus, the $ 1283 million investment of the Quebec government is actually a debt that should appear on its balance sheet. The rise in project costs of $ 5 to $ 6 billion was known; We now have the confirmation that it will be sponged by the citizens of Quebec. It also lacks the share of the federal government; We always ignore when it will arrive, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
