Quebec- The member for Rousseau and the official opposition to finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, as well as the member for Sanguinet and Spokesperson for Treasury Board, Alain Therien, denounce the budget tabled today By the Minister of Finance, which is far from balance and accentuates liberal austerity. In fact, the government cuts massively in services right now, but does not propose anything for economic growth, if not the measures promised for later. 
"We are far from balance when, to reach a zero budget balance, we brake the Quebec economy and we are severely cut into services to the people. We are far from balance when one confirms a rise in the tax burden for families and we promise an acclaim for 2017 only. We are very far from balance when conducting dramatic health and education cuts. We are far from balance when increasing the taxes of very small businesses to lower the big business, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
Far from balance in expenses: cuts now 
"A gel of education spending and an increase of barely 1.4% healthy, it means upcoming massive sections in these networks; It can be feared that they are twice as well as those imposed this year. If Quebeckers thought the cuts had hurt last year, they had not seen anything. We have to face the most important cuts over the last 15 years. How to pretend that education and higher education are essential to our economic development, while an increase of only 30 million is devoted to them? Obviously, the families of the middle class and the most vulnerable still pay for liberal austerity, "added Alain Therrien. 
Increased health spending: more than half for doctors' remuneration 
"Of the $ 535 million increase in health spending, more than half, or 329 million, is devoted to the increase in the remuneration of physicians. What remains for accessibility to care, patients, health professionals or home care? A meager 200 million, resulting in a decline in services and accessibility to patients, families and seniors in Quebec, "continued the member for Sanguinet. 
On the education side, Alain Therrien notes the additional compressions of 67 million in the financing of the universities, whereas these must already deal with important cuts. 
No economic growth plan 
"The budget confirms that the economy is down, as is job creation and private investment. Revenue growth will not be at the rendezvous. Symbol of the imbalance of the Liberal budget, the minister lower the taxes of large companies, while he cuts in the services and taxes citizens, "denounced Nicolas Marceau. 
"We are far from the balance when we see, first, that the budget balance exists, for the moment, only on paper. It will only happen at the end of the fiscal year. The financial framework is stretched to the maximum. The government lives optimism; It overestimates revenues and substantime the expenses, "he added. 
Far from equilibrium for seniors 
"In a context of aging population, increase the eligibility age for the tax credit due to age (65 to 70 years) is a total nonsense. On the back of the elderly, directly attacking their living conditions and their disposable income, we want to save an amount of 77 million, "said Alain Therien. 
The Liberal government partially corrects its mistakes, but cuts tax credits in the region 
The hon. Member for Sanguinet also notes that the government restored the level of certain tax credits he had cut in 2014-15, in addition to predicting the abolition of the health contribution, but in 2017 only. The regions, already seriously affecting the liberal cuts, will undergo again important cuts of their tax credits. Obviously, local and regional development will suffer, "he added. 
Nicolas Marceau wondered, moreover, what had become of the reserve of 1,077 billion, recently updated by the Auditor General. "This reserve is nowhere in the budget. Has it been spent? The Minister of Finance spoke of caution, this week, when I asked him about it; Where is his caution? , "He continued. 
"What all Quebeckers will see, on reading this budget, is that we are far from equilibrium for families, regions and equal opportunities. It's easy to present a budget to the null balance when we do not care about the real consequences on the citizens and the economy of Quebec. This year, the government announces compressions, an increase in austerity, and economic measures, perhaps, for the future, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
