Québec- On the occasion of the 2014-2015 budget deposit of the Government of Quebec, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, reacted very favorably to the report of the Working Group on the Protection of Quebec companies, made public today. 
"To be masters and prosperous with us is also protecting the head offices of Quebec companies. The presence of social seats on Quebec is both a brand of wealth and a strategic factor in decision-making setting out economic development, "he said. 
"This is why we welcome the recommendations of the working group aimed at promoting the maintenance and development of Quebec headquarters and to allow Quebec's public companies to protect against unwanted controls", mentioned the minister. 
"I hear quickly proposing legislative changes to the Act respecting corporations in action to include provisions that provide adequate means of defense to corporations wishing. The report recommends to allow corporations by actions to adopt a variable voting right according to the duration of holding of the shares and to prohibit certain operations for the companies subject to a public purchase offer not approved by The Board of Directors, "he added. 
The minister also said that he took the position of the Autorité des Marchés Financiers on the issue of regimes of law and that they would proceed, if necessary, to the necessary amendments to the law on values, while taking into account the Canadian context, where the greatest harmonization is required. 
"I would like to thank Mr. Claude Séguin and the group members for their excellent work," the minister concluded. 
The report of the Quebec Protection Working Group can be consulted on the website of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, atwww.finances.gouv.qc.ca. 
To know everything about the Quebec budget 
Consult all the following press releases 
Masters and prosperous with us 
A successful expenditure control and good public finance management 
More than $ 280 million to strengthen solidarity 
Ensure the prosperity of the regions 
Patient-oriented funding in the health sector: the expert group report welcomed by the government 
Culture: both reflection of our identity and economic engine 
See also the "budget at a glance" document 
Visit the Department of Finance website atbudget.finances.gouv.qc.ca 
