Quebec- "In the early 1960s, Jean Lesage and René Lévesque have inspired the quiet revolution by resonating their" masters at home "is by being bold and visionary that the Quebec state created Hydro-Québec, as we Know it today, and imagined the deposit box and placement. Today, we take the torch. We walk in the footsteps of these builders and take the reins of our economy. We will exploit our oil and our natural riches properly, we will protect our social seats with firmness and we will prosper our societies around the world. From today, we will not only be masters with us, but also prosperous with us, "said the Minister of Finance and the Economy when the 2014-2015 budget tabling. 
"The prosperity we are aiming for must benefit Quebeckers. It is in the sense that our economic policy is leading the interests of Quebec. It aims to mobilize the means necessary to be masters and prosperous with us, while remaining open to the world and the possibilities of development that it offers us, "added the Minister of Finance and the economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. 
It is in this context that the minister emphasized the importance of the investments in oil exploration: "To be masters and prosperous with us is to make sure, we Quebeckers, to be the first beneficiaries of the Riches possibly discoveries. The same objective guides the government in the mine and forest sectors. 
It is also so that we are masters and prosperous with us that the government intends to protect our headquarters. The Minister tabled the report of the Working Group chaired by Mr. Claude Séguin on the protection of head offices. The minister also announced the government's intention to quickly implement the main recommendations of the report. 
The Minister of Finance and the Economy has also announced several good news. "We counted last month 4,058,000 jobs. There have never been as many Quebeckers at work in our whole history. The Quebec economy has created 47,800 jobs in 2013, which has been the best performance for three years, "said the minister. 
The unemployment rate in 2013 was at its lowest level since the 2008-2009 recession, or 7.6%. 
"The efforts made by the government since its arrival have had a significant effect. Between September 2012 and February 2014, the government supported private investment projects with a total amount of about $ 13.5 billion. These projects will allow the total to create and consolidate nearly 33,000 jobs in Quebec, "said the minister. 
In addition, "the value of the investments of Quebec companies reached $ 35.4 billion in 2013. The year 2012 was good. The year 2013 was even better. Investments are key to creating jobs and future prosperity, "continued the minister. 
The government has put orderly in the management of public investments. "We have adopted a rigorous management framework, in order to do more with every dollar invested. In less than a year, and only for transportation infrastructure, we have achieved savings of $ 240 million through a demanding integrity policy. Over the next ten years, the Quebec Infrastructure Plan provides for investments of $ 90.8 billion, "the minister said. 
The Minister of Finance and the Economy has made an update on the implementation of economic priority employment priority. 
The deployment of the four flagship measures announced last October already produces effects on the economy and employment. The minister has successively tackled the use of electricity surplus, the acceleration of public investment, tax measures to stimulate investment, then investments in Northern Quebec. 
The minister took stock of the four policies and strategies announced as part of the Employment Priority Economic Policy. He presented the first results of the National Lapolian of Research and Innovation, of Quebec Industrial Laple, Duplan for the Development of Lastracy Electrification of Transportation. 
Major projects are underway in research and innovation. Industrially, the Identification and Accompanying Program of 300 high-performance and promising companies, nicknamed "Gazelles", is officially launched. 
"The sums made available to local development centers to promote access to capital for start-up or business expansion are renewed for five years. Also, the Angeux Québec Capital Fund is enhanced by $ 25 million. We will also allow Desjardins Regional Capital and Cooperative to make a $ 150 million share issue for 2014, so that it continues its financial interventions in the region, particularly in territories with economic difficulties, "announced Mr. Marceau. 
The Employment Priority Economic Policy will create the creation of 43,050 jobs by 2017, which will be added to the new jobs already planned. Thus, in total, these are 125,000 new jobs that will be created over the next three years. 
In addition, efforts concerning regulatory and administrative relief begin to bear fruit. 
"These many measures will help to ensure that we will be masters and prosperous at home," the minister concluded. 
---------------- 
To know everything about the Quebec budget 
Consult all the following press releases 
A successful expenditure control and good public finance management 
More than $ 280 million to strengthen solidarity 
Ensure the prosperity of the regions 
Patient-oriented funding in the health sector: the expert group report welcomed by the government 
Culture: both reflection of our identity and economic engine 
Publication of the Report of the Working Group on the Protection of Quebec companies 
See also the "budget at a glance" document 
Visit the Department of Finance website atbudget.finances.gouv.qc.ca 
