Quebec- The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, reaffirmed, on the occasion of the 2014-2015 budget, that the government is in action to ensure the prosperity of the regions and maintains its Support to municipalities. 
"Quebec's economic performance is directly dependent on the growth of each of its regions, and it is by focusing on investment support measures that all regions of Quebec enrich themselves. The extent of the actions put forward in recent months testifies well from the state's commitment to develop their full potential, "said the minister. 
The Quebec government has clearly demonstrated that it intends to continue in the way of regional development in the context of economic priority employment priority. Concrete actions are planned to promote the development of sectors directly related to the regional economic growth. 
These include targeted initiatives for the forest and oil sectors, the investment tax credit at the resource regions, the measures for the development of Northern Quebec and the actions to promote tourism in region. 
"Since last October, the Quebec government has contributed $ 1.8 billion of private investment projects in resources. These interventions will create or maintain about 2,500 direct jobs, "the minister said. 
As part of the 2014-2015 budget, the government provides for special initiatives for the regions of Quebec. 
In addition, the Minister of Finance and the Economy announced, on the occasion of the 2014-2015 budget, initiatives for forest fires and support for the formation of volunteer and part-time firefighters. 
Since 2001, Desjardins Regional and Cooperative Capital (CRCD) has been an important role in the financing of Quebec cooperatives and SMEs, particularly those located in the resource regions. 
In order for CRCD to continue its financial interventions in the different regions of Quebec, with an additional effort with companies located in territories with economic difficulties, the government announces that CRCD will be able to issue $ 150 million of shares for the year. 2014 and will invest at least $ 10 million over four years in territories with economic difficulties. 
All regions of Quebec benefit from efforts to create jobs and investments. In the regions of Quebec where economic activity is more moderate, the government is working to start as soon as possible public investment projects planned in the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. 
As early as October 2012, the government created Lefonds of Economic Diversification of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, with an envelope of $ 200 million. In November 2012, the government launched the Economic Diversification Fund of the Sources, in the asbestos region. In May 2013, the Prime Minister released the government intervention strategy for the development of the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region. The government launched the national rurality of rurality last December. The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory has just made public Lastratégie national sustainable mobility, which gives a strong financial boost to transport companies. 
According to current modalities, local investment funds (FLIs) expired at December 31, 2014, so that local development centers (CLDs) would no longer have been able to provide financial assistance from January 1, 2015. 
Given the importance of FLIs in supporting local entrepreneurship, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, in the 2014-2015 budget, provides for the postponement of the FLI repayment for a period of five years. which will provide liquidity to ensure the maintenance of CLD interventions in the region. There  Adds the easing of FLI modalities to support future entrepreneurs in their business acquisition approaches across all regions of Quebec. 
"With these amendments and carryover, the CLD will be able to carry out additional annual investments of $ 25 million from 2015-16 to 2019-2020, with the current capitalization," said the minister. 
FLIs aim to stimulate local entrepreneurship by promoting access to capital for starting or expanding traditional businesses and the economy  social. They are the main tool available to the 120 CLD to support businesses in their territory. 
The government is investing a lot in Montreal. The administrative region alone will receive $ 34.2 billion in investments by 2023, as planned in the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, which corresponds to its economic weight. 
"The government recognizes Montreal as a real metropolis, with all that it implies as special responsibilities. I thus confirm the recovery of the annual payment of $ 25 million to the City of Montreal, to help it assume the responsibilities resulting from its Quebec metropolis status, "said the minister. 
In 2017, the metropolis will celebrate its 375th anniversary. This will coincide with the 50th anniversary of the 1967 universal exhibition. In order to leave a tangible mark of this event, the government will support carrier projects to contribute to the influence of the city. 
The Minister of Finance and the Economy has confirmed a government support for this purpose of the order of $ 125 million for the realization of four major capital projects on emblematic sites of the city as government legacy: the Redevelopment of the Place des Nations and the construction of a riparian and panoramic walk at Jean-Drapeau Park, the bonus of activities offered on the space for life, a new pavilion at the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts and a new phase Pointe-to-Callière expansion, the Montreal Archeology and History Museum. 
The city of Quebec must also assume the particular responsibilities arising from its status as a national capital. 
In addition, the Quebec City plays a leading role in the development of tourism in Quebec. "I therefore confirm the government's financial support for the Dalhousie site redevelopment project, on the outbreak of the St. Lawrence, and the support of the Government to the construction of a ring of ice covered in Quebec City, the Gaétan ice ring -But, "said the minister. 
Quebec is a patrimonial city with multiple treasures, at the same time as a large place of culture. Thus, the Minister of Finance and the Economy has also announced the setting up and conversion of the Historical Chapel of the Bon-Pasteur, in order to make it accessible to the public as part of a project compatible with the historical character and architectural building. 
Forest biomass is a source of renewable energy, available and often abundant. The use of residual forest biomass to produce energy is an option to reduce fossil fuel consumption and help achieve our energy independence goals. 
"As part of the 2014-2015 budget, the Quebec government is committed to investing $ 10 million in a new fund to accelerate the development of the Residual Forest Biomass sector," said the minister. 
In this regard, the Government will collaborate with Fondaction and the Quebec Federation of Forest Co-operatives (FQCF) to set up a fund whose minimum capitalization will be $ 20 million. 
The refundable tax credit for the modernization of the tourist accommodation offer has been set up in the 2012-2013 budget to accelerate and intensify infrastructure investments in accommodation facilities located in the regions of the region. Quebec. 
In order to allow tourist hosting companies to better plan their work and go faster forward in the realization of their renovation or improvement projects, the government announces that the minimum investment threshold of 50,000 $ will no longer be applied on an annual basis, but rather for the duration of the tax credit, from March 2012 to December 2015. 
To know everything about the Quebec budget 
Consult all the following press releases 
Masters and prosperous with us 
A successful expenditure control and good public finance management 
More than $ 280 million to strengthen solidarity 
Patient-oriented funding in the health sector: the expert group report welcomed by the government 
Culture: both reflection of our identity and economic engine 
Publication of the Report of the Working Group on the Protection of Quebec companies 
See also the "budget at a glance" document 
Visit the Department of Finance website atbudget.finances.gouv.qc.ca 
