Quebec, March 21, 2019 -The member for René-Lévesque and spokesman for the Parti Québécois in terms of finance and economics as well as for the Treasury Board, Martin Ouellet, notes, reading the 2019-2020 budget, That the Government of the Coalition Future Québec (CAQ) had immense surpluses, but that it made several bad choices for their use. 
IN SHORT 
First, we remember that François Legault's party, in the field, had promised to make the greatest education of his priorities. "Once in the government, CAQ chooses to run head down in its maternal project to a billion. One thing by training another, it reduces the budget devoted to the construction of CPE and does not plan to renovate only half of the old schools in 10 years. In addition, no new significant measure is planned to respond to the shortage of teachers; However, if one imposes kindergarten at one billion, is not just likely to aggravate this already alarming problem even more? , Raised from the entry of play Martin Ouellet. 
Another billion will be spent on seniors' houses. "Again, the CAQ makes a choice. And it implies that no commitment is taken on the amounts to be investing to renovate already dilapidated CHSLDs where seniors are currently living. In addition, recurring amounts added for the hiring of health professionals and the addition of home-support hours, even if they are progress, remain insufficient to meet the needs, "continued the member. René-Lévesque. 
And for the environment? "As we had been promised that the CAQ was going to finally be interested in the fight against climate change, the result is very disappointing, Judge Martin Ouellet. For example, the Caquist government increases the 15 billion infrastructure plan, but includes no additional investment in public transport. The roads, asphalt and concrete, for their part, get 5 billion more, "he argues. 
The spokesperson also shocked by the fact that the CAQ broke its promise to connect all high-speed Internet regions in 4 years. "This measure, yet essential to the economic vitality of the regions, is now stretched over 7 years," he noted. 
"Two other major promises of the CAQ are also in the process of being broken, he continued. The Government cheats with the figures by not fully budgeting the family allowance and the standardization of the school tax. The minister must tell us the truth: Is there a hidden deficit, or hidden cuts? » 
Nevertheless, the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois wishes to salute certain measures contained in the budget, with which political training agrees. "The one concerning the exemption from the food pensions of the calculation of social assistance, although incomplete, constitutes an important progress; It makes, moreover, directly following a motion submitted last fall by Harold Lebel and adopted unanimously. In the same way, the financing of social housing - announced by the Liberals, but never realized - finally seems in the process of becoming reality, "said the hon. Member for René-Lévesque. 
