Quebec- "To accelerate economic growth, the government acts with private investment," said the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, on the occasion of the 2013-2014 budget filing. Government of Quebec. "A prosperous economy is undoubtedly the most fruitful way to improve the life of all. It is now at private investment to take over public investment. Public investments play an important role, but we must agree that the effort made by Quebec taxpayers has reached its limit. We must therefore redouble efforts to create the conditions conducive to private investment. To this end, the budget provides a series of initiatives. » 
In order to maintain and enhance the attractiveness of the Quebec tax environment with regard to private investment, the minister presented two important measures. He first announced the establishment of tax leave for major investment projects, C2I. It will apply to companies that will approve new investment projects by at least $ 300 million in three years. These projects will need to register in one of the strategic sectors of the manufacturing sector, including the transformation of mining resources and wood, value-added distribution centers or data processing and accommodation. 
This measure will allow companies to benefit, for a period of ten years, a corporate income tax leave and leave leave to the Health Services Fund for their investment project. 
In addition, the minister has announced that the investment tax credit, available for all regions, will be extended by two years, until December 31, 2017. In addition, rates will be enhanced by five percentage points. For companies in some regions resources. 
"This tax credit will allow 3,000 companies in all regions of Quebec, including more than 2,500 SMEs, investing in state-of-the-art machines and equipment. They will thus be able to increase their productivity and stand out in the markets, "said the minister. 
In order for Québec companies to obtain flexible financial and technical support for their needs, the minister announced that the government will put the Quebec Economic Development Bank. 
"The creation of the Bank will improve state action in economic development. Better coordination will optimize the support offered by the government. It will be simpler for companies to get help. It will serve as a leverage for all regions of Quebec. Companies will more easily have access to the entire range of services for them, ranging from support to funding solutions, "the minister explained. 
The Bank will ensure the management of the Regional Development Fund, which will be equipped with an envelope of at least $ 500 million annually for the development of all regions. 
In these recurring sums, will be added a total amount of $ 250 million for both economic diversification funds to support the regions of Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec and Asbestos. 
"I work with the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the implementation of these initiatives," said the minister. 
The minister noted that to ensure sustained growth in the economy, exports were needed. To promote foreign market access, the government will actively participate in the negotiations surrounding the Free Trade Agreement with the European Union. "This agreement will give Quebec businesses new perspectives in a market of 500 million people," he said. 
The minister recalled that the manufacturing sector was a pillar of the economy and a symbol of Quebec's inventiveness. "To support investment in a strong and modern manufacturing sector, the government will adopt an industrial strategy that will make a particular place for SMEs. This policy will build on the niches of excellence already developed in Quebec as well as on the development of clean transport and energies, a promising way for the future, "he said. 
In order to support the development of a greener industry, it announced the creation of a $ 200 million fund that will be intended for the development of clean technologies and the electrification of transport. 
"Over the years, Quebec has established favorable conditions for the development of the biopharmaceutical sector. However, in recent years, the business model of the industry has become profoundly transformed. The support of the Government of Quebec to this sector must adapt to this new context, always with the objective of promoting research activities in Quebec, "said the minister. 
He noted that the 15-year rule, introduced in 1994, has contributed significantly to the rise of the biopharmaceutical sector in Quebec. However, large pharmaceutical companies adopt new ways to show out the outsourcing of research. This situation leads to closure of several research centers and, as a result, a significant reduction in research spending in Quebec as well as job losses with high added value. In this context, the 15-year rule no longer responds to the goal of promoting research in Quebec. That's why the minister announced his abolition. 
In addition, in order to support research activities in Quebec, it announced that research and development tax credits for large biopharmaceutical companies will be enhanced by 17.5% to 27.5%. In addition, the government will put in place a matching envelope of $ 125 million over five years. This envelope will be used to finance research partnership projects with pharmaceutical companies, in the main niches for which Quebec has forces. 
"We assure ourselves that businesses in this sector will continue their development and creating quality jobs in a flagship field of innovation in Quebec," supported the minister. 
Innovation investment is at the center of the government's economic vision. He wishes to make Quebec one of the most innovative companies in the world, a company devoting at least 3% of its GDP to research and development investments. To do this, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, will announce in 2013 a national policy of research and innovation. It will include, among other things, to highlight the results of public research for all Quebeckers. 
In order to facilitate the transition to future national policy, the government will reserve an amount of $ 69 million, which will continue in 2013-2014 the activities of the Quebec Strategy for Research and Innovation, which will arrive event. In March 2013. This sum will contribute to the overall funding for research and development conducted in the higher education sector by different partners, and the value of more than $ 2 billion a year in Quebec. 
"The mining potential of Quebec is immense, and several companies, Quebeckers and foreign, want to exploit it. The basement belongs to all Quebeckers. We will therefore make changes to the regimes that govern the exploitation of these non-renewable resources, so that Quebeckers withdraw the maximum wealth, with respect for the environment and communities. However, we want to make these changes in an orderly and responsible way to ensure the stability of the mining sector. We will consult with the industry as well as stakeholders concerned about this issue so that the amendments that will be made for the benefit of all, "said the minister. 
"With the collaboration of the Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, we will continue the work to propose a plan that optimizes the performance of these resources for Quebeckers," he added. 
The minister also stressed that the exploitation of natural resources was to be a lever for economic development for all regions of Quebec. That's why the government intends to promote the local processing of natural wealth. For this purpose, it will adopt a timber chart that will promote the use of wood in value-added products. 
In addition, the minister reported that bonus to the investment tax credit will also support the forestry sector. In order for assistance to be available more quickly, he announced that Investing Québec and, when created, the Quebec Economic Development Bank will fund 85% of the value of the tax credit. 
"I also want to serve today my intention to challenge the federal government to finally make its part, which has shown a deep injustice by abandoning the forest industry, its workers and the communities. affected by the crisis, "said the minister. 
"Our economic vision is based on the belief that we must invest in ensuring the enrichment of the Quebec nation. This vision implies that Quebec offers a stimulating business climate, favorable to projects creating wealth and jobs, and guaranteeing entrepreneurs a predictable government action and free of surprises. To accelerate growth, the government must act by promoting private investment and innovation in the strategic sectors. We are committed to keeping a competitive tax system in Quebec that encourages private investment. Our government today throws the foundations for a strong and sustainable prosperity for all, "the minister concluded. 
