Quebec- Quebec identity is largely reflected in our culture. In addition to distinguishing and allowing us to radiate around the world, culture is a powerful engine of our economy. On the occasion of the 2014-2015 budget, the Minister of Finance and the Economy announces a series of measures that testify to the unwavering support of the government with regard to the cultural sector. 
For cultural organizations, the digital revolution represents a crucial challenge of adapting to new means of information and communication. For example, the government will invest $ 150 million to support cultural organizations that need to take the technological turn. The amounts invested will serve in particular to replace the current equipment with digital equipment. 
The digital cultural strategy will be made public soon by the Minister of Culture and Communications. 
In October 2013, the Minister of Culture and Communications announced the enhancement of the Patronage Investments Culture program. This initiative followed one of the recommendations of the Working Group on Cultural Philanthropy, chaired by Mr. Pierre Bourgie, whose report was tabled last June. 
"In order to respond to a large part of the financing needs of cultural organizations, a $ 5 million per year from the specific tobacco tax will now be intended for this program to ensure the sustainability," said the Minister. Marceau. 
The Government confirms that it will renew the agreement between the Ministry of Culture and Communications and Loto-Québec for the financing of the Montreal Symphony Orchestra. The terms of the Agreement will be unveiled soon by the Minister of Culture and Communications. 
In recent weeks, there have been several cultural infrastructure financing announcements. In this regard, the Prime Minister recently kicked off the expansion of the Montreal Contemporary Art Museum, a project that will benefit from a government contribution of $ 18.9 million. 
In Quebec City, the government granted $ 30 million to the Robert Lepage Diamond Theater project. The standards of the Historical Chapel of the Bon-Pasteur will benefit from government assistance to allow the reopening to the public. "A $ 20 million contribution will be made for the construction of the Cultural Complex of Longueuil," said Minister Marceau. 
The government has recently released its position in the debate on the selling price of books. In this regard, the government will table a bill frame the price of printed and digital new books. 
This measure will help protect Quebec identity and culture, in addition to supporting a sector of the cultural industry on which 12,000 jobs depend and nearly $ 800 million in annual benefits. 
"Background of Quebec Identity, Radiation Instrument around the world and important business sector creative and wealth, culture plays a critical role in Quebec's development," said Minister Marceau. 
To know everything about the Quebec budget 
Consult all the following press releases 
Masters and prosperous with us 
A successful expenditure control and good public finance management 
More than $ 280 million to strengthen solidarity 
Ensure the prosperity of the regions 
Patient-oriented funding in the health sector: the expert group report welcomed by the government 
Publication of the Report of the Working Group on the Protection of Quebec companies 
See also the "budget at a glance" document 
Visit the Department of Finance website atbudget.finances.gouv.qc.ca 
