Quebec, on March 23, 2017- a few days before the Quebec budget, the member for Bonaventure and spokesman for the Quebecois, Wildlife and Parks, Sylvain Roy, and the hon. Member for Rimouski. responsible for the regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and the Chaudière? Appalaches, Harold Lebel, urge the Government of Quebec to take responsibility and to announce aid measures in the timber and epidemic issues From the buds of the buds of the spruce in private forest. 
"Yesterday, with his budget, the federal government literally dropped forest communities. Nothing has been announced for Quebec forest workers to face the timber crisis. It's been over a year that we call the government of Philippe Couillard on this subject. In December, after several questions and press points, the Prime Minister had committed to creating a loan guarantee program if the federal government did not do it. The federal response arrived yesterday: nothing is planned for the 60,000 forest workers in Quebec! This illustrates the failure of the Liberal government to assert our interests in Ottawa, "first reacted Sylvain Roy. 
"There are still a few days before the budget of Quebec. The government has only one thing to do: announce the establishment of a loan guarantee program for Quebec companies that, in April, will undergo financial penalties, "said the spokesman . 
Spruce buds in private forest "Concerning the spruce budworm epidemic in private forest, it also has been asking the Minister of Forests to set up a sustainable strategy To help small forest owners. More than 14,000 owners are affected by the epidemic in Saguenay-Lac? Saint? Jean, on the North Shore, Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie. They must combat the destruction of their assets alone, while the epidemic continues its progress. Our request is clear: the Government of Quebec must announce, in the Budget of Tuesday, substantial assistance for the forest owners concerned, so that they are able to combat the epidemic, to plan the work and, thus, of the Ensure the durability of the forest ", has added Harold Lebel for its part. 
"The Couillard government has failed in its negotiations with the federal government. However, workers and forest owners do not have to pay for liberal disability to make gains for Quebec. The government must safely take its responsibilities and announce aid measures for lumber issues and the trestle epidemic, "concluded the hon. Member for Bonaventure. 
