Quebec- Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, are indignant to the orientations contained in the federal budget in terms of training of the workforce. 
Since the 1997 Agreement, Quebec has built a specific approach with labor market partners, thus contributing significantly to lower the unemployment rate and the number of providers of the last resort aid and this is this To which the Conservatives attack today. 
"The government and partners gathered in the Labor Market Partner Commission have put in place effective programs. The strategy all for employment, made public on February 8, 2013 shows that not only the Quebec approach works, but also that it is constantly improving. It is that the Conservatives, who do not include the Quebec realities of the world of work, interferes unacceptably in our fields of competence and harm the objectives of Quebec, "lamented Maltese and Cloutier ministers. 
The two ministers deplore this measure of the Flaherty budget which is not justified and which will affect the development of the workforce in Quebec. 
"The government has long been working closely with businesses and the labor market partners. Québec is also distinguished from other provinces, including the establishment of a partnership structure that gives results that exceed all federal targets, "says Minister Maltese. 
"The last Quebec strategy aimed, in others, to improve access to training for SMEs. With this unilateral decision, the Conservatives reduce this access, which is likely to affect the efficiency of our economy directly in the medium and long term, "is worried about Minister Agnès Maltese. "In fact, the training budget measures will promote the big business, which goes against the interests of the Quebec labor market partners," added the minister. 
The measure announced in the conservative budget is a denial of the Quebec model of the know-how and the expertise of the public services of Quebec by depriving Quebec from this budget, the federal government drops more than 50% of the unemployed Quebec. . 
In 60% of the budget envelope attributed to Quebec, or $ 70 million, Minister Flaherty will affect employment capacity-Québec to join unemployed and without employment insurance, which are precisely under-represented groups on the work market. Small businesses will also be affected by the withdrawal of services offered by Jobs-Québec. About 130 school bodies, 500 employability and crossroads development agencies 
Youth-Employment will have to review their service offering to deal with the decline in their financing. Impacts will be major and it's unacceptable. 
"More than 116,000 Quebeckers not eligible for employment insurance have been able to benefit from immigrants, women and providers of social assistance programs. "We have focused our efforts on training, a priority for Quebec," said Minister Maltese. 
The Minister Delegate to Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs and Sovereign Governance considers, meanwhile, that this budget is an attack on the Quebec model. 
"Training of workers, it is a competence of Quebec and the federal interference in this sector is totally unacceptable. With these cuts, it's a return back of 15 years, with respect to the training of the workforce in Quebec. It is not only an affront, but also a blatant demonstration that they do not understand Quebec, "said Minister Cloutier. 
"The federal government does not take into account the consultation work done by Quebec in terms of training of the workforce. The budget allocated as part of the labor market agreement makes it possible to train people away from the labor market to prepare them to integrate a job, and our government successfully the fact. "," Said Minister Cloutier. 
"We have a year to make it sound to the federal government we will fight to preserve the Quebec model. Our Government claims that the entire amount of the federal budget devotes to active employment measures be transferred so that Quebec can play its role in the training of labor, "said Agnès Maltese with determination. . 
Since the targets targeted by the federal government are already overwhelmed by Quebec, ministers also denounce the decline in federal funding for the resulting training. In 2011-2012, 84% of the sums from the agreement were initiated for employment measures and services for training and labor market preparation. 
The Commission, widely involved in the planning of public employment services, includes representatives and representatives of employers, the education community, trade union organizations and community organizations. 
In conjunction with its partners, Québec has launched on February 8, the strategy for employment: a new impetus with the partners, a vast mobilization that will go even further to establish a real culture of the continuing education and skills development. 
