Quebec, August 25, 2020 -The Member of Parliament for Rimouski and spokesman for Regional Development and Rurality, Harold Lebel, as well as the hon. Member for René-Lévesque Etporte-Speech for SMEs, Martin Ouellet, denounce a surrounder From the CAQ, which tries to make it possible to the population that the investment offices Québec (IQ) in the region are fully occupied, functional, and that they adequately meet the needs of Quebec entrepreneurs. 
IN SHORT 
"By consulting the Quebec Investissement website, one might believe that a large number of deputy officers are deployed in the regional offices, the exclusive service of our interesting contractors. However, a thorough review shows that apart from employees of the Demonstréal and Quebec offices, the vast majority of them are attached to more than one office, "said Martin Ouellet. 
"In other words, people designated as regional stakeholders are not physically present in the offices to welcome entrepreneurs. It is therefore not possible, in all honesty, to undertakes among the officials deployed in the regions, "chained his colleague from Rimouski.en carefully analyzing the data of the web pages of the regional network of IQ, the deputies etcons' political political party. She could determine that the same person could pass at 12, to 16, or even up to 23 offices. Another would be part of the regular team in 12 different regions, which often account for more than one office. 
"In Montmagny, for example, one could believe that 5 people occupy full-time the desktop available for our entrepreneurs. But, in reality, only one seems to be wearing typing. Same thing in New Carlisle: Only one employee devotes himself only to this office, so what web page speaks of 7 people. Same in Val-d'Or, Chandler ... as to the office of Drummondville, Size 9 of its 12 employees with that of Victoriaville ", among other things, noticed the deputy Derené-Lévesque. 
Noting that, Harold Lebel therefore has a lot of questions for the Deputy Minister Regional Economic Development, Marie-Eve Proulx. "Why try to believe in Quebecoisen, and entrepreneurs in particular, that the regional offices of IQ count more than in reality? To camouflage the harmful effects of the disappearance of the regional antennas of the Ministry of Economy and Innovation? Because it sounds better? And what were the avantages of the redesign of IQ, in the light of all this? » 
"Certainly, IQ officials are not adequately deployed on the territory. In the laws, what is the share of decision-making power actually in the region? It is important that Lesquerbecois know it, "concluded Martin Ouellet. 
