Quebec- The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce the extension until 2018 assistance offered to more than 12,800 low-income households with the rent supplement program. 
Thanks to this measure, the costs of which are estimated at $ 187 million, more than 7,200 households see their grant immediately renewed for a period of five years. In addition, about 5,600 other households, whose subsidies will expire in the next five years, will also see their supplement with prolonged rent until March 31, 2018. 
"In a context of scarcity of affordable housing, the Government of Quebec is aware of the difficulty of many low-income households to accommodate appropriately. The rent supplement is thus energizing the financial effort asked for these households, allowing them to devote only 25% of their income to accommodate. Thanks to this help, many of them can stay in a home that corresponds to their need and financial capacity, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
Recall that the rent supplement program allows low-income households to live in housing that are part of the private rental market or owned by housing cooperatives or non-profit organizations while paying rent Similar to that of a low rent dwelling. Households covered by this measure reside in buildings whose construction has been subsidized by the rental renovation program, the purchase-renovation program for cooperatives and the OBLBs and the AccessLogis Québec program. 
The Government of Quebec also announces the renewal of some 800 units of the emergency rent supplement program that are still in effect, for a period of one year. This program provides emergency assistance to households that live an exceptional situation and without this help, could end up with no home, especially during the period of July 1st. 
At the same time, the Quebec government develops sustainable solutions to increase the supply of community and affordable housing. In its newest budget, it has also announced a budget envelope of $ 231 million for the construction of 3,000 new affordable housing in the coming years. 
The SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000. households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You will also be able to consult Habitat, a new web magazine that deals with the spin-offs of the SHQ interventions on the whole of Quebec. 
