Saint-Lin-Laurentides - Thanks to the joint investments of the governments of Canada and Quebec and their environmental partners, slightly loss of autonomy now have access to 53 new affordable housing and adapted to their needs. 
The third phase of the Laurier Residence, whose construction required an investment totaling nearly $ 6.2 million, was inaugurated today by the Minister of Finance and the economy and deputy of Rousseau, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, at Name of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault. Hon. Denis Lebel, Minister of Infrastructure, Communities and Intergovernmental Affairs, Minister of the Economic Development Agency of Canada for Quebec and MP Regions of Roberval-Lac-Saint-Jean, on behalf of the Honorable Candice Bergen, Minister of State (Social Development), also required to emphasize this inauguration that crowns many years of work. 
The Government of Canada, through the Canada Economic Action Plan, and the Quebec Government, under the AccessLogis Quebec Program of the SHQ, jointly invested nearly $ 3.1 million for the completion of this project. . The total contribution of the environment is more than $ 1 million, of which $ 640,000 was granted by the City of Saint-Lin-Laurentides and nearly $ 102,000 by the Energy Efficiency and Innovation Bureau From the Ministry of Natural Resources to ensure that the building meets the Novoclimat standards. 
"I am always impressed to see the inspiring projects that take shape when a community mobilizes for the well-being of its fellow citizens, as is the case here in Saint-Lin-Laurentides. These 53 homes are added to the 40 already existing dwellings of phases I and II of Laurier Residence. Thus, more deans of our community can evolve in a peaceful and secure living environment. This is a concrete example of what our government wishes to offer to seniors from all regions of Quebec, that is to say a place where they can maintain greater autonomy and keep a healthy lifestyle and Active, "said Minister Nicolas Marceau. 
"Our government is working to help those who need it, that's why we are proud to have invested in this set of accommodation located in the city of Saint-Lin-Laurentides. These new homes are more than just a safe and affordable place to live. They are the key to a better life for people who will find one home. We continue to focus on four priorities, as set out by the Prime Minister, who are most important for Canadians: their families, the safety of our streets and our communities, their pride in being citizens of this country and, of course, , their personal financial security, "said Minister Lebel. 
Note that additional financial assistance of more than $ 891,000, divided over five years and 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the City, currently allows all tenants of the Laurier Residence to benefit from the program. Rental supplement. Thus, tenants disburse only 25% of their income to accommodate, which helps increase their purchasing power for essential goods. 
This year, through CMHC, the Government of Canada will invest approximately $ 2 billion in housing. Of this amount, $ 1.7 billion will be devoted to supporting nearly 594,000 households living in social housing. In Quebec, this represents some 127 150 households. These investments improve the quality of life of low-income Canadians and households living in social housing, including homelessness and people at risk, seniors, people with disabilities, recent immigrants and Aboriginal people. 
To learn more about how CMHC supports the development of solid houses and prosperous communities for all Canadians, contact CMHC at 1-800-668-2642 or visitwww.cmhc-schl.gc.ca. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000. households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit: www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You will also be able to consult Habitat, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
