Rimouski- The governments of Canada and Quebec will invest this year more than $ 1.5 million for the renovation of 80 social housing units in Rimouski. This is what the Honorable Christian Paradis, Minister of Industry, Minister of State (Agriculture) and MP and MP for the Honorable Diane Finley, Minister of Human Resources Minister and the development of skills and minister responsible for the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC), and the member for Rimouski, Mr. Irvin Pelletier, on behalf of Sylvain Gaudreault, Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ). 
This financial assistance, which has been granted under the replacement, improvement and modernization budget (RAM), will be used to carry out the first phase of the planned work on Lamoureux Square buildings in Rimouski. Of this sum, $ 850,000 were granted by the Government of Canada, through CMHC, while the Quebec government consented $ 680,000 through the SHQ. The city of Rimouski has contributed for a sum of $ 170,000. In total, an investment of $ 1.7 million was consented to improve and modernize Lamoureux Square. 
"Our government is committed to strengthening communities. Considerable sums are invested in Quebec for the modernization and improvement of social housing to enhance the quality of life of families, single people and seniors throughout the province. As specified by the Prime Minister, our government continues to focus on four priorities for Canadians: their families, the safety of our streets and our communities, their pride in being a citizen of this country and, well Safe, their personal financial security, "said Minister Christian Paradis. 
"The Government of Quebec is concerned about the future of the Quebec HLM Park, which is a legacy to preserve for future generations. This is why it invests significant amounts to ensure the sustainability of these infrastructures. This is an excellent news for families who, thanks to these major work, will benefit from a safer house and a more welcoming environment. But this announcement is also carrier for the whole region of Rimouski, since we know that by improving the housing conditions of more vulnerable households, we give them the tools so that they can flourish and take part in the Active life of their community, "added the member Pelletier and Minister Gaudreault. 
Managed by the Municipal Residential Office of Rimouski (OMHR) and built in 1970, Lamoureux Square has 80 dwellings in five four-storey buildings. In particular, the financial assistance announced today will replace the external coatings of the buildings which, after more than 40 years, have reached the end of their useful life. The soundproofing of dwellings will also be improved, bringing more privacy to residents. In addition, exterior areas will be developed to meet the needs of the many families who reside in this real estate complex, which is the first project of low-rent housing built in Rimouski. 
In total, $ 3.05 million financial assistance was granted in 2013 at the OMHR, as part of the RAM budget, to carry out work on the entire real estate park. 
"As mayor of Rimouski, I look forward to the fact that buildings in our community real estate assets are subject to significant investments on the part of the provincial and federal governments. The city of Rimouski is proud to financially support this renovation project that will favor local product and contractor suppliers and contractors, in order to use materials produced or transformed in the region, "said the Mayor of Rimouski, Mr. Eric Forest. 
With the Québec Infrastructure Plan, and in the framework of the RAM budget, the investments of the governments of Canada and Quebec for maintaining in good condition and the renovation of the social housing stock increased from $ 103.1 million in 2007 to 308 M $ 2012. These major investments are part of a clearly expressed commitment of governments to improve housing conditions for low-income households or people with special housing needs. 
This year, through CMHC, the Government of Canada will invest approximately $ 2 billion in housing. Of this amount, $ 1.7 billion will be devoted to supporting nearly 594,000 households living in social housing. In Quebec, this represents some 127 150 households. These investments improve the quality of life of low-income Canadians and households living in social housing, including homelessness and people at risk, seniors, people with disabilities, recent immigrants and Aboriginal people. 
To learn more about how CMHC supports the development of solid houses and prosperous communities for all Canadians, contact CMHC at 1-800-668-2642 or visitwww.cmhc-schl.gc.ca. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the Quebec Housing Corporation contributes to improving quality. of life of 230,000 Quebec households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Habitat Espace, a new web magazine that deals with the spin-offs of the SHQ interventions across Quebec. 
