Quebec - The Pitolet, a Quebec organization that helps young adults in social exclusion or marginalization, has added a rope to its bow thanks to the construction of 22 affordable housing for its clientele. The dwellings The ice ax were inaugurated today by the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and The Mayor of Quebec, Mr. Regis Labeaume, in the presence of the President and CEO of the SHQ, Mr. John MacKay, and community partners. 
The realization of this project required a total investment of nearly $ 4.5 million. From this amount, a grant of more than $ 1.4 million has been granted by the Government of Quebec, through the AccessLogis Québec program of the SHQ. In addition, the SHQ guarantees the mortgage contracted by the organization. Also mention the participation of Quebec City, which contributed to the project for nearly $ 400,000. 
"Before adding these housing, the ice ax was already playing a leading role with young adults who experience labor market integration difficulties. The 22 affordable housing units that are inaugurated today will allow the ice ax to go even further in the accompaniment of its clientele, by offering young a stable living environment, a real springboard towards a successful reintegration, "said the Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"For more than 27 years, the ice ax has accompanied young people who wish to resume their place in society by allowing them to acquire technical, personal and social skills. Adding affordable housing allows them to start an integrated approach to become autonomous. By this flawless commitment, the ice ax deserves our support, "said the Mayor of Quebec, Mr. Regis Labeaume. 
Habitations The Pitoix are aimed at students who are taking training at the Pitolet restaurant or young adults, aged 18 to 35, who attend the "living environment" of the organization. The current and future tenants of the 22 affordable homes will have the opportunity to make a transitional stay for a maximum duration of 2 years. Whether through training in the field of catering, support and listening and now accommodation, the organism The Pitoix promotes social reintegration, helps to combat poverty and prevent roaming risks. 
"The inauguration of today has a desired project for 8 years. Thanks to these housing, we are now able to complete the services loop we offer to young people in a precarious situation, "said the chairman of the board of the organization The Pitoix, Mr. Simon side. 
Monsiday additional financial assistance of nearly $ 379,000, divided over five years and 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the City of Quebec, will allow the 22 dwellings Le Pitioles to benefit from the supplement program. rent. They will thus pay a rent similar to that of a low rent dwelling, or 25% of their income. 
Like all projects made under the AccessLogis Québec program, the dwellings the ice ax have been designed to obtain Novoclimat certification, a requirement that reflects the importance given to improving energy efficiency by the Quebec government. and the SHQ. To do this, the project received a grant of more than $ 25,000 from the Ministry of Natural Resources' Energy Efficiency and Innovation Office to help achieve this goal. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000. households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You will also be able to consult Habitat, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
