Brossard- "It's a new start for these young adults living with an intellectual disability that now fly from their own wings," this is the message that the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport and Responsible Minister From the Montérégie region, Madame Marie Malavoy, today during the inauguration of the Jolivie House in Brossard. Built thanks to the AccessLogis Québec program of the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), this specialized residence includes 16 supervised accommodation and adapted to the needs of its customers. 
Nearly $ 2.3 million have been invested from the Government of Quebec and its partners to enable the realization of this project of great importance to the Brossard community. 
"The Jolivie house provides a stimulating and safe living environment with young adults with special needs. This place will allow them to flourish and realize their full potential. This is the culmination of a major project for these people, but also for their families and for the entire Brossard community, "said Minister Marie Malavoy, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and The occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The SHQ has contributed to the completion of this project by providing a $ 900,000 grant and a mortgage guarantee contracted by the Action Integral Integral Integration (AIDI) to finance the residence. The total contribution of the environment amounts to $ 844,000, of which $ 270,000 was invested by the City of Brossard, through the Montreal Metropolitan Community Social Housing Fund (CMM), and $ 574,000 per AIDA. 
"The Jolivie House allows people living with intellectual disabilities to benefit from a home support. This innovative living environment ensures respect for the needs of autonomy and a stable and safe environment, which contributes to the development of residents and their social integration, "said Yves Gougeon, President of the AIDA Board of Directors. 
Also note that all the tenants of the residence benefit from the rent supplement, a financial assistance for low-income people who, without this support, should pay more than 25% of their income to stay. This additional assistance represents an investment of just over $ 275,000 over five years, 90% assumed by the SHQ and 10% by the City of Brossard, whose contribution is reimbursed by the CMM. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the Quebec Housing Corporation contributes to improving quality. of life of 230,000 households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Habitat Espace, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
