Saint-Antoine-de-Tilly- Thanks to the joint investments of the governments of Canada and Quebec and their partners in the environment, seniors on a slight loss of autonomy now have access to a dwelling set of 19 affordable homes, adapted to their needs. 
The Domaine Saint-Antoine, whose construction required an investment totaling nearly $ 3 million, was inaugurated today by the Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Mr. André Villeneuve On behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault. Mr Jacques Gourde, Parliamentary Secretary to the Prime Minister, for the Official Languages and for the Canada Economic Development Agency for the Regions of Quebec, on behalf of the Honorable Candice Bergen, Minister of State (Social Development), also to emphasize this inauguration that crowns many years of work. 
The Government of Canada, through the Affordable Housing Investment Agreement 2011-2014, and the Quebec government, under the AccessLogis Québec program of the SHQ, jointly invested more than 1.3 m $ for the realization of this project. The total contribution of the environment is about $ 437,000, nearly $ 185,000 of which were granted by the municipality of Saint-Antoine-de-Tilly. Also note that the project has received an additional $ 250,000 grant through the Rénovation Québec program of the SHQ. 
"Our government is working to help those who need it, that's why we are proud to have invested in this set of dwellings in the village of Saint-Antoine-de-Tilly. These new homes are more than just a safe and affordable place to live. They are the key to a better life for people who will find one home. We continue to focus on four priorities, as set out by the Prime Minister, who are most important for Canadians: their families, the safety of our streets and our communities, their pride in being citizens of this country and, of course, , their personal financial security, "said Jacques Gourde. 
"Thanks to this residence, the deans of this community now have the opportunity to evolve in a peaceful, secure and affordable living environment. The Saint-Antoine estate is a concrete example of what we want to offer to seniors from all regions of Quebec; That is a place where it is possible to exercise long autonomy while maintaining a good quality of life. That's why our government invests considerable sums to build a large number of affordable and community housing, "said André Villeneuve. 
Located in the heart of the municipality, Domaine Saint-Antoine is a complex for autonomous elders or lightly loss of autonomy aged 65 and over. The building includes a shared dining room where renteen meals and a community lounge, which allows residents of sociating and receiving their loved ones. 
Note that additional financial assistance of more than $ 172,000, spread over five years and assumed to 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the municipality, allows 10 tenants of Saint-Antoine domain to benefit from the rent supplement . Thus, tenants disburses only 25% of their income to stay, which contributes, by the same to increase their purchasing power for essential goods. 
This year, through CMHC, the Government of Canada will invest approximately $ 2 billion in housing. Of this amount, $ 1.7 billion will be devoted to supporting nearly 594,000 households living in social housing. In Quebec, this represents some 127 150 households. These investments improve the quality of life of low-income Canadians and households living in social housing, including homelessness and people at risk, seniors, people with disabilities, recent immigrants and Aboriginal people. 
To learn more about how CMHC supports the development of solid houses and prosperous communities for all Canadians, contact CMHC at 1-800-668-2642 or visitwww.cmhc-schl.gc.ca. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the Quebec Housing Corporation contributes to improving quality. of life of 230,000 households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You will also be able to consult Habitat, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
