Saint-Hyacinthe- The site is launched at 935 Morison Street, where the next few months will be released by a new building of 24 affordable housing for people aged 55 and over, with low or modest income. This project, carried out through the AccessLogis Québec program of the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), will result in an investment of more than $ 3.2 million from the Government of Quebec, the City of Saint -Hyacinthe and the municipal housing office (OMH) of Saint-Hyacinthe. The work should be completed next spring. 
"This project is an excellent news for the population of Saint-Hyacinthe. It will allow more people to stay in a new, quality environment and at a reasonable cost. Projects like this one clearly demonstrate the commitment of our government to improve the well-being of the Quebec population through the construction of affordable and community housing, "said the member for Saint-Hyacinthe, Mr. Emilien Pelletier. 
The SHQ has granted a grant of more than $ 1.2 million to enable the completion of this project, in addition to guaranteeing the mortgage of $ 1 million contracted by the OMH of Saint-Hyacinthe which will be responsible for the management of the 'building. Also mention the financial participation of the city of Saint-Hyacinthe that injected $ 1 million. Finally note that the OMH of Saint-Hyacinthe is accompanied by the Saint-Hyacinthe Technical Resources Group as well as by the group of 8marskoutaines for the realization of this dwelling set. 
"We are very pleased to be able to offer citizens the opportunity to move into one of these new affordable housing. We will give priority to single people, but also to couples aged 55 and over who occupy a home of more than 2 bedrooms in a cooperative and match our selection criteria. This way of doing things will allow, by the very fact, to release housing for families, "said David Bousquet, President of the Hyacinthe OMH. 
It should be remembered that in its first budget, the Government of Quebec announced a $ 231 million budget for the construction of 3,000 affordable housing units in Quebec in the coming months. 
It should also be noted that since the implementation of the AccessLogis Québec and Affordable Housing Programs of the SHQ, 3,316 affordable housing have been built in Montérégie or are in the process of being, which represents an investment of more than $ 354 million. for the region. 
Quebec Housing Corporation  Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000. households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habit.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Habitat Espace, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
