Québec- The kickoff of the work of the water chateau dwellings was given today by the member for Berthier, Mr. André Villeneuve, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister Transport and Minister responsible for the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the Mayor of Quebec, Mr. Regis Labeaume, and community partners. 
The realization of this major housing project of 50 affordable housing for seniors in the Greater Quebec region requires a total investment of more than $ 8.5 million. From this amount, a subsidy of nearly $ 3.6 million was granted by the Government of Quebec, through the AccessLogis Québec program of the SHQ. In addition, the SHQ guarantees the mortgage contracted by the organization. Also mention the participation of Quebec City, which contributed to the project for more than $ 930,000. 
"With this project, we strongly want to keep this senior customer base with us, likely to put his experience at the service of our entire community. The harmonious integration of new buildings with the district architectural frame makes this project even more interesting. I am very proud to participate in the official launch of the work, "said the member for Berthier, Mr. André Villeneuve. 
"I want to salute the efforts of citizens for the construction of the water chateau dwellings on the site of an old church. In a context where the number of vacant dwellings is low, it is important for the city to improve the housing conditions of citizens who have special needs and to keep them in our community, "said the Mayor of Quebec, sir. Régis Labeaume. 
Monsiday additional financial assistance of more than $ 430,000, divided five years and 90% assumed by the SHQ and 10% by Quebec City, will allow 25 tenants of the water chateau dwellings to benefit from the program. rental supplement. They will thus pay a rent similar to that of a low rent dwelling, or 25% of their income. 
Like all projects under the AccessLogis Québec program, the water chateau dwellings have been designed to obtain Novoclimat certification, a requirement that demonstrates the importance of improving energy efficiency by the government. of Quebec. In order to help it achieve its goal, the project has received a grant of more than $ 100,000 from the Department of Natural Resources Efficiency and Energy Innovation Office. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000. households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.calink text. You can also consult Habitat Espace, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
