Quebec, the 1st Favor 2018 -The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the spokesperson in finance, Nicolas Marceau, accuse the Liberal government of liabming Quebeckers and Quebeckers in addition to having them Private essential services, while state coffers have been well stored since August 2015. 
IN SHORT 
"The reports of the Ministry of Finance demonstrate that since August 31, 2015, budget surpluses have been recorded. At that moment, there was nearly $ 1 billion in surplus in state safes. And, since that date, the money has only accumulated. Yet the Liberals accelerated the cadence of cuts in all sectors, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
In the November 2015 economic and financial update, to justify their choices, the Liberals lied to Quebeckers and Quebecers. "The March 2016 budget was the culmination of this lie. The Minister of Finance then claimed that the government did not hide surplus, but we now know that the year ended with surpluses of $ 2.2 billion. The surplus are lowly hidden in the middle of 600 pages of lies, "continued Nicolas Marceau. 
While the surpluses accumulated, the budget of just about all departments has been reduced. "In Education, the children who have been deprived of the professionals they needed have taken a delay they can hardly catch up. And the misery in which our elders were left, denounced many times by the Protector of the Citizen, will not be effaced by the announced reinvestments, which prove clearly insufficient, "also illustrated the member. 
"Then, as by chance, he adds, less than one year elections, the Liberals announce that there are surpluses. Just in time for the unofficial triggering of the liberal election campaign. The truth is that the tax cuts announced last fall have been paid by taxpayers and drastic sections of the last three years carried out in services. They have been funded by lies. Philippe Couillard himself confessed, "It's up to you, that money. It is you who sent it and we find that we did not need all the money you Have sent to do thejob as it is necessary. So, we give you back. " People need to know: the PLQ has unjustly neglected patients, students and seniors with the goal of financing its 2018 elections through surpluses, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
The Quebec party does not hesitate to tell the truth to Quebeckers: it is absurd to claim that we can both improve services and lower taxes, as do the PLQ and CAQ. "We, we want a strong state in the service of people, a strong state for our nation. This is the choice we have done, "concluded the member. 
