Montréal - the candidate of the Parti Québécois in Rousseau and Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, the candidate in Saint-Jérôme, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the candidate in Montarville, Simon Prévost, describe the financial framework of the Liberal Party of the Liberal Party. Quebec unrealistic and irresponsible. 
"As he has done for job data, Philippe Couillard arranges the numbers to create an artificial growth of $ 5 billion, which allows him to make unrealistic promises. This is the "way charest", the one that has never managed to control its expenses. Carlos Leitao, the banker of Philippe Couillard, does not even respect his own growth forecasts. A few weeks ago, the economist predicted 1.8% GDP growth, while the Liberal candidate now provides for 2.1%. Which tells it true? Nicolas Marceau wonders. 
"What is expensive in an economy is corruption. Instead of fabulating by inventing exaggerated economic growth, the Parti Québécois will tackle the true creation of wealth, the one created by entrepreneurs from here. By supporting our companies, taking control of our natural resources, including oil at Anticosti, and by developing our expertise in transport electrification, we will make Quebec a stronger and prosperous nation, "added Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
Even pass-pass-pass for taxation. Citizens are well aware of what is hiding behind a revision of liberal taxation: an increase in taxes and taxes. The Liberals have indeed increased them by $ 6 billion during their newest passage in power. 
"Should we remember the supposed reengineering of the state and tax cuts promised by Jean Charest in 2003? Just like him, Philippe Couillard promises everything, to everyone. He takes exactly the same ride. During the nine years of power of the Liberal regime, expenditures grew by 4.4% per year. Each time they have failed to reach their expenditure control target, while the Quebec party government has done better, controlling expenditures at 1.9% for two years, "said Simon Prévost. 
"Philippe Couillard promises everything at the same time: increases in expenditure, tax cuts and a budget surplus. While he said last November that we would be deficient for 3 or 4 years, he is now talking about budget surplus. Nothing has changed to the liberal party: increases in taxes and false promises. The Parti Québécois has the best team; It is competent and diversified. And we have the best plan, a realistic and responsible plan, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
Watch press clause. 
