Quebec- The Minister of Health and Social Services must resolve Ms. Geneviève Fortier from his duties as Chair and CA Member of the Chum-Chu Sainte-Justine, given the fact that this appointment, announced in Catimini, just before Christmas, poses a serious ethical problem. This is what Bernard Drainville and Diane Lamarre, respectively, respectively, respectively spokesman of the Quebecois party in terms of ethics and integrity, and health. 
"There is a truly an ethical problem, since this person, in addition to being a public office holder, exercises lobbying activities with the government for McKesson, a firm specializing in the distribution of medicines and medical equipment. Ms. Fortier's situation might even be a legal problem. Bill 56, Lobbying Transparency Act, deposited by Minister Jean-Marc Fournier last June, would make such a situation illegal if it was adopted as such, "said Bernard Drainville. 
Article 42 of this bill stipulates that a holder of a public office can not exercise a lobbying activity with another public office holder carrying out his duties within 1 ° of the same institution public than the one in which he exercises his charge; (2) of a public institution with which he had official, direct and important reports over the past year. "In other words, the passage of Bill 56 would render illegal the appointment of Ms. Fortier, since 'It is both a public office and lobbyist for McKesson with the Minister Barrette, as she herself enrolled in the Lobbyists Register, "continued the spokesperson. 
"The minister has probably realized that his appointment was against Bill 56; This could explain why he wanted, sneakily, by an amendment to Bill 20, amend the Lobbyism Act earlier this fall. This amendment aimed to subtract members of the Boards of Directors, employees and managers of health facilities in the Lobbying Act. In the sense of the law, these people would no longer have been regarded as public office holders. The amendment was considered not admissible by the President of the Commission on Health and Social Services, Marc Tanguay, and was therefore rejected, "said Diane Lamarre. 
"Remember that with Bill 10, the Minister has given himself a great deal of power, including him to appoint independent members of all the boards of directors of the health network. It is clear that the situation in which it places the President of C. A. Chum-Chu Sainte-Justine constitutes a permanent potential conflict of interest. How can the same person at the same time try to influence the Minister of Health for the benefit of a private enterprise that pays it, and direct the board of directors of a public institution with a budget of more than a billion Dollars likely to grant significant contracts on this same company? ", Supported the member for Taillon. 
"How many other cases of potential conflicts of interest, ethical problems, or even legal, is there among the hundreds of members of health facilities that the minister appointed? Today we are asking Gaétan barrette to remove Ms. Fortier from his duties as President and a member of C. A. Chum-Chu Sainte-Justine. It must also be explained on this concern ", have concluded members. 
