Quebec, on May 19, 2017- The spokesman for the Parti Québécois on transport, Alain Therrien, responded to the relationships won and gilded, binding on the coffering that characterized the management by the Liberal government of operations On Highway 13 at the storm of March 14th. 
IN SHORT 
"His mandate excluding ex officio the accountability of ministers and firms, according to the Prime Minister's desire, the Florent Report won completely disemposads the Liberal government. We do not even blame her lack of preparation, even if the storm was announced for days! The government has not taken any initiative, it has been passive. Minister Lessard even confessed to bed, saying that he ignored the seriousness of the situation. Do not know is one thing; Do not have the proactivity to learn when the new is in all media and prefer to go to bed is another. Leadership must come from the highest steps, not from below! "Said Alain Therrien. 
"We want Florent Gagné to be heard in parliamentary committee before the end of the session, in order to know everything about the skidding of March 14 and so that it does not happen again. The two responsible ministers, that of transport and public safety, Laurent Lessard and Martin Coiteous, must also be accountable and present in committee. It is unacceptable that at the end of one of the worst crisis management of history, no minister is responsible, "added the spokesman. 
"With regard to the golden report, the update of the intervention plans and the implementation of crisis cells to react faster are not in the right direction. On the other hand, a minister has the duty to ensure that his department is functional in all circumstances; It is abnormal that such a crisis has been necessary to realize that management and coordination practices have not been updated for a long time, and that ways of doing things are obsolete. Now, let us remember his arrival, Minister Lessard refused to re-see the governance of the MTQ, despite the allegations of Annie Trudel and Louise Boily, "concluded Alain Therien. 
