To take your ticket and participate in the adoption of this notebook of proposals, go here. 
Accession to independence must become a state of mind, a goal guiding our actions concretely, our decisions, day after day. The march towards independence begins now. It will be incarnated by strong gestures. The young people of the Parti Québécois ask for an assumed approach, a proud approach, worthy of our great project. 
You know the saying "never two without three"; Well, the third time will be good! It's time to start dreaming, time to start believe, time to start behaving with audacity and conviction to realize Quebec's independence, because it is at hand. We have to go! 
For the freedom of our nation, by the country, the young people of the Parti Québécois offer: 
1. The setting up of the independence accession process from the election of the Parti Québécois, by holding a referendum in a first term. 
2. A reference to the Quebec Court of Appeal on the federal power to spend, so that the Champs du Competence of Quebec are finally respected. 
3. To start constitutional negotiations with the federal government, in order to: 
at. To repatriate the skills on the environment, agriculture and immigration, to make the fields of competence of Quebec; 
b. To reallocate the waste powers so that they return to the provinces rather than the federal; 
vs. To give a right of veto to Quebec with respect to interprovincial infrastructure projects passing over its territory; 
d. To provide that the judges of the Superior Court and the Court of Appeal will henceforth be appointed by the Government of Quebec; 
e. To abolish the position of Lieutenant-Governor of Quebec. 
4. To promote the project of independence within the English-speaking historic community and with neo-Quebec. 
5. To abolish the oath of allegiance to the Queen during swearing at the National Assembly, and to replace him with an oath of allegiance to the Quebec people. 
6. To introduce a public model of media financing, similar to that of Sweden, in order to ensure their sustainability. 
The rhythm of modern life is crazy. Between the work routine, studies, and performance pressure, Quebeckers and Quebeckers are out of breath. In young, students, parents, nurses, teachers, psychological distress is palpable. With new technologies, emails and work easily follow us at home, mining time spent with family or time, simply, living and breathe. 
A country will never be free if its own citizens are not too. A profitable economy is an economy that knows how to take care of its most fundamental resource: its people. 
For the freedom of citizens of Quebec, by the country, the young people of the Parti Québécois offer: 
7. To amend the Labor Standards Act to pass the Normal Work Week from 40 to 30 hours, and to introduce the four-day week during the summer period. 
8. To amend the Labor Standards Act to provide trainees with the basic protections offered to other workers. 
9. To expand universal care coverage to all psychological health care, and ensure that psychological resources are easily accessible in schools, CEGEPs and universities. 
10. Provide a right to disconnect for employees following normal working hours. 
11. Will set up a Constituent Assembly to provide Quebec from a Quebec State Constitution. 
12. Will be a parliamentary republic. 
13. Create the Quebec currency, called the "piastre" (PI). 
14. Will make respect for human rights, the protection of the environment and the defense of the interests of Quebec companies of the conditions for the ratification of international trade treaties. 
15. Will decriminalize the use of all drugs and put in place resources to deal with this issue in terms of public health. 
16. Measure the success of Quebec on the basis of the level of well-being of its citizens rather than the increase in its GDP, putting in place an index such as the "Living Better" index developed by the OECD. 
Quebec society stands out as one of the most egalitarian companies in the world. While social inequalities are rising throughout the planet, that the concentration of wealth is growing, Quebec succeeds, where many others fail, defying this trend. Now, despite these good results, the dream of giving equal opportunities to all is not yet reached ... 
Even today, too often, indigenous communities live under execrable conditions; to be a woman rhymes with a salary less than that of a masculine peer; Our private, largely subsidized schools continue to create a class apart from future citizens on the basis of the depth of their pockets rather than their academic potential. 
Equity and justice are part of the DNA of the Parti Québécois. We must continue to campaign for a society where everyone will be really equal. 
For a fair and equitable society, by the country, the young people of the Parti Québécois offer: 
17. To immediately restore the regulations governing the tuition fees of international students and to reinvest significantly in the network of higher education institutions, so as to reduce the anglicization of institutions as well as the loss of competitiveness of institutions. Francophone and regional education compared to English-speaking institutions. 
18. To quickly adopt a variety of measures to resort the housing crisis that is raging throughout Quebec, by: 
at. Investing massively in the creation of social housing; 
b. Forcing, in new relevant developments, the inclusion of social and affordable housing; 
vs. Including the right to housing to the Quebec Charter of Rights and Freedoms; 
d. Regulating and limiting airbnb rentals. 
19. To establish, from the outcome of the power, a minimum wage that allows a decent standard of living, or a minimum of $ 15 per hour, and to index annually to inflation. 
20. To put in place effective free school by the bonus of the "scholarships" component of financial assistance to studies. 
21. To end school segregation by removing public funding from private schools and religious schools. 
22. To impose a tax on the salary of executive employees winning more than 30 times the average salary of employees of the same company. 
23. To create new tax levels to increase taxes of 1%, taxpayers with an annual income of more than $ 190,000. 
24. To give themselves the means to remove the glass ceiling once and for all and reach the gender equality, in: 
at. Increasing the penalties imposed by the Pay Equity Act to the companies that contravene it; 
b. Strengthening the gender differentiated analysis program (ADS) aimed at ensuring the equity of genera, and by adding an analysis component to include all reasons for discrimination set out by the Quebec Charter of Rights and Freedoms; 
vs. Establishing an obligation of parity in the boards of directors of companies with more than 100 employees, Crown corporations and public bodies that are not yet subject. 
25. To put in place a specialized tribunal for sexual violence, drawing on the formula of the Human Rights Commission. 
26. To give real legal effects to socio-economic rights in the Québec Charter of Rights and Freedoms to create a true right to free education, at a decent standard of living for all, and to fair and reasonable working conditions. 
27. Will terminate Canadian colonialism with respect to indigenous communities by investing the financial resources needed to give them decent living conditions and guaranteeing them the autonomy of building communities in their image. 
28. Adopt aggressive measures to prevent tax evasion and tax avoidance, including imposing a tax on diverted profits inspired by Australian and British taxes. 
29. Pending OECD Guidelines, will impose a 3% tax on digital giant turnover such as Google, Amazon, Facebook, Apple (GAFA), following the example of France. 
30. Will be an active member of the United Nations and a forerunner in the fight for respect for fundamental human rights, including the rights of LGBTQ people, and in the fight against climate change on the international scene. 
The Quebec nation has everything to be proud. It is distinguished by its French-speaking character, its mixed culture, its franc speak and its human warmth. The Quebec nation is innovative, generous, creative. It is a naturally welcoming nation, which welcomes anyone who wants to be part of it. Is Quebec or Quebec who wants to be! 
It's time to put the liberal years behind us. 
It is high time to start mandating fully and proudly. The Quebec nation is entitled to its self-determination, and deserves completely flourish within its own country. The Quebec nation is better placed than anyone to understand the need for self-determination of First Nations and the Inuit people, and to recognize this essential right. It is high time that First Nations and the Inuit people enjoy the right to self-proof as they see fit. 
From here to the country, for a proud nation, running towards its independence, the young people of the Parti Québécois offer: 
31. To undertake negotiations with First Nations and the Inuit people living in Québec territory, in a nation-nation dynamics, in order to define a framework in which their self-determination is recognized. 
32. To include, in the new Quebec citizenship course replacing the ethical course and religious culture, a teaching component of Aboriginal cultures and languages, as well as awareness of the reality of First Nations and the Inuit people in Quebec. 
33. To develop diplomatic relations with nations wishing to become sovereigners around the world, such as Catalans, Kurds and Scots. 
34. To force producers and broadcasters of online cultural content to have an offer of sufficient content in French and produced in Quebec, in collaboration with the artisans or actors Quebec. 
35. To depollitate the immigration thresholds to establish a formula based on the capacity, the resources available and the labor needs, while putting in place measures of integration and francization worthy of This name, funded at the height of our aspirations for these new inhabitants of Quebec. 
36. To increase the quota of the student component of the current Quebec experience program, while strengthening the control requirements of French associated with this program. 
37. Will set up an immigration promotion of Franco-Canadiens in Quebec, like Manitoba's advertising campaign, will establish a simplified migration process and ensure that there are sustainable links with Canadian Francophone communities. . 
38. Will impose a minimum quota of Quebec products in public contracts and adopt vigorous policies in economic nationalism. 
39. Expend to its college education system (CEGEPs) into countries that wish, in an optics of international collaboration and education, and promoting the Francophonie. 
40. Will deploy diplomatic efforts for the signing of an international convention on the protection and promotion of the French language. 
We will never say enough: climate change already upset our way of life and constitute the biggest challenge of our company at the moment. To make sure we have a healthy environment in which to age, it is high time to take ambitious and concrete ways to transform our economy and our way of life. It is necessary to rapidly drop our GHG emissions, but also to stop the rapid extinction of thousands of wildlife and floristic species, and to stop the pollution of our living environments. 
Rich in its streams, its forests and its natural resources, Quebec has everything to become a leader in this struggle and to show the example to the other nations of the world in terms of economic transition. It is high time to give us the means of our ambitions, and to free ourselves from the yoke of a Canadian oil state to deploy our potential for renewable energies, resilience and sustainable technologies. 
In the fight against climate change, we can not afford to wait. 
From here to the country, the effects could already be catastrophic. 
We need a country, now, to get all the tools to accelerate the transition and position Quebec today as an exemplary player in the fight against climate change. 
Thus, for the planet, young people in the Parti Québécois now ask the Government of Quebec now: 
41. To categorically oppose the LNG project and any new project to exploit fossil fuels, hydraulic fracturing or oil pipelines with the carbon footprint of Quebec. 
42. To abolish all public funds investments in companies whose activities are focused on the exploitation of fossil energies, and to lead these funds to companies working in the development of renewable energies, the circular economy, Green technologies, as well as in research in these areas. 
43. To adopt a coercive law detailing the annual GHG reduction targets of Quebec to achieve a "net net emission" target in 2040. 
44. To adopt a national "zero waste" policy, which: 
at. Reverra will the recycling collection system; 
b. banish the plastics for single use; 
vs. will penalize the companies practicing overpack; 
d. make companies responsible for the entire life cycle of their products; 
e. Mise on reuse of raw materials through the circular economy. 
45. To invest heavily in collective transportation to dracinate automotive dependence, including redirecting the funds invested in the construction of new roads towards the development of new intra and interregional networks in every corner of Quebec. 
46. To adopt a national spatial planning policy, in order to have a global vision of development and radically reduce urban sprawl, a significant source of increased GHG emissions related to road transport. 
47. To increase gradually, but nevertheless significantly, the fuel tax over a period of 10 years, while setting up a compensatory measure in order to diminish the regressive effect on low-income households and SMEs, and to use this fund exclusively to accelerate transport electrification. 
48. To prohibit the sale of gasoline vehicles from 2030, like Denmark. 
49. To increase significantly royalties on the use of water, in order to recognize the collective value of this wealth. 
To create a real right to a healthy environment and drinking water in Quebec Lacharte rights and freedoms. 
