Québec- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, made today, at Saint-Michel de Sillery, at the launch of the La26th Security Campaign in school transport. This awareness campaign will take place from February 3rd to 14th on the theme "did you see me? " 
This year again, the Ministry of Transport, the Québec Automobile Insurance Corporation and the Quebec Transportation Commission join the Quebec School Transport Association (ATEQ) to emphasize the importance of adopting safe behavior. around and on board school vehicles. 
At the launch of the campaign, Minister Sylvain Gaudreault welcomed the EATQ's commitment to security: "This initiative, whose ATEQ is the project manager and for which it was surrounded by partners. Public and private sectors, appears all the more appropriate for each year to arrive a new cohort of schoolchildren who must be inculsed the safety rules. 
"In the same way, it is equally essential to regularly recall to the entire school clientele all the importance of remaining vigilant and to respect the instructions surrounding the school transport. In addition, the users of the road, even the most experienced, also periodically need a beneficial reminder in this matter, "the minister recalled. 
In 2012, the road report in relation to school transport improved compared to 2011, from 365 to 301 victims of an accident related to school transportation. Of these, 277 people were injured slightly and 19 were seriously. Five people died, but none of them were ages 5 to 17. "We will never say enough: a victim, young or adult, is a victim of too much. In order for the school bus to remain one of the safest transportation modes, care should be redoubled near school buses as well as the approach and inside school zones, "said Nathalie Jacques , Director of Road Safety Development of the Québec Automobile Insurance Company. 
It is with enthusiasm that the Quebec Transportation Commission will again participate in the Annual School Transportation Campaign of the EATQ. 
The Chairman of the Commission, Mr. Daniel Bureau, takes this opportunity to emphasize that safety in school transportation, it concerns us all. All road network users must obviously respect the traffic rules and exercise increased caution when approaching a school bus. However, carriers have a key role to play because they must put in place effective means to ensure the safety of their vehicles and drivers, which are, day after day, at the heart of school transport. 
This campaign is an opportunity to recall that the Commission may intervene with the owners, operators or drivers of heavy vehicles in order to bring them to modify a behavior that would be at risk for road safety. 
