As part of its National Council at the end of the week, the Parti Québécois gave a plan of action on sovereignty, adopted unanimously. 
As the premier, I am very proud to talk about our project. I spoke about three continents: in Africa, Europe and America. It is my responsibility as a premier of a sovereignist government. It is the responsibility of ministers and deputies. It is also that of activists. 
If each of us speaks with his heart of our Quebec country project, each in his own way and with his reality, we will touch a lot of people. 
We have sometimes been put on the defensive since the referendum of 95. But it's over that time. As of now, we go to the offensive! 
In the past, some federalist leaders passionately defended Canada. That time is over. There are only two possible choices: Canada as it is or sovereignty. 
For the language, Canada is a risk, while sovereignty is a guarantee! 
In terms of citizenship, Canada is a risk for Quebec, while sovereignty is a guarantee of respect for our common values! 
Staying in Canada, it is insurance for Quebec to be perpetually facing failures. Sovereignty, on the contrary, it is the beginning of a great positive history for us and for the next generations. 
Canadian foreign policy is becoming more and more distant from our interests and values. In this respect, staying in Canada, it means others will speak in our name in the world, while sovereignty guarantees us a foreign policy in accordance with our aspirations, our interests and our values. 
If Quebec has been a beneficiary of equalization for three decades, it is not because Quebeckers are not good. This is because in Ottawa, decisions are not taken according to our interests. 
Ottawa has awarded more than $ 20 billion to build federal vessels in Atlantic. I challenge the federal government to invest $ 20 billion in the electrification of our transportation and I guarantee that, in a few years, Quebec will be too rich to receive equalization! 
What is the advantage of Québec to finance Billions two ministries of the environment, two ministries of justice, two ministries of agriculture, two ministries of citizenship, two ministries of immigration, two ministries of finance , two ministries of the industry, two ministries of natural resources, two ministries of public safety and two ministries of transport? And, in addition, we are obliged to fulfill two tax returns. By eliminating all these administrative duplicates, Quebec Sovereign will save more money than it receives from Ottawa. 
But the fundamental reason to do sovereignty, it remains the simple thing that we are a people. We have a story and we want it to continue. We have a language well to us, which we love. We have our ways to do in all areas. And we have this creativity, which does more and more our trademark in the world. 
We need to consider the future with confidence. You know, things can change very quickly, if we put ours. So, we will roll up our sleeves. We will go to see the world and we will tell them why we want a country. 
We have to go out, speak, convince. I ask each of our ministers to talk about sovereignty and explain our project whenever possible. I ask you, to you, talk to your family, to your colleagues, to your friends, to the people you meet. I ask you to leave no one saying that sovereignty is no longer relevant: it's not true! 
Imagine if hundreds of thousands of people get together to go out, talk and convince Quebeckers one to one that it is time for a country. 
Imagine that, a French-speaking country in North America. 
Imagine a country populated by eight million women, men and children who govern themselves on a huge and beautiful territory. 
In this country, we intend to speak French with all accents. 
It is beautiful this country. He's waiting for us at the end of the road. So, let's continue! 
