Québec-The members of the Quebecois Party of the Bas-Saint-Laurent regions and Gaspésie requests the intervention of the Prime Minister of Quebec, Jean Charest, so that a sustainable solution be adopted and that the criteria delimiting the electoral map are reviewed . 
"Bill 19 does not meet the expectations of Bas-Saint-Laurent, Gaspésie and even all regions of Quebec. He postpones the problem in time. Now, it is now necessary to settle it, with a sustainable solution as Jean-Marc Fournier desired later and as also the Parti Québécois, the Quebec Federation of Municipalities (FQM) and the Coalition for the maintenance of counties in the region, "said the member for Matane, Pascal Bérubé. 
For its part, the member for Matapédia, Danielle Doyer, points out that the Parti Québécois responded to the government's request by presenting a sustainable and permanent proposal. "The Parti Québécois has entered into an agreement with the coalition for the maintenance of counties in the region. The democratic action of Quebec was ready to consider it. Today, Jean Charest must affix his signature at the bottom of this agreement if he wants to untie the impasse, "suggested Danielle Doyer. 
The Parti Québécois does not explain the liberal attitude that pushed too quickly a solution yet supported by former Liberal Minister Benoit Pelletier. This proposal relies on the concept of urban and rural constituencies. "Urbanity and rurality are present in all regions of Quebec. It does not oppose Montreal to the regions. Jean Charest must take the phone, contact Benoit Pelletier to realize that the attitude of his current minister, Pierre Moreau, leads us straight in a cul-de-sac, "said the hon. Member for Rimouski, Irvin Pelletier. 
" We are worried. The Liberal government gives the impression that it has dropped their arms and it is no longer eager to save the regions. The coalition and the FQM call for the intervention of the Prime Minister. It is midnight less one. Jean Charest must stop turning a deaf ear and realize that Pierre Moreau is part of the problem rather than the solution. Jean Charest is the prime minister of all Quebeckers: he must pass the interests of all regions of Quebec rather than taking into account partisan considerations, "concluded the member for Kamouraska-Témiscouata, André Simard. 
