Quebec- The hon. Member for Verchères, Chief Word and Speaker of the Official Opposition for the Outaouais Region, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, is very pleased to announce that the next presidential caucus of the Parti Québécois parliamentary wing Will take place on 31 August and September 1st at the Gatineau Double Tree Hilton. 
"As Chief Head of the Official Opposition and, above all, spokesperson for our political training for the Outaouais, I am particularly proud to proceed with this announcement, which illustrates the great interest of the party Quebeckers for this beautiful region. Hosting such a meeting on its territory is a privileged opportunity for a region to benefit from significant national media visibility and to assert the projects it caresses, as well as the issues that come to it. We will take advantage of our passage in the region to meet the people of the Outaouais and echo their expectations and concerns, "said Mr. Bergeron. 
Although caucus meetings will be held in camera, it is important to specify, in fact, that, on Tuesday, August 30, the members of the Parti Québécois will unfold in the region to meet citizens, organizations and institutions of the Outaouais to deepen their understanding of the realities of the region, appropriate regional issues, present and validate proposals to solve certain issues or to arrive at the development of news. In addition, some members of the parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois, whose hon. Member for Verchères will remain in the region to attend the launch of Gatineau's Montgolfières Festival, a major event showing the Outaouais here and beyond our borders. 
"The Outaouais is too often left to itself by the Liberal Party, which literally holds it for acquired. The greatest advances in the region, in recent years, have occurred under the governments of the Parti Québécois. We have always been listening to the people of the Outaouais and the next passage of the Caucus of the Parti Québécois in the region testifies to our resolute will to continue on this path. The Outaouais is a great region that I had the opportunity to discover and love when I inhabited it as a federal member and which I assume political responsibility since, first for the Bloc Québécois And now for the Québécois party. It deserves that it is interested, not as a simple basin of votes to give five seats to the Liberal Party, but first and especially to ensure the quality of life of its population, in the same way as all the Citizens of Quebec ", to conclude Stéphane Bergeron. 
