Gatineau - the member for Jonquière and Leader of the Official Opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, surrounded by the President of the Caucus, Lorraine Richard, the House leader, Nicolas Marceau, Chief Whip and Head of the Outaouais Region, Stéphane Bergeron , as well as the deputy leader, Gaétan Lelièvre, presented the priorities of the Parti Québécois team for the next parliamentary session. 
"Our four priorities will be economic nationalism, immigration, health and education. Quebec has lost nearly 50,000 full-time jobs for 2 months. Taxes and taxes of Quebecers have increased. The Liberal Liquid Government The Fleurons du Québec with "OK", without any accountability. With impunity, the Prime Minister tries to make us believe that he takes note of the files the same morning, lunchdling, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"I ask Prime Minister Philippe Couillard to take responsibility for his failures. His economic trio is the largest political farce of the 21st century in Quebec. We find it more and more: the Prime Minister does not have the meaning of the state. In election campaign, the Liberal Party and its chief had made a commitment to protect our headquarters and be the party of the economy. However, the Liberal Party is rather the party of improvisation, the economic leaving, "added the official opposition. 
Rona: the light must be made 
In the RONA folder, the light has not been made. Philippe Couillard continues to defend the indefensible and several important questions remain unanswered. Rona was a jewel of the Quebec economy and the purchase of a block of equity by investment Québec, a political decision. That's why we want to hear, in addition to Jacques Daoust and Jean-Louis Dufresne, former Minister Raymond Bachand, who was the architect of RONA's protection plan involving several Quebec institutions. He had made a decree adopting in this sense. Why what was good under Raymond Bachand was no longer under Jacques Daoust? Philippe Couillard had a duty to protect Rona, as he had the duty to tell Quebec women and Quebeckers. He failed in both cases, "continued Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Immigration 
"The Caucus of the Parti Québécois reaffirms that it opposes the rise of immigration thresholds. Rather, we demand that francization, employability, integration and regionalization measures are increased. We are also determined to demand measures that promote French as a language of work, "said the member for Jonquière. 
Education 
"Today, everywhere in Quebec, parents, teachers, professionals mobilized for the quality of education. The parade of the Ministers of Liberal Education, who have succeeded each other since 2014, has done very badly to school success and perseverance, which should be priorities for the government. Human chains surround many schools, as they have been doing for several months. This demonstrates how people are mobilized against the cuts in our schools. They must stop, for the success of our young people, "added Mr. Gaudreault. 
Health 
"During our tour in Outaouais, we have heard groups of citizens worried about glaring health needs and the interminable emergency waiting. Citizens disillusioned by the miracle reforms of the Minister of Doctors, Gaétan Barrette, supposed to heal the wait, while the Ottawa region still suffers from a shortage of family physicians. One million citizens, everywhere in Quebec, are still waiting for a family doctor. Quebecers and Quebeckers, regardless of their condition or age, must have access to quality care, "concluded the official opposition. 
