Saguenay - while coming to Saguenay, the caucus of the return of the parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois, the President of the Caucus, Nicole Léger, as well as the member for Jonquière and spokesman of the Parti Québécois for the region of the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, Sylvain Gaudreault, are satisfied with the work done and enthusiastic for the parliamentary session that will begin soon. 
"Our troops are in great shape. MEPs were happy to meet and are more than ever motivated to bring the voice of regions, families and vulnerable people to the National Assembly. Quebecers and Quebeckers can count on us, we are attacking! He said from the outset the member for Pointe-aux-Trembles. 
"I was particularly proud to see the whole team take part in a fruitful field tour and go to meet the citizens of the region. We remember that the government is completely disconnected from the population. People clearly signified their concern and exasperation. The regions tear off, the regional offices close, one centrally centrated in Quebec, the economic development tools are dismantled, including CRIs and CLDs without proposing an alternative. In addition, the North Plan fell at the same time as the price of metals. Here, in the region, the government has dropped dragging the forest issues and the consequences have been heavy. Then, in the aluminum sector, investments are expected. Electricity supply agreements are signed, but we are looking for positive benefits, "continued Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The MEPs have identified their two priorities for the next parliamentary session: to denounce and combat the selective austerity of Philippe Couillard, and highlight the government on the economy, job creation and services to citizens. "The Prime Minister and his ministers are so obsessed with the austerity they even apply it in terms of ideas. Since their arrival, they have not proposed nothing concrete to advance Quebec. They have no economic vision, no ambition for the future of Quebec, "lamented Ms. Léger. 
The hon. Member recalled how much the Liberals of Philippe Couillard use both weights, two measures in their way of governing. "They are hard with the most vulnerable, but generous to themselves. With the Liberal government, you win if you are a close to the great liberal family or a specialist doctor, but you lose if you are a simple citizen, a community organization, a toxicomaniac who wants to get out, an autistic child or a elder. It must be said that unlike the leader and the members of the Parti Québécois, who go on the ground to meet the citizens, the Liberals govern in their offices, insensitive to the realities of the population, "she added. 
"During the next parliamentary session, members of the Parti Québécois will not interfere with reminding the government that priorities must be the economy and services to citizens. We will continue to require a change of course, "concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
