Montréal - The Montreal Caucus of MPs and the Parti Québécois candidate in Verdun, Richard Langlais, arrest the government to act quickly to facilitate the travel of Verdun's people and to ensure children in the riding of healthy schools. 
"I have seen it during my visit to the ground: the arrondisse of Verdun is enclosed between the site of the new Champlain Bridge and the reconstruction of the Turkish exchanger, which causes a monster congestion. A striking example is the closure of the WELLINGTON output of Highway 15, which prevents residents from the island of Sisters from effectively accessing Verdun. OPEN AT LEAST A TEMPORARY ALL CLASK Temporarite the island-sisters and attenuating the permanent circulation cap on the North Highway, "said the official opposition. 
"This closure catches the transit users using the bus route 12, the only public transport link between the island and Verdun, and which must make many detours to avoid the work. Added to this is the fact that the island is served by only two buses, which is clearly insufficient. I pledge to work on the realization of the light rail project, and to make sure that Ile-des-sisters served by a station, "said the candidate. 
The schools of Verdun were abandoned by the Liberal Party 
The President of the Caucus of Montreal, Carole Poirier, and the candidate also denounce the impacts of liberal austerity in the schools of Verdun. These are overcrowded, in a bad condition, and their directions must dial with staff cuts. "For example, the Canon-Joseph-Theoret school is in such a state that last April, brick facets have fallen on the head of a student. To make this security school alone, $ 6.5 million. In addition, although this establishment has the highest rate of students from disadvantaged, the government has cut into the services of psychology and orthopedagogy. The government must reinvest in our schools, "the member insisted. 
"The Liberal Party has completely abandoned the constituency; It is more than time that the people of Verdun feel listened to and supported by someone trust; Richard Langlais will be that person, "concluded his future colleagues. 
