Montreal -en Closing of the Caucus of Party Parties, the Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the President of the Caucus, Maka Kotto, announced how they intended to strengthen the link between the caucus and the population , and make it more accessible. 
"We are serving citizens, their voices in the National Assembly. Our priority is to listen to them and defend them. The Liberal government is in a state of constant instability; On our side, we propose concrete measures that we will put in place as soon as we arrived in the government, in October 2018. We proposed a robust economic nationalism policy. Our team priority SME will go on the ground. These are concrete examples of what we do, just as we will relaunch the concerns of citizens, workers, families and regions, every day, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
For his part, the President of the Caucus is ready for the new parliamentary session. "We are in charge of taking care of our fellow citizens and our fellow citizens in the National Assembly. The tour we performed this week, with organizations and representatives from diversity, is part of this state of mind, "added Maka Kotto. 
Questions of Citizens and Public Assemblies 
The official opposition leader has multiplied meetings with citizens since his arrival. He participated in several public meetings. He now announces his very first "citizen assembly" on the web. Indeed, Jean-François Lisé will lend himself to an exchange exercise with the citizens, in a "Facebook live" formula, during which he will answer the questions of the public. "I am pleased to announce that the first edition of the Web Citizens Assemblies will take place on Monday, February 6, at 7 pm. I can not wait to exchange with you. We must innovate to reach people, especially young people, "he mentioned. 
The members of the Parti Québécois therefore invite citizens to transmit their questions and testimonies, which can be used during questions at the Blue Show. "Through the address, people can offer us questions to ask the government. This is an extra step to strengthen the link between the Parti Québécois and the population, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
