Quebec- In the wake of the publication of the Auditor General's report, the official head of the official, Pierre Karl Péladeau, again denounced this morning the two-speed austerity of the Liberal government. 
"In the last election campaign, we had Liberal candidates who went astray to be great managers. Last Friday, the Auditor General exploded this myth. She said, in essence, that this government is a big dish of candy for doctors. Nearly two-thirds of new health money are devoted to the remuneration of doctors; Here is the agreement that Gaétan Barrette obtained when he was at the head of the FMSQ. But it was not enough for him. Having become Minister of Health, here he is in charge of filling the candy dish. And, as by chance, the sums discovered by the auditor go away in almost all in the pockets of specialist doctors. How can the Prime Minister justify that it is austerity for everyone, but the opulence for his colleagues doctors specialists? Asked Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"Recall that this government cuts help with children in difficulty in schools, child care educators, support for the poor in reforming social assistance, and that it wants to freeze the salary of all employees. the state. Why are there two kinds of citizens in Quebec for the Prime Minister, doctors and all the others? ", he added. 
"The Minister of Health knew that the basis for calculating compensation agreements were subject to significantly. Rather than correcting the error, he had his agreement lock so that the money can not be recovered. In this context, how did the Prime Minister entrust him with the mandate to negotiate the spread of his own agreement? This doctors government has led to an aberration, a blatant injustice for all other Quebeckers. The Prime Minister should consider that after two one-way agreements for physicians, it would be high time to entrust the reparation of these agreements to someone who is not both a judge and party, "concluded the head of the official opposition. 
