Quebec, October 6, 2017 -The official opposition to health, accessibility to care and home support, Diane Lamarre, denounces the new secret agreement between the Liberal government and the Federation of Physicians Quebec omnipraticians (FMOQ), which represents another $ 255 million gift over 3 years to doctors. 
IN SHORT 
"Today, the government welcomes that a new agreement has been concluded, this time with general practitioners. It affirms without shame that it is the fruit of the household carried out in public finances, which makes it possible to clear a room for maneuver. However, when we know that the Liberal government has sanded the direct services to patients, elders and the most vulnerable to get there, there is something to be very angry! According to what we know, the minister would have agreed to increase the wages of general practitioners by 10% over the next 3 years. Ten percent, it's about $ 255 million. But, as the agreement is secret, it is impossible to know what additional services the public will be entitled in exchange. In fact, we do not even know if there will be some guarantee of additional services whatsoever. Out of respect for the population who will pay $ 255 million more to the general practitioners, the government must immediately make the agreement immediately in its entirety, "said Diane Lamarre. 
"Without additional service guarantee, the $ 255 million will be used for anything other than to enrich doctors who have already received considerable increases. Indeed, even before the new increases granted to general practitioners, the increase in the salary of physicians already represented more than 70% of new health initiatives this year. In comparison, only $ 69 million was reinvested in home support, while $ 500 million over 5 years to provide adequate services. For 15 years, what we are witnessing is to the show of a government that signs agreements with the federations of doctors, who gives them a big check and crossing their fingers hoping that the services are improving. It's a nonsense. The Government has yielded to the FMOQ the distribution of the compensation envelopes, and no modification has been made to the compensation on the act, "added the member for Taillon. 
The Parti Québécois proposes to submit the health network on rails through a series of concrete measures, starting up by increasing the autonomy of 200,000 health professionals, allowing them to achieve several additional acts. The Plan of the Parti Québécois also includes the gel of the salary of doctors, real guarantees of access to front-line health care, as well as a reinvestment of $ 500 million over 5 years in home support, after years of liberal cuts. 
