Drumondville - Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Regions of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, Yves-François Blanchet, reacted again this morning at the request " Did not seriously 'from the head of the PLQ, Philippe Couillard, and the member for Nicolet-Bécancour, Donald Martel, to see the minister coming against his own riding of Johnson in the file of the eventual data processing center of Hydro-Québec. 
"In this case, my position has always been clear and public, explains the minister. As soon as this hypothesis occurs in Drummondville's economic development agencies, I warned them that my function would intend to intervene to promote Drummondville given the recent decommissioning of the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant by Hydro-Québec. Even today, I do not know anything about this file. In addition, Minister Blanchet rejects the very idea of ​​intervening against his own constituency: "You have to be an elected with dark values ​​to ask a member to act against his own voters. In the case of Philippe Couillard, still should he have the courage to introduce himself to the National Assembly. On the other hand, in the case of Donald Martel, it says a lot about the respect that his party has for democracy. Yves-François Blanchet adds: "Indeed, Donald Martel is able not to serve his county. The proof is its complete silence when its party, the CAQ, improvises a development plan for the St. Lawrence Valley and that the member for Nicolet-Bécancour, like his colleagues from Arthabaska, Granby and Drummond-Bois-Francs , do not even require on behalf of their constituents than Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, the very heart of the St. Lawrence Valley, are part of it. Their leader, François Legault, has excluded their own constituencies! » 
Yves-François Blanchet reiterates that he did not ingest and he will not interfere in the decision of Hydro-Québec: "Hydro-Québec will locate the installation according to its own criteria. I suppose an explanation will be made public. I will know it at that time. In the meantime, the people of Drummondville will be interested to learn that the CAQ, whose deputy Sébastien Schneeberger represents half of Drummondville, and the PLQ interliest in the management of Hydro-Québec to force the Crown corporation not to settle in Drummondville. » 
The member for Johnson, however, welcomes the fact that "both the CAQ and the PLQ no longer dispute the relevance of the $ 200 million diversification fund. We will remember that the government of the Parti Québécois replaced a coarse lie from the Liberal government, which had decided to close the plant without offsetting this closure with a single penny, by an ecological, economic, responsible decision and an investment of 200 million of dollars ". The Québec Economic Development Bank's FLQ and the CAQ in the Quebec Economic Development Bank: "The project to gather several economic institutions under one hat, simplify procedures and to better support new entrepreneurs whose new entrepreneurs Region has a shouting need has been very well received from the economic circles. It's a beautiful and good project. Yet, both the CAQ and the PLQ will vote against. What a lack of vision, what ambition in the short term on the back of the citizens of Bécancour, Trois-Rivières and Quebec, what a sad partisanship! If the members of the CAQ and the PLQ want to make economic development beyond their election campaigns, that they support the bill that will create the Quebec Economic Development Bank! » 
Yves-François Blanchet still invites so much Philippe Couillard that Donald Martel, as well as any elected region of the region, to discuss the development of Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec, "where and when they have the courage" , and concluded by explaining that, according to him, "the voters, whether of the Mauricie or the center-du-Québec, want members and ministers in whom they can trust. If elected officials take a stand against their own voters, their own counties, as Philippe Couillard suggests and Donald Martel, how could people trust them? And those who ask them to reveal their own values by doing so. My principles are clear, frank and well known, and they have served solely the County of Johnson and the regions of Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec until now. » 
