Montreal- The Minister Delegate to Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today has inaugurated the new continuous assistance resource of the Lucie-Bruneau Rehabilitation Center, the Lorimier resource. This welcomes adults between 18 and 65 with a serious behavioral disorder related to physical disability, such as craniocerebral trauma. 
"Access to residential resources adapted to people with physical disabilities is a major challenge, even more when this impairment causes serious behavioral disorders. I am very pleased to inaugurate a new environment for them today, a suitable resource that will meet their rehabilitation needs, while promoting their social participation and maximizing their quality of life, "said Minister Hivon. . 
The resource of Lorimier has four single rooms in two apartments (4 ½) upstairs, where residents benefit from an open environment and can enter and exit at their liability, and two apartments (4 ½) on the ground floor. Chaussée, with access controlled by the staff. A presence at any time is ensured by the clinical team, which is composed of five educators, an auxiliary, a project manager in psychoeducation and a responsible manager. 
"Residents of this new resource, which may have functional limitations, communication problems or dependencies, or difficulties in organizing and using the resources of the community, are well surrounded and well accompanied. For each of them, an intervention plan and an active prevention grid of behavior disorders are established. They can also rely on the care and services of a qualified and dedicated team. I take this opportunity to thank the members of this team, which provide essential support for residents of the Lorimier resource. They are eloquent examples of commitment and solidarity, "said Minister Hivon. 
A recurring budget of $ 734,092 was granted to the Lucie-Bruneau Rehabilitation Center by the Montreal Health and Social Services Agency for the creation of these eight specialized accommodation, an amount of $ 81,095. specially dedicated to rehabilitation services. The Center also benefited from a non-recurring financial assistance of $ 50,000 from the Agency for the establishment of this resource. 
Remember that the Lecternity of Rehabilitation Lucie-Bruneauassume a regional coordinating role for hosting host residences and intermediate resources for francophone adult clientele with physical disabilities, and that it acts as a manager for these resources . 
