Quebec- Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, Announces Funding Assistance of $ 60,209,970 for the City Biomethanization Plant From Quebec, a maximum contribution of $ 43,632,466 from the Government of Quebec and an amount up to $ 16,577,504 from the federal government. 
This announcement was made in the presence of the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and the Regions of the Chaudière-Appalaches and the Capitale National, Ms. Agnès Maltese, And the Mayor of Quebec, Mr. Regis Labeaume. 
Thanks to the aid granted, granted under the biomethanization and composting (PTMOBC) organic processing program, the City of Quebec will be able to ensure the establishment of the Quebec City Agglomeration Biomethanization Center (CBAQ). to promote the whole organic matter generated by the population of the agglomeration of Quebec, about 551,000. 
"I look forward to seeing that more and more municipalities make the choice to invest in biomethanization and composting initiatives. We have concrete proof that our awareness efforts are fruitful. In a few years, we want to make Quebec a society without wastching, where the only residual material eliminated is the ultimate residue. The 2011-2015 Action Plan of the Government of Quebec, linked to the Residual Materials Management Policy, also for the purpose of recycling 60% of the residual organic matter by the end of 2015. The draft The city of Quebec is a step further in the right direction, "said Minister Blanchet. 
The CBAQ will therefore receive and treat food residues from residential, commercial, institutional and industrial origins, as well as sludge of wastewater treatment plants, ie about 182,600 metric tons of organic matter per year. In addition, it will allow a reduction of 9,512 tonnes of greenhouse gases per year. 
"With its project, the City of Quebec can contribute concretely to collective efforts to improve our management of organic residual materials. In addition, this project is a great news for the people of the region since it will allow both to boost the local economy and improve, in the long term, the quality of life of citizens, "said Minister Maltese . 
The Mayor of Quebec, Mr. Regis Labeaume, for his part mentioned that: "The kickoff of the biomethanization center is a great news for Quebec. At present, the incinerator works with almost maximum capacity, which is not desirable. The future is green innovation and all citizens will be involved in the coming years. » 
Additional information on the PTMOBC is available on the Department's website at www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca. 
