Sept-Îles - The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, today confirmed the expansion and redevelopment of the Gustave-Gauvreau residence, attached to the Sept-Îles Health and Social Services Center. On this occasion, she was accompanied by the member for Duplessis, Lorraine Richard. This project, the realization of which requires an investment in the order of $ 26.7 million, has been provisioned at the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. It will be funded mainly by the Ministry of Health and Social Services, with a complementary contribution of $ 228,000 from the institution. 
"This project will accommodate 35 people who are currently hosted in a long-term care unit in the hospital. In addition, the new real estate environment will also be used by home support teams and mental health programs, with the positive spin-offs that follow for people served, "said the Prime Minister. 
"This is a project that we are proud to bring in its final phase after several years of waiting. We thus give rise to a strong regional consensus for an improvement in several components of the provision of care and services, "said the member for Duplessis. 
It is expected that expansion and redevelopment work will be completed within three or four years. In addition, the project has the advantage of freeing premises at the hospital, which may possibly be used for emergency and the outpatient block. 
"Like all other projects that our government has chosen to privilege and inscribe infrastructure, the infrastructure plan, it meets, in addition to contributing to the socio-economic development of the region and Quebec. . It will therefore materialize both for the benefit of the people from here and the whole of the Quebec community, thus fulfilling the criteria we have given ourselves and the commitment that we have taken to do exclusively of the choices responsible within the framework. From the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, "said the Prime Minister. 
The contribution of the Ministry of Health and Social Services to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Infrastructure Duplan, released last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually lead to investments by nearly $ 19.4 billion for the Health and Social Services component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the associated costs and thus to make informed choices. 
