Sherbrooke- Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Elders and Minister responsible for the Estrie Region, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today announced a significant enhancement of the ultrasound service offering at the Center Sherbrooke University Hospital. "In Estrie as elsewhere in Quebec, we would like to solve the ultrasound waiting lists, so patients can access this type of medical imaging examination within a reasonable time. This development also contributes to strengthening our public health network, "explained Dr. Hébert. 
The allowance of a recurring sum of $ 289,000 per year will allow the University Hospital of Sherbrooke to add to its professional workforce, in full-time equivalence, three technologists and an administrative agent assigned to ultrasound services. The minister also recalled that an investment of $ 545,000 was conducted in 2012 for the acquisition of three new ultrasound devices. It will be possible to carry out, each week, 110 additional examinations in general ultrasound, and about thirty more in vascular ultrasound, which corresponds to an additional volume of at least 6,000 exams per year. 
As the Minister said, today's announcement is part of a comprehensive plan to improve access to ultrasound, aimed at increasing the offer of service in public institutions, And this, with the active participation of the institutions of the network and the agencies of health and social services. These measures include, in particular, to meet the target of up to three months of waiting for elective cases, during the year 2014. Announcements will follow shortly in other regions. The selected formulas may vary according to the environments, including for example process optimization, the purchase of equipment and the addition of staff, especially in the evening. 
These announced measures are part of the government's broader will to enhance service offer in the public health system. "We resolutely focus on the resources of our public network to deploy a strong service offer, whether by improving access to ultrasound or further developing the service offering for women and couples of Quebec that must resort to assisted procreation. That is why I also announce that the University Hospital of Sherbrooke is allowed to develop its service offer for medically assisted reproduction, "the minister announced. 
In addition, Minister Hébert announced that the project of the Women-Youth-Family Center and the Emergency of the Fleurimont Hospital had just taken a new stage. Indeed, the Hospital Center of the University of Sherbrooke has been authorized to prepare the initial business record for the construction of these new facilities. The property will be able to hire professionals to prepare the functional and technical plan by which the clinical and immovable settings of this leading initiative will be specified. 
The expansion project provides for a construction of approximately 23,000 square meters to accommodate the hospitalization services of the Women-Youth-Family Center, the outpatient child psychiatry services, the new emergency and a new entrance hall. Construction is estimated at more than $ 100 million, an amount that excludes the cost of equipment and other financial, management and risk expenses associated with such a project. Several stages of the authorization process remain of course to cross before its achievement, the next consisting of the approval of the initial business record by the Council of Ministers. This major initiative is part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. 
"This is an important enhancement of the University of Sherbrooke Hospital Service offer, as well for emergency care and peratality. This investment confirms our desire to ensure the population of the Estrie as well as that of all Quebec specialized care of the highest possible quality, "concluded the Minister of Health and Social Services. 
