Shawinigan - Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois today announced a $ 1 million contribution to the Shawinigan Entrepreneurship Center (CES). On this occasion, it was accompanied by the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, and Minister responsible for the Regions of the Center du Québec and Mauricie, Yves François Blanchet, as well as the member for Saint- Maurice, Luc Trudel. 
The ESC wishes to implement the digital station, the cost of which is estimated at $ 3.5 million, in addition to improving its incubation spaces for industrial enterprises, an investment of nearly $ 1 million. 
"You know it as much as me, Shawinigan faces significant economic challenges. To relate, it needs to rely on a dynamic regional entrepreneurship and the Quebec government has the duty to support it. This is the bet decided to do the CES craftsmen: that of promoting the emergence and development of companies, offering new entrepreneurs an incubator to put their ideas in the world. We are proud to associate with this initiative, "said the Prime Minister Pauline Marois. 
For its part, Yves-François Blanchet has welcomed the fact that the digital station will offer advanced training, incubation spaces, specialized services and an environment conducive to networking, creativity, at the Research and development as well as innovation. "This pole of excellence in mobile and social video games will become, for various companies in associated sectors, a major incentive to come up to the CES, added the minister. These companies will then be able to develop customer relationships supplier, in addition to sharing labor, expertise and innovative processes. » 
As for Luc Trudel, he greeted the vision and tenacity of Mayor Michel Angers, who is the initiator of this project. "This announcement is a first government assistance for this unique and innovative project in Quebec. Mr. Angers, our Mayor Entrepreneur, seized an exceptional opportunity that my government has the firm will to support properly, "said the member. 
Officially inaugurated on October 17, 2012, the Shawinigan Entrepreneurship Center is a solidarity cooperative that has been a mission to participate actively in the development of entrepreneurship and business creation by helping project leaders and entrepreneurs to build their future. The cooperative provides them with both professional and practical support, regardless of the development stage of their business project. 
The situation of entrepreneurship in the Shawinigan area is worrying. Indeed, the main indicators of the entrepreneurship rate are systematically below the Quebec average, as revealed in 2010 a portrait by the Quebec Foundation of Entrepreneurship. 
