Saguenay- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, as well as the member for Dubuc, Jean-Marie Claveau, today have inaugurated the new premises of the Bagotville accommodation center, an installation Health and Social Services Cleophas-Claveau, at the end of expansion and redevelopment work of nearly $ 10.8 million. 
"This project has made it possible to promote a building built about 40 years ago by modernizing it and making it comply with the standards that apply today in terms of long-term care. In addition, the project has transferred to the accommodation center 22 people who were here welcomed at the Hospital Center, "said Minister Hébert. 
The Bagotville accommodation center now has 55 beds, including 8 in prosthetic units, for people who know important cognitive problems. There are also newly furnished common areas, as well as a day center. 
From the real estate angle, the building has been expanded about 1,300 square meters, while existing premises with an area of some 2,950 square meters has been refurbished. The project was jointly funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services ($ 5,852,000), the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Health and Social Services Agency ($ 3,143,000) and the Center health and social services Cleophas-Claveau ($ 1,763,000). 
In addition, Dr. Hébert emphasized the recent opening of the Tomodensitometry Service of the Bay Hospital, another component of the Cleophas-Claveau Health Center and Social Services. This was the only health facility in Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean not to have this type of medical imaging equipment, which allows organs by cross-cuts and diagnose pathologies with a High precision. 
"It is estimated at about 4,000 the number of tomodensitometry reviews that can be achieved here, which will promote a better balance of diagnostic services across the region as well as a decrease in waiting time for customers" , explained the minister. 
An expansion of the 82 square meter hospital center, with the redevelopment of premises with an area of 115 square meters, helped to install the complimentary tomography near the department of radiology, while installing a waiting room and a position of 'Home. The premises of the new service were built and equipped at the cost of approximately $ 1.8 million, the financing from the agency ($ 1,349,500), from the institution itself ($ 47,820) and Its foundation ($ 407,625). 
The member for Dubuc, Mr. Jean-Marie Claveau, said: "These two projects have very positive impact on the approximately 22,000 people served by our health and social services center, who see it improved so significant the quality and accessibility of essential services. » 
