Trois-Rivières- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, today announced that the Trois-Rivières Health and Social Services Center (CSSS) is authorized to continue Phase II of the redeployment of services at the University Affiliate Hospital Center Regional, a $ 50 million project that will be fully funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services, under the next Quebec Infrastructure Plan. On this occasion, Ms. Marois was accompanied by the Minister of Health and Social Services, Réjean Hébert, and the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec Regions. and Mauricie, Yves François Blanchet. 
"Our government has taken the double commitment to order public finances and make responsible choices as part of the Infrastructure Plan. We want to select medical projects for the socio-economic development of Quebec, which will materialize for the benefit of the entire Quebec community. The large reveployment project for the Trois-Rivières CSSS services is part of this category; That's why we favored the completion of its last phase, "said the Prime Minister. 
The redeployment project provides for the construction of a new four-storey wing that will host 50 beds, raising the total number of beds at the Hospital Center at 478. Added to this component Expansion of more than 11,400 m2 A remode management component. Touching Nearly 3,000 m2 of existing sectors. Two units of care will be moved in the new wing, while vacant spaces will be refurbished to host outpatient cardiology, pneumology and urology services. 
"This project, hoped for a long time, can finally begin its last right. This is an excellent news for the region, which impatiently awaited this increase in services. In addition to meeting the growing needs in the region, this project will help ensure better accessibility to care and services, "says the Minister of Health and Social Services, Réjean Hébert. 
"I am pleased that this project can finally go ahead, thanks to our government. I would like to thank the institution and the Health and Social Services Agency of the Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec for efforts so far in this project, the result of which will have very important benefits For people here, "concluded the Minister responsible for the Mauricie Region, Yves-François Blanchet. 
