Bécancour- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élaine Zakaïb, and the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Center-Center Regions. -Cebec and Mauricie, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, released the report of the Economic Diversification Table for the use of the $ 200 million, set-up of which was announced last fall, aimed at supporting the growth of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie regions. The report includes the analysis of the economic forces of the two regions, defines the main orientations, recommends a diversification plan, gives ways to stimulate entrepreneurship and presents structuring projects. 
"The table members did extraordinary work under the co-chair of Réjean Hardy and Jean-Guy Paré. The quality of this report gives us reason to want to entrust more powers to the regions for their own economic development, "stressed Élain Zakaïb. "The Fund is the preferred tool for the implementation of the proposed economic diversification plan to restore a new breath to the economy of both regions, as we committed. It includes advantageous modalities compared to existing programs, whether in terms of eligible clientele, rates of enhanced aid or management that is under the responsibility of both regions. I am convinced that it will become a great lever for the realization of carrier and innovative projects capable of generating, within five years of the fallout valued at $ 1.2 billion. » 
"This fund now gives the regions of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie the means to accelerate their economic diversification with structuring projects and creative jobs in order to build a strong and competitive economy," added Yves-François Blanchet . "The fund, which provides new money, is created by and for the environment and will revitalize fragrilized areas. It was together that we determined the guidelines to diversify the economy by proposing, in particular, niches of the future and solutions aimed at generating business and investment projects. It's all a job that has been accomplished and I raise my hat to the members of the table. They have shown that our economic players are able to look forward to start building the future right now. » 
The creation of this diversification fund was announced by the Government of Quebec in October 2012 to revitalize the regions of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie, affected by the closure of the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant. It is at this moment that an economic diversification table, composed of stakeholders from both regions, has been put in place. His report was officially tabled today. 
The Center-du-Québec Economic Diversification Fund and Mauricie is a particular, efficient and accessible financial leverage, which promotes structuring projects for both regions. Its special arrangements make it more accessible. It aims to support, as recommended in the plan, the investment projects of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) related to their start or growth, the realization of feasibility studies leading to investment projects, the creation New products or processes as well as the implementation of incubation services aimed at the growth of innovative companies. The Fund also addresses foreign companies or subsidiaries of foreign companies who wish to set up in these two regions. 
The fund aims for business projects, including those of the social economy, from the manufacturing sector or the engineered sector, which includes companies with high added value or those using new technologies, including information technologies. and communications. Also targeted primary companies are targeted who have second or third processing projects as well as major business projects in the tourism sector. Financial interventions will be mainly in the form of loans, loan guarantee and participation. 
In addition, the Deputy Minister Zakaïb and Minister Yves-François Blanchet confirmed the intention of the Government of Quebec to financially support three incubators of companies in Shawinigan, Trois-Rivières and Bécancour. This contribution will be able to reach 25% of the costs of projects under development. The implementation of a specific assistance measure for business incubators is part of the guidance preferred by the members of the Center-du-Québec Economic Diversification Table and Mauricie. 
"The growth and dynamism of local entrepreneurship can only have beneficial effects and promote the outbreak of new businesses and job creation that will contribute to diversifying the industrial fabric of these two regions," mentioned Élain Zakaïb . 
"Entrepreneurship must be better valued in Central-du-Québec and Mauricie," said Yves-François Blanchet. "Currently, in these areas, the entrepreneurship rate is lower than that of the rest of Quebec. We have everything you need. This fund and the diversification plan that accompanies it constitute the expected boost. » 
For more information on the modalities of the Center-du-Québec Economic Diversification Fund and Mauricie, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie. 
