Quebec- The Minister of Public Safety, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, is pleased to announce that he has proceeded today, with the Mayor of Mont-Tremblant, Mr. Pierre Pilon, and the member for Labelle and responsible for The Laurentians Region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, at the certification of the emergency call center of the city of Mont-Tremblant. 
The emergency call center has obtained a certificate of conformity, since it met the requirements of the Civil Security Act and the Standards Regulations, the Quality Specifications and Criteria applicable to emergency centers 9 -1-1 and some secondary emergency call centers. 
This center responds to emergency calls of more than 70,000 citizens of twenty municipalities. About fifteen telecommunications officers meet approximately 25,000 emergency calls per year. 
"This conscientious organization has the dedicated stakeholders who have worked with the Department of Public Safety for the certificate of compliance. I thank them for efforts and congratulate them for this certification, "said Minister Bergeron.  The management of 9-1-1 emergency centers aims to ensure the quality of the services provided and the buildings, the proper functioning of the equipment and the computer applications used as well as to confirm the skills of the staff. 
"Thanks to the 9-1-1 emergency center certification, the emergency response chain will be optimized in our region as anywhere in Quebec, allowing the public to benefit from a reliable and efficient service. In these critical moments when every second account, "said the member for Labelle, Mr. Sylvain Pagé. 
"Obtaining this certificate crowns our efforts to meet the requirements of the law and especially to provide our citizens and municipalities that we serve a quality service for emergency management through the facilities as well as jurisdiction and At the commitment of our dispatchers, "added the Mayor of Mont-Tremblant, Mr. Pierre Pilon. 
Under the Act, 9-1-1 emergency centers have until 30 December 2013 to obtain a certificate of conformity, issued by the Minister of Public Safety and valid for two years. After this date, all Quebec municipalities will have to deal with a Certified 9-1-1 call center to respond to emergency calls on their territory. 
