Quebec- In this week of budget, the spokesman for the Quebecois family, Sylvain Pagé, asks the Liberal government to immediately end the insane cuts inflicted on the Network of Early Childhood Centers and to post Our children at the top of the list of his priorities. Alongside representatives of the CSN, including the Vice-Chair, Véronique de Sève, he held this afternoon a press briefing to raise awareness of the harmful consequences of his austerity policies; 25,000 postcards signed by citizens have been filed at the Prime Minister's Office to support the action of the trade union center. 
"Of two things, the one: the Liberals make a simplistic accounting operation, and this, without any respect for the consequences, in particular on the quality of the services, the government knows very well what it does and seeks to Cut the legs of the public network, "said Sylvain Pagé. 
"The data is evidence; The CPE network has proven its relevance, even acting as an example around the world. It contributes to the integration and school success of our children, including those with disabilities or special needs, in addition to allowing thousands of women, sometimes single-parent, to integrate the labor market. The CPE network is without a doubt the network par excellence to promote equal opportunities for all children in Quebec and to prepare them for educational success. Why sacrifice a network that has been proven for years? Is it to advantage the private network? , Continued the spokesman. 
In addition, the effects of tariff modulation, which makes thousands of families might be tempted to entrust their child to private for pecuniary reasons, regardless of the fact that CPEs offer unparalleled quality of service. . "Society, such as the Liberals conceive, is it really the one we want? On the one hand, the children of more affected families and, on the other, children of low-income families in early childhood centers? We will not go down, we will not be silent, we will continue to denounce these ideological cups that evil the equality of opportunity and the future of our children, "concluded Sylvain Pagé. 
