If Quebec became a country, we would have a single tax return to be produced. Every dollar we pay in taxes and taxes each day would be reinvested with us. In our industries. According to our needs. To develop our economy. To create employment here. And to help our world. 
Because sovereignty is also making decisions based on our values, such as social justice. It is deciding to bet on our youth, support our elders and protect our workers. 
Because Ottawa cares very little about Quebec. Its decisions on employment insurance, in particular, attack our seasonal workers. 
All elected officials of the National Assembly spoke against Harper government reforms, butottawa ignores us. By making decisions without worrying about people, Ottawa puts our workers in impossible desities. And by imposing quotas to inspectors, Ottawa requires them to be cut off for no reason desprestataries in need. 
The Quebec party government does not count down and does everything possible for Ottawa's counterparts. But if Quebec was a country, we would not have to fight constantly. As Ms. Marois said, it would be the end of the baffles. 
And contrary to what Ottawa does, as we have seen with the Idle Movement No More, Quebec wants to ensure respect for First Nations, in the historic continuity of the peace of the brave signed by the Government of Bernard Landry. 
The opponents of sovereignty would like us to believe that the country's project is risky. It's quite the opposite. What is really risky for all Quebeckers is to stay in Canada. 
If you agree, broadcast this post! And go share Mrs. Marois's videos on YouTube and click on I like! 
Sovereignty is the end of the baffles 
Sovereignty is security 
We have also unveiled today's web page where the word is yours. Do you appear? No? It's time to act!  Enjoy the weekend to save your 30-second video where you explain why you are sovereignist, and send us everything toPaysqc@gmail.com. If you respect the detict and you promote sovereignty, we will broadcast your message. Pass the word! 
Every little gesture counts. You have to go out, talk and convince. 
Sovereignty, it depends on us! 
