With the members of Parliament and candidates of the Parti Québécois in eastern Montreal - Carole Poirier (Hochelaga-Maisonneuve) and Maka Kotto (Bourget), as well as Jean-Martin Aussant (Pointe-aux-Trembles), Karl Dugal (Anjou- Louis-Riel), Claude Gauthier (Lafontaine) and Marie-Josée Bruneau (Jeanne-Mance-Viger), the leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée (Rosemont), presented the platform and the commitments of the Parti Québécois for the East of Montreal. 
"In Montreal, East is the child abandoned by the Liberals for 15 years, despite clear commitments. Blue Line, Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital ... There are no more times announced by the Liberals without realized, "said Jean-François Lisée." 
We must recognize the historical debt we have towards the East of Montreal and give the stroke that is necessary. We must put an end to the liberal immobilism a good time for all; Restarting East, it is the goal of the platform that the Parti Québécois has today, "he continued. 
IN SHORT 
To revive East of Montreal, the Parti Québécois proposes, inter alia, the following measures: 
• Employment: Fostering the creation of an initiative fund and a development company dedicated to Eastern Montreal, and to combat the relocation of companies. • Housing: Building on soil decontamination for the construction of new Social housing and promoting renovations in existing residential areas. • Transport and mobility: implementing the large unlocking, which will greatly improve traffic. • Health: bet, among others, on CLSCs open from 9 am to 9 pm, 7 days a week, and on the opening of clinics of nurse practitioners. • Education: set up, in priority, a large school renovation site. • Elders: Invest in home care and better support caregivers, for Allowing people to remain at home longer. • Social services: review the indexing mechanisms for properly reflecting the many community organizations in the East. • Immigration and Min Orations visible: fight against discrimination and bet on employment to perfad integration, by better recognition of diplomas. 
"Our Eastern Economic Recovery Plan will be articulated around an initiative fund, an exclusive development company and an ambitious land decontamination program. This last issue was particularly neglected by the Liberals, who used a good part of the money to be used in the East to decontaminate soils related to the construction of REM, in the West. By replacing the REM with the great unlocking, we will be able to reinvest the sums needed, where it is necessary, "said Jean-Martin immediately. 
"To promote employment in the sector, we will actively fight against the relocation of agri-food companies, a real scourge that has been raging for many years. Let's think of Molson, at the Christie cookie plant ... and so many others who left in liberal indifference! Karl Dugal added elsewhere, East Montreal suffers from a unacceptable delay in collective transportation, both within it and compared to the surrounding areas. "Citizens, students, workers often have more than an hour to move on trips yet short. With the great unlocking, we are directly attaching to this problem, including creating the Eastern tram, for which 24 stations will be developed, "added the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
In terms of health and social services, the east of the metropolis has been faced with many problems too long. "This situation, relatively worse than elsewhere, must change. We will first deal with the lack of doctors caused by the many retirements and, above all, the inaction of the Minister Barrette. However, it is by taking advantage of the many other health professionals and putting the patient from the center of our concerns that we will be able to do better, "said Claude Gauthier on his side. 
Doing better, it also applies to seniors and caregivers. "The population of eastern Montreal is particularly aging. And what the elders want is to remain at home as long as possible. We have everything to gain as a company to act in this direction. Reinvesting massively in home care and giving respite to close caregivers, we'll get there, "said Maka Kotto. 
For its part, Carole Poirier promises that a government of the Parti Québécois will give young people the taste to get up in the morning to go to school. "We will launch a large school renovation site to stop seeing them fall into ruins. We can do it, and it's more time! Let's think about the inspiring example of Baril School in Hochelaga-Maisonneuve; Today, it's one of the most beautiful schools in Montreal! » 
Finally, the integration of immigrants into the labor market is a real priority for the Parti Québécois. "We have had some twenty measures, but the Liberals have all refused them! We propose to combat discrimination by prohibiting the requirement of a first experience of Canadian work and by implanting anonymous CV pilot projects, among others. We will also better recognize diplomas and promote internship programs, "concluded Marie-Josée Bruneau. 
Click here to access the full document of the platform! 
