Quebec- In response to the significant increase in accidents reported to the CSST on the construction site of the University of Montreal Hospital (CHUM), the member for Bourget and spokesperson for the official opposition responsible for the Charter of the French language, Maka Kotto, and the member for Beauharnois and spokesperson for work, Guy Leclair, claim fast and concrete actions from the Liberal government to ensure the safety of workers and strengthen regulations. on construction sites. 
"The number of accidents on the CHUM site literally exploded. We are talking about 55 accidents in 2014; It's 7 times more than at the beginning of the work. I remind the Minister of Labor that on April 28, the National Assembly unanimously adopted a motion on the commemorative day of persons deceased or injured at work. This motion included an amendment proposed by the Parti Québécois so that the Government of Quebec modernizes Laloi on occupational health and safety. Instead of lingering only to changes in structures and mergers of organizations, the minister must review his priorities; It is his duty to protect the life and health of Quebec women workers, including ensuring that there are enough construction inspections, "said the member for Beauharnois. 
There is a real problem on the CHUM site. It should be remembered that in October 2014, a CSST investigation report had clearly established that the fact that a project manager has given instructions only in English had resulted in the electrification of a worker. Asked about his inaction in the file last March, the Minister of Labor, Sam Hamad, stated that he belonged to the competent authorities of crackling. The OQLF then confirmed that the francization process was too long and unsuitable for construction sites, which are limited and variable. The Minister responsible for the Charter of the French language, Hélène David, had promised to see him again. 
"Indeed, it is now almost six months since Minister David has shown in the torpor and silence, while it was committed to strengthening the implementation of Law 101 on construction sites. Does she wait for another tragic event to act? Asked, worried, Maka Kotto. 
