Quebec- Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, welcomes the report of the President of the Chair on Financial Assistance to Studies, Mr. Pier-André Bouchard St -Lover. The minister announces that he has selected three measures that will be implemented from next fall. 
"I am very pleased to unveil the conclusions of the first site from the Summit on Higher Education. The measures selected are equitable and promote students with the greatest financial needs. I am particularly satisfied that one of them affects part-time students in the region, "said Minister Duchesne. 
The Site on Financial Assistance for Studies, chaired by Mr. Pier-André Bouchard St-Amant, was mandated to propose bonuses up to $ 25 million to study financial assistance programs. The Minister intends to retain the following three measures: 
The $ 20 per month of assistance studies for subsistence expenses that are recognized by the student as part of the loan and scholarship program, which will benefit from the fall of 2013, at nearly 120,000 students. These will be able to count on an additional $ 160 scholarship. 
The threshold bonus from which a contribution is requested from the parents, the spouse and the respondent of the student. This measure is actually an acceleration of the bonus announced at the Summit on Higher Education. Thus, for the year 2013-2014, the contribution threshold for a family whose two parents live together will increase from $ 36,000 to $ 37,000, while for the year 2014-2015, this threshold will increase from $ 40,000 at $ 41,000. 
It should be noted that each of the bonuses emanating from the site had to respect the following four tags: to be applicable within the regulatory framework, register within the tags of the current programs of financial assistance to studies, to be fair to All beneficiaries and finally, be sustainable and achievable in the long term. 
The Chairman has been able to count on the participation of representatives of four student federations, the Federation of Quebec University Student (FEUQ), the Collegiate Federation of Quebec (FECQ), the Quebec Student Consultation Table (TACEQ) and the Federation of the Federation. Quebec University Student Associations in Continuing Education (FEAQEP). These federations provided support to the recommendations presented. 
"I take the opportunity to highlight the important effort provided by the people who contributed to the work of the site. I warmly thank Mr. Bouchard St-Amand for the remarkable work he has accomplished. The establishment of this project demonstrates all the confidence that our government is granted to youth, "said Minister Duchesne. 
