Washington- Publication of the 5th Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), which deals with the alarming situation of climate change, confirms the need for increased intervention on greenhouse gases (GHGs and justifies the actions of the Government of Quebec in this regard. The Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, also calls on all concerned stakeholders, particularly on the international scene, so that concrete actions are and urgent. 
"The international consensus is such that efforts should no longer be diverted by the sterile debate on the responsibility of the human being in global warming. Time, energy and resources must be invested in the effective and harmonious reduction in emissions, which needs to create progress rather than an economic shock. And since it is necessary, we must also invest our energies in adaptation measures to climate change, "he commented. 
Remember that this scientific summary reports that greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere have increased at unprecedented levels for at least 800,000 years. It also indicates that global warming will continue to raise the level of seas during the 21st century faster than it was observed in recent decades. According to this report, a multitude of consequences for the entire climate system should also be expected. 
"IPCC scientists have produced a great rigor report that brings valuable light on the severity of the situation. Their conclusions support our decision to invest in a green and low carbon economy. To do this, we need to reduce our consumption, we need to improve our practices until best to be exemplary, and our goal of reducing our 25% GHG emissions under the 1990 level by 2020 school. For that, of course, you have to succeed, and to succeed, the model of the cap and exchange system must be an economic and environmental success, "said Minister Blanchet. 
For several months, the Government of Quebec has been working to implement the commitment to reduce GHGs by 20% by 2020. Among the planned measures, remember the desire to set up a carbon market that would bring together different states. North America. It is to promote this project that Minister Blanchet accepted the invitation of the International Emissions Trading Association, an organization dedicated to the establishment of an international framework to facilitate the emergence of carbon markets around the world, And that he will participate, as a prestigious speaker, at Carbon Forum North America 2013, on October 1st. In front of an audience of more than 450 leaders from the business community, industry and governments concerned with these issues, Minister Blanchet will deliver a speech that will include the benefits of establishing the Quebec Ceiling System and Exchange of emissions and liaison with that of California, which will create the largest carbon market in North America. 
The Minister will promote the Western Climate Initiative (WCI) carbon market to the US political class and will meet representatives of states that are likely to join. "The creation of a California-binding carbon market and Quebec has attracted great interest in the United States. It was in this stride that I was invited to pronounce two new speeches to present our strategy in front of American decision-makers audiences. By adding several meetings with high-level officials, I think we are moving towards both the fight against climate change and the international influence of Quebec as the avant-garde state, "says Yves-François Blanchet. 
Among other things, the minister will benefit from his stay in the US capital to talk to representatives of the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI), another carbon market that includes several states of Northeastern US. The discussions will focus on the possible interest of linking these two markets. A meeting with the Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition is also scheduled for the minister's schedule. This coalition includes members of the House of Representatives to the US Congress, who are interested in the various economic mechanisms available to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote the emergence of a green economy in the United States. The minister will promote the many benefits related to the implementation of the WCI's carbon market. 
The Scientific Summary of the IPCC, to which more than 200 principal authors and 650 contributors and auditors worldwide, will certainly fuel the discussions that will take place during this conference, just as it needs to bring political leaders to take immediate action. To reduce greenhouse gas emissions. "The literature and some independent studies remind us of the challenges of GHG emissions so that we can reconcile sustainable development and economic development in Quebec. With a 25% reduction target in 2020 on the basis of 1990, with its daring transportation policy and especially through its participation in a carbon market of nearly 50 million citizens, our government affirms its leadership role. International in the fight against climate change ", concluded the Blanchet minister. 
