Quebec, October 20, 2017 -The official opposition to the environment and the fight against climate change, Sylvain Gaudreault, and the spokesperson for economy, Alain Therien, presented the plan Solid of the Parti Québécois to combine economic growth and fight against climate change. 
IN SHORT 
The Parti Québécois has a strong plan to tackle climate change while developing our economy. This plan has 4 main objectives: 
"The Liberal government speaks of environment, but has nothing new since 2014 to combat climate change. On the side of the CAQ, we simply do not care about the environment. At the Parti Québécois, we have set up, through consultations with representatives from several industrial sectors, a strong plan to tackle climate change while developing our economy, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The spokesman argues that when GHGs declined, under the Liberal government, it is because factories closed. This is particularly the case for several important transmitters, such as Shell's refinery in eastern Montreal, and Norsk Hydro and the TCE center in Bécancour. "On the side of the Parti Québécois, we do not want to close factories to reduce our GHG emissions; We want to increase investments to modernize them and put in place the necessary protocols for the environmental improvements of our companies become sources of income for them! , "He continued. 
The Parti Québécois has favorable to the extension of the carbon market after 2020. However, it wants to tackle capital leaks to the United States that the Liberal government refuses to recognize. "Rather than paying millions of dollars on carbon tax to buy the right to pollute as much, we want to allow our companies to invest this money in optimizing their processes and in technological innovation, which will actually improve their carbon footprint as well as their commercial efficiency, "says Alain Therien on his side. 
"Currently, Quebec companies can not monounce their GHG reductions, as does California with the emission of compensatory appropriations. For example, the Liberal government does not take advantage of carbon capture in our forestry sector to sell our own environmental gains. We also aim for the establishment of a marketing tax credit that would apply in extension of the research and development tax credit, "continued the spokesperson. 
"We also want to target certain key areas of the energy transition and financially support some players to become international champions in these areas, export their know-how and conquer international markets. We will put in place a constant technology watch by industrial sector to identify the best low marketable low-carbon technologies. In addition, we want every industrial sector to take advantage of a process transformation research center, in order to modernize our medium and long-term economy. Finally, the state must set an example. We propose that departments, organizations, public and parapublic networks and municipalities adopt criteria in public tenders that promote the acquisition of clean technologies, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
