Quebec- "The Liberal government of Philippe Couillard should present a real economic development plan instead of bringing the weight of its incompetence to the most vulnerable people in our society," said the leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau . 
Remember that the Liberal government intends to use the strong way to reduce access to social assistance. "The Government of Philippe Couillard multiplies improvisations. A few days ago, it was in the allocation, unconditionally, $ 1.3 billion in Bombardier. This week, it is the opposite: the Prime Minister imposes his abusive conditions for the assignment of the last resort to the poorest. Two weights, two measures. The Prime Minister is making a crisis of all parts for social assistance, "he continued. 
To CE SUJET, OF ailleurs, abnished by Saint-Jean, Dave a Motin, Chi Matin, Was Rejétée with bookstore by The Liberalz. Them if lit tied suit: 
"That the National Assembly requests the Government to proceed with a traveling parliamentary committee in all regions of Quebec as to the consequence to be given to the national strategy to combat poverty and social exclusion, established by LALOI to fight against the poverty and social exclusion; 
That it requires the government to wait for the deposit of the next national strategy to combat poverty and social exclusion before moving forward with Bill 70, An Act to enable better adequacy between training and employment and to promote employment integration. » 
Dave Turcotte does not happen more to seize the motivation of the Liberals. "They work upside down. Consultations on the fight against poverty and exclusion must take place before moving forward with change in social assistance. Accompanying measures to employment reintegration gave, until now, good results. In recent years, in fact, the number of social assistance providers have been reducing. On the other hand, the will announced by the government is all the more ironic it makes, at the same time, cuts in job search aid programs. Minister Hamad claims to fight poverty but, in fact, he only contributes to creating, poverty, "denounced the member for Saint John. 
"This government has no economic strategy. In fact, its strategy is to cut into education and cut into employability. He even slaughtered programs that specifically targeted youth from social assistance, as an alternative youth. Instead of imposing his authoritarian vision, the Prime Minister should act in chief of state and seek consensus by listening to the citizens, "concluded the official opposition. 
