Montréal - The Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the spokesman for the Quebecois Party for Education, Research and School Perseverance, Alexandre Cloutier, and the Family Spokesman, Sylvain Pagé, Invite new ministers of education and family to listen to the appeal of parents, citizens and people who work with our daily children. They ask them to focus on the quality of the services and the success of the children of Quebec, and to reinvest heavily in education. For this purpose, Alexandre Cloutier took part this morning in Montreal, at a human chain organized by the primary school La Petite-Patrie and the CPE Saint-Édouard, as part of the movement I protect my public school. 
"After the failures of Yves Bolduc and François Blais, Quebec no longer has the means to turn in circles, or even to retreat, in education. Unfortunately, Minister Pierre Moreau seems to want to make brewing structures his priority. Instead, it should focus on the school success of young people and the quality of public school. In terms of education, Quebec needs investment and vision. This is certainly not Bill 86 that will solve the problem, "said Alexandre Cloutier. 
Among other things, Minister Moreau will have to find solutions to bridge Quebec's delay in graduation and quickly tackle the decrepitude problem that affects several public schools. "Only 72% of our 20-year-olds have a high school diploma, compared to 84% in Ontario. All that the Liberal government has done to correct the situation since its arrival, it is cutting hundreds of millions of dollars and hundreds of professionals from professionals in our public schools. It would not otherwise act if he wanted to further increase our delay in relation to our neighbors. It can not last, "added the member of the Parti Québécois. 
For his part, Sylvain Pagé asks the Minister of Family, Sébastien Proulx, to make a real change of course. "For several months already, there is a great mobilization throughout Quebec. On the ground, we meet parents who want to be heard because they are worried about the future of CPE. I am delighted that the new Minister of the Family says he wants to enter into dialogue with parents. It will have the opportunity, like all my colleagues who are on the ground, that it has no choice but to retreat on the insane cuts in which its predecessor and the President of the Treasury Board . He must understand that educational success starts from early childhood, "the spokesman concluded. 
