Quebec- The Minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation, Bernard Drainville, today presented the government proposals for the religious neutrality of the state and supervision of religious accommodations. 
"It's been a year ago, the Premier has given me the mandate to introduce Quebec solutions to be tagging demands religious accommodations and ensure the religious neutrality of the state. This is what we do today by making our proposals public. These are measured and balanced proposals. They are carrying harmonious relations and social cohesion, in an increasingly multiethnic Quebec, "multirleigious"; A plural Quebec, "said Bernard Drainville. 
These five proposals are based on large Quebec values including, in particular, equality between men and women as well as the religious neutrality of the institutions of the Quebec state. They define themselves as follows: 
Tags requests for accommodation in the Quebec Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms. Register, also, the separation of religions and the state, the religious neutrality of the state and the secular nature of its institutions, taking into account our common historical heritage; 
Establish, in the law, a duty of reserve and religious neutrality for state staff in the performance of his duties; 
Framing the wearing of ostentatious religious signs for state staff during working hours (this proposal is accompanied by a withdrawal right of no more than five years, renewable for certain sectors); 
Make the discovered face mandatory when given or receives a state service; 
<//sub> 
"The time has come to gather around clear rules and common values that will put an end to tensions and misunderstandings. Our proposals will be a source of better understanding, harmony and cohesion for all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers, regardless of their religion or origin, "said Bernard Drainville. 
Quebeckers will have the opportunity to make their opinion known about the proposals presented today through a website and a dedicated telephone line. The minister will submit a bill to the National Assembly later, which will reflect the proposals presented to the population while taking into account the comments received. 
"Throughout its history, Quebec has always been able to find a balance between respect for the rights of each person and the respect of our common values. These proposals are part of this deeply democratic tradition, "concluded Bernard Drainville. 
Government proposals are available on the site: www.nosvaleurs.gouv.qc.ca. 
