Québec- Minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation, Mr. Bernard Drainville, want to clarify that Quebeckers who wish to express themselves on the Charter of Québec Values, via the sitenosvaleurs.gouv.qc.ca, still enjoy a week to do it. The website will still be active, but it will no longer be possible to leave comments from midnight on Tuesday, October 1st. The comments collected will be taken into account by Minister Drainville for the final drafting of the bill that he will present in order to assert the religious neutrality of the State, supervising demands for religious accommodation and affirm certain Quebec values, including the equality between women and men. 
"For only two weeks, more than 130,000 Quebeckers have visited the Nosvaleurs.gouv.qc.ca site, and more than 16,000 people are expressed there. It's frankly remarkable! I take this opportunity to thank all those who have shared with their comments and invite Quebeckers to continue the debate, with respect for each other. What we propose is a real societal project, a project for the future for Quebec, so that we can live in a society where there will be more equality, harmony and cohesion. A project to gather around our common values, "said Bernard Drainville. 
We propose to register, in the Charter and Freedoms of the person, the values of Quebec society, including gender equality, the religious neutrality of the state and the secular nature of public institutions, and to mark demands for religious accommodation. This amendment will affirm the values of Quebec society and to define what is a reasonable religious accommodation. Accommodations will now have to consider Quebec values. They can only be granted if they cause real prejudice, respect women-men and the neutrality of the state, and if they are reasonable. 
<//sub> 
We propose to establish, in the law, a duty of reserve and religious neutrality for the staff of the State in the performance of his duties. This duty will reflect the neutrality of the state and its separation with the religious. Public servants are already subject to a duty of neutral and reserve with respect to their political opinions. They must now abstain from any proselytism as part of their duties. 
We propose to prohibit the wearing of ostentatious religious signs for state staff in the performance of its duties. This framework will reflect the neutrality of the state. The employees and employees concerned will be: 
Nevertheless, in the case of CEGEPs, universities, the network of health and municipalities, the Board of Directors or the Municipal Council may adopt a resolution allowing its staff to bear religious signs. This authorization will be valid for five years and renewable. 
We propose that the state services must be given and received in face discovered. This obligation will make it possible to establish the general rule that the provision of state services is made in face discovered, both for the person who gives the service and for the person who receives it. 
All government departments and agencies will have to have a policy of implementation to ensure their religious neutrality and to manage demands for religious accommodation. This policy will allow each organization to ensure the application of the law, while respecting its particular missions. Accountability mechanisms will also be planned. 
