Dozing -le députo de drummond and porte of the official opposition in the déposet, to the studio in the studio in the studio 591 which to Confirm the assjettissement des mouth to be Organisms Niceernemaux Pinings for from the Corsican language prevision to the administration and absoring the chart to a charge of the National assembly. 
Recently, we learn that two senior executives of Ivanhoé Cambridge, a real estate subsidiary of the Fund and Investment of Quebec, were unilingual anglophones. Employees of this subsidiary have also complained to the Quebec Office of the French language. "Thirty-four years after the adoption of Law 101, it is perfectly inadmissible that such situations persist. It is therefore necessary to overcome the false interpretation that the Caisse de filing and placement of Quebec of the Charter, under the complicit eye of government, "said Yves-François Blanchet. 
This bill also provides that the Minister responsible for the application of the French Language Charter must, by 1 February 2013 and thereafter every four years, to make the Government a report on the application of the Charter and file it at the National Assembly so that it is studied by the competent parliamentary committee. 
"It is quite incongruous and abnormal that on two subjects as sensitive as the language and application of the Charter of the French language, the responsible minister does not have to report to the National Assembly. We want to make sure it is now the case, "said the member. 
"The Parti Québécois program is clear. A slopeting government will adopt a new law 101. The linguistic situation continues to deteriorate in Montreal. The Anglication of the metropolis is manifest and this situation is now tended to do oil stain in the bordering regions, "added the member. The official opposition spokesman recalls recently demonstrating the Minister responsible for the application of the French Language Charter, Christine St-Pierre, during an arrest, that the situation is deteriorating rapidly, in particular With regard to the language of display and in particular in its own constituency. 
"In view of this situation, we have a government that does not take any action to consolidate our language, which does not consider it necessary to invest more in the francization of immigrants, even going to give up making it an effective selection, and who is Dehonorous by gagging a bill to legitimize bridging schools, the sale of the right not to respect the law, "added Yves-François Blanchet. 
"Only the Parti Québécois has the will and credibility to defend our national language. The Liberals and the Cavoists adequaters passively look at the French folklorize to displease anyone. It is obvious that the Government of Jean Charest and Minister Christine St-Pierre have no desire to apply the protection laws of our language and demonstrate irresponsible incusion in this area. We act now. This bill is only the first step, "concluded the member for Drummond. 
