Montréal- The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane de Courcy, and the minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation, Mr. Bernard Drainville, met today Representatives of the media of the diversity of the metropolitan area to present them with government proposals for the religious neutrality of the state and supervision of religious accommodations. 
"Our government is committed to presenting Quebec and Quebec solutions to address the issue of reasonable accommodations and to ensure the neutrality of the state. These proposals are aimed at all Quebeckers and to all Quebeckers and aim to affirm the values that unite us: the equality of all citizens in the face of the state and, in particular, equality between women and men , the religious neutrality of the state and the respect of a common historical heritage. These are proposals with social cohesion and harmonious relations in an increasingly multi-ethnic Quebec, more and more multi-faith, "said Minister Bernard Drainville. 
<//sub> 
It is at the initiative of the Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language that was held that meeting in order to clarify, with the media of the diversity of the metropolitan area, The objectives covered by the Charter of Québec Values. 
"The contribution of immigrants to the development of Quebec is essential, as was the one of our builders who have forged, with the waves of immigration having marked our history, the essence of what Quebec is modern And his values, "said Madame de Courcy. "People selected by Quebec must be able to sign a commitment to respect these values, and the vast majority does it in good faith, knowing that an immigration project involves adapting to a new environment. The Charter of Québec Values, which my colleague presented to the National Assembly, will allow us to build together, with a perspective of reciprocal listening and opening, a united Quebec, with its immigration, to which we all aspire " , she added. 
Five government proposals are thus presented to the Quebec population to mark religious accommodations and affirm the religious neutrality of the state. 
"These proposals are aimed at gathering around clear rules and common values and putting an end to the tensions that can remove the different confessions. We can make Quebec a society that knows how to trace its limits as to religious accommodations and choose the neutrality of the state, in respect of each and each. The difference should not be considered as a wealth to preserve, but rather as the starting point for an enriching cultural miscegenation, "the minister concluded. 
Quebeckers have the opportunity to share their opinion on the proposals that have been presented using the website or the telephone line at their disposal. Subsequently, the Minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation will introduce a bill to the National Assembly which corresponds to the proposals presented to the population and which will take into account the comments received. 
"Throughout its history, Quebec has always been able to find a balance between respect for the rights of each person and the respect of our common values. These proposals are part of this deeply democratic tradition, "concluded Mr. Drainville. 
Government proposals are available on the site: www.nosvaleurs.gouv.qc.ca. 
