Quebec- The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltese, makes public the balance sheet of the actions carried out during the second year of implementation of the plan of Quebec Lacharte action for a healthy and diversified body image (chic). This assessment was presented to the members of the Chic Committee, co-chaired by Mr. Howard Steiger, Head of the Douglas Institute's Food Disorders Program, and Ms. Marie-Claude Savard, host, columnist and journalist. The document can be consulted on the Secretariat's Web on the Status of Women. 
"It is important to sensitize young people to body diversity and make them criticized against images conveyed in the media. Many of them live social pressure to correspond to a unique model of beauty, which can affect their personal esteem and even lead to food disorders, "said Agnès Maltais, Minister responsible for the status of women. 
Mr. Steiger and Mrs. Savard were satisfied with this assessment and actions that fueled it. They mentioned that this is the essence of what is implemented that motivated their involvement: 
"It is important for me to help change the mentalities, especially with regard to the cult of thinness. I am pleased to see that the fashion, advertising and media industry is increasingly privileging the diffusion of healthy and diversified images of the body, "said Steiger. 
For Ms. Savard, the image of women presented in the media can play an important role on self-esteem: "I believe every man, every woman and every child must understand that beauty goes through self-acceptance. Instead of wanting to transform, you have to devote his energy to discover oneself, and learn to love each other and to be beautiful and beautiful ". 
The actions that have been put in place, mention the third parade of bodily diversity featuring the fifteen laureates and winners of 14 to 17 years of the "Scroll without cliché" contest, directed by the balance organization. This contest, presented at the Montreal Fashion and Design Festival of 2012, brings young people to express themselves on the representations of the body they wish to see in the fashion, media and advertising industry. 
Also note a workshop designed by the Quebec Health Action Network of women who have raised students' awareness of fashion design programs and marketing of fashion to the importance of promoting a healthy and diversified body image. 
In addition, the various actors in the image industry have been mobilized around body diversity, which has led many to choose, for example, diversified sizes, sizes and ages during fashion shows. Some designers even designed clothes for different silhouettes. The designer Anne de Shalla has promoted the chic and a healthy body image and diversified through the great Quebec fashion braderie and the Quebec signatures shop. 
"In the last year, the chic has radiated in Quebec and even internationally thanks, in particular, to the mobilization we have managed to reach in the different environments. I hope that these advances can inspire others, "conclude Minister Maltese. 
Launched in October 2009, the purpose of CHIC aims to promote a healthy and diversified bodily image and promote the commitment of the fashion, advertising, media, video, music, health, health. Education and government. In addition, it encourages the mobilization of society around a healthy and diversified body image, problems related to the excessive concern with respect to weight, nervous anorexia and bulimia. 
The Chic Action Plan was launched in December 2010. The actions it underpinly aim to raise young people aged 14 to 17, first and foremost girls, on the issue of the body image in addition to Mobilize the image industry around concrete gestures for corporal diversity. 
Until today, more than 23,000 people have joined the principles of the chic overjesigneenligne.com. 
