Quebec- The Quebec Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, and the minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation, Bernard Drainville, have tabled, today, to the National Assembly, the law of law n ° 60: Charter affirming The values of the institution and religious neutrality of the state as well as equality between women and men and framing accommodations. 
"Our charter project makes it possible to affirm the common rules we want to give us to live diversity in harmony. We therefore affirm our desire to build a Quebec in which we can better live together. In Quebec, the equality of all citizens, equality between women and men, the separation of the Church and the state, they are fundamental values, "said the Prime Minister. 
"This charter marks an important milestone in our history. She says what we are and defines Quebec in which we want to live together, regardless of our origin or religion. 40 years ago, we devoted the primacy of French as a common value of Quebeckers. Today, we affirm the common values of secularism, religious neutrality of state and equality between women and men. These values are our cement; This is gathered, beyond our individual differences. The Charter of Values will be a source of harmony and cohesion for Quebec. It is part of the process of laiscisation, started during the quiet revolution, "said Bernard Drainville. 
The Government's proposed project amends the Charter of Rights and Freedoms of the Quebec to mark the requests for accommodation. He asserts that equality between women and men, the primacy of French, the separation of religions and the state as well as the religious neutrality and the secularity of it constitute fundamental values of the Quebec nation. 
The bill creates a reserve duty and a duty of religious neutrality for state staff and forbids the port of ostentatious religious signs during working hours. Employees already in office will one year meet this prohibition. On the other hand, new employees, hired after the penalty of the law, will not be able to bring ostentatious religious signs. 
At this one-year implementation period could be added four years for employees of institutions in the health and social services network, municipalities, CEGEPs and universities. This transition period, of five years maximum, replaces the withdrawal clause contained in last September proposals. 
It provides for the adoption by the public bodies of an implementation policy so that the objectives of religious neutrality of the state and supervision of demands of religious accommodation integrate in the daily functioning of these institutions. 
Finally, Bill No. 60 amends the National Assembly Act to clarify the rules surrounding the presence of religious symbols within the Assembly and the port of religious signs by the deputies. The government wants to reach a consensual decision on these issues that fall under all parliamentarians. 
The Minister responsible for the Charter, Mr. Bernard Drainville, considers that this bill could not have emerged without the outstanding contribution of Quebeckers to the debate on the Charter of Values. "If we have held good, if the government has been able to cross the storm of the last few months and, today, with a strong, undiluted bill, it is thanks to the support of Quebeckers. On behalf of the Prime Minister and the whole government, I thank them from the bottom of the heart. " 
"We are now rendered a new stage: that of the action. The time has come to act. That's what Quebeckers are waiting for us, elected officials. It's been years that we talk about it, and there is the time to take our responsibilities and show leadership, "added the minister. 
"The government promised to file a bill: it's done. We respect our commitment. We owe Quebeckers to undertake the study of the bill in a spirit of openness and dialogue. I invite all parties to collaborate in good faith to advance Quebec, "said Bernard Drainville. 
"Today we affirm the values that unite our people, for now and for the future. We must be proud of the path we have traveled, but we still have a lot to do, "concluded Bernard Drainville. 
A link to Bill 60 is available on the SiteSvaleurs.gouv.qc.ca. 
