Dear Dr Laurin, 
While Quebec is preparing to commemorate on 26 August 2017 the 40th anniversary of the adoption of the French Charter, Law 101, it is always with great emotion that I like to remember your Eminent contribution to make French the only official language of Quebec. 
Since my first election at the National Assembly of Quebec, in May 2008, I have repeatedly had the opportunity to evoke your contribution to the architecture of a law that marked modern Quebec. Whether it is the Minister of Culture and Communications or as a sentence of the official opposition on international relations, Francophonie, Immigration and Cultural Communities or today as President of the Caucus of MPs From the Parti Québécois, I did the defense and promotion of French, with the national question, the thread of my political commitment. 
It is also as a member of the riding of Bourget that you dignified about fifteen years that I realize the magnitude of your action and the unalterable remembrance that you have left within our community. 
With this monumental piece of legislation that is Law 101, you have made French, against winds and tides, the official and common language of all Quebeckers and from all Quebeckers; The Charter of the French language still constituting today the cornerstone of Quebec's linguistic policy. 
On August 26, 1977, to put an end to the debate in third reading of Bill 101, you claimed that "the site where you have been working hard for nine months, the Charter of the French language, this beautiful ship all Nine, even slide today, in this 10th day of the present session of the National Assembly of Quebec, in the river of history (...) This capital gesture that reverses the course of our history of the last two centuries And who orients in the sense of maturity, the creation and openness to the world our collective existence, we posed it for Quebeckers today and the generations of the future ". 
In the Testament, published in 1999, you were talking about your law as a "kind of charter that would bring Quebeckers not only to live in their language, but to develop in their language: the language of a country". You have succeeded, despite the opposite winds. 
In his magistral book, the Charter of the French Language, what remains of the law 101 forty years after his adoption, the lawyer Eric Poirier thus details all the judgments of the higher courses who have been made to weaken the scope of the law. . The book calls us therefore to do everything possible to make this charter essential and improve it, what we have attempted to do with Bill 14 in 2013, and what we will do soon, when we Form the next government, with the law 202 to curb the decline of French. This law will bring together the linguistic positions of our political training, including reception, integration and francization. Of these, note that of imperative that 100% of future immigrants and their spouses are admitted to the territory only if they demonstrate a good knowledge of French. In particular, we must reinstate the right to work in French and extend the law 101 to companies from 25 to 50 employees, as well as apply the provisions of the Charter to federal jurisdiction. We also want to strengthen French as a language of instruction, but also truly French language of the state and public administration. 
Several other measures will reaffirm that the official and commune Quebec language is French and that it will remain so. 
Dear Dr. Laurin, Law 101 has reassembled the course of the river as you had anticipated. The Charter of the French language is still today the most important symbol of our affirmation and be assured that as members of the grand Families Quebec, a non-negotiable imperative will always be necessary to us, to project towards the the same determination in affirmation and promotion of French. And that, with the same courage you have shown by passing this historical law. 
It's time, again, to trust each other and, as you did in 1977, to give them the means. 
Maka Kotto, Member of Parliament for Bourget, President of the Official Opposition Caucus 
