Quebec- The Leader of the Official Opposition and MP, Sylvain Gaudreault, the spokesman for the Parti Québécois in finance and income and deputy of Rousseau, Nicolas Marceau, the spokesperson for economy and deputy of Sanguinet, Alain Therrien, as well as the jurisdiction of the employment and deputy of Saint-Jean, Dave Turcotte, urge Prime Minister Philippe Couillard to cope with the consistent corroborated by the employment figures of the month of July : The job market in Quebec is hurting, very bad. 
Statistics Canada confirms that 4000 jobs were lost in Quebec in July. This assessment is the result of creating 15,400 part-time jobs, but combined with the disappearance of 19,500 full-time positions. "Let us remember: in May, the Prime Minister had welcomed the most of the jobs created. However, in June and July, Quebec lost nearly 47,000 full-time jobs; Philippe Couillard is now less quick to approach the subject. Yet now it must act and implement concrete and energetic actions, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"It has only been created just over 40,000 jobs in Quebec in almost two and a half years of Liberal government. We are far from the election promise to create 250,000! How does the Prime Minister plan, with these disturbing figures, respect his word and create wealth in Quebec? At the end of the last parliamentary session, he welcomed his so-called economic prowess. Is it still so proud? He asked for Nicolas Marceau for his part. 
"The economic development of Quebec stagnates. There are fewer jobs at this time than in December 2015 and, as the Prime Minister does not seem to have a solution to propose, no embellished on this plan is to be expected. As proof, Olymel announced this morning that it will soon remove 340 jobs at its Saint-Hyacinthe plant, "has illustrated Alain Therien. 
"What we hear on the ground Every day is unequivocally: young people, families, regional people, all Quebeckers want the government to act forcefully and without delay to stimulate the creation of good jobs, it is- to say paying and stable jobs, throughout the territory. But, for now, the Liberals have only wind to offer them, "concluded Dave Turcotte. 
