Quebec- While Quebec continues to lose full-time jobs, the official head of the official, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the spokesman for the Parti Québécois in finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, the spokesman Economics, Alain Therrien, and the spokesperson for employment and social economy, Dave Turcotte, deplore that the complete inaction of the Liberal government is being lost economic gloom. 
"We are very far from the Prime Minister's election promise to create 250,000 jobs. In December, we still lost 9700 full-time jobs. Since last April, the Net, Quebec has lost 1500 jobs. During the same period, the rest of Canada created 116,200 and Ontario, 77,900. We proposed multiple occasions to the Prime Minister to bring together all the actors of the company to remedy the situation. We need leadership, what does not do at all Philippe Couillard currently offering, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
Also mention that Quebec has 9100 unemployed people since the arrival of the Liberal government. "The unemployment rate increased to 7.8% in December, increasing for this month the number of unemployed 18,800. In all regions, it loses jobs. Despite this, the Prime Minister remains inactive. The liberal promises fly away, but the damage they remain. And it is the citizens who pay the price, "added Nicolas Marceau. 
"Everyone in Quebec says we need an economic plan, except the Prime Minister and his supposed economic team. Nobody, within this government, does not exercise economic leadership. Even the former Liberal Ministers Nathalie Normandeau and Michel Audet lamented the inability of the Government of Philippe Couillard in economic field. The only Liberal plan in this area after more than a year and a half of governess is the North Plan and its 6 administrative jobs created on the North Shore: a lamentable failure! Alain Therrien pursued. 
"More and more Quebec workers are unemployed, and pay for the lack of structuring vision of this government to stimulate employment. The Liberals even go so far as to cut into job aid measures! When do the attacks against workers, job seekers and the most vulnerable in Quebec will they stop? ", Concluded Dave Turcotte. 
