Quebec- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the spokesman for the Parti Québécois in finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, the spokesperson for economy, energy and natural resources, Alain Therrien, as well as the spokesperson for employment and social economy, Dave Turcotte, deplore that under the Liberal reign, Quebec is faced with a situation of stagnation of the labor market. 
"Employment, in Quebec, has been doing the surcharge since the beginning of 2015. While the Prime Minister made us shimp the better days, it is clear that it is, again, that Magic thought. In two years of Liberal government, it was only 46 100 jobs. It's not even half of what the Prime Minister had promised in election campaign. Again and always, we witness the consequences of the liberal leaving in economics, which are felt in all regions, "lamented Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"We can see that Quebec stagnates: it has created 3400 jobs in February, which is lower than Statistics Canada's typical error! So there has been no real job creation in Quebec in February. It will be a year ago that it has not created a single job in Quebec! Added Nicolas Marceau. 
Every day, the Liberal government moves a little more from its promise to create 250,000 jobs. "Since the beginning of 2016, it's the hecatomb! Unfortunately, bad news is accumulating, particularly with the death of projects such as Ferroatlántica, Stolt Lngaz and IFFCO. Still yesterday, we learned that there were 187 layoffs in Davie and this time the government is directly responsible for it. Let us add to this the following job losses: 2400 at Bombardier, 200 at Rio Tinto, 200 at Bell Helicopter, 934 in the network of pharmacies, 120 at Colabor, 140 at Transcontinental, 148 at Tembec, "said Alain Therien. 
"The Quebec economy needs an electroshock; Everyone recognizes it, except the Liberal government! Across Quebec, families undergo the consequences of liberal inertia. The government is making no gesture to revive the hope of workers, workers and their families, "concluded Dave Turcotte. 
