Quebec- The member for Rousseau and spokesman for the Parti Québécois in the field of finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, welcomes the electoralist proposal of the Coalition Future Québec (CAQ), who speaks to send to each Quebecker winning less than 150 $ 000 a year a check of $ 500. The problem is that the sums required to honor this commitment would be added to the debt, that future generations will have to repay. 
The head of the CAQ has indeed announced this morning that he intended to dismantle the generation fund and use the money to give $ 500 to each Quebecer responding to certain criteria. "The financial credibility of Quebec is based on the rigor with which we make payments to the Fund to repay our debt. It is a commitment we must absolutely respect. By launching such ideas, the CAQ again demonstrates its irresponsibility. Think about it: the CAQ offers exciting 1.75 billion more current expenses on the debt. This is the perfect recipe to undergo a discount! "Said Nicolas Marceau. 
"To debate our children of 1.75 billion to earn some votes, it's indecent to have only thought! Where was the head of the CAQ, which in April 2014 cut a credit card, claiming that the debt reduction was a priority? Has he concluded that in recollant the two pieces of the card, he would win votes? Because what he proposes today is to increase the balance of the credit card of our children, "continued the spokesman. 
According to Nicolas Marceau, anyway, this short-view measure would not stimulate our economy in a sustainable way. "To reduce taxes while remaining responsible, it is important to generate sustainable economic growth, and it moves among other things through the education, innovation and productivity of our companies. However, nothing in the extent proposed by the CAQ does not allow to develop the economy in a structural way. Decidedly, the CAQ brings us directly back to the Time of Réal Carette, which said that if we lacked money, it was enough for us to print! , "He concluded. 
