Quebec, August 24, 2016 - Canada's Liberal Party Caucus will be held in Jonquière, tomorrow and Friday, the member for Jonquière and Official Opposition Leader, Sylvain Gaudreault, formula five requests to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. Important files for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region and for Quebec. 
Setting the milk file DiafiltRedes Foreign Distributors Bypass Quebec laws and regulations to enter Quebec a product derived from milk. "Diafiltrated milk from the United States causes losses for Quebec farms valued at a hundred million dollars annually. For a dairy farm, it can be a shortfall of more than $ 20,000 a year. The federal minister is aware of the problem and knows the solutions; What does he expect to implement them? Asked Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Defending the Quebec Forest Plan with the AmericansThe Federal Government does not recognize the changes that Quebec has made to its forest regime and that make producers from here should no longer pay any surtax. In addition, Justin Trudeau did nothing to restore the tax on the paper-based paper, which caused the closure of the Kenogami factory for 11 days this spring. "Our forest industry lives significant difficulties. While the Ontario automotive industry has been supported by billions by Ottawa, the forest and our regions have only received crumbs. What does Mr. Trudeau wait to support our forest workers and defend them against American protectionism? , Added the member for Jonquière. 
Clear the unfair competition experienced by Quebec sales on the Internet explode, but several e-commerce giants pay neither taxes or taxes on sales made in Quebec. The federal government does not act; It does not even check what the majority of parcels crossing the border contain! The businesses thus suffer the unfair competition from foreign companies, an estimated $ 300 million in Quebec in 2012. "While e-commerce continues to grow at high speed, what does the Government of Justin Trudeau doing so that These competitors pay their fair share? What does it do to give hope for traders who create jobs with us? ", Also asked Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Restore the financing of international cooperation agencies also calls for better funding for international cooperation agencies (OIC). "OICs make a remarkable field work. However, despite the fact that their means were already limited, the Conservatives still decided to cut in their budgets. What we are asking the Federal Liberals is simple: restore OIC funding up to what it was before the Conservative cuts, minimally, "pleaded the leader of the official opposition. 
Maintaining the progression of transfers in Healthenfin, Sylvain Gaudreault insists on the issue of federal health transfers. "Quebeckers send $ 50 billion to Ottawa each year. However, from next year, the progression of health transfers will decrease by half, which could represent $ 250 million less to treat our world. This aberrant decision, we must, too, to the former Conservative government. Justin Trudeau had promised to overthrow and restore the annual increases in transfers; He must respect his promise, "he concluded. 
