Quebec- The member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and the official opposition spokesman for seniors, Carole Poirier, is proud to have required the Minister responsible for seniors, Marguerite Blais, a full rewrite of Bill 22. "Initially, this bill was purely cosmetic. By requiring the minister that she brings amendments to give real use to her bill, we managed to make it really useful for the elderly. " 
"Thanks to the interventions of the Parti Québécois and the comments of the groups heard during the consultations, Marguerite Blais had to go to the evidence and had no choice but to return to the homework, in order to respect the commitments made to Elders in loss of autonomy that must move quickly. From now on, seniors who have to quickly terminate their lease for medical reasons will have to pay a maximum of two months rather than three months as it was the case before. In cases where landlords agree with an agreement, payments can be completely avoided, "said the member Carole Poirier. 
"Our claims and those of the great seniors' associations will finally be allowed to break with the expression" the dead eat ". From now on, during a move or during a death, the fees charged for meals, or for those connected to a bath, can no longer be required. I still explain very badly why this change was not contained in the initial version of Bill 22 filed by the Minister. It was more than time we put an end to these abusive practices, "continued the official opposition spokesperson for seniors. 
"It is at the request of the Parti Québécois that the Minister Delegate to Social Services, Dominique Vien, and the Minister responsible for Elders, Marguerite Blais, had to change their recent bills to harmonize the appellation of homes. accommodation mentioned in the articles of the Civil Code. It is important to modify it in order to better represent the current reality in CHSLDs, intermediate resources and private residences for seniors in the Health and Social Services Act. " 
"Almost four years after the commitments made by Minister Blais, it is finally today that we finally crossed a step to better defend the rights of Quebec elders. I also remind you to the Minister responsible for seniors that there are several other important issues that must be settled without delay. In this respect, I reiterate my wish to see, by the holiday season, the filing of regulatory modifications to the control of the building to limit the maximum temperature of the hot water in the CHSLDs, "concluded Carole Poirier. 
