Quebec- "After significant progress, the weight of French has decrease in Quebec and particularly in the Montreal area. Bill 14 is necessary in order to reverse this trend and strengthen the use of French in all the spheres of Quebec society, "said the Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of The French language, Ms. Diane de Courcy, following the closing of public hearings on the bill. 
At a press briefing, the minister reported on the main issues raised by different participants (see information as annexed). She also expressed interest in many of the issues. 
The francization of companies remains, for Madame de Courcy, the heart of the bill 14. It will meet in the short term the economic representatives who spoke during the Commission. Many have submitted recommendations to operationalize the bill to which the minister will pay particular attention. 
Thirty-five years after the adoption of the Charter of the French Language, Minister Diane de Courcy is committed to finding a mechanism for reviewing the bilingual status of some cities based on demographic change. It wants to ensure that municipalities contribute to the French integration of immigrants and the French face of Quebec, with respect for the rights of English-speaking communities. According to the Minister, the detailed study of the bill should make it possible to identify the necessary adjustments to reconcile these objectives. 
Bill 14 aims to prevent the possibility of granting a permanent right to public education in English for the children of the Francophone Quebec soldiers, which is transferable to brothers and sisters and offspring. Based on its recent experience in the school environment, Minister Diane de Courcy says that this measure will not result in the closure of English-speaking schools. 
The Commission's hearings revealed some perception issues at the articles on the powers of the Minister and the OQLF. The minister intends to make the necessary adjustments and to address the exchanges on these issues in an open and constructive spirit.  Ethnic minorities or cultural communities 
The legal consultations made by Mrs de Courcy before the bill allowed him to say that this amendment has a very technical nature that does not reduce the level of protection enjoyed by all the citizens of Quebec. It plans to redo the necessary checks and, if necessary, propose an amendment to the bill. 
Madame de Courcy was very satisfied with citizen participation in the public consultation on the bill to amend the Charter of the French Language, the Charter of Rights and Freedoms and other legislative provisions. Since the opening of the works on March 12, the Commission has heard 75 of the 87 persons and organizations that have filed a brief. In addition, some 4,300 people participated in the online consultation taking place in the National Assembly website since February 12. This is a record of concentrated participation over a period of just ten weeks. 
"Several spokespersons for organizations supported the government's approach to promote and strengthen French at work and services, and others have laid a more critical look at certain provisions of Bill 14. but in the Together, everyone agrees with the importance of the French language and the role played by the "Law 101" 35 years ago in this direction. Today, the company must make an extra effort to strengthen French in Quebec and I am convinced that in a few years we will recognize all the merits of Bill 14, "added the minister. 
Public hearings held as part of the consultation have helped to hear a significant number of people and groups on their main concerns under Bill 14 (PL14). As a clarification, here are some pieces of information on these issues.  Right to live and work in French - PL14 strengthens the right to live and work in French in Quebec. - non-unionized workers who are aggrieved may be accompanied by the Labor Standards Commission. - The PL14 ensures that the French language remains the common language of Quebec society. He affirms Quebec's French face in respect of the rights of the English-speaking community. 
