Trois-Rivières- The National Committee of Young People's Youth (CNJPQ) provides a mixed review of the annual meeting of the Liberal Party of Quebec. 
Reunited in Trois-Rivières, the National Youth Conference of the Parti Québécois questioned several of the guidelines proposed by young liberals and called them to demand response on topics that are at the heart of the news. 
"We are also concerned about the economy of family sharing and policy, but at the time we are in the face of the federal election campaign, it is essential that the government assume its responsibilities to clarify its positions on energy and social issues that are of concern. Quebecers. The silence of the young liberals on the context of the federal campaign, the absence of recall to the Employment and the effects of austerity, so their deafening silence on energy issues and the recent Canadian energy strategy are as much elements that show the decline in the influence of young people in the Liberal Party. Fight climate change, it is not done by closing eyes on west oil! », Mention Ariane Cayer, President of the CNJPQ 
CNJ members also welcome the recent commitment of their leader Pierre Karl Péladeau, official opposition leader and leader of the Parti Québécois, to hold a debate on accessibility and free school. They also welcome its recent interventions at the INM Summer School regarding the presence of young people on the boards of directors of Crown corporations as well as the end of the hiring gel in the public service . "It's the kind of approach we have to offer Quebec youth, a leadership assumed. Young people who evolve in political formations have historical responsibilities to intervene with their leader and to demand development or changes in guidance when government decisions raise concerns or affect citizens, as it is the case currently in Quebec. It's breathing the cage! ", Shows the president. 
Young people from the Parti Québécois are currently finalizing the preparations for an unprecedented tour of school institutions, youth groups and civil society for autumn. Young people will also be more active in promoting Quebec countries and opportunities that this great project are even more radiant the creativity of Quebec citizens here as in the world. 
