Montreal -The MP for Chambly and Deputy Parliamentary Leader of the Official Opposition, Bertrand St-Arnaud, the member for Vachon and Spokesperson for Mines and Shale Gas, Martine Ouellet, and the member for Hochelaga Maisonneuve and Spokesperson for seniors and secularism, Carole Poirier, join their voices to appeal to the population on the eve of the launch of the Coalition for the future of Quebec (CAQ). "Attention to Mirage! , Warned the members, mentioning that the CAQ has very few solutions to respond to the real issues of Quebec. 
"At the Parti Québécois, we have very interesting ideas to offer the people, thoughtful ideas that meet his needs, said Bertrand St-Arnaud, recalling that they were adopted last April by Quebec's delegates after months of debate and reflection. We invite Quebeckers to carefully examine everyone's ideas and when they will compare, they will quickly perceive that the CAQ's proposals do not cross the test of reality, that it is a mirage, "he continued. . 
"By speaking only four themes, François Legault shows us that he has few solutions to meet the true challenges of modern Quebec. The CAQ is silent on a crowd of topics including the environment, transport, forest and water. It is unthinkable in 2011 to offer a political program without addressing the issue of the reduction of GHGs and global warming that are a concern not only in Quebec but for the whole planet. Mr. Legault makes politics from another time. It's not just the money that counts on Mr. Legault but also the quality of life and the quality of the environment. In Quebec The issue of declining greenhouse gases is an environmental issue and a great opportunity for economic development with transportation and renewable energies that will allow us to reduce our oil consumption. Mr. Legault is already overwhelmed by these issues, "added Martine Ouellet. 
"The CAQ has no solution that directly affects people. He is not talking about families or our elders. These are subjects to the heart of Quebeckers' concerns. How does it plan to pay the shortage of childcare places? How much does he want to increase child care expenses? What solution does it propose to help the elderly to be able to age at home? At the Québécois party, we have proposals to help families and elders. We propose that each child has a day care center, we offer increased home care for seniors, "Carole Poirier chained. 
"Integrity is also another theme that François Legault avoided speaking. On the Public Inquiry Commission, it has changed their minds three times! Initially, he did not even want an investigation! What does he propose to clean up political manners? At the Québécois party, we propose to reduce to $ 100 the contribution of individuals to political parties and we have ideas to renew our democracy as a fixed election, "added Bertrand St Arnaud. 
MEPs also raised François Legault's lack of coherence when it comes to defending the interests of Quebec. "Promising to put aside the national question for ten years, the CAQ promises no fight against Ottawa even though decisions are taken against our values, they added, referring to the abolition the Firearms Registry and Bill C-10 on Crime. What does François Legault intend to defend Quebec? ", Ask members. 
