Quebec- Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food of Quebec, M . François GENDRON, and the Minister Delegate to the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine Region, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, announce the creation of an interdepartmental committee for the revival of the School of Fisheries and aquaculture from Quebec (Écaq), located in Grande-Rivière, in Gaspésie. 
This decision is part of the wake of the Government Intervention Strategy for the Development of the Gaspésie-de-la-Madeleine Region unveiled last May. This intervention plan aims to support the economic development of the region by highlighting its multiple resources. 
For Minister Pierre Duchesne, the stakes around the Fisheries and Aquaculture School of Quebec far exceed the Gaspé Peninsula: "This institution is nationally and it is around it that the Future of the Quebec maritime fishing industry. Our government is committed to ensuring sustainability. In particular, the Interdepartmental Committee will have the objectives of identifying the challenges and challenges of the OPAP and to examine its development prospects. » 
The SpaQ houses premises with advanced technological equipment: navigation workshops, fishing gear and marine mechanics, biochemistry laboratories, a fish processing plant and, moreover, a laboratory and a greenhouse of aquaculture where molluscs, fish and crustaceans are raised. In the hands of experts, students receive practical training adapted to the reality of the maritime environment. 
Minister Gaétan Lelièvre welcomed this announcement for his region and for Quebec, "it is now clear that our government will take every means to ensure the recovery of the Fisheries and Aquaculture School of Quebec , a vital institution for the Gaspeisians and for the entire maritime fishing industry in Quebec. » 
"Marine fishing is an important part of Eastern Economic activity. I am convinced that the School of Fisheries and Aquaculture of Quebec can and must become an important cluster of development of the fishery resource. It must be given the necessary means to become an asset for our fishermen, "conclude the Deputy Prime Minister, François Gendron. 
The mandate of the Interdepartmental Committee is to propose creative solutions to determine how the school can contribute to regional development and being synergistic with the fishing and aquaculture industry. 
It will consist of the following departments and agencies: the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology (MESRST), the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (MAPAQ), The Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport (MELS), the Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity (Mess), the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory (Mamrot-Sector Regions), the Ministry of the Executive Council (Secretariat of the Departmental Committee of the Gaspé-Islands-de-la-Madeleine Region) and the Labor Market Partner Commission (CPMT). 
The work of the Committee, which will be under the responsibility of MESRST, will begin in June 2013. The submission of the final report is scheduled for October 2013. 
