Montreal- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is proud to announce the construction of a new multifunctional pavilion that will house the lament of students. This new building will bring together many services for students at the School of Technology (ETS), a component of the University of Quebec network. In addition to considerably improve the living environment of students, this project will provide new services to the community. It is estimated that construction will be completed in 2015. 
"This project represents much more than a new construction. It represents the vision that the Senior Technology School develops for the future, which includes two important elements: to continue to offer higher quality education, and this, in a quality environment. This vision will contribute to attracting students from here and elsewhere, "said Minister Duchesne. 
The minister also said he was pleased to note that in addition to the contribution of the ETS in the financing of this project, the Student Association decided to participate financially in its implementation. 
Remember that the Government has authorized the estimates to carry out preparatory studies and work for the construction of the Student House Construction project in 2012. Following this exercise and the analysis of the documents filed by The estates, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology gave the green light to the realization of this project last May. 
The ETS project consists in building, on a land owned and located on its campus, neighbor of its main building, a building of 130,000 square feet. This complex will have five floors, plus two parking floors with a capacity of 185 places. The project cost is estimated at $ 36.35 million. 
"The student house will unify the urban campus of the ÉTS. It will be a place of exchanges and activities that will offer a living space of living, integrating and friendly for students. It is intended to optimize the quality of the experience experienced by students while strengthening their sense of belonging. This is an important project for the ÉTS, which aspires to be an internationally caliber school, "mentioned the Director General of the ÉTS, Yves Beauchamp. 
The building will include spaces for student services, the Student Association, the Development Service, an ETS network show and a coffee shop. It will also include an atrium, a public place and rental spaces, in which, among other things, a pharmacy, a financial institution and a medical clinic will be installed. 
