Quebec- The hon. Member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the member for Rosemont and spokesman for the Parti Québécois in the field of social services and the protection of youth, Jean-François Lisée, as well as The member for Lac-Saint-Jean and spokesperson for school education and perseverance, Alexandre Cloutier, require the government to reinstate students expelled from specialized schools due to a lack of resources, and that He is committed to providing autistic children and their families with all the services they need. In this sense, the member for Rosemont has tabled today to the National Assembly a petition signed by more than 3,000 people. 
"In May last, Prime Minister Philippe Couillard demonstrated how much compassion was missing by asserting that the services would be restored once a balanced budget is reached. What is it, now, now, to the Protector of the Citizen, who affirms in his newest annual report that "Major files are not on the radar screen of the public authorities, while they are heavy social consequences and This is [...] in terms of education, where services should be better adapted to the needs of students in difficulty, including those who have a spectrum disorder of autism "? What fixes do it intend to make as a result of this severe criticism? When will children excluded from their school will be reintegrated? What concrete solutions will bring his government to stop this practice? , "Said the leader of the official opposition. 
"In recent months, the media has reported many cases of children with disabilities, in difficulty of learning or with adaptation disorders who have been expelled from their school. They are good for a few hours of schooling at home every week, but it is clearly insufficient. This practice must stop; The fulfillment and success of these children command their reintegration at school ", has declared Jean-François Lisée for his part. 
As for the member for Lac-Saint-Jean, he shows the recent compressions made by the Liberal government. "The cuts imposed in the middle of education directly affect the services to students, particularly the most vulnerable. Lack of specialized resources, schools must be resolved to expel children who are most attention, leaving them with some five hours of schooling at home a week. Obviously, it's not enough for children or their parents, who are quickly ended up, "added Alexander Cloutier. 
At the time of depoting the petition at the blue show were present, in particular, parents of autistic children as well as artisans of the Quebec Federation of Autism (FQA), initiators of the petition. "I want to emphasize the FQA's commitment and all other groups to young people and families who have to live on a daily basis with the challenge of difference and deal with painful liberal compressions in social services," concluded Jean -François listed. 
