Gatineau - preoccupied by the particular situation of 34 former students of the Night Hawk College, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, decided to use his Discretionary power in their favor and give them a debt submission equivalent to the amounts of tuition that had been paid to them under LALOI on financial assistance to studies. These 34 debt discounts total an amount of more than $ 360,000. 
"I was particularly touched by this sad story where students and female students were blurred while they had chosen to return to school to build a better future. I held that it was my duty to act as soon as the situation was brought to my attention in the spring of 2013. Today, I am relieved for those people who can find, I hope, their serenity. I sincerely thank them for their patience on this issue, "said Minister Duchesne. 
Remember that last May 15, the minister reported in writing with certain students who attended this college to inform them of exceptional measures applicable to their recovery file as of 1 June 2013, pending an administrative assessment of their file. . Under the Study Financial Assistance Act, the Minister has decided to suspend the calculation of applicable interest on the balance of debt in some cases. 
The minister also decided to suspend Quebec's revenue allocation of reimbursement of sums due under a tax debt payment law, such as provincial tax refunds and tax credits for solidarity. In addition, it is possible again to those who consider to return to studies to benefit, pursuant to the Financial Assistance Act, from non-conditional financial assistance to the repayment of the debt contracted Following their studies at Night Hawk IT College. No debt recovery is performed by financial aid payments. 
Following an administrative assessment of the Ministry, Minister Duchene then decided, by virtue of the discretionary power granted to him by the Financial Assistance Act, that some students and students will receive a discount of their equivalent debt At the amounts of tuition paid to them in the context of this law, during their visit to the computer college NIGHT HAWK. These people will be notified in writing of this debt discount. 
Students who received a letter from the Minister dated May 15, 2013, but who do not receive a debt discount, will be informed of the decision of the Minister in writing and will be invited to share their comments. Financial assistance for studies. 
Those who benefited from the exceptional measures announced in May 2013 will be informed that they cease to have effect from February 1, 2014. 
Due to the rules surrounding ongoing procedures (Sub Judice), it is not appropriate to comment further before the files of those who have studied at the Night Hawk IT College. A continuation of civil liability, introduced by the Attorney General of Quebec against certain college directors, is currently pending before the Superior Court. The hearing in this case is scheduled for March 3 to 18, 2014. 
Finally, the minister emphasized Ms. Sophie Miron's considerable contribution and support, the Employment of the Ottawa, and Mrs. Mélanie the Happy, the Ottawa Family Cooperative Association (ACEF). These have provided significant help to former students who have been blushed. 
It should be remembered that in May 2008, the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport asked Québec Security to conduct an investigation surrounding the activities of the Night Hawk IT College. This computer college closed in 2007 following the non-renewal of its permit by the Ministry. 
The police investigation has demonstrated that leaders of this college had, as part of a ploy, unlawfully drawn up money granted and guaranteed by the Ministry as part of the application of the law on the law. financial assistance for studies. Using this deception, college leaders, connivance with fake students, have received rights from the Ministry of the Department. At the beginning of May 2013, the College Director pleaded guilty to accusations of fraud. On November 6th, this one was sentenced to thirty months of penitentiary for fraud. According to some information, he announced his intention to bring his sentence on appeal. 
