Montréal - Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, announced today that a new stage had to be crossed to allow pharmacists to exercise new professional activities , such as the prescription and interpretation of laboratory analyzes and the prescription of drugs during minor conditions. 
Indeed, the College of Doctors du Québec (CMQ) and the Order of Pharmacists of Quebec (OPQ) have adopted laws arising from the Program 41, one year after the unanimous adoption of the new pharmacy law. 
"Pharmacists will soon be able to contribute even more effectively to the monitoring of patient drug therapy and, by the same fact, promote better access to front-line health care. Patients will benefit more from the expertise of pharmacists, "said Minister Hébert. 
"The order of pharmacists and the College of Physicians had only one priority: do more and better for patients. This is what Quebeckers are waiting for us and soon they will have more access for care and services in pharmacy. The pharmacists will assume these new responsibilities with competence and availability, "said the president of the OPQ, Diane Lamarre. 
"I want to salute the excellent collaboration work of the Order of Pharmacists and the College of Physicians on this issue. Interdisciplinarity is undoubtedly one of the key keys to providing Quebec from a first strong and accessible line of care, and the present example of consultation is certainly a beautiful event, "added Minister Hébert. 
"The adoption of the regulations today makes it possible to put the basis for an innovative interprofessional collaboration in the field of health in Quebec, has redeemed Dr. Bernard. The guidelines remains now to be written to explain to pharmacists and physicians how to apply these new regulatory provisions. In addition, the two orders will set up a joint vigor committee to monitor the implementation of the regulations and to better protect the public, "continued Dr. Charles Bernard, CMQ CEO. 
The new pharmacy law adopted last year provides for the addition of the following professional activities: 
In addition to these activities, it is planned to allow pharmacists to exercise two other activities or the prescription of laboratory tests for community pharmacists and the prescription of drugs when diagnosis and treatment are already known. 
Pharmacists will be able to exercise all of these new activities as soon as the regulatory process surrounding the adoption of the regulations necessary for this exercise will have been completed, by the summer of 2013. 
