Quebec- sensitive to the particular situation of certain students who attended the IT College Night Hawk, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, made known by Letter a series of measures that are intended for them, pending an administrative reassessment of their file. Under LALOI on financial assistance to the studies, the Minister has decided, in particular, to suspend, from 1 June 2013, the calculation of applicable interests on the balance of the debt of students who have been blushed in this case. 
"In this history, honest students and students have been victims of a scam. It was important for me, and my duty, to remedy this situation: that those who have fraud be punished, but that those who, in good faith, wished to pursue graduate studies, do not unfairly pay the consequences " , said Minister Duchesne. 
Thus, as of June 1, 2013, in addition to suspending the calculation of applicable interests on the balance of student studies of the students concerned, the Quebec Revenue Agency will no longer affect the payment of this debt reimbursements. 'Provincial tax or tax credits for solidarity. In addition, for those who would consider a return to study, eligibility for a financial assistance program will not be conditional on debt reimbursement at their studies at Night Hawk IT College. 
In addition, the files of these students, excluding those subject to judicial proceedings in this case, will be examined for a complete assessment of financial assistance granted during their studies. At the end of this assessment, the Ministry will contact each student concerned to report on the decision rendered in respect of his student debt. 
In May 2008, the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport asked Quebec's safety to conduct an investigation surrounding the activities of the Private College Night Hawk. Opened in 2004, this computer college closed in 2007 following the non-renewal of its permit by the Ministry.  The survey demonstrated that leaders from this college had, as part of a ploy, unlawfully drawn up money granted and guaranteed by the Ministry as part of the application of LALOI on financial assistance to study. Using this deception, college leaders, connivance with false students, received without law from the department. At the beginning of May 2013, the College Director pleaded guilty to accusations of fraud. The sentence is scheduled for September 2013. 
