Longueuil - The spokesperson for the Parti Quebec in Mines and Shale Gas, Martine Ouellet, was present yesterday at the second public meeting of the Strategic Environmental Assessment Committee (EAS) in Longueuil. "The consultation work of the Committee of the EAS have begun very well. Meetings announced at the very last minute, by means of the internet, in the midst of the holidays, it does not make it so serious. It's an insult to the intelligence of citizens! "," Said the hon. Member for Vachon. 
"The Committee of the EAS must redo its homework. If the approach is serious and not just a patent to silence the citizens, the committee will have to make three requests to the government, either introduce a complete moratorium on the exploration and exploitation of shale gas; review the composition of the committee; Review his mandate, "she continued. 
Currently, the gas move forward slowly, but surely. Still yesterday, the Committee on Protection of the Agricultural Territory of Quebec gave a favorable opinion for the construction of a pipeline to reach the two shale gas wells of Saint-Edward and Leclerville. The gas can now move to the sale of metro gas shale gas and therefore to operation. Several Gas have their fracturing and drilling license and wait for the right time to proceed. "During the meeting I attended yesterday, a citizen asked the members of the committee if they would agree to have a shale gas well next to them and each member replied that it would not be Interested, added the member of the Parti Québécois. It seems to me that it's pretty clear! » 
"In addition, it is unacceptable that the gas industry is on the committee. No directly or indirectly linked limbs to the industry should sit on this committee, since they are clearly biased or even in a conflict of interest. The Committee's Code of Ethics should not tolerate such a situation. It's simply indecent. The representative of Talisman must withdraw from the committee. A citizen asked for each member to make any potential conflict of interest with the gas and we find that it is a very good idea, "continued Martine Ouellet. 
A document was handed over to the citizens last night. Here is an excerpt that says a lot about the mandate of the committee: Why do a strategic assessment on shale gas in Quebec? To fill the knowledge deficit and dispel uncertainties. 
In our opinion, the mandate should be as follows: according to the environmental impacts and on health, social and economic impacts and also in a global energy vision, is desirable to develop the shale gas industry in Quebec ? 
