Montreal- The Parti Québécois denounces the composition of the committee appointed by the Conservative Minister Rob Nicholson to choose the new Supreme Court Judge who will represent Quebec. The former Federal Liberal Chief, Stéphane Dion, will sit. 
"This committee is formed of a mixture of individuals who ignore the Quebec reality and federalists who have fought Quebec aspirations all their lives. It finds the father of the law on clarity, Stéphane Dion, Jacques Gourde, whose expertise can be questioned, a member for Ontario, a member of British Columbia and the centralizer Françoise Boivin, former member of Parliament Plc passed to the NDP. If this committee must propose a judge to the Supreme Court, it is not the interest of Quebec that will take. What will take Canada's multiculturalism, the moral right and weakening of Quebec, in short, Canadian values, "believes Alexander Cloutier, a member of the Quebecois party in the riding of Lac-Saint-Jean. 
"This Supreme Court recently invalidated a bridging school law, which had been adopted unanimously by the members of the National Assembly. Since decades, Quebec has been able to designate, itself, the three judges from Quebec. This is today's Canada: judges designated by Trudauists, without the agreement of Quebec, rely on a constitution that we have neither negotiated nor approved to invalidate the laws we want. There is a solution: a Quebec Supreme Court in a country named Quebec, "said Jean-François Lisée, Quebec's candidate in the riding of Rosemont. 
"Did Jean Charest, who had asked to be consulted on the appointment of the judge representing Quebec, and François Legault agree with the composition of this committee? Do they agree that Quebec is once again reduced, a question of not making the Conservative government? Voters have the right to know. At the Parti Québécois, we are clear: we reject this committee and require that the Quebec government have a veto right on the appointment of the judge who must represent Quebec at the Supreme Court, "concluded Alexandre Cloutier. 
