Quebec, Oct. 18, 2013 / CNW Telbec / - The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, Today makes the Report of the Advisory Committee on Family Law on the Opportunity a global reform of Quebec's family law. 
This expert committee was set up by the Minister of Justice in April 2013, in the wake of the decisionLola c. Éric. Based on a legal analysis and socio-demographic data, the Committee concludes that there is a significant difference between the familical model recognized in the Civil Code, whose gateway is marriage, and the different forms of unions and families who are Quebec today. 
"I thank the members of this committee for this preliminary report which testifies to a remarkable work as well as a constructive and rigorous reflection on the issues involved and the challenges awaiting us. It is with confidence that I invite them to continue their work in order to offer us avenues that will allow us to better meet the needs of couples and families, "said Bertrand St-Arnaud. 
This report follows the first part of the mandate entrusted to the Advisory Committee, or to assess the opportunity or not to review the entire Quebec family law. 
The Committee will now begin the second part of its mandate by incorporating its analysis on two major themes, the rights and obligations of spouses ("conjugality law") and the right of children ("rights of filiation and the parenthood "). The work of the Committee will be spread over a period of 12 to 18 months. 
The Report of the Family Law Advisory Committee on the desirability of an overall reform of Quebec family law can be consulted on the website of the Ministry of Justice: www.justice.gouv.qc.ca. 
The Family Law Advisory Committee is chaired by Master Alain Roy, notary and full professor at the Université de Montréal, and is composed of the following experts (alphabetically): 
The coordination of the work is ensured by Me Renée Madore, Director of Guidance and Policy at the Ministry of Justice. In the exercise of its mandate, the Committee is also supported by lawyers and professionals from the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Family. 
