Quebec- The member for Labelle and sentence of the official opposition in saline lifestyle, recreation and sports, Sylvain Pagé, asks the Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport, Yves Bolduc, D To act and present as soon as possible measures aimed at preventing, detecting and monitoring cases of braincomions. 
Last January, the former Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Marie Malavoy, had set up a working group composed of experts responsible for examining the issue of cerebral commo in practice. sports or recreational activities. The conclusions had to be filed six months after its creation. 
"In addition to the findings of this report, Minister Bolduc has empirical data and expertise on safety in the practice of sport within his department. He no longer a reason to wait; He must now act, "said Sylvain Pagé. 
The government of the Parti Québécois also published a Green Paper to prepare a future national sport, leisure and physical activity comprising four issues, including the "quality of experience". In this regard, there is a question of security and specific guidelines that could be devoted to it during the practice of sports or recreational activities. It is a component of success for the population to adopt in the long term an active lifestyle. 
"It is strongly hoped that Minister Bolduc will respect his Word, given last spring, and that he will quickly present her policy with an ambitious action plan and involving as many ministries as possible," said Sylvain Pagé. 
Remember that the Liberal member of Notre-Dame-de-Grace and Current Minister of Immigration, Kathleen Weil, herself filed Bill 496, An Act to prevent and reduce the consequences related to cranial trauma or to a cerebral concussion in a student practicing a school sporting activity. 
"The consistency with the position adopted by his own party requires Minister Bolduc that he quickly looks at the problem of braincoms and that he announces measures as soon as possible. With the new school year that starts, the minister must act and send a clear message that we are concerned about the health and safety of our children, "said the member for Labelle. 
