Quebec- The Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, launched the Commission on the energy issues of Quebec: the reduction of greenhouse gases to the energy independence of Quebec. Quebeckers and Quebeckers are called upon to engage in a collective reflection aimed at defining the new Vision of Quebec in terms of energy. 
A series of public consultations will be carried out throughout Quebec to meet citizens. Mr. Normand Mousseau, Professor in the Department of Physics at the University of Montreal, as well as Mr. Roger Lanoue, who worked for more than 20 years at Hydro-Québec as Vice President of Strategic Planning and Development. business, will be the two co-chairs of this commission. The consultation paper, reporting on the energy situation in Quebec and defining the public consultation framework on the new energy policy, has also been filed today. 
"Let's be bold. It is all that it is up to take up the challenge of making Quebec, thanks to its green energy, a society at the forefront. The energy turn goes hand in hand with economic development and the protection of the environment. Quebec has all the tools to become a world leader in the fight against climate change, "said Martine Ouellet. 
To bring Quebec to go further, the government wishes to give an energy policy. The energy sector has been changing for about ten years in Quebec, North America and around the world. With the fight against climate change, the increase in the price of oil and the upheavals associated with the exploitation of non-traditional hydrocarbons, Quebec must more than ever take a position as a society on the vision of its energetic future. 
"This new energy policy will register with a perspective of reducing greenhouse gases. We want to make energy a powerful lever for economic and social development for Quebec. With the electrification of transport, we will develop a new economic sector that will allow a significant decrease in greenhouse gases in Quebec, "said Martine Ouellet. 
In addition to promoting the average energy efficiency of vigorous programs for all forms of energy, the future policy will build on the production of renewable and emerging energies. It will aim to reduce the consumption of fossil fuels, particularly by the electrification of transport. The government wishes to create a new industry and electrifying transportA a real economic center for Quebec, as well as multimedia and aeronautics. Despite efforts to reduce the consumption of fossil fuels, there will be a transition period. With $ 14 billion in imported oil, Quebec has a certain economic advantage over the potential for oil exploitation. It will be necessary to consider all environmental impacts, work in dialogue with communities and make sure to maximize collective economic benefits. 
Public consultations will be held from 4 September to 9 October 2013. The Commission will move in the regions of Quebec: Joliette, Thetford Mines, Gatineau, Rouyn, Lebel-sur-Quévillon, Saint-Hyacinthe, Montreal, Saint-Jérôme, Gaspé, Rimouski, Sept-Îles, Quebec, Saguenay, Shawinigan and Sherbrooke. 
The participation and support of all Quebeckers are desired to make this project a success. This is why citizens and interested groups are invited to present their brief during the public works of the Commission in their region or to table it on the consultation site. The consultation document is accessible AuconsultationEnergy.gouv.qc.ca. 
On the basis of the comments collected, the government will subsequently be able to deposit, in 2014, a brand new energy policy for Quebec. 
Throughout the consultation, you will be able to follow the course of the sessions and the activities of lament on Twitter. 
If you want to discuss public consultation on Twitter, we invite you to use the CLIC # EnergyQC. 
