Montréal - The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on transport, maritime strategy, electrification of transport and digital strategy, Martine Ouellet, experiences discomfort from the fact that the government invites the leaders of a company that makes Illegal transport in parliamentary committee to the National Assembly. 
"The respect of our institutions orders that the stakeholders invited in parliamentary committee do not violate our laws. Minister Daoust must use all the means to suspend UBERX's illegal transport during the Commission, as requested by taxi drivers, the Quebec party, the Mayor of Montreal and the CMM. The government must enforce the law and demand from UberX to demonstrate its good faith in the process, "says the member. 
In addition, the Parti Québécois is surprised at the content of the working document. "It is very clear that the working document is incomplete and biased. Several elements are absent, as the portrait of seizures, denunciations to the Quebec Transport Commission, the class action against UberX's abusive tariffs, the injunction against Uber and the government, the decision of the Court in California to consider Uber drivers like employees and not as self-employed. In addition, cities selected as an example wish to all accommodate Uber. No city has stopped the activities of UberX, by injunction or otherwise, like Calgary, Vancouver, Paris and several others, is presented, "has exposed Martine Ouellet. 
Finally, the Parti Québécois is disappointed with the Liberal government's refusal to hear all the actors involved. Of the 19 groups identified by the Parti Québécois, only 7 will be invited in committee. "On the side of the speakers' choice, we also feel a willingness to promote one point of view," added the spokesman. 
"The objective that one must continue is to work to stop the illegal taxi and unfair competition. Improving the taxi service is already underway but alone, it will not be able to make weight against a competitor who does not respect any rule and who does not pay a TVQ, no TPS, no tax or allowed. The government must clearly ask for a truce in UberX. Do not wait for things to degenerate, as is currently the case elsewhere in the world, "concluded Martine Ouellet. 
