Québec- In the presence of many branded guests, chiefs and former Aboriginal leaders, former prime ministers and former Aboriginal and parliamentary ministers, the Government of Quebec has tabled a motion at the National Assembly this morning emphasizing the path traveled since The last thirty years in terms of relations with Aboriginal nations. 
The deposit of this motion highlighted the 30th anniversary of the adoption by the Council of Ministers, the principles guiding relations between the Government of Quebec, the First Nations and the Inuit on 9 February 1983. 
The resolutions of the National Assembly of 1985 and 1989, as well as the 15 principles adopted by the Council of Ministers in 1983, still serves as a foundation for government action on Aboriginal affairs. 
"The gesture posed by the Government of René Lévesque wanted the friendly expression of a recognition of the Aboriginal peoples of Quebec as distinct nations with rights, including one of themselves the development of their identity," Declared the Prime Minister Pauline Marois. 
The current regional head of the Assembly of First Nations of Quebec and Labrador (APNQL), Ghislain Picard, as well as the Grand Head of the Huron-Wendat Nation and former Regional Chief of Quebec from the APNQL, Konrad Sioui, have Taken by the Prime Minister during a reception held in the Legislative Council Room, following the deposit of the motion. 
"Young and inspired by an ardent desire for change in its relationship with the other levels of government, including Quebec, our Aboriginal leadership was perfectly part of the Prime Minister René Lévesque, there are already 30 years. We believe that our ancestral rights, our treaty rights and our territorial rights could now be discussed and affirmed in a spirit of peaceful coexistence which would become the best wishes among all our nations. Filled with hope, we continue our walk more united than ever around the big circle, paying tribute to all those who have drawn the way and thinking of all our children and generations that follow us The Grand Chief of the Huron-Wendat Nation Konrad Sioui. 
This commemoration was also an opportunity for the Government to reaffirm the commitments made at the Summit on Territories and Resources, organized by the APNQL, held in Montreal on December 3rd. 
"Government policy is based on these principles that are a lever for those who care about the progress of Quebec and the development of communities. A Quebec for all is a Quebec that includes Aboriginal people. We have all interest to continue moving forward, and we are in the right track, "said Elizabeth Larouche, Minister Delegate for Aboriginal Affairs. 
