Québec- The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries, Energy and Natural Resources (CAPERN) has today made the filing of the Gentilly-2 report. This report follows the specific consultations held at the National Assembly on 29 and 30 January 2013 concerning the decommissioning impacts of the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant and the economic diversification plan for the sector of the Center-du- du- Quebec and Mauricie. 
Parliamentarians from three political courses represented at the National Assembly resumed work on 21 and 26 March, with a view to completing the drafting of the report, as stipulated in the mandate conferred unanimously by the House on 12 March 2013. After two working sessions, eight recommendations could be adopted for the benefit of the people of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In particular, the latter relate to the impacts of decommissioning, job creation and the economic diversification fund for both regions. 
"The Government proposed to reinvest in the Economic Diversification Fund loans or guarantees of loans that would have been reimbursed, which would have been an important gain. Unfortunately, oppositions have chosen partisanship rather than support for economic development by refusing our recommendation, "said Martine Ouellet, Minister of Natural Resources. 
"Despite some disagreements between the three parties, MEPs have been able to adopt a constructive tone in a spirit of collaboration to make the adoption of supported recommendations for the region. The citizens of the Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec have asked us to finish the work already started and we have responded to their expectations by offering us together again, "said the member for Champlain, Noëlta Champagne. 
Luc Trudel, Member of Parliament for Saint-Maurice, emphasizes the importance of economic benefits in the region: "The government has the capacity to act for economic development and support for workers. That's the priority. We now have the future turned over: an economic diversification fund of $ 200 million to support and develop our economy, "the member has entered into. 
Under the mandate ordered by the National Assembly of Quebec, the final report of the Parliamentary Committee should be tabled by 28 March 2013 at the latest. 
For more information on the Fund, the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie Economic Diversification Table, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
Consult the news releases issued by the Parti Québécois government concerning Gentilly-2 
The Parti Québécois requires excuses from the Liberal Party of Quebec to lie on Gentilly-2: Watch Judgment of Presse de Luc Trudel and NoëlThe Champagne. 
