Quebec- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élaine Zakaïb, who was President and Executive Director of the 2004 to 2012 FTQ Funds, wishes to react to the telephone conversation. 2009 and disseminated as part of the testimony of Mr. Jean Lavallée before the Charbonneau Commission. Mr. Michel Arsenault's appeal, then Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Fonds de solidarité FTQ, aimed at the list of investments of the regional funds in the construction sector. Ms. Zakaïb took the opportunity to inform Mr. Arsenault of a practice that was running, before his arrival, in one of the stages of the diligence audit process of the regional funds and that she had stopped as soon as she in has been informed. 
"This step aimed at ensuring with the unions that employers from business-approached businesses respected the rules of the Quebec Construction Commission and collective agreements," said Zakaïb Élain. "The FTQ Construction was responsible for collecting this information. For a short time, the Chair's Office took advantage of this access to the projects studied in the great metropolitan area to prevent potential investments in companies competing with those of Mr. Tony Accurso, where the Fund had significant interests. It is up to these projects that I am referring to in the conversation. As soon as I have been informed of this practice, I have taken the means to stop this interference immediately into the projects under study. » 
Zakaïb Élain also specifies that when she makes the remark that the less she knows, the better she feels, she refers to the conflict that had just broken down - we must place back in 2009 - between two leaders of the FTQ Construction, which did not look at her. 
Finally, she adds that other refused files she talks about during this conversation are not part of the construction sector. They were refused for business reasons and in the usual framework of the Fund's verification process. 
In addition, it recalls that throughout the period in which it acted as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Regional Funds, none of the projects presented by MM. Jean Lavallée or Jocelyn Dupuis was accepted. 
"I acted in integrity on this occasion and for the duration of my mandate at the head of the regional funds. My priority has been, and remains, the economic development of the regions ", concluded Ms. Zakaïb. 
