Montréal- As a result of the publication of the first recommendations of the Committee on Permanent Revision of Programs, the member for Sanguinet and the official opposition spokesman for the Treasury Board, Alain Therien, judges that the amount invested to carry out this ideological work should have been elsewhere. According to him, the President of the Treasury Board, Martin Coiteous, should assume his responsibilities instead of bringing them by a clearly disconnected commission of reality. 
"This commission does a job that should be accomplished by the President of the Treasury Board. This joke has lasted enough; Martin Coiteux must take responsibility, instead of comparing his proposals to others who are even more unreasonable. Distance from recommendations completely disconnected to bring his own, that he has already announced, is not the right way to do. It is, neither more nor less, a missed communication exercise; The petticoat exceeds, "said Alain Therrien. 
Purely ideological 
"Why have targeted 8 programs among all those of the government? We do not know why some have been targeted, while others, no. There is no overall ranking of all programs. We deliberately choose to attack the regions, the agricultural and families world. For example: Why not have addressed the most important state budget item, health, and the $ 2.5 billion increase in physician remuneration? This work is purely dogmatic, without impact analysis or taking into account reality. What does the Liberal government of these recommendations do? , Continued the spokesman. 
A front attack against families, the agricultural world and regions 
The member also considers the relationship totally disconnected from the reality of families, the agricultural and regions. The Robillard Commission proposes, inter alia, to freeze the development of child care places, while it lacks throughout Quebec. It also recommends cutting $ 300 million in agriculture, and nearly $ 1.3 billion in transfers to municipalities. 
"With such a measure, the government pelles its deficit in the municipal court. Lucienne Robillard applies a federally proven formula: the transfer of financial responsibilities to another level of government. She practiced so much when she was in the federal government! Ottawa accumulates budget surpluses and, instead of attacking it, the Liberal government sends its own deficit to municipalities, which are already struggling with Cups of $ 300 million, and this only for this year. The worst is that this will result in tax increases for taxpayers, "added the member. 
"Quebec is becoming a Canadian province like the others. All the elements that distinguish us from the rest of Canada, such as food sovereignty, decentralization, child care and occupation of the territory, the Commission considers that they must be cut, "said Alain Therrien. 
"Lucienne Robillard's recommendations are at the antipodes of the principle of food sovereignty and the importance of agriculture in the economy. We will be along with farmers to defend the place they must occupy in economic recovery, "concluded the official opposition spokesperson. 
