Quebec- The parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois wants to hear in public hearing the leaders of the Fonds of Solidarity FTQ to the Public Finance Commission (PSC) and emphasizes the importance of correcting this mandate. 
"The Fonds de solidarité FTQ holds the responsibility of assets worth several billion dollars. It is the bottom of wool of thousands of Quebeckers. As parliamentarians, it is important that we exercise responsible and rigorous work in the interest of the population, without substituting us in the work of the Charbonneau Commission. In this sense, we insist that the Commission be well marked to avoid any skids of a basic partisan nature likely to affect the trust of investors, "explained the member for Sanguinet and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Alain Therrien. 
In response to the request of the Future Québec Coalition (CAQ) for the PSC to be seized of a funding mandate on the governance and management of the Fund, the members of the Government have been criticized before the lack of supervision of approach. "The mandate proposed by the CAQ is too broad and opens the door to drifts. It does not determine any of the conditions that could mark the approach. It is out of the question for us to start a commission without first having determined the process, "says Gilles Chapadeau, Member of Parliament for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue, a parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Labor and a member of the Commission. 
The parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois wants all parliamentarians to vote on the mandate through a motion that it will table tomorrow in the National Assembly. "Recent news order us to take our responsibilities and complete a transparent process where the leaders would be convened. We have questions about the institution's management and governance processes, "have entered Members. 
Under the adoption of this motion, the CFP would be mandated to convene the leaders of the Fonds Fund FTQ for a public hearing. 
