Québec - You will find, attached, a copy of the letter that Mr. Daniel Breton, a member of Parliament for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, sent for the attention of the President of the Committee on Transport and the Environment, Madam Fatima Houda-Pepin, following the invitation to appear in respect of the mandate aimed at shedding light on the events on 24 October on the allegations of Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Wildlife. parks. 
_Madame President, 
On March 22, the deputy secretary of your commission summoned me to proceed with my hearing on April 24, before my peers, as part of the mandate to shed light on the events that occurred on 24 October 2012, or concerning the Visit I made at BAPE, while I occupied the function of Minister for Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks. 
This is an article by Journalist Régys Caron, published on Thursday, November 15, 2012 in the pages of the newspaper of Quebec, telling my visit to BAPE, which is at the origin of this mandate. According to what his sources reported to him, Mr. Caron argues that by my visit to BAPE, I "transgress the partition that is supposed to separate" the Politics BAPE. The journalist also affirms that, always according to his sources, I personally have asked the Commissioners' telephone numbers. These same sources would have entrusted him that I would have threatened to call them personally if one of their decisions did not please me. It is important here to note that no other media has been able to confirm these so-called "information" since. 
On several occasions, I said in a room that I had never asked for the telephone numbers of the Commissioners of the BAPE or asked whoever to do it for me; What has been confirmed by the people of BAPE. I also said, repeatedly, that I had never seen this list of telephones numbers. 
Moreover, on March 13, the five commissioners who testified before you and all confirmed under oath, as I have always supported in the room, that my visit was one of courtesy and that in any time I do not had intimidated anyone who was ingested in any case. I rather expressed my wish that the BAPE regains its independence. 
Let me, Madam President, to question me about the relevance of the meeting that was sent to me. I repeated my version of the facts, and it has been repeatedly, whenever questions on the subject were asked me, especially during the periods of questions on November 15, 20 and 21 November. 
Despite my version of the facts which, over the months, has never changed, it appears more and more obvious that the members of the official opposition refuse to take my word. I remind you, however, the words of the President of the National Assembly during his decision on the admissibility of the motion. "[I] L can not be tolerated only the Minister's conduct is attacked or refused to accept his word". 
In addition, in his decision, the President specifies the nature of this mandate, who is one of Strict Parliamentary Control since I was then as a minister. I'm not anymore. The member of the executive covered by this parliamentary control mandate is therefore the current minister who, in good faith, testified before you. You also ask a member of deputy to testify to other members. It seems to me while the terms of the mandate are cups. 
That's why I'm wondering: after you repeatedly repeated my version of the facts, I do not know what new elements could be highlighted in a possible hearing. And I wonder if any version will arrive one day to satisfy the official opposition. 
This mandate that was to shed light on my visit to BAPE now seems to take a court. Now, Madam President, I remain convinced that it belongs to the voters of Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques for judges of my actions. 
The reasons explained in this letter explain why I do not understand the reasons that make you call me. 
I said everything. 
I have been more transparent. 
I did not do any interference. 
I did not intimidation. 
So, as for me, everything has been said on the subject. 
I am now waiting for your clarification as to the binding nature of this convocation. 
I beg you to accept, Madam President, the expression of my best feelings. 
Daniel Breton  Member of Parliament for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques_ 
