Sympathizers, sympathizers, activists and citizen activists, on 8, 9 and 10 September 2017 held our XVII national convention. It was my first congress, both as a member of Parliament and as a militant, and I keep unforgettable memories! During this congress, the leader of our party Jean-François Lisé received with a vote of confidence unequivocal, obtaining 92 , 8% of the votes. This beautiful victory strengthens our leader and his action. This congress, which has been that of all activists, was the victory of one camp: that of the ideas we share, that of the project that gathers us all, that of the unit. On this occasion, the Parti Québécois has adopted strong and bold proposals for the future of Quebec. Being a young member of the Quebecois party, I am proud to belong to a rigorous parliamentary team, competent and listening to your concerns. . I am proud of the force in motion of the Parti Quebec. My idea of ​​Quebec is that of a strong, independent, avant-garde, worn on the future, proud of its linguistic singularity in a North American continent Anglicized. We must go to Quebec the control of his destiny. This is the meaning of my political conviction. Devant the great challenges that are waiting for Quebec, we need to choose optimism, true change. That of the green turn of our economy. That of healthy management of our expenses, but never forgetting social solidarity. That of the Québécois party we embodies. And for that, we must first engage in a new project. Far from hollow and demagogic slogans, the Parti Québécois has a solid plan that is able to meet your needs. 
What is this plan that we offer? ● An economy that turns your back on oil, but which committed resolutely in the ecological transition. A serious green turn that is respectful of our health and our environment. Moreover, it is thanks to the vigilance and action of the Parti Québécois that the energy pipeline project has recently been abandoned!; ● A redevelopment of our health system that necessars necessarily by double support. Home care of our elders and retirees and caregivers. We are making a commitment to support home support funding up to 500 million over five years; ● a return to free school equipment to relieve families and a single price of CEPs, these proposals can become concrete actions without your help. We all know it. Popular financing is part of the soul of the Parti Québécois. That's how our party has been based and that's how we can win it in 2018.In participating in this collective effort, you allow to finance, among other things, major communications initiatives such as the plan "50 + 1 reasons for independence", in addition to allowing us to have ways up to our ambitions for next year's election campaign. It is now that we propose to build together a Strong movement on a prosperous and green economy for 2018 and will realize independence in 2022. Are you from ours? If yes, make a donation right now. 
Catherine Fournier, Member of Parliament for Marie-Victorin 
