Terrebonne - The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, today launched the work for the development of a program of study leading to a certificate of professional specialization (ASP) of aeronautical composite materials to the school board Tributary. 
"By this new certificate, not only the Government of Quebec strengthens aeronautical training to the tributary school board, but it also supports the aeronautics sector, a flagship of our economy. This program will allow young people from here and the region to be well trained and willing to deal with quality jobs, "said the premier. 
The preliminary work to the creation of the new certificate will begin this fall and will be spread over more than one year. This is an investment in the order of $ 925,000 in equipment, financed two-thirds by the Quebec government, the other third party is assumed by the school board. The amounts required for the realization of this project were reserved. "This approach, once completed, will lead to the implementation and recognition of the curriculum developed at the Moulins Vocational Training Center, in close collaboration with the industry, and promote the expansion of aeronautics training. At Terrebonne, "said the Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport, Marie Malavoy, who could not be present at the announcement. 
Let us mention that the tributary school board is already authorized to offer the program of study implementation of composite materials (5267), leading to a professional diploma, which focuses on the manufacture and assembly of parts of composite materials. She has adapted this training to the context of the aerospace industry and already has some of the necessary equipment to implement the new program. 
"The government is pleased to support the tributary school board and the Moulins Vocational Training Center, which will be able to better meet the training needs of their students. This recognition will encourage them to continue their academic path for, ultimately, participate in the economic development of the region, "said the member for Terrebonne, Mathieu Traversy. 
