Montréal - Minister Delegate to Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, and the Minister of Labor and Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Ms. Agnès Maltais, announce the Constitution of the National Employment Insurance Review Commission. 
Effective January 6, 2013, the latest amendments to the Federal Employment Insurance Plan arouse many concerns and a significant wave of discontent in Quebec. 
Setting up unilaterally, without consultations or impact assessments, this reform will have important negative consequences for the Quebec economy, particularly for industries and seasonal workers. According to the federal federal figures, it is in Quebec that we find 40% of all seasonal workers in Canada. 
As part of his plan for the defense and promotion of Quebec's interests, the Governance Sovereignist, the Marois Governance announces the creation of a tool to review federal initiatives with major repercussions for Quebec: National Review Commissions. 
"From now on, when the Quebec government is opposed to a federal policy, as is the case with employment insurance reform, we will give ourselves the means to evaluate Ottawa's interventions. National review commissions will be responsible for reviewing federal initiatives, consulting the groups concerned about their impacts, to hear and collect the views of experts and citizens and to make recommendations that will be used to do Advance Quebec, "Defined Minister Alexander Cloutier. 
The First National Review Board will focus on the impacts of Employment Insurance reform in Quebec, on the issues associated with the current federal program and the needs of Quebec and Quebec companies with respect to a diet. 'Employment Insurance. 
On June 8 and November 13, 2012, the Quebec National Assembly unanimously adopted motions asking the federal government to give up the amendments to the Employment Insurance Act that will have negative effects on businesses and Quebec workers. 
Today, the Quebec government goes beyond unanimous motions and makes a concrete gesture by making an additional tool to defend the interests of Quebecers. "The attitude of Ottawa closure compared to the legitimate demands of Quebecers forces the Marois government to take the necessary means to defend workers and employers in Quebec. Quebeckers deserve a rigorous reflection be conducted on the whole of this major file for their economy, and that Quebec consensus are established about the best possible regime for all workers and employers, "added Minister Agnès Maltese . 
The first national review commission will focus on EI reform. It will be co-chaired by a specialist in economic affairs of Quebec, Mrs Rita Dionne-Marsolais, and by a great advocate of the interests of Quebec, Mr. Gilles Duceppe. Economist and renowned administrator, Rita Dionne-Marsolais assumed several ministerial portfolios in the Quebec government, in addition to being vice-president of the General Financing Corporation. Gilles Duceppe has been a privileged observer for successive reforms of the Federal Employment Insurance Plan, who has served more than 20 in the House of Commons in Ottawa. 
The co-chairs will be supported by two expert members, Mr. Michel Bédard, Chief Actuary of the Federal Employment Insurance Program from 1991 to 2003, and Mr. Yvon Boudreau, former Deputy Minister of the Government of Quebec, who has been responsible for Employment-Québec. Since 2004, Mr. Bédard has increased international missions to implement EI programs on behalf of the Canadian International Development Agency and the International Labor Organization. Mr. Boudreau has been appointed, in 2010, Secretary-General of the National Commission on Workers' Market Participation of 55-year-old experienced workers. 
The four members will have all the independence necessary to make the mandate entrusted to them: 
1) Identify and document the impacts of the reform of the Employment Insurance Plan in Quebec on workers and certain economic sectors (horticulture, tourism, construction, fishing, culture, teaching, etc.); 2) document the benefits and Problems inherent in the current regime as well as expectations against it; 3) hold public hearings and consult the population, experts and various labor market players; 4) establish the parameters of an employment insurance plan that Conscrete with the current and future needs of the Quebec labor market; (5) propose amendments to the Federal Employment Insurance Plan so that it addresses the current and future needs of the Quebec labor market. 
The National Employment Insurance Review Board is traveling and will have a $ 1.5 million budget. The submission of the final report to the authorities is expected on November 30, 2013. 
"The National Review Commissions, it is an unprecedented tool that is given and, before the federal government's attacks, the Marois Government will never hesitate to take every means to defend the interests of Quebecers. That's it, sovereignist governance, "concluded Minister Cloutier. 
Consult the Press Releases issued by the Parti Québécois Government on Employment Insurance Reform 
