All parties confounded, all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers of any allegiance that they are, all, in Quebec, we are in favor of fighting bullying. 
And all, we believe that we must act. Without partisanship. 
Since the unanimous adoption of Bill 56, in June 2012, 99% of schools have a plan to combat intimidation and violence, and have designated a resource person to ensure its application. 
The Government of the Parti Québécois announced on September 30, 2013 the first against intimidation and violence at the school under the theme of LacybeApprection. Many activities have been performed throughout the network, video capsules, a websiteBranchePositive.gouv.qc.ca website, an animation guide, reference tools and leaflets have also been made available to students. 
On 27 January 2014, one of the first agreements concerning the police intervention in the school, a measure contained in Bill 56, was signed between the Marie-Victorin School Board and the Police Service of the Longueuil Agglomeration . The aim of this agreement is to promote the consultation of all the actors, particularly in the field of prevention and fight against bullying. 
More than in our schools, the Parti Québécois tackled intimidation wherever she rides. 
We acted against abuse towards our elders, which involves, in addition to physical violence, psychological or emotional abuse, sexual abuse, financial or material pressures, the violation of human rights and negligence.   The Government of the Party has announced the financing of the project to counter the abuse towards elderly persons through training and awareness, submitted by the provincial consolidation of the users' committees (RPCA). This project, deployed in the 18 regions of Quebec for a period of three years, aims to sensitize the seniors, their relatives and the general population to the abuse of seniors, thanks to the training that will be exempted, in the long term, by volunteers members of the users and resident committees. 
The Parti Québécois also presented LePlan of Government Action 2012-2017 on domestic violence on December 6, 2012. 
The government has decided to tackle all forms of violence against women, and more specifically to domestic violence, by investing $ 57 million over the next five years. One hundred and thirty-five measures are contained in the action plan that strengthens, in particular, assistance to victims and, in particular, aboriginal women. 
Our plan of action will actually help victims and children exposed to domestic violence, as will ensure the supervision of people with violent behavior in a conjugal context. It also takes into account people with disabilities, seniors, immigrants, LGBT and men victims of spousal violence. 
Finally, the Minister of Justice, Bertrand St-Arnaud launched a first awareness campaign in March 2013 to combat homophobia, based on a positive approach, based on scenes of everyday life. 
The campaign aims to raise awareness of the realities specific to the various identities and sexual guidelines, to publicize resources at the disposal of persons victims of homophobia and to encourage the entourage that witness homophobic behaviors to express its disapproval. 
Intimidation, abuse and violence are simply not acceptable in a society like ours. 
That Mr. Couillard wants to attack, so much the better. And we invite it to read what previous governments have made on these issues since its departure. 
But if Mr. Couillard is serious in his willingness to fight against intimidation, that his team and start by showing the example! Defamatory, rehearsal insults, call for the detestation, comparisons with the Nazi regime: The Liberals have accustomed us to the fact that they intimidate their opponents. 
The fight against intimidation begins with respect for the other, which he thinks or not like us. 
At the Québécois party, we hate intimidation, but we do not hate our opponents. We respect them. If he aspires to become Prime Minister of Quebec, it would be a good idea that Philippe Couillard does the same. 
