Québec- The Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs, Mrs. Elizabeth Larouche, expresses all his solidarity with Aboriginal people who have suffered from sequelae from their visit to Indian residential schools. It will speak and listen to the testimonies today, from 4 pm, on the occasion of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which holds its hearings in Montreal this week. The Aboriginal Affairs Secretariat has contributed to the Montreal event by granting $ 50,000 aid. 
"This approach sends us to our duty of memory and feeds our collective reflection with respect to the inadmissibility of such injustices. We must be interested in it. This is the opportunity or never to better understand the Indian residential school system, the experience of former students and their families, and the sequelae that these institutions have left in the Aboriginal communities of Quebec, "said the Minister . 
Earlier this week, Minister Larouche filed a motion at the National Assembly, jointly with the members of Jacques-Cartier, Montmorency and Gouin. This motion, which has been adopted unanimously, testifies to the solidarity of the Government of Quebec with respect to Aboriginal people who have undergone cultural, linguistic and identity repercussions related to the attendance of residential schools. 
Ms. Larouche also committed to going much further in the rapprochement of peoples. Work from the Aboriginal Affairs Secretariat will soon begin to develop an action plan to counter racism and discrimination against Aboriginal people. In addition, the minister will ensure the establishment of a month in the history of Aboriginal people, in order to highlight the culture and history of First Nations and Inuit. 
The Commission has been established as a result of the 2007 Indian Residential Schools Regulation Agreement. It aims to inform all citizens of what happened in Indian residential schools, as well as guide and engage them in a Reconciliation and renewal process based on mutual understanding and respect. In Canada, starting in 1870 and for more than a century, about 150,000 children of Aboriginal origin have been removed from their families to be placed in residential schools. Ten of these residential schools had been established in Quebec, of which the last closed in 1980. The Truth and Reconciliation Commission is passing through Montreal from 24 to 27 April 2013. 
