Québec- convened to the Committee on Transport and the Environment with respect to the mandate granted to shed light on events on 24 October on the allegations of interventions of the former Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, the member for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Daniel Breton denied bullying the intimidation and interference allegations reported to his place. 
In accordance with the testimony of the five Commissioners heard by the Commission, the member said under oath that the visit took place under the sign of courtesy, in the strictest sense of the term. "I went to visit the employees of the BAPE in the same way that I did for those of Recyc-Québec: to greet their work for Quebec society. There was no intimidation or interference, as affirmed under the five commissioners, "explained the member for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques.  In the same breath, the member was vigorously denied having asked for some telephone number of the commissioners: "I have never asked or obtained the telephone numbers of the Commissioners of BAPE," says Daniel Breton. 
During his testimony, the member held to emphasize the Kafkayan character of the parliamentary committee convened by the official opposition: "the official opposition, who waited more than two years before triggering a public investigation into corruption in the industry. Industry Construction, however, did not hesitate a second to trigger this commission, calling my word as a member of Parliament. I have been telling the truth for six months already. There is nothing more deaf than someone who does not hear anything, "said the member in his testimony. 
In response to the questions from the official opposition members, Mr. Breton finally demonstrated that former ministers of the environment under the previous Liberal government had publicly ingested on mandates under the jurisdiction of the BAPE: 
The mandate granted to the Committee on Transport and the Environment aimed at shedding light on the events on 24 October concerning the interventions of the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks at the Office D 'Public hearings on the environment ends its meeting at 18:00 today. 
Watch the intervention of Daniel Breton at the Committee on Transport and the Environment. 
