Quebec, November 8, 2017 -The official opposition for the finance and relations Québec-Canada, Nicolas Marceau, proposes a global solution to meet the issue of tax inequity in connection with trade. Online, and to overcome the lack of courage from the federal government, which refuses to apply sales taxes to Netflix. 
IN SHORT 
"The Parti Québécois proposal responds to the only argument put forward by the federal government to exempt Netflix from any taxation, since it does not increase the tax burden of consumers. Tax fairness order only measures are implemented to ensure the perception of taxes by foreign companies that do business on the web. However, not to increase taxpayers' tax burden, we can consider reducing, simultaneously, the GST and QST "rates," summed up Nicolas Marceau. 
The spokesperson insists: iniquity - introduced by "the Mélanie Joly Agreement, concluded with Netflix - between Quebec products, taxed, and foreign products, not taxed, must not become a standard. "Quebec companies already suffer sufficiently from this unfair competition. Nearly three-quarters of Quebec's online purchases are carried out on the portals of foreign companies. Obviously, there are consequences for our collective wealth and our labor market. We propose to restore equity, allow our companies to play equal weapons. We would earn all, "he supported. 
The measure proposed by the Parti Québécois would also have a beneficial effect on the portfolio of families, including low-income, deemed to make a greater use of e-commerce. "The numbers show that the higher the income of a person, the more likely it is to buy online. However, with our measure, not only all the purchases on the web would be taxed but, in addition, all families would benefit from a drop in taxes on all their transactions, whether electronic or traditional. Our solution is that of common sense; We invite governments, Ottawa and Quebec City to implement it without delay. The fact that Carlos Leitão wrote to his federal counterpart on this subject is encouraging; This demonstrates at the very least a will to move forward, "continued Nicolas Marceau. 
As for the completely improvised and inapplicable proposal advanced by the CAQ this morning, or does not tax the online trade of Quebec companies, the spokesman immediately discredited him. "In this way, any business could install computers in its premises, invite its customers to buy online and recover their property to the counter; Thus, it would upstate legally of the application of sales taxes! Once again, we see the amateurism of this party. Such a proposal, if applied, would make us lose tens of thousands of jobs in the retail sector. The CAQ should avoid pronouncing on issues that it does not understand, "he concluded. 
