Quebec- The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, said he shocked by the announcement made by the announcement Today by the federal, Ontario and British Columbian governments of an agreement for the establishment of a Canadian securities regulator. 
"The federal fierceness to the creation of a Canadian Securities Commission goes against the constitutional division of powers, three unanimous motions of the National Assembly and judgments of the Quebec Court of Appeal and of the Supreme Court of Canada. By the project unveiled today, the federal government tries to indirectly what it can not do directly, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
"In addition to being contrary to the Constitution, the federal willingness to centralize the regulation of securities in Toronto would have significant harmful consequences for the Quebec financial industry. The true goal of the federal government is clear: take the 154,000 jobs in the financial sector in Quebec and move them to Toronto, "said Minister Marceau. 
Quebec considers, as many international studies demonstrate, that the current passport regime is very efficient and effective. It appears essential to preserve in Montreal the activities of the Autorité des marchés financiers, the existence of which is threatened by this project aimed at centralizing the regulation of financial activities in Toronto. 
"This agreement will undermine the securities passport system that allows an issuer to do business only with its local regulator. The new federal structure will complicate the processes that are already well established between Quebec and other provinces, "supported Minister Marceau. 
"This federal project is based on the adoption by Ottawa of securities legislation. The Attorney General of Quebec will examine this new federal attempt. If we have to go back to court, we will do it. The last time the federal government has tried to legislate in this area, the appeal before the courts has avoided that unconstitutional law be adopted by the Canadian Parliament, "concluded Alexandre Cloutier. 
