Quebec- The hon. Member for Jonquière and Leader of the Official Opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the member for Vachon and spokesperson for the Quebec's transport, Martine Ouellet, ask the Liberal government to agree to hold a parliamentary committee on the management of the Metropolitan Transportation Agency (AMT). 
"Door of the work of the venture for ex-directeur du Plq, Joël Gesthier, The Bonne Gestion de L'accultU and Mante en duza par n numbreuses Allégations. On SAIT ARE THAT VERTLE DUE CANDAAT OF PERQUATION. This details at the Libre's several AMOUNTER on the LEAST on the time for dosier qui diènthet of the venture Quantouni Under commissionment en faire du Luire, coming to PDG G be rental to PDG GE PU PDARD GO:, Apartment Sylvain Gaureault. 
Recall that Thursday, the CAQ claimed that only Nicolas Girard, ex-CEO limited by the Liberals, appears before a parliamentary committee. "After all that has happened at the AMT since 2003, it is surprising that the CAQ is not interested in the management of Joël Gauthier, yet targeted by many police investigations. Does François Legault really want to shed light on events, or does it only have to make small partisan politics? In addition, Martine Ouellet wonders. 
"We hope that the CAQ will support our request to be heard not only Nicolas Girard, but also several other relevant witnesses in the review of the AMT management. In particular, the members would have any interest in hearing the old and the current CEO, Joël Gauthier and Paul Côté. Also mention by Michel Fortier, an employee who would have served as a loan to finance the Liberal Party, the Assistants of Joël Gauthier - one of whom would have, at the request of his boss, destroyed a cell phone - as well as several entrepreneurs who would have had doubtful links with him. We hope, finally, that the Liberal Party will agree that this parliamentary committee is held; This is the only way to shed light on the management of the AMT, "concluded the head of the official opposition. 
