Québec- In anticipation of the adoption of the adoption of the provision of municipal offering for municipal services provided to ensure the recovery and valuation of residual materials, the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Wildlife. Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, met with the main stakeholders involved in this case to listen and reconcile the views. 
"The stakes of the compensation program are financially important, but they are also in environmental terms. Businesses and municipalities are competent, motivated and rigorous partners, and ultimate issues affect the very volume reduction of materials to be valued, citizen awareness and the creation of a model that places Quebec at the top of the pack. sustainable development. Our government is listening, without creating delays in the implementation of equitable and sustainable solutions, "said the Minister Blanchet. 
Meetings were held in two stages. The Union of Quebec Municipalities (UMQ), the Quebec Federation of Municipalities (FQM), the City of Montreal, the City of Quebec and the Association of Municipal Residual Materials Management Organizations (AOMGMR) are municipal stakeholders who participated in these meetings. In the business community, the minister had exchanges with eco companies in Québec (EEQ) and met with the members of the Agri-Food Transformation Council and Consumer Products (CTAC), A. Lassonde Inc., Cascades Group Fabric, Olymel The members of the Canadian Retail Council (CCCD), Sobeys, Loblaws Group, Hudson Bay, Richelieu Metro Inc. and Costco. 
Based on the principles and guidelines of Quebec residual management management, the compensation scheme requires people who put in the market containers, packaging and printed matter of all kinds to assume most of the costs of collecting selective recyclable materials. This plan aims to offset the costs assumed by municipalities for the provision of the recovery and valuation services of the products. 
Additional information is available on the Ministry's website at the following address: http: //www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca/matieres/regime-compensation/index.htm. 
