Montréal- The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane de Courcy, is pleased to announce an investment totaling nearly $ 1.4 million for the realization of concrete measures. Facilitate the access of immigrants trained abroad to occupations of occupational therapist, bailiff, speech therapist, physiotherapist and social worker. 
"The work done in collaboration with our partners gives tangible results and makes it possible to take advantage of the skills of immigrant professionals who settle in Quebec. By practicing their profession, these people help meet the needs of labor in areas that, according to Employment-Québec, will present favorable career opportunities over the next few years. The vitality of our economy and the quality of our services will be better supported, "said Minister Diane de Courcy. 
This investment will facilitate the approach to recognizing the skills of foreign-trained professionals and accelerate the obtaining of their exercise permit. 
Projects carried out by the Order of Occupational Therapists of Quebec, the Order of Québec's speech therapists and audiologists and the professional order of Quebec physiotherapy will improve access to extra training and will facilitate the acquisition of skills related to Context of exercising these professions in Quebec. As for the Projects of the Quebec Chamber of Justice and the Order of Social Workers and Conjugal and Family Therapists of Quebec, they aim for the design of assessment tools adapted to the recognition of skills acquired abroad. 
"The partnership with the professional orders contributes to facilitating the rapid integration of newcomers into the labor force. Recently, the Department has also enhanced its online francization service by adding an advanced level course and modules focused on specific professional domains. Access to this knowledge is very important for immigrants who have the necessary skills and who want to practice their profession in Quebec, "concluded Minister Diane de Courcy. 
For more information on projects done in collaboration with the professional orders of Quebec: www.micc.gouv.qc.ca/en/dossiers/professions-meiers.html. 
Access to the occupational therapist: Design of an extra training program 
The project: the Order of Occupational Therapists in Quebec will develop, in collaboration with the University of Montreal's Rehabilitation School as part of the Occupational Therapy Program, a supplementary training for occupational therapists trained at the foreigner with a view to the full recognition of the equivalence of their training and the issuance of a license by order. 
What it changes: this extra training will offer courses adapted to the needs of foreign-trained candidates. The latter will thus be able to acquire more easily the knowledge, skills and skills necessary for the practice of their profession in Quebec. 
Timeline: Training should be offered to candidates in the winter of 2014. 
Grant granted: The Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities grants $ 350,000 for the development of this extra training. 
Access to the profession of bailiff: design of tools for evaluation and recognition of skills 
The project: the Chamber of Justice of Justice in Quebec will develop a skills repository as well as tools allowing it to assess the skills of foreign-trained candidates. 
What it changes: a transparent, fair and effective skills recognition process will be put in place. The training and experience of candidates can be more easily evaluated and the House may prescribe extra training better adapted to the needs of candidates. 
Timeline: Tools should be designed by the summer of 2014. 
Grant awarded: The Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities grants a $ 130,145 grant for the design of these skills assessment tools. 
Access to the profession of speech therapist: adaptation and uploading of an extra training program 
The project: the Order of Québec's speech therapists and audiologists will adapt and take online a supplementary training program for foreign-trained speech therapists with a view to the full recognition of the equivalence of their training. 
What it changes: the uploading of the extra training will allow easier access to the complement of training that can be required by order. Candidates will be able to follow this training according to their availability and before arriving in Quebec. 
Timeline: The upload will begin in autumn 2013. 
Grant granted: The Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities grants a grant of $ 103,450 for the adaptation and uploading of this extra training. 
Access to the physiotherapist profession: Design of an extra training program 
The project: the professional order of the physiotherapy of Quebec will conceive, in collaboration with the School of Rehabilitation of the Université de Montréal under the physiotherapy program, a supplementary training for physiotherapists trained at the foreign to the full recognition of the equivalence of their training and admission to the Order. 
What it changes: this extra training will offer courses adapted to the needs of foreign-trained candidates. These will be able to more easily acquire the skills necessary for the practice of their profession in Quebec. 
Timeline: The program should be offered for the first time in the winter of 2014. 
* Grant granted: The Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities grants an additional grant of $ 743,145 for the design of this extra training. 
Access to the profession of social worker: design of a professional activity repository and skill assessment tools and put online a self-assessment tool 
The project: the Order of Social Workers and Conjugal and Family Therapists of Quebec will design skills assessment tools on the basis of a professional activity repository that has been developed during the first phase of the project. These tools include an evaluation interview and an internship. A self-assessment tool will also be posted online. 
What it changes: the proposed tools will make it possible to better assess the training and experience of candidates trained abroad. The latter will be able to know more about the steps they will have to undertake to become a member of the Order, even before their arrival in Quebec. 
Timeline: All tools should be designed at the end of 2013. 
Grant awarded: The Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities grants an additional grant of $ 33,540 for the design of these skills assessment tools. For the entire project, the grant granted amounts to $ 215,700. 
