Montreal- The member for Marie-Victorin and official opposition on energy, Bernard Drainville, released a letter he addressed in September 2011 to the Minister of Natural Resources, Clément Gignac, the intelligent meter project of Hydro-Québec. Minister Gignac has not deigned. 
"For almost a year, this important investment project of Hydro-Québec has a controversy. Quebec does not draw the economic benefits it should since the Crown corporation has rejected businesses by choosing a Swiss supplier. As a result, just 75 jobs will be created as hundreds could have been created. Today, controversy takes another dimension and people are worried about impacts on their health. All reasons are gathered for the government to expand the debate to the Energy Régie; It is necessary to integrate the social and environmental aspects for an informed decision, "said Bernard Drainville. 
The hon. Member stresses that the acquisition policy of Hydro-Québec's goods and services is limpid. "Hydro-Québec is committed to privileging the use of Quebec companies while ensuring healthy competition, and using its purchasing power to promote the maintenance and development of Quebec's economic activity. " "The Crown corporation has obviously respected its own policy. The leaders of Hydro-Québec always owe us explanations, "supported Bernard Drainville. 
As several stakeholders, the Parti Québécois also questioned the gains that the Crown corporation would possibly obtain the replacement of the electric meters by intelligent meters (remote reading). "There may be positive spin-offs to this modernization, but for the moment, the explanations of Hydro-Québec are unconvincing. What's more, how is the Crown corporation given the contract for the replacement of 3.8 million counters while the energy management has still not endorsed the project? In question the hon. Member for Marie-Victorin. 
Bernard Drainville also finds inconceivable that Minister Gignac refuses, until now, to take his responsibilities. "In addition to allowing the manufacturing contract, the Liberal government does not meet the concerns of citizens, exactly as in the case of shale gas. But he has the power to do it. We ask him to exercise this power, "he added. 
Article 73 of the Energy Région Act specifies that "in the consideration of an application for authorization, the Régie takes into account the economic, social and environmental concerns that the Government may indicate by decree". 
"That's exactly what we are asking Minister Gignac: Ensure that Quebec gets the best possible spin-offs from a perspective of economic development and sustainable development. To get there, he must adopt a decree to expand the debate to the Energy Régie because Hydro-Québec has not done the necessary for a year to show that it is on the right track, "concluded Bernard Drainville. 
