Quebec- The member for Marie-Victorin and the official opposition on energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, and the member for Vachon and spokesperson for transport, Martine Ouellet, salute the decision From the energy management to reduce the expenses required by Hydro-Québec to citizens who refuse the installation of a smart meter. 
The table below shows the evolution of these costs: 
Terms of Service and its tariffs with respect to the installation option of a counter that is not radio frequency (the withdrawal option) 
Source: Energy Régie 
"The Energy Régie has made a good decision by lowering the costs that will be required to citizens who choose not to have a new generation counter. The intelligent meter file has been the subject of careful follow-up by the Parti Québécois. We have always been sensitive to the concerns of citizens and municipalities. That's why our government has passed a decree on this subject on December 11, 2013, "said Bernard Drainville. 
The decree reads as follows: 
"What are the following economic, social, social and environmental concerns with the next generation meter withdrawal option with the pricing. 
- Consider in the tariffs and conditions The concerns expressed by the National Assembly in a unanimous motion adopted on 29 May 2013 relating to the fees related to the withdrawal option for the next generation counters, which reads as follows as follows. : 
"That the National Assembly asks Hydro-Québec to evaluate other options in order not to financially penalize its customers who do not want" smart "meters and offer them the choice of another type of counter without their Impose punitive costs that are currently $ 137 at the facility and $ 206 annually. " » 
The member for Vachon indicates that citizens should not be bruised by the choices they do. "The decree was a strong gesture of the Government of the Parti Québécois in the context where the Régie holds the exclusive competence to regulate the rates and conditions applicable to the withdrawal option. Citizens who made the decision not to have an intelligent counter did not have to pay such a big penalty; We can only welcome the decision of the Régie, which is a step in the right direction, "concluded Martine Ouellet. 
