Quebec- The member for Terrebonne and sentence of the official opposition in family, Mathieu Traversy, is concerned about the incompetence shown by the Minister of the Family, Francine Charbonneau, who is more quick to apply cuts. Draconian in the network only to work to offer Quebec families of accessible and quality child care. 
We were learning this morning how the $ 74 million cuts would be applied to Quebec child care. Network players had proposed other solutions that would have allowed more places, but none was selected by the minister. "Again, the minister is completely disconnected from the network and the reality of Quebec families. Everywhere in Quebec, hundreds of parents are waiting for a place for their child, but the minister has made his choice: cut instead of developing, "said Mathieu Traversy. "This ideological decision will obviously promote the private. Clearly, the government is strangling the public network and promotes sales centers, "he continued. 
A disastrous record 
Remember that last February, the two main service service associations, the AQPE and the AGPQ, in a historical joint exit, had requested the resignation of the Minister of the Family, which has lost the confidence of the environment. . In addition, Bill 27, supposed to "optimize" the network, died on the Order Paper without being replaced. Finally, last week, the government and the CAQ refused to look at the sale of subsidized childcare licenses, although some media reported that organized crime could have infiltrated the network. "It's very worrying. It is absolutely necessary that all the light be made on this phenomenon. Why does the Liberal Party refuse? He questioned Mathieu Traversy. 
Security first 
In recent weeks, several cases of abuse or neglect in private daycares have been uncovered. "I note that the minister is very fast to slash the network, but when it comes time to make concrete gestures to improve it, to ensure the safety of the children, there, it is not in a hurry at all. On several occasions, already, I demanded from the minister that it tightens supervision and safety rules, as a result of all the scandals reported by the media. But, as usual, she remained vague, indicating only that she was going to "make a wheel turn on the safety and background of people who are inside (sic)". Yet there is still nothing on the table! , "Added the spokesman. 
"Does the minister dare to undertake anything because the Prime Minister has allowed the possibility of ministerial reshuffle? If so, it should know that families and the network do not have to make the costs of its insecurity, "concluded Mathieu Traversy. 
