Quebec- The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltese, kicks off the third edition of the "Equality at Work" competition . This contest aims to promote models and egalitarian behaviors to young people through artistic creations. 
The song will be in the spotlight this year. Professional artists are invited to create a song to share their vision and sensitize young people aged 14 to 17 with the importance of healthy and egalitarian relationships and the denunciation of violence. 
"Violence in romantic relations is a major social problem and may appear from adolescence. It is fundamental to sensitize young people as soon as possible for this reality, "said Minister Maltese. 
The author, composer and interpreter Sophie Vaillancourt, president of the jury and spokesman of the contest, is convinced that in words and music can be affected teenage girls and teenagers. "The first romantic relationships, it should always be magical. Young people, including girls, need to know that they are eligible for respect at all times, "said the artist. 
The artists have until November 22, 2013 to participate in the contest by submitting a model. 
Each of the three songs selected by the jury deserves to its creators a $ 2,500 scholarship for the registration of their work that will then be broadcast on the web. 
The names of the winners of the popular vote will be unveiled in the spring of 2014 at a Gala where the three songs will be presented. On this occasion, an amount of $ 10,000 will be awarded as a first price and $ 5,000 will be granted to each of the other two finalists. 
This contest is part of the implementation of the Government Action Plan for Equality between Women and Men 2011-2015. The complete information and the registration form are available on the Secretariat website for women: www.egaliteoeuvre.gouv.qc.ca. 
According to a survey of the Québec Statistics Institute conducted in 2010-2011 among high school youth, 30% of students experienced at least one form of violence from their partner. In addition, data from the Department of Public Safety indicate that 12 to 17 year olds have the highest increase in the infringement rate against the person committed in a conjugal context for the period from 2002 to 2011. 
