Quebec- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, Announces Adding Paul-Gérin-Lajoie and the Guy-Rocher Award at the Minister's Awards 2013-2014 edition of the contest. These new prices aim to highlight the excellence in teaching in the colleges and universities of Quebec. 
"I consider that it is important to pay tribute, every year, to those who, by the consistency of their efforts, contribute to the success of young people in the pursuit of their college and academic studies. The minister's prices are the incarnation of this duty of recognition. When publishing last year, I was able to see the great vitality of our higher education networks. I am pleased to announce that this year, we will, in addition to providing teaching books, crown the colossal work that teaching staff ", to specify Minister Duchesne. 
To highlight the 50th anniversary of the parent report, two prizes have been created that reward the quality of education as well as the inventiveness of collegial knowledge transmission methods and at the undergraduate degree. The Paul-Gérin-Lajoie Award will recognize the excellence of the work of a college teacher, while the Guy-Rocher Award will highlight the skills of a teacher member at the undergraduate degree. People who will deserve these two prizes will each receive a reward of $ 10,000 in cash. These two new brands of honor are added at existing prices. 
The administration of each College and University of Quebec until February 14, 2014 to submit a candidacy of one or a pedagogue that has stood out by excellence and innovation in its teaching practices. 
Recall that the minister's prices also include a component on the quality of educational works published in French and for the student population of college education and the first university cycle. Each of these prices includes a $ 5,000 reward. A $ 1,500 reward will also be granted to the writers who will receive a mention from the Minister. 
For this competition component, people wishing to apply until January 31, 2014 to submit their books in one of the following five categories: volumes, complementary equipment of a course, multimedia books, distance learning courses and pedagogical research reports. 
The 2013-2014 edition of the minister's prize publishing will be held in May 2014. 
For more information on the contest, including nominations, visit www.messt.gouv.qc.ca/commun/prix-du-minister. 
