MAGOG- The member for Sherbrooke, Mr. Serge Cardin, announced, on behalf of the Minister Delegated to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation of non-refundable financial assistance from More than $ 324,000 in Sherbrooke Domax Group, which specializes in the intelligent car wash. This government support will promote a technology showcase project of nearly $ 1.2 million to demonstrate the functionality of a new smart car wash concept in a magog partner. 
"Domax Group is one of these innovative and visionary young companies that contribute to the economic development of our regions and the rise of Quebec entrepreneurship," said MP Serge Cardin. "Quebec needs their contribution to prosper and continue to distinguish oneself as one of the most innovative and competitive societies in the world. It is with great pride that we support the efforts of this dynamic and talented team that has developed an innovative product taking into account environmental issues. » 
Domax Group has designed a self-supporting car wash that has its own system for recovery, filtration and wastewater treatment. This is the first car wash to completely reuse the water recovered and maximize the use of rainwater. In an industry where each car wash requires about 300 liters of water, this new concept of car wash is an ecological solution. The product of the company also has automatic commands to save heating and lighting during less busy periods. 
"Our government's economic vision for Quebec is based on the principles of sustainable development as well as on the growth of regions and entrepreneurs," said Sulaian Deputy Minister Zakaïb. "Our government is proud to encourage carrier entrepreneurial projects that take into account current environmental concerns. It is in this spirit that we work to set up, from next fall, a powerful lever for economic development: the Quebec Economic Development Bank. This will meet the needs of entrepreneurs and will build on the assets of each of our regions. » 
"Our innovative car wash recycles the entire groundfill water when washing cars. It also stores rainwater and uses it as the primary source of supply, "said Domax Group Co-Founder, Mr. Maxime surprising. "Our concept is different from traditional car wash and allows customers to live a unique experience, thanks in particular to its eco-friendly aspect and the incomparable quality of car wash. The support of the Government of Quebec will allow us to introduce our innovative technology to the market. » 
