Quebec, on October 17, 2016 -What information revealed this morning regarding the miserable living conditions of residents of the Denis-Benjamin-Viger accommodation center, in Montreal, the Parti Québécois, by the voice of its Word for seniors, Harold Lebel, and his spokesperson for health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, denounces the situation, which he describes as "completely unacceptable". 
"The portrait we draw the caregiver is overwhelming, especially since he was already known to the government. And he did not do anything! A report from the MSSS, dated February 2015, concluded that in this accommodation center, precisely, the meals as well as the cleanliness were problematic, which had to act. After cutting nearly $ 1 billion in health care and health services for two years, which hurts elders, Minister Gaétan Barrette sends the hon. Member for Crémazie to make a second tour of the institutions, while we Knowing very well that it takes a reinvestment and more staff to take care of our elders. It's been months that the aberrant conditions are denounced in which our elders live who, often, must eat powdered potatoes and settle for a bath per week. We must act now, that's enough! He insured Harold Lebel. 
"In his report, the Protector of the Citizen has already demonstrated the impact of the cuts on the most vulnerable; We still have a sad example this morning. The Prime Minister said, not so long ago, that "the speeches on vulnerable people, the speeches on solidarity, with unbalanced public finances and a chronic indebtedness, it is only wind". Is six minutes to make a vulnerable person eating, it's wind, for him? Everything must be implemented for the exact situation to be known and that the problems are settled quickly, "added Diane Lamarre. 
The Denis-Benjamin-Viger accommodation center personnel will, today, to claim that work is made and that help is provided. "Employees want to be able to treat elders properly, in a healthy and safe environment. Let's give them the resources they need. It is also what Quebeckers want: that their government ensures just distribution of budgets to ensure respect for seniors, "have reached spokesperson. 
