Quebec- Before the stubbornness of the Prime Minister not to propose solutions to resolve the stalemate who has opposed his government to students for 79 days now, the official opposition and deputy officer of Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, concludes that the only To untie the conflict goes through the triggering of general elections. 
"Jean Charest is clear from political capital on the back of the students. The Liberal government does not want to discuss or settle the conflict. We proposed to open a dialogue with students. We proposed to suspend the rise and we still propose today the appointment of a mediator as part of a motion that will be debated this afternoon in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, nothing works. The Prime Minister systematically refuses all the solutions to untie the crisis, "lamented Pauline Marois. 
The Leader of the Parti Québécois today met the representatives of the student associations with the member for Taillon and spokesman for the official opposition on higher education and loans and scholarships, Marie Malavoy, the member for Terrebonne and spokesperson for youth and student affairs, Mathieu Traversy, and the member for Rousseau and spokesperson for finance and economic development, Nicolas Marceau. Pauline Marois reiterated the commitment of the Parti Québécois with regard to tuition fees. 
"We make the formal commitment to cancel the drastic increase of 82% of the tuition fee decreed by the government if Quebeckers trust us during the next election. We will quickly keep a summit on higher education, "she explained. 
The Summit on Higher Education will focus on the quality of education and research, the adequacy between the training and the needs of the economy, the financing of the network of Quebec universities and the determination on the part of the State, students and the private sector, the management of universities and the assessment of overall tuition fees, including related costs. 
For the Leader of the Opposition, tuition fees should never be raised at a level higher than that of the cost of living, as long as Quebec has caught up on the Canadian average of the rate of Diplomation. For example, the graduation rate for men aged 25 to 34 in Quebec is 27% when it is 33% in Ontario. In women of the same age, in Quebec it is 37% and Ontario of 41%. 
Liberal governments are the champions of tuition fees. From 1990 to 1994, they increased them by 320%, raising them from $ 500 to $ 1600 a year. Then, since 2007, the fees have been raised by $ 100 per year. The governments of the Parti Québécois have never increased them, even of the time of the zero deficit. 
"Education has always been a priority for the Parti Québécois. We want to increase the number of graduates in Quebec. Accessibility to graduate studies is influenced by tuition fees. The impact of increases in the 1990s is reflected directly on the rate of attendance. Education is the best collective investment we can do. The more Quebec will have graduates, the more our society will be rich, "she explained, adding that the Ontario government has just reduced its tuition fees by 30% this year, despite an important effort of fiscal austerity. 
"Students should not pay the price of the stubbornness of Jean Charest. We are in front of a cul-de-sac. Jean Charest said there would be elections when Quebeckers would be ready. Quebeckers are ready. The Liberal government is out of breath, it has been worn and has lost the confidence of the population for a long time. The only way to untie the impasse is to trigger general elections, "said Pauline Marois, adding that several other issues will also be part of the next election campaign, including the management of natural resources, the advocacy of the Quebec, language and question of integrity. 
