Winnipeg - Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, took advantage of the 18th Ministerial Conference on the Canadian Francophonie, who stood yesterday and today in Winnipeg, Manitoba. , to reiterate the Government of Quebec's willingness to multiply trade and increase cooperation to strengthen the Canadian Francophonie. 
"Quebec supports Francophone and Acadian communities in their desire to live in French. Similarly, we find it important for Quebec to be active in the Ministerial Conference on the Canadian Francophonie, in order to increase cooperation with our provincial and territorial government partners, and thus support their efforts in the Offer services in French, "said Minister Cloutier. 
The Conference this year was taking place under the Themele Development of Early Childhood: the key to the vitality of the French language and cultures of French expression. 
Minister Cloutier presented the Quebec model in early childhood, recognized as one of the most avant-garde in the world. "This is one of the largest projects set up in Quebec for supporting the family. It is thanks to the vision of a government of the Parti Québécois and the leadership of our Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, then Minister of the Family, that this program, which is an example of solidarity, was able to see the day, " Affirmed the minister. He has also read, with interest, practices and models presented by his counterparts and discussed the importance of early childhood for the Canadian Francophonie. 
In addition, ministers dealt with the impacts of Canada's immigration reform on communities. Minister Cloutier recalled that Quebec has signed a particular agreement with the federal government on immigration and indicated that Quebec is open to exchanges of expertise in the case of hospitality, integration, retention and Francization of immigrants. 
Minister Cloutier submitted to his colleagues the Canada Pan-Canadian Forum's record of Canadian Francophonie Economic Development, which was held in Gatineau in the fall of 2012. This forum allowed the key actors of the Francophone economic space of all territories and provinces to network and exchange. The minister mentioned that he wants to continue intergovernmental collaboration in this sector, in order to provide Francophone actors in the world of business and economic development a space for business development, consultation and sharing of best practices in French. 
Finally, the ministers exchanged on different events of future importance for the Canadian Francophonie. Thus, in conjunction with his colleague from New Brunswick, the minister presented the programming of the 2014 Acadian World Congress and invited his counterparts to participate. Remember that this 5th edition of the Acadian World Congress will take place in Land and Forest Acadia, from 8 to 24 August 2014, and for the first time in part in Quebec. 
