Winnipeg- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, wishes to express his disappointment following the meeting of the Federal-Provincial-Territorial Conference of Ministers responsible for Transport and Road Safety in Winnipeg. 
"On the priorities identified for this meeting by the Government of Quebec, are railway safety and transport infrastructure, the federal government refuses to commit. We remain in the biggest blur. This situation is of more worrying, "deploor the Minister Gaudreault. 
About rail safety, a subject that has been important since the tragedy of Lac-Mégantic, Quebec expressed several requests to the federal government, in the spirit of the speed of execution of elected officials on these. Questions, including: 
"These requests found some resonance in some provincial colleagues around the table. However, the federal government is slow to work to meet our legitimate concerns about railway safety and transportation of hazardous materials, "said Gaudreault. 
In terms of infrastructure financing, Quebec recalled that it wants its share of funding to be paid through a "en bloc" transfer, in particular to avoid the delays arising from the negotiation of A multitude of agreements and allow Quebec to determine the priorities for the use of federal funds in its territory. This transfer would also accelerate project implementation and promote better support for economic growth. 
Thus, Quebec is not in favor of part of the funds be allocated to merit, since this process is unfair and allows the federal government to choose projects based on its own criteria and priorities. He asked for the skills of the provinces and territories in this area to be respected. 
"The $ 660 million announced by Ottawa this week for the extension of the Toronto metro, with the new federal funds announced last spring, without the terms and conditions being known by all the provinces, ask several questions. As regards compliance with provincial skills in transportation. We expressed these questions to the Federal Minister and we want clarification from Ottawa on these programs as soon as possible "continued Mr. Gaudreault. 
Finally, Quebec also recalled that any consultation of the federal government to municipalities on its territory must be carried out through the Government of Quebec. 
