Laval, August 13, 2015 - Speaking Notes from the member for Saint-Jérôme, Pierre Karl Péladeau 
The speech made is authentic. 
Mr Michel Venne, co-founder and general manager of the INM and the big team behind the summer school, 
Dear participants, 
I would like to thank the INM team for their invitation and congratulate them for the exceptional quality of the participants' offered program. 
I would also like to thank the many sponsored partners, including several younish forums and school boards as well as my colleagues elected sponsors of all parties.  It is important to promote youth participation in citizen training activities like this. 
I have special attention for Madame Lise Payette, who will be with you on Saturday. Ms. Payette is an exceptional woman who continues to inspire me. And for Flavie Renuf-Payette who already makes his mark as a documentarist. 
For me, the presence of these two women shows us that convictions can unite the generations. 
I have a lot of esteem for those who engage in the public debate for the common good. 
I also take this opportunity to greet the presence of Ariane Cayer, the new president of our youth wing. 
I hope that Ariane's involvement inspires other young women to invest in public life. 
There are young people from First Nations among you. I am very happy. 
I was also told that Gilles Duceppe will be here at the end of the day. I had the opportunity to cycle with Gilles and especially to campaign with his side. 
We share this desire to defend the interests of Quebecers and make a country with them and for them. 
But beyond our political affiliation, I sincerely believe that Gilles' commitment to Quebec is inspiring. I invite you to enjoy his way to meet him. 
I just come back from a stay in the Madleine Islands. 
People are welcoming and proud. 
The colors are brighter than elsewhere. The sea too ... 
It is a place that grows to reflection. It's up there that I thought about what I was going to tell you today. 
I asked myself the following questions: What do we have in common, you and me? What hopes, what dreams or big goals do we share? 
I am 53 years old. As you prepare your plans for the future, I belong to a generation, including several members are retired. 
I led a jewel of the Quebec economy, while most of you are studying or at the beginning of your professional life. 
I am a head of a political party at a time when you are increasingly critical of them, while continuing to change things. 
I am sovereignist. I committed to making Quebec a country, while you are several to question this project. 
At first glance, a wide sea like the Gulf separates us.  Pause  Yet we have a lot in common.  We share the conviction that education must be accessible to all. That it is the key to our individual and collective success.  That's why I agreed to hold a discussion about free school with Ariane and his team.  I have been a student. In philosophy first, on the banks of the UQAM, then in law, at the Université de Montréal. I also studied in Paris. 
These years have made me a more committed citizen and more sensitive to social-economic issues. 
Like you, I am indignant before the cuts of a government that places austerity above all, even of education. 
These cuts are all the more shocking as they have been decided by people, the Couillard Prime Minister, who themselves have received a lot through our education system. 
Education should be an absolute priority of the state, regardless of the government in place or economic pseudo-theories in fashion. 
We have in common want to make a difference. 
I admire the people who go beyond, who pursue an ideal and who go to the end of themselves.  I think this quest for overflow, she must live our lives. 
If the Karl stone of 30 years ago was sitting at your side, I would say that I still have the same desire to change the world at the time of UQAM. 
Maybe he would smile when I led the party of René Lévesque, but he would understand that it is a way to transform a dream a dream. And I hope it would be proud. 
And you? How do you see your commitment in 5, 10 or 30 years? 
Do you have a eco-friendly profile? Artistic? Have you chosen innovation, communication or if you opted for leadership or entrepreneurship? 
Perhaps there are some candidates among you with these elections or the following. 
You will allow me to greet those who are campaigning and to thank them for investing as much, all parties combined. 
I encourage you to make your voice heard and exercise this fundamental right. 
When young people do not vote, Quebec is appalled and the future darkens. 
For the future of Quebec to be radiant, young people must have their place in the sun. This is another certainty that we share. 
Today, I ask the government to do more.  I ask Prime Minister Philippe Couillard to require the presence of a member of 35 years and less on the boards of directors of Crown corporations and thawing hiring in the public service. 
Young people are unfairly deprived of access to quality jobs and, from the same breath, the public service can not benefit from the skills and creativity of the rising generation. 
I have the privilege of leading a team of members who work, like you, to build Quebec tomorrow. 
I am thinking of colleagues like Alexander Cloutier and Véronique Hivon who have advanced ideas to help young people in difficulty during the running race. 
I am thinking of Martine Ouellet who does a remarkable job as a spokesperson for transport, maritime strategy and transport electrification. 
I think of Dave Turcotte, here present, who defended his beak and the maintenance of the youth forums as much as their mission. Youth forums, like Crees and CLDs have contributed to the vitality of our regions. 
The dynamic occupation of the territory is to give the tools that allow young people to settle in large numbers in all regions of Quebec. 
I think of Mathieu Traversy who fought for the CPE to retain their original vocation. 
I am thinking of our spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, which you may have read the Open Letter on the Canadian Energy Strategy. 
This Canadian strategy, it must be concerned about the highest point. 
I am a father. I share your concern about climate change and the urgency of acting now. 
As an individual, I try to humbly my share. I am vegetarian. I encourage agriculture and the local economy. I recycle, I compost and I have an electric car. 
As future prime minister, I make a priority to combine environmental protection and prosperity. I want to enrich Quebecers, without doing it to the detriment of the planet. 
Energy procurement is the main geopolitical and environmental issue of the 21st century. 
US President Barack Obama said, "There is no greater threat to our future and for future generations than climate change." 
However, at the Board of the Federation held in July, Prime Minister Couillard agreed to the Canadian Energy Strategy, the delight of the other prime ministers, especially those in the West. 
This strategy focuses on three things: 
1- Disclose the hydrocarbon production in western Canada; 
2- Take out this oil by building pipelines; 
3- To believe populations that pipelines are in the common interest. 
Oil sands oil produces 20% more greenhouse gases than conventional oil 
Far, contribute to the fight against greenhouse gases, the Canadian strategy makes Quebec a most polluting oil export partner in the world. 
A partner who assumes all the risks and who does not get anything back.  As a bonus, Newfoundland seems determined to sell its electricity in Ontario without going through Quebec. 
In front of this quiet resignation, what do we have to offer? 
Quebec, however, faces the world's 4th largest hydroelectric producers. 
This is a considerable asset that allows us to develop green, sustainable and renewable energy. 
An asset in line with the principles of climate change, in line with the concerns of Quebecers and heads of state like President Obama and China President Xi Jinping. 
Besides, I will be at the summit of Paris in December with Partician colleagues to discuss our vision of a green and sustainable economy and to reaffirm our disagreement in the strategy signed by Prime Minister Couillard. 
According to Pierre-Olivier Pineau, who signs an article in the state of Quebec 2015, electricity offers the greatest potential for gain. In addition to generating wealth, it reduces greenhouse gas emissions. 
With the electrification of transport, the Government of the Parti Québécois had asked a decisive gesture towards the decrease of our hydrocarbon dependence. 
But since the arrival of the Liberals, we declined, for lack of vision and will. Meanwhile, other nations are moving forward and positioning themselves. 
Whether it is said: the electrification of transport will be done. The choice that arises is as follows: Do we want to be spectator or actor of this big change? 
Do we want to appear among the world leaders in the fight against global warming? 
We have developed the wind turbine. Your parents and grandparents have built dams that have made the pride of Quebec. 
With Hydro-Québec, we benefit from a powerful development tool that could propel us to the foreground of the most progressive nations in terms of renewable energy. 
You have to get forward. 
In recent months, I proposed a consultation on a plan for oil release by 2050. 
We want to position Quebec as a world leader in electric transport by 2025. 
I am also in favor of a zero emission law inspired by the state of the state of California and we want to create an emergency fund. 
Global warming is one of the most striking illustrations of globalization of issues.  The big migratory movements are also. 
These two stakes have in common to highlight our duty of responsibility and solidarity. 
We are proud to welcome young people from all walks of life. People who have come from elsewhere who participate in the definition of modern Quebec and who are wealth for our society. 
This sense of reception, this fraternity and this desire to offer the best chances of success to newcomers, we share it and me and we must cultivate it for future generations. 
It is sometimes said that there is an antinomy between attachment to a nation and openness to the world. 
Rather, I believe that these two notions go hand in hand and come together by their deep roots, anchored in the humanistic, democratic and egalitarian values they defend.  Pause  Basically, we share a lot.  We share a willingness to change things.  That education becomes an absolute priority.  That young people have their place in a green and prosperous Quebec.  Living in a welcoming society, trendy on the planet and proud of its culture.  Transmit to our children a Quebec better than the one who has seen us born. 
I want to tell you that it looks like the contours of a state where people have confidence in their abilities and in their future. 
Thank you. 
I am listening to your suggestions, your proposals and your opinions. 
