Halifax, Nova Scotia- The Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade (Mr Chant), Mr. Jean-François Lisée, participated in Halifax on July 14 and 15 at the 6th Annual Conference of the Alliance of States. Southeast of the United States and Canadian provinces (only CP), along with a delegation of Quebec companies. In the aftermath of the tragedy of Lac-Mégantic, the six states of South-East American and the seven Canadian provinces have agreed that they will look at the issue of rail safety at their next meeting. 
This is announced by Monday, Halifax, the Host of the Conference, the Minister of Economic Development of Nova Scotia, Mr. Graham Steele, in response to the concerns raised by Minister Jean-François Lisée. Mr. Steele read a statement that received the consent of all the representatives, and stressing the importance of ensuring safety in rail transport. Many of the Alliance representatives gathered in Halifax for their 6th annual conference expressed solidarity with the residents of Lac-Mégantic. 
The minister's presence in this Economic Forum was intended to consolidate Quebec's relations with states of southeastern United States and to assert all the creative, innovative and economical force available on the territory. It was also used to support the efforts of the fifteen companies of Quebec, the largest delegation of the event, having chosen opportunity to start, develop and advance solid business ties with southern partners. -Is of the United States and other Canadian provinces. 
"Southeast of the United States is a priority territory for Quebec. Given the strong demographic and economic growth of this region, it is essential that Quebec is strategically positioned to take advantage of the business opportunities. I also salute the dynamism of Quebec companies from this conference to develop their business relationships, "said the minister listed. 
In total, some three hundred government leaders and Quebec, Canadian and American entrepreneurs attended this 6th Annual Only CP Conference held this year under the theme of innovation. Discussion forums, networking activities and many bilateral business meetings were planned to generate trade. Québec companies have had the opportunity to meet with government leaders and southeastern companies, suggesting satisfactory results. 
The minister listed took advantage of the conference to talk to the Secretary of State of Georgia, Brian Kemp, with whom it was discussed, among other things, the strengthening of our trade in the medical fields, of the aerospace, Information technology and green energies. In 2012, Quebec exports to Georgia increased by 14% compared to 2011, reaching $ 1.1 billion. 
Among the other political figures faced by the Minister, Mr. Greg Canfield, Secretary of the Alabama Trade, in addition to the Assistant Secretary for the Commerce of South Carolina, Mr. George Patrick, from the Trade Assistant. North Carolina, Ms. Jean Davis, and the Transport Commissioner of Tennessee, Mr. John Schroer. These interviews explored new trails of collaborations between Quebec and these US states. 
Quebec is present in the south-east of the United States as evidenced by the value of trade in goods with this region, in 2012, at $ 8.5 billion. 
The Quebec delegation in Atlanta has a Quebec presence in this territory since 1977. Its mandate is to develop and promote economic, political and institutional ties with the 11 states it covers, as well as to defend and promote the interests of Quebec. . The Delegation also supports Quebec companies that want to penetrate South and South-East markets and encourages US investments in Quebec. 
This alliance between Canadian provinces and American states was founded in Montreal in 2007. It aims to increase trade, promote bilateral investments and stimulate technological and scientific exchanges between the southeastern states of the United States. United (Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Tennessee, Mississippi and Alabama) and Seven Canadian Provinces, Quebec, Ontario, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Manitoba, Prince Edward Island and Newfoundland and -Labrador). Quebec played a significant role in creating this alliance. 
