Sherbrooke- The Conference of Federal, Provincial and Territorial Ministers Responsible for Sport, Physical Activity and Recreation ended today in Sherbrooke, after two days of exchanges. The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, took advantage of this meeting to discuss Quebec's concerns with the other ministers concerning the issues related to sports excellence. It has also announced its intentions as to the development of its new national sport, leisure and physical activity. 
"At a time when Canada's summer games are preparing to take flight, Sherbrooke became the destination indicated for the Conference of Federal, Provincial and Territorial Ministers responsible for Sport, Physical Activity and Recreation. It is with great pleasure that we welcomed this meeting and discover the beautiful region of Estrie to our visitors, "said Malavoy Minister at the end of the meeting.  "All participants expressed their willingness to increase the practice of physical activity within their respective population. In Quebec, we have already undertaken to provide us with a new national sport, leisure and physical activity policy that will take into account the realities we face, "continued the minister. 
Discussions surrounding the priorities of the federal-provincial-territorial governments for concerted action 2012-2017 presented at the conference, led Quebec to reaffirm its desire to collaborate with other governments and to continue to share with them the results of its efforts to promote physical activity, a healthy lifestyle and leisure. 
The Quebec government welcomed the fact that, in line with the recommendation it made in 2011, the issue of hosting international sports events is one of the priorities of the federal, provincial and territorial governments for concerted action 2012. -2017. 
He also took advantage of the meeting to remind his vis-à-vis that he did not participate in the pan-Canadian physical activity and leisure initiatives, considering that this is a responsibility of his Exclusive competence and, in this regard, has its own programs, action plans and objectives. He said, however, that he would remain open to collaboration with other governments and would continue to share with them information and best practices. 
In closing, Malavoy minister has stressed the work of different sports delegations in Sherbrooke. "I want the best of success to all athletes who will participate in these games. That their results are up to their expectations, "she concluded. 
