Quebec - while in Paris, the 21st Annual Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21) comes to an end, the Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the Porte- The Quebecical Party's word about the environment and the fight against climate change, Mathieu Traversy, recalled that Quebec may remain a leader in the fight against climate change. To achieve this, however, it must have a clear and uncomfortable approach, specific initiatives as well as means to implement them in order to demonstrate leadership and to contribute to the achievement of the objectives set by COP21. 
"Unfortunately, the past being guarantor of the future, the Government of Prime Minister Philippe Couillard does not take the test of credibility in the fight against climate change. He missed the targets of Kyoto and is missing those of 2020. Once arrived in Paris, the Prime Minister has changed his remarks. The unconditional support of his government to the Canadian energy strategy, as well as the Energy project is, is in full contradiction with his speech. The inconsistency of the Liberal government, however, should not prevent us from moving forward, "said the official opposition. 
The spokesman for the Parti Québécois on the environment emphasized the lack of transparency of the government with respect to the management of the Green Fund. "We learned, in Paris, that the government will be strict with the essential partners, municipalities, but without any other indication. Yet we need a clear and effective management framework. The government must also unlock the sums of the Green Fund as quickly as possible to finance the improvement of the public transport supply. It is paramount for achieving targets 2020 and 2030 to reduce greenhouse gases. Then there is the zero emission standard; It is time for the Prime Minister to act on this issue. Its too shy plan on the electrification of transport was in fact only a reflection. We ask him to quickly deposit, at the beginning of the parliamentary school, a bill in this direction, "he added. 
Concrete measures 
Pierre Karl Péladeau and Mathieu Traversy recalled some concrete measures already proposed by the Parti Québécois for Quebec to become a true world leader in own energies: 
Free Quebec oil dependence, which helps to deplete its economy and damage its environment. To achieve this, the Parti Québécois proposes in particular to reduce the oil consumption of Quebec by 40% in the transport sector by 2030, using the following means: 
Registering against the Liberal government's public relations campaign, the positioning of the Parti Québécois is rather to concretely bet on actions and means. "This position relies on our environmental, sustainable development and climate change commitments, which are aimed at opportunities to act concretely to improve the quality of our environment, develop the green economy and release the Quebec of its oil addiction, "continued Mathieu Traversy. 
Pierre Karl Péladeau finally stressed that an independent Quebec could easily become the cleanest state in greenhouse gas emissions in North America. An independent Quebec promotes a Quebec strategy, in which the fight against climate change and the energy strategy would go hand in place than to oppose. Independents, Quebeckers would be freed from the Canadian oil industry. Finally, Quebec could finally deploy its own energy strategy and focus on renewable energies ". 
