Quebec- At the end of a mission in Warsaw, where from 11 to 22 November the 19th Conference of the Parties was held at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (CDP19), the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment , Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet sorry for the lack of progress made in the negotiations given the importance of the issues and the need to act quickly. 
On the other hand, the Minister draws up a very positive assessment of the participation of the Quebec delegation, which has allowed the role of Quebec leader in the fight against climate change. The Quebec carbon market and its liaison with that of California have attracted a lot of interest in the international community. 
The minister participated in various panels, pronounced several speeches and conducted numerous bilateral meetings at the CDP19. There presented the innovative initiatives put in place by Quebec to contribute to the global effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) and adapting the impacts of climate change, including the electrification strategy. Transport announced recently by the Prime Minister. 
The Minister delivered the opening address at an event organized by the International Carbon Action Partnership (ICAP), which included representatives of governments and experts to discuss the evolution of carbon markets set up in worldwide. The minister presented the Quebec system and explained the stages that led to his liaison with that of California. The latter will conduct, as of January 1, 2014, to the creation of the largest cross-border carbon market on our continent. "The Canadian framework requires difficulty acceptable for Quebec that is recognized as an environment leader. We need to talk about our own voice, present our own proposals, and establish a credibility that distinguishes us and will serve us when we are as a country at the table of nations, "said Yves-François Blanchet. 
Quebec was able to be at the center of the discussions carried out by important international organizations and networks, including The Climate Group, NRG4SD, The Climate Action Reserve and the International Emissions Trading Association, which promote the development of carbon markets. It has thus been able to exchange directly with the ministers of the environment among others from Scotland, Mr. Paul Wheelhouse, Catalonia, Josep Eneric Llebot, Wales, Mr Alun Davies, German Land Rhineland -Dou-Nord-Westphalia, Mr. Joseph Remmel, Canada, Ms. Leona Aglukkak, and of course California, Matt Rodriquez. 
"At the end of the discussions, I found that market mechanisms are increasingly considered as a most effective tool for combating climate change and make adequate funding for GHG emission reduction measures and adaptation to the impacts of climate change. The forums I had the chance to participate allowed me to assert the importance of recognizing and including regional carbon markets, such as the Western Climate Initiative, in the next international climate regime that should be concluded in 2015, in Paris, "said the minister. 
The minister also represented Quebec during the Francophone ministerial consultation organized by the International Organization of La Francophonie and led by the Institute of La Francophonie for Sustainable Development. This institute, whose secretariat is based in Quebec City, is recognized by the international scientific community involved in environmental and energy issues. In particular, the Minister recalled the importance of these Francophone consultations in the context of developing a new multilateral climate change agreement. 
"We came to Warsaw because we had a proposal, an example to offer the international community and we arrived there with a success of all sides. We also came to ensure that the voice of Quebec in Warsaw would be that of innovation and commitment, and not that of Canada that is largely denounced, "concluded the minister. 
