Québec- "Learn that the next Cight Cell Congress Canada, which will take place next September in Montreal and which is actively contributing Hydro-Québec to the organizational point of view, will take place exclusively in English is not surprising; The weakness of the Liberal government to defend and promote French in Quebec brings this kind of ineptness. " 
This is what the member for Drummond and spokesman of the official language opposition, Yves-François Blanchet said, after reading the Daissa Le Duty Cuff this morning. 
This Congress, which has been involved in Quebec and Canadian electricity companies, has been at each year since 2006. The member is pleased that this Congress will take place this year in Quebec; However, he reproaches the Crown corporation from being unable to enforce the official language of Quebec in Quebec. Remember that the Congress Senior Director is also the Senior Director of IREQ and Hydro-Québec will delegate 14 of its scientists and engineers to form the Technical Committee. 
"All scientific communications that will be made during this congress will take place exclusively in English. No translation is planned and those who would like to express themselves in French are not welcome! All this with the assiduous complicity of Hydro-Québec and Ireq! The fact that English is the main international language of scientific communications and publications is one thing, but that Quebec researchers and scientists can not speak in French in Quebec and that Hydro-Québec is actively involved in this discrimination. is not acceptable, "said Yves-François Blanchet. 
"Once again, the Quebec government leaves one of its Crown corporations convey the message that French is an obstacle to the development of Quebec, that our national language is a cumbersome accessory in the economic world. Yet Hydro-Québec is the lighthouse of the Quiet Revolution, the economic affirmation of Quebecers, the legacy of René Lévesque, "added the member for Drummond. 
"Is not Francophone in Quebec again again again, despite the achievements of the last 50 years, a diminished economic status? The Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Christine St-Pierre, has a duty today, it must intervene with Hydro-Québec for this congress, in French-speaking territory, is also in French, "concluded Yves-François Blanchet. 
