Quebec- The member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, accompanied by the member for Jonquiere and spokesman for the Parti Québécois on municipal affairs and decentralization, Sylvain Gaudreault, the member for Gaspé and Spokesperson for the development of the regions, Gaétan Lelièvre, as well as the member for Verchères and Spokespersons in Work, Stéphane Bergeron, addressed to the members of the Quebec Federation of Municipalities. 
"Municipal elected officials are essential partners in the construction of Quebec today and tomorrow. If I want to go through Quebec, to take the pulse from each of the regions, it is because I believe that as elected officials, our first duty is to listen to women and men who live on our vast territory. There is no Quebec without its regions. Confidence, respect and recognition are the foundation for decentralization to build strong and autonomous communities, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
The Liberal Government Navigates Courant 
"The Liberal government does not understand that local decisions must be made by those who have the capacity to appreciate the real needs of their fellow citizens. Of course, the Prime Minister had promised something else. But with the Liberals, the lyrics fly away and the damage remains, "continued the official opposition. 
Pierre Karl Péladeau has also recalled some liberal cuts in local and regional development: 
"The government has shown a lack of aforementioned vision with the abolition of elected regional conferences, which supports the organizations to combat school dropout. Even lack of vision with the cuts carried out in the youth-employment crossroads. This is exactly the same situation with the CLDs, which accompanied future entrepreneurs who, in turn, created wealth and jobs. Obviously, Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard wants to balance public finances on the back of the regions. It does not propose any growth or development plan, or economic strategy, "he added. 
Transportation of hazardous materials 
Pierre Karl Péladeau also noted the concerns of citizens about the important transport projects of hazardous materials. "People feel abandoned because of the lack of reaction from the Liberal government to Ottawa's negligence. The federal government has long abdicated its responsibilities for transportation and its role to protect the population. It is the municipalities who pay for this laxism. If the east energy projects and heat terminals come true, hundreds of municipalities will see the risk associated with the transport of hazardous materials soaring. Yet these projects do not offer any positive impact for Quebec. That risks for our security and our environment, "he continued. 
A new tax pact 
"As part of the new tax pact, the government keeps the income for him, but he pelles the cuts in the courtyard of the regions. The broken promises, recurring compressions and the absence of economic plan hurt regions as well as municipal democracy. Whatever the government is saying, a loss of $ 850 million over 4 years is not a gain, "added Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"Although some measures concerning labor relations appear attractive at first sight, I think we have to welcome them with caution, with great caution. It would be perilous to want to correct an imbalance by another. This may create more disturbance, without addressing the problem, in addition to opening the door to a costly and endless multiplication of judicial remedies and larvated conflicts. Let's not forget that it is always the citizens who pay the note. The government must provide free and accurate answers. But it seems that it will wait until next fall to do it. By then, all kinds of legitimate worries will arise. It is certainly not the climate in which we need to evolve to ensure useful, efficient and harmonious economic development, "concluded the leader of the official opposition. 
