Montreal - "There is something extremely disturbing to hear today the Liberal government of Jean Charest announce to us that it begins a reflection on road congestion and public transportation in the Montreal area. While Quebeckers want a prime minister who has both hands on the wheel to deal with road congestion, they have a prime minister who has both feet on the brakes. " 
This is said by the member for Gouin and the official opposition spokesman, Nicolas Girard, who reacted to the meeting convened by the Prime Minister of Quebec, Jean Charest, with several mayors and several ministers of his government. However, at the moment when the meeting was held, the daily La Presse reveals today that the Charest government hinders the transit projects for the metropolis. 
"It's hard to swallow the prime minister's words today that tells Quebeckers that he is concerned about monster traffic jams they are experiencing daily and who may be more important at the beginning of September when we learn in the same way Time that it blocks the development of major projects that could have a positive impact for de-financing Montreal. The boots do not follow the babines, "deplore Nicolas Girard. 
Road congestion, according to a study by the Metropolitan Montreal Chamber of Commerce, represents an astronomical cost that exceeds $ 1.4 billion. The Parti Québécois reiterates the importance not to reflect, but to act. "The concrete solutions exist, but the more the government is slow to apply them, the more infernal road congestion for motorists and public transit users. The future is to collective transport, but the Charest government is still in reflection mode. It does not make sense, "he continued. 
"The lack of decisions and actions may have direct consequences for users. It is urgent to build train stations, the metro repair, purchasing new buses. It takes without delay prolong the metro and ending with the Eastern Train. However, all this is compromised by the lack of vision of the Liberal government that imposes a moratorium for these essential projects, "added Nicolas Girard. 
Nicolas Girard considers particularly annoying the position in which the Quebec government is placed vis-ottawa to claim a new Champlain bridge. "Despite the many appeals, despite the motions of the National Assembly, despite the Cree of Mayors, MPs and Prime Minister of Quebec, the federal government does not move, is silent and refuses to announce such a project, however, essential. What more needs to be for Quebec to be heard? In question the member for Gouin. 
