Quebec- The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, draws up a positive assessment of the presence of Quebec at the International Congress of Biotechnology Industry Organization (Bio 2013), which took place this week in Chicago and to which he took part. Bio 2013 brought together more than 16,000 delegates and more than 2,000 exhibitors in the biotechnology industry from 65 countries. For the occasion, the minister was accompanied, in particular, representatives of companies and Quebec organizations in the life sciences sector. 
"Our presence in Bio 2013 is an important step in consolidating the Quebec life sciences industry, at a time when Quebec makes a significant turn by focusing on collaboration and partnerships to stop the new model. of the global industry. This international congress is a tribune of choice to promote the Quebec biotechnology sector and to highlight our competitive and investment business environment, "said the minister. 
A research and innovation mission in the field of life sciences also took place on the sidelines of the 2013 Bio Congress, in the presence of the Chief Scientist of Quebec, Mr. Rémi Quirion, as well as a delegation of organizations and institutions of the Quebec innovation chain. Following meetings took place with strategic institutions of Illinois, such as the National Laboratory Argonnel, the University of Chicago and Northwestern University. Links have also been established with international partners in Quebec present at Congress. 
The minister took advantage of his presence in Bio 2013 to make public the modalities of the partnership fund for an innovative and healthy Quebec, with an envelope of $ 125 million, whose creation was announced in the last speech on the budget. This fund aims to support partnership projects between biopharmaceutical companies and public research organizations. The Minister also announced the launch of the first call for proposals for projects funded under this new Fund. 
In addition, the Minister has confirmed the participation of Quebec at the International Collaborative Industrial Program (CIPI) of Massachusetts Life Science Center (MLSC). Equipped with an envelope of $ 1.5 million, the CIPI targets the creation of collaborative industrial research partnerships between Massachusetts companies and foreign companies, including Quebec, from the life sciences sector. The Minister has also announced the award of $ 500,000 financial assistance to the Quebec Consortium on Drug Discovery (CQDM), which will have the mandate to fund partnership projects carried out under the CIPI. 
"Our government has put in place important measures, such as the partnership fund for an innovative and healthy Quebec, to support the growth of the Quebec life sciences industry. This fund will help consolidate and increase our local expertise, in addition to railing Quebec internationally. As for our participation in the CIPI, it will position ourselves among the most dynamic regions in the world and to promote research and innovation in Quebec companies, "said the minister. 
In addition, Merck Canada announced $ 4 million investments in partnership projects with the Immunology and Cancer Research - Research Marketing Institute (IRICOR). Created in 2008 by the Institute for Research in Immunology and Cancer of the University of Montreal, Iricor's mission is to accelerate the discovery, development and marketing of innovative therapies and medicines from the University of Montreal. This announcement is part of the continuity of investments, totaling $ 100 million and announced by the company in 2010, in research and biopharmaceutical development in Quebec. 
"Our government is pleased to see that Merck Canada continues to invest in research and development in Quebec and that it associates with one of our fouls from public research. These investments confirm out of any doubt the quality of Quebec research. Quebec is recognized for its dynamic business environment and adapted to the new industry model as well as for its highly qualified workforce, making it a partner of choice, "concluded the minister. 
The modalities and forms for the call for proposals related to the partnership fund for an innovative and healthy Quebec are available on the Ministry of Finance and the Economy website at the following address: www.economie.gouv. Qc.ca/partenariats_sante. 
