Chicago- On the occasion of the International Congress of Biotechnology Industry Organization (Bio 2013) which takes place in Chicago from 22 to 25 April, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, announces the participation of Quebec at the International Collaborative Industrial Program (CIPI) of Massachusetts Life Science Center (MLSC). Equipped with an envelope of $ 1.5 million, the CIPI targets the creation of collaborative industrial research partnerships between Massachusetts companies and foreign companies, including Quebec, from the life sciences sector. The Government of Quebec attributes $ 500,000 to the Quebec Consortium on Drug Discovery (CQDM) for the financing of partnership projects from the CIPI. 
The participation of Quebec at the ICCI is in the continuity of the signature in 2009 of a joint declaration with the Massachusetts Office of International Trade and Investment on cooperation in research, science and technology between Quebec and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. This statement aims to foster collaboration and exchanges between universities, research institutions, public and private bodies, as well as companies in Quebec and Massachusetts in the life sciences sector. 
"Quebec offers a dynamic environment adapted to the new business model of the industry, a highly qualified workforce and advantageous tax measures that promote scientific and technological development. Funding for research and development initiatives in partnerships with Massachusetts companies will position Quebec among the world's most dynamic areas and strengthening research and innovation in Quebec companies. In addition, our participation in the IPCI will consolidate the links between Quebec and the United States in the scientific field, as desired when signing the Joint Declaration, "said Minister Marceau. 
By participating in the CIPI, Quebec is positioning itself for the financing of initiatives chosen by calling projects in the biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, medical technologies and bio-computing sectors. The selected projects will have to demonstrate their potential for the scientific and economic benefits for Quebec, particularly in the production of jobs, creation and consolidation of jobs, as well as training staff and students highly qualified. 
"This unique partnership in life sciences between Quebec and Massachusetts helps to take advantage of existing synergies between the two regions and paves the way for new investment opportunities and collaborations in R & D," said Diane Gosselin, President-General Director of the CQDM. "This brand new funding program marks a turning point for our organization, since it is not just about precompetitive research projects. It is also part of continuity with our mission that wishes to accelerate, through innovative actions, the process of discovery of drugs. » 
The CQDM is a crossroads for all Quebec actors of biopharmaceutical research. Its primary mission is to finance research projects carried out in partnership between academic and hospitals in the public sector and the pharmaceutical industry and private sector biotechnology. Innovative Initiative in Canada, CQDM continues a dual purpose: accelerate the process of discovery of drugs and develop safer and more efficient drugs. The financing of its projects is made possible thanks, inter alia, to the contributions of the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology and several important companies, such as Pfizer Canada, AstraZeneca, Merck, Boehringer Ingelheim (Canada) Ltd., GlaxoSmithKline inc., Eli Lilly Canada inc., Novartis Pharma Canada Inc. 
Recall that Bio 2013 is the most important annual meeting of the biotechnology industry, with more than 16,000 delegates and more than 2,000 exhibitors from 65 countries. This international event is an opportunity to promote the Quebec life sciences industry and its environment conducive to foreign investment, as well as to mobilize industry stakeholders to increase business opportunities at Quebec. Minister Marceau is accompanied by representatives of companies and Quebec organizations in the life sciences sector, including the Institute Néomed, a research consortium aimed at promoting the competitiveness of Quebec industry. 
An research and innovation mission in the field of life sciences also takes place on the sidelines of the 2013 Bio Congress in the presence of the chief scientist of Quebec, Mr. Rémi Quirion, as well as a delegation of organizations and institutions of the Quebec innovation chain, including Genome Québec and CQDM. 
