Quebec- The Minister responsible for the Government Administration and President of the Treasury Board, Stéphane Bédard, welcomes the results of the internet integration into business processes. The government-ordered report as part of the digital economy strategy has been made public today by the Quebec Institute of Statistics. It draws up a portrait of the current situation of Internet access in Quebec territory and its use by companies. 
The survey reveals, among other things, in 2012, 84.2% of Quebec companies were connected to the Internet. The high speed connection is the standard among connected companies (94.8%) while the very high speed is present only in 14.4% of connected companies. It also learns that only 12.8% of Quebec's connected companies are selling on the Internet. This proportion is higher in the very large companies of 250 employees and more (46.5%). Among the institutions of five employees and more, 91.5% had an internet connection in 2012. This proportion varies by region, 85.7% in the Nord-du-Québec region at 95.5% in that of the Center- of Quebec. 
The survey that was carried out in two components, either with companies and institutions, produces results on Internet access and its use for the whole Quebec, for five business sizes and for 14 Industrial groupings, thanks to the company component. It also provides results on Internet access for the 17 administrative regions and for the six categories of rural-urban division through the establishment component. 
The Quebec Institute of Statistics also conducted the Quebec survey on the access of households to the Internet in 2012. These surveys are among the first stages of the Government of Quebec's digital economy strategy. 
"Digital constitutes an important lever to ensure our economic development and, at the same time, to improve the quality of life of citizens. That's why our government intends to intensify its short-term efforts to provide Quebec with a real digital plan that will meet the expectations and needs of the entire population, "said Minister Bédard. 
The report of the Internet Integration Survey to Business Processes as well as the results tables are available on the Institute's website at www.stat.gouv.qc.ca. Some results tables of the Quebec survey on internet household access are also available while the investigation report and all final results will be later in September. 
