Quebec, on April 25, 2020 - having participated in the first virtual parliamentary sessions yesterday, the member for René-Lévesque and spokesman for the Parti Québécois in the area of economy and for SMEs, Martin Ouellet, as well as his colleague from Rimouski and Spokesperson for employment, social solidarity and fight against poverty, Harold Lebel, are satisfied with the results. They have managed to get several answers to the questions of thousands of Quebeckers from all regions. 
"We were pleased to hear that the government intends to quickly inject new amounts into the MRCs. However, a question remained unanswered: if some companies are unable to honor their loan, will it come back to the MRC to repay the government? Contractors can also be reassured: it is possible to be entitled to both the Emergency Account for Canadian businesses and emergency with small and medium-sized enterprises in Quebec. This precision was essential, "said Martin Ouellet. 
The Minister of Economy, Pierre Fitzgibbon, acknowledged the injustice that specialized businesses, who see the supermarkets delight them from market shares by selling non-essential goods. "Unfortunately, the minister remained on his position; It is very disappointing, "continued the member for René-Lévesque. 
The government has also provided Martin Ouellet that reflections are underway to promote a greater proportion of Quebec content in public contracts. "We can not wait to learn what will be the fruits of this exercise. However, we would have liked the minister to open the door to a revision of the legislative framework, in order to facilitate the movement of Quebec products at home, "he noted. 
With regard to the working conditions of PABs in the private sector, the Minister of Labor and Social Solidarity, Jean Boulet, mentioned the steep argument of the necessary consensus for the adoption of a decree. "As for the nationalization of private CHSLDs, the minister has been evasive. He said it was "the reflection of the Prime Minister's great concern about the conditions of the beneficiary attendants". An answer that suggests that he probably did not have been consulted, "said Harold Lebel. 
In terms of solidarity, for social assisted persons and those in poverty, the Harold Lebel spokeswoman stresses that Minister Boulet referred to the idea of expanding access to existing programs and funding. "I would have liked that during one of his press conferences, the Prime Minister comes with something to say to these people: we do not forget you," said Lebel at the Commission, what the Minister Boulet replied, "If there are actions to ask, I will ask them. Remember that there are two weeks, together with the other opposition parties and the collective for a Quebec without poverty, Harold Lebel has supported the simple initiative to improve the solidarity tax credit. This proposal has unfortunately been ignored by the government. 
With regard to agricultural labor requirements, Minister Boulet acknowledged that the financial assistance measures announced by the federal government this week could deter possible candidates, even if, so far, the Department received around 3750 service offers. "While the federal distributes envelopes, Minister Boulet did not reassuring themselves as to the coming actions to accompany Quebeckers during the restart," deplored the member for Rimouski. Finally, the minister confirmed our doubts about the capacity of the CNESST to ensure compliance with the new health standards in the workplace, without adding resources. "With 300 inspectors, it will be difficult to visit all the factories, construction sites and other companies in a few weeks to see if all employers respect the standards, to accompany them and to support them as needed, and this, In order to protect the workers well, "concluded Harold Lebel. 
