Saint-Patrice-de-Beaurivage- Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, participated in the announcement of the first phase of completion of the new cogeneration plant in Innoventé . The installations of innovate, located in St. Patrice-de-Beaurivage, will allow the production of electricity thanks to cogeneration from organic residues. Remember that Investing Québec supported the company by providing loans totaling $ 5 million for the completion of this $ 18 million project, which will create more than 30 new jobs. 
"The economic future and the creation of wealth in Quebec are dependent on a green and sustainable economy," said Sulaian Deputy Minister Zakaïb. "It is by supporting the innovation and the manufacture of green products that Quebec will distinguish by its avant-garde in a world where competition is increasingly dynamic and the market, more and more environmentally friendly . I greet the meaning of the entrepreneurship of the President of Innoventé, who knew how to commercialize a process as promising. It represents a good example of success in the green energy sector. » 
Thanks to its process, the company achieves biological drying (biose drill) of organic residues from agricultural, industrial and municipal sectors. This unique and patented process developed by the Agri-Environmental Research and Development Institute (IRDA) allows the production of a high-calorific biofuel for alternatives to fossil fuels. Thus, while producing green electricity, innovated brings a sustainable solution to the problems of management of residual materials. 
"I am very proud that this avant-garde project is carried out in a picturesque village of the MRC de Lotbinière, in the heart of the Appalaches region," said Agnès Maltais, Minister of Labor, Employment and Solidarity Social and Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Regions of the Capitale-National and Chaudière-Appalaches. "It clearly demonstrates that innovation and green technologies have their place in rural areas as in large urban centers. It is enough for the audacity and determination of an entrepreneur to create a business and generate jobs. » 
The president of Innoventé, Mr. Richard Painchaud, was delighted to finally see the result of his efforts. "The imminent production of our first kilowatt hours is an important milestone for innovated," he said. "This has required considerable investments, but thanks to the support of financial partners such as Investissement Québec, we have been able to carry out all the stages of the project, thus allowing the creation of about thirty new jobs of quality and others to come grace. to our growth projects for the coming years. » 
The production of green energies by innovated in Saint-Patrice-de-Beaurivage is based on a 25-year electricity supply contract with Hydro-Québec. This is the first factory of innovation. A second will be on the day in Trois-Rivières in 2015. 
Located in Quebec City, innovated renewable energy product by bringing communities through its patented technology in Canada and the United States, a green and sustainable solution to the management of organic residues. The shares of innovate are listed on the TSX Venture Exchange under the IGE symbol (TSXV: IGE). For more information, visit www.innovte.ca. 
