Montréal - the candidate of the Parti Québécois of the Rousseau constituency and Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, denounces the recovery by Philippe Couillard of the same old economic recipe that Jean Charest used, and who only rests on the indebtedness. 
"Nothing has changed to the Liberal Party. In wanting to spend 15 billion more in the infrastructure, Philippe Couillard wants to break the debt record of Jean Charest. The previous Liberal government has indebted Quebec as no government before it, increasing the total debt of Quebec. What is harmful in Quebec, it is corruption, collusion and indebtedness, a recipe that has already cost Quebeckers under the Liberal reign, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
"Two weeks ago, the Philippe Couillard candidate, Carlos Leitao, boasted the budget I tabled by recalling our" targeted support for private investment and job creation "as well as our decision" to obtain 50 % of the benefits related to oil development ". Today, Philippe Couillard maintains its opposition to oil development and offers an economic program that is 100% based on borrowed money. The Liberal Party has no vision for the development of our economy, "said Marceau. 
The Government of the Parti Québécois has proposed a clear strategy for economic development and job creation: economic priority employment priority, which is based in particular on research and innovation, industrial lapolitics, the outdoor use of transport electricity. 
Among the measures proposed by the PLQ, the home renovation tax credit is a measure already put in place by the government. Same thing for the use of electricity surpluses to attract investment. "Obviously, the three new bankers of the PLQ have not brought new ideas to their party," added Nicolas Marceau. 
With regard to the CAQ, Nicolas Marceau notes his despair; She is ready to say anything to lure Quebec families. 
"The financial framework of the CAQ is truffled with errors. She wants to remove 35,000 imaginary jobs, which are not planned by the government. The financial framework for the 2014 budget? 2015 does not provide for any amount on the increase in public sector workforce. Most of the room for maneuver that François Legault claims does not exist. For example, during the last three years, there has been an increase of 1000 jobs for the entire public sector. Mr. Legault wants to delete jobs that will not exist! "Lemated Nicolas Marceau. 
"Above the market, the CAQ proposes to limit consolidated expenditure at 0.9%, which represents massive health and education cuts. I ask Mr. Legault to have the courage to say that he will cut the health and education budget, that he will cut in schools and the care that patients ", indicated Mr. Marceau. 
Mr. Legault plans to cut the 276 million planned this year for the government's economic policy. It removes transportation electrification, forest investments and job creation, in addition to cutting tax credits for businesses. What companies will he cut their tax credits for the current year? Why does it hide this information to businesses and workers? ", Concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
Watch the video "Employment- The campaign for fear of the fold dementie" 
