Montréal-invited to pronounce a speech to the members of the Employee Council of the Quebec environment (CPEQ), the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, presented His vision of a relationship of partners between environmental and economic circles, at first chief businesses and the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP). 
Yves-François Blanchet also addressed the work of the Administrative Committee on Environmental Processes led to the MDDEFP with a view to obtaining efficiencies, reducing the issuance of authorizations and to improve predictability to the department, for the benefit of economic development and without compromise on the protection of the environment. "Environmental regulations are one of the major achievements of Quebec society, explained the Blanchet minister, but its application has increased over the additions and modifications. The economic reality of Quebec and a much better knowledge of the stakes and processes makes it possible to believe that we can alleviate the approach without this presenting an increased danger for our natural environments ". The committee is composed of people from the department and high-level representatives of the Quebec's major economic sectors. 
In the same spirit, on Monday, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, announced an investment of $ 10 million over five years, through the Nordic Development Fund, so that the Department is more human and technical resources. On the other hand, the MDDEFP will provide such rigorous and faster treatment of environmental authorization requests for mining projects. This project, imagined by the Ministers Marceau and Blanchet in early spring, will soon have emerged through a joint desire under which the Minister Blanchet is committed to reducing at least 20% of the issuance periods of certifications authorization. "A reflection on regulation, processes and resource allocation was needed," said Yves-François Blanchet. We can not look at the northern Quebec open up to development without offering, upstream and accompaniment, MDDEFP services. Now, I want our teams to be perceived and received as partners. " 
In conclusion, the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks insisted on his desire to support his decisions on science and knowledge so that the time was opposed by the economy And ecology, seeing instead in the economic potential of the most interesting environmental sector way towards prosperity and sustainable development. 
