Lac-Simon- Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs and MP, Mrs. Elizabeth Larouche announced, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élain Zakaïb, the Attribution by investment Québec, a loan of $ 900,000 to the Wabak solidarity cooperative for the construction of a first food market in Lac-Simon and the establishment of a training program for young people of the Anishnabe community. 
The opening of the store, scheduled for the spring of 2014, required total investments of $ 3.6 million. Minister Larouche participated in the first shovel of the site of the site on September 9th. She also announced the financial contribution of nearly $ 922,000 from the Aboriginal Initiatives Fund. The total government contribution for this major project is $ 1,822,000, an amount to which is added a $ 100,000 loan guarantee from the Fonets of Aboriginal Initiatives II. 
"I am delighted that this project materializes in Lac-Simon," said Minister Larouche. "When we know that residents must drive several kilometers to stock up in commodities, it is a whole revolution that the growing community Anishnabe will live. I am sure that this project will contribute to the economic and social development of this community and improve the quality of life of its residents. » 
The Wabak solidarity cooperative was founded in 2012 to provide Lac-Simon residents an "Express" cooperative for food supply, non-prescription pharmacy products and hardware. The growing population does not have a commercial offer nearby; Residents must go to Val-d'Or, 37 km from Lac-Simon, to shop. 
"Our government is proud to support businesses in the social economy that work for the benefit of their members," said Minister Zakaïb. "Above all, we are proud to support this local initiative, which will have a positive impact on the economy of a whole community by creating several jobs and allowing young people to follow professional training while being accompanied and supervised. » 
The start-up project also aims to set up a vocational training program to improve the chances of youth success of the Lac-Simon community and their employability level. The training of 450 hours, excluding the hardware component, is supervised and paid by the Kijitowin Commission and the Follow-up Committee of the Wabak Solidarity Cooperative and is available in several components. It will thus allow for various certificates of professional studies (AEP) in the commerce of food, in retail, butcher shop, bakery and more. 
"Thanks to the investment Québec participation, we will be able to complete our financial assembly and to make this promising project for the Anishnabe community, both in terms of trade supply and the employability of our youth". Explained Mr. Serge Maille, a consultant in management and project management working closely with the Wabak Pimadizi Economic Development Corporation. 
About Investissement Québec  Investissement Québec's mission is to promote investment growth in Quebec, thus contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The company puts companies with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity capital investment, in order to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, it is responsible for the administration of tax measures and prospecting investments abroad. 
