Drummondville - Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, accompanied by the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the central regions of the central -Quebec and Mauricie, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announced the payment of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 50,000 to the Center-du-Québec Regional Environment Council (CRECQ). 
Financial assistance is awarded for the implementation of the Sustainable Development Vision Pilot Project Center-du-Québec, which aims to integrate a process of continuous improvement in sustainable development in regional business practices. Rated over $ 155,000, this project was set up by the Regional Table in Sustainable Development (Central-du-Québec), since June 2011, since June 2011, the main socio-economic partners in the Center-du-Québec region. 
"Our Government has the goal of achieving its vision of sustainable development, the achievement of a balance between economic growth, the protection of the environment and the benefits for the current and future population," recalled Élain Zakaïb. "Sustainable development is far from a brake on growth; Instead, it generates interesting business opportunities that we need to promote. However, such an approach necessarily involves a continuous improvement of management practices. Our financial commitment will provide socio-economic actors and policy makers in the tools to provide effective support to companies interested in adopting a sustainable development approach. » 
"The project derives from a common vision shared by the main socio-economic players of the Center-du-Québec," said Minister Yves-François Blanchet. "This is a wealth creator project that will highlight the products and services of our organizations engaged in sustainable development and through which regional know-how can be acquired and used. It will allow the transfer of knowledge to businesses, quite in the minds of the local ownership development model, innovation and export. » 
Created in 1997, the CRECQ is a non-profit organization whose mandate is to promote the protection and improvement of the environment with a view to sustainable development. This consulting body brings together many environmental stakeholders in the Center-du-Québec region. 
"The Financial Assistance of the Government of Quebec allows us to take a step further towards better business practices combining economic development and respect for our environment," said Gilles Brochu, President of CRECQ. "I am delighted with the realization of this development project that will be beneficial for the Center-du-Québec and which can serve as an incentive to the creation of similar projects in other regions of Quebec. » 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
