Sherbrooke- On the occasion of his first national council as leader of the Parti Québécois, Pierre Karl Péladeau traced the assessment of the action of the Government of Quebec and highlighted the deception of the Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard. 
"We have an appointment in 2018 to hand over Quebec on the rails of growth, on the equal opportunities rails, on rails of fairness and justice! Quebeckers are able to do much more than the austerity to which Philippe Couillard and Martin Coiteux confine us. The strength of our convictions must motivate us to do more. We must go further. The preparation of our congress will lead us to innovate, to choose the audacity. I trust us. I trust our big project and I trust Quebeckers, "he launched. 
Deception of 16 billion 
"Sixteen billion is the repeated figure without stopping by the Prime Minister and who would correspond to the" hole "in public finances that would be caused by independence, as he says. It is on this figure that rests his federalist argument. Nothing is wrong, "said Quebec's leader. 
The Prime Minister holds this figure of Quebec's economic and income accounts, page 59. At the bottom of the page, it reads that the data comes from Statistics Canada. However, at Statistics Canada, the following reserve is issued: "These statistics are sometimes missed in an erroneous way to try to determine who are the winners and the net losers within the Confederation". 
Statistics Canada has ceased to produce these figures since 2009 due to methodological problems. Only the Quebec government still pays for discontinued information. 
"Clearly, the Prime Minister did not do his homework and he prefers partisanship to the truth. On our side we have a real project that will allow us to recover the $ 50 billion and more than we send to Ottawa each year. A solid project, at the height of our ambitions and which will enrich Quebec: make Quebec a country! , "Added the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
To the "real business" of the Prime Minister, we answer by the real figures 
"Prime Minister Philippe Couillard had promised to create wealth. Instead, he created a job crisis. For six months, Quebec has experienced 10,200 layoffs. With the premier Couillard, the lyrics fly away, but the damage remains. He does not understand anything about the economy. Last Thursday, the Caisse de Dépôt served a finance lesson to the Liberal government: it concluded an agreement with Bombardier including a guarantee, for Quebeckers, a return of at least 9.5% and obtaining the value increase of a company that generates more than $ 6 billion in revenues and more than $ 600 million in operating benefits. Meanwhile, we do not have the beginning of a disclosure on the misconception between the government, its Minister of the Economy and Bombardier. The Prime Minister must make public the details of this transaction, "continued Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
Recognized public services 
"The government of austerity has found $ 400 million more for doctors, while it offers less than inflation with those who teach our children or who care for our parents. There is something indecent in this two weight, two measures and in the systematic devaluation of the role of the public service to which the Liberal government is used. Our public services contributed to our emancipation, enrichment and affirmation. At the Parti Québécois, we believe in the fundamental role of women and men committed to serving the public. They deserve our gratitude and respect, "also affirmed the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
A team of dedicated deputies 
"Our dedicated team of 29 members carries the voice of Quebecers with efficiency, compassion and determination before a government obsessed with the dismantling of the levers who have made our success. We also made a commitment to be a force of proposal. I have just given some hon. Members the mandate to drive action committees. These working groups will enrich our interventions with concrete proposals and they will help to better defend the interests of Quebecers. They will also enrich the work before us lead to our next Congress and the adoption of our new program, "added Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
Note that Nicolas Marceau will coordinate the Economic Action Committee; Diane Lamarre will be responsible for the Health Committee; Alexandre Cloutier, the Education Committee; Mathieu Traversy will be responsible for the Environmental Committee; Carole Poirier, from the one on international relations; Maka Kotto is named Head of the Committee on Cultural Communities; and Véronique Hivon, responsible for independent movements. 
Presence of Ghislain Picard, head of the APNQL 
The Chief also highlighted the presence at the National Council of Ghislain Picard, Head of the Assembly of First Nations of Quebec and Labrador. "I sincerely thank him with his presence. We had the opportunity to demonstrate our solidarity with Aboriginal women and we reiterate our intention to collaborate in finding solutions. We share with the First Nations our quest for freedom, the desire to preserve our language and our culture, and the determination to work to a more just and prosperous world, in the respect of our nations, "he concluded . 
