B Waterproof- As part of the Economic Priority Employment Priority, the Prime Minister and Deputy of Charlevoix? Côte-de-Beaupré, Pauline Marois, today announced the allocation of financial assistance up to nearly $ 3 million for The construction of a sports and recreational regional center in Beaupré. 
"This investment represents one of the channels by which the government encourages the public to cultivate its taste to move and feel arrested by the challenge that I have collectively launched last year: that Quebec is, by ten years, among the most fit nations in the world, "said the premier. 
The work envisaged, the costs of which are estimated at almost $ 8 million, consist in building a building including a gym, offices, multipurpose rooms, a warehouse for sports equipment and other various vocations. Another service building will also be arranged for recreational activities and sports practiced outside. 
This project has been analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the sports and recreational facility support program - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the Eligible costs. 
Across Quebec, more than 80 projects for the development, renovation, development and setting up to sports and recreational facilities should be done through investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from an envelope of $ 50 million allocated as part of the second component of the Sports and Recreation Support Program - Phase II of the Ministry of Education, Leisure and Sport. At this envelope adds additional support of $ 80 million to support new projects now. 
It should be noted that these investments are planned as part of the Employment Priority Economic Policy, recently presented by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau. This policy is intended to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, short and medium term. 
Of the $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments for the lamination of sports and recreational infrastructures, some $ 401 million are devoted to making educational infrastructures of Quebec's healthier Quebec to learn. The realization of these projects should allow the creation of about 3500 jobs. 
"This project will be a wooden building, the heating structure, and it will become a reference in the field of ecological multisportive center in Quebec. Today, it is a great day for the population of Beaupré, who sees the project of ecological and intergenerational multisportal center taking the path of realization, "concluded the Mayor of Beaupré, Michel Paré. 
