Quebec, on September 20, 2016 -A first day of public consultations and auditions on Bill 99, dealing with the protection of youth, the member for Rosemont and spokesman for the Party of Social Services, the protection of youth, home care, public health and prevention, Jean François Lisée, has made it possible to the directors of the protection of the youth (DPJ) who came to testify in parliamentary committee that they undergo "enormous budget pressure" caused by The compressions imposed by the Liberal government. These remarks are those of Denis Baraby, DPJ of the Ciss of Laurentians. 
"In addition, I was surprised and shocked to learn that Aboriginal host families do not have access to the same resources as the other host families in Quebec to take care of the children they accommodate," Declared Jean-François Lisée. The member assured the council of the Atikamekw nation that he was part of his claims and that he was intending to put pressure on the government to act fairly to Aboriginal host families. 
"Youth Protection Officers have admitted to parliamentary committee that cuts of $ 20 million in the youth centers budget, in 2015-16, have created great pressure and caused concrete impacts on the ground. They revealed, of the same breath, that the abolition of the association of the youth centers of Quebec, in the wake of the adoption of Law 10, had left a vacuum, and that it would be necessary to recreate a forum which will allow DPJ to exchange and standardize practices. This is another proof of the failure of the reform of the structures of the Minister Barrette and his counterparts for the network of social services. Unfortunately, we see that our concerns were well-founded and that they materialize, "continued the member for Rosemont. 
"In the light of this first day of consultation, I reiterate the requests I made to Minister Charlebois, Delegate for the Protection of Youth, last June: We must reinvest the $ 20 million of the budgets of the youth centers. In 2015, 2016, and give them the autonomy they had before the barrette reform, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
