MONT-Laurier - Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and the member for Labelle and Head of the Laurentians Region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, announce the consolidation of the medical unit. Family (UMF) of the Hautes-Laurentides, affiliated with the University of Montreal. 
"Our government has made a commitment to improve the accessibility of care and services by consolidating the first line and increasing the number of family physicians. This announcement is precisely for this purpose, since this consolidation will come to support both the training efforts of the Université de Montréal and the offer of service to the population of the territory, "said Minister Hébert. 
The UMF will take advantage of a project to expand the building in conjunction with the Local Community Services Center (CLSC) of Mont-Laurier since 2012. In order to support this project of magnification of 171.5 m2 and to consolidate the activities of the UMF, the Ministry grants the Laurentian Health and Social Services Agency a non-recurring amount of $ 93,000 that will be used to acquire equipment, furniture, as well as for various expenses related to computer and telephony. This amount is added to the maximum annualized allocation of $ 475,000 that it allocates to the UMF for its human resources and other functional expenses. 
"Our government responds to its commitment with a judicious choice. In addition to contributing more markedly to the training of medical succession and in the health sciences, which will benefit the whole of the Quebec population, the consolidation of this UMF promotes, here and Now, the efficiency and quality of care and services it offers people in the region, "says Monsieur Pagé. 
Currently, about 45% of medical students are heading for family medicine, while 55% are moving towards other specialties. The consolidation of this UMF is part of the government's willingness to increase the number of graduates in family medicine to reverse these proportions, and thus to better meet the current and future health needs of Quebec society. 
