Yamachiche - Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, announced to Yamachiche the award of a non-refundable financial contribution and an interest-free loan totaling $ 750,000 to the group RCM, a social economy company specializing in recycling that employs people with physical or intellectual limitations. 
The RCM Group project is to form a new legal entity, soleno-RCM, which will integrate the assets of the Yamachiche division into partnership with the Soleno company of Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu. 
The support of the Government of Quebec consists, on the one hand, in a $ 500,000 grant for the creation of the partnership and the purchase of equipment and machinery and, on the other hand, in a loan of $ 250,000 To support the rolling fund of the RCM group during the transition period. 
"The social economy is the real spearhead of our economy and represents a sustainable way of creating wealth and jobs in Quebec," said Élain Zakaïb. "That's why it's the state to support these kinds of initiatives. By supporting RCM's revival, our government encourages growth, in a field of the future, a dynamic social economy business, while promoting the integration of employees with special needs. » 
Founded in 1981, RCM Group inc. is a non-profit organization specializing in the recovery and processing of recyclable materials and whose mission is the creation of jobs for people with physical or intellectual limitations. This social economy enterprise has four divisions (two factories in Yamachiche, a workshop in Trois-Rivières and a sorting center in Saint-Étienne-des-Grès) which generate 183 jobs in Quebec. 
"With the support of the Government of Quebec and our partnership agreement with Soleno, we will be able to maintain the activities that provide employment with our 76 employees at the Yamachiche plant," said the President and CEO of the RCM Group M. Michel Camirand. "The Formation of Soleno-RCM will allow us to attach our expertise to that of the company Soleno to position us favorably in a sector of the future. » 
"The objective pursued by our board of directors has always been to safeguard the jobs reserved for persons with constraints or functional limitations," supported the Chairman of the RCM Group, Mr. Yvon Picotte. "It is therefore with relief and great enthusiasm that our employees have learned the news of the recovery of our company. » 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
