Baie-Comeau - Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, and the hon. Member for René-Lévesque and deputy responsible for the North Shore, Marjolan Dufour, announced an agreement Major with Alcoa who will maintain the activities of the company in Quebec for a minimum of 15 years and thus to consolidate 3000 direct jobs. 
"I am particularly proud of the conclusion of this agreement that marks a new start in our relationship with Alcoa, in addition to ensuring the sustainability of its activities in Quebec and the maintenance of quality jobs in our regions for a period of At least 15 years, "said Pauline Marois. 
"Our companies specializing in production and processing have developed a know-how that contributes significantly to our economic growth and the deployment of our exports," added Minister Martine Ouellet. 
The Quebec and Alcoa government are resolutely turned towards the future. In a context where the primary aluminum industry goes through a difficult period, the reopening of the agreement concluded in 2008 was necessary. This new agreement between Alcoa, Hydro-Québec and the Government of Quebec aims as follows: 
"Our Government is putting on transportation of transportation to mobilize many actors, such as Acoa, around an ambitious and carrier vision for the future, added Pauline Marois. We want to use this new agreement as a stepping stone to make Quebec a world leader in electric transport. The company will provide its know-how for the design of lightened vehicles thanks to aluminum, participating, among other things, the development and growth of projects sponsored by our centers of expertise. » 
The Alcoa enterprise and its Phinery partner have recently signed a collaboration agreement to jointly develop a new battery, operating in air and aluminum, aiming to increase the autonomy of electric vehicles and to serve as a Energy reserve in multiple applications. 
"Many innovations are expected in the automotive sector over the next few years, has supported Martine Ouellet. And Quebec, as part of its transportation strategy, put on the ability to innovate of its dynamic companies, such as Acoa, to distinguish themselves. Recent ads of car manufacturers also mark a significant turn towards intensive use of aluminum in the mass transport sector. » 
"This agreement is beneficial for both Quebec and Alcoa, which thus reiterates its long-term commitment with Quebec, concluded Pauline Marois. With $ 4.7 billion of exports in 2012, primary aluminum is a major economic engine. The Alcoa company represents more than a third of Quebec aluminum production; It is therefore essential to ensure the continuation of its activities. And, with this agreement, that's exactly what we do. » 
Alcoa is one of the leading global aluminum producers. The company's activities are divided into three aluminum smells (Baie-Comeau, Deschambault and Bécancour) and three aluminum processing plants (Bécancour, Laval and Pointe-Claire). Alcoa Canada's head office is located in Montreal. 
