Québec- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announces a public consultation to enable citizens and key players in land transport. 'Express their vision on different orientations for the development of Quebec sustainable mobility policy. 
"This consultation will guide us in the development of a very awaited policy, which will place users at the heart of the actions we deem necessary to undertake by 2020. We wish the participation of all those who want Quebec that Quebec. Clearly undertakes on the path of sustainable mobility and energy independence, "said Gaudreault. 
The public consultation will take the form of meetings with the main partners of collective transport, the spatial planning, the environment and the electrification of transport. These meetings will take place in Longueuil on 23 and 24 May 2013, and in Quebec City, May 27 and 28. Five themes will then be addressed, namely: 
In parallel, the Ministry will carry out a consultation that will also begin on May 23rd. Citizens and organizations will be able to take advantage of it by filing a brief or filling out a consultation form that will be put online. People or organizations interested in transmitting their opinion will be until June 21 to do so. 
Remember that the Quebec policy of sustainable mobility should be filed at the end of 2013, with a view to implementing 2014. It will take over from the Quebec collective transport policy. The new policy will include improving the offer of collective transportation service throughout Quebec. 
"The challenge is important: the entry into force of this new policy will finally enable Québec to enter the group on collective transportation. It is in this spirit that I invite all individuals and organizations that see in this policy a model of the future for the growth of Quebec to make us known the fruit of their reflections. I am convinced that we will be able to make judicious, imaginative and daring choices, "concluded the Minister of Transport. 
Consult the consultation editor prepared on the margin of the consultation meetings in Veniret Visit the site www.mtq.gouv.qc.capor The details on the online consultation. 
