Montreal- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Jean-François Lisée, and the Mayor of Montreal, Denis Coderre, participated At the unveiling of a major real estate project in the heart of the Montreal Shows district: the Square Saint-Laurent. 
Designed and achieved by the Angus Development Corporation, a social economy enterprise, the Joint Project will enable in particular to develop on the same site Montreal offices of ministries, by renting 14,000 m2. 
"Our government is proud to allow the realization of this real estate project in the heart of the district of the shows. Thanks to a long-term rental agreement, 700 state employees will be housed on one of Montreal and Quebec's most emblematic arteries. This sector of Boulevard Saint-Laurent has a great need to be revitalized and the Square Saint-Laurent project is quite the government's vision of strengthening and revitalizing the city center of the metropolis, "said the Prime Minister. 
The Square Saint-Laurent is a construction project of the Angus Development Corporation that will revitalize the central and historical sector of the Faubourg Saint-Laurent. Located between St. Catherine Street, North, National Monument, south, Saint-Laurent, West Boulevard, and Clark Street, east, the mixed vocation project will include an office building. , commercial spaces and restoration and a whole floor dedicated to cultural function. A residential building will also be built on the North Island. 
"The project will contribute, by its remarkable diversity, to the vitality of the neighborhood, with an urban composition where it is possible to live, to work, to create and to entertain the city center. More than just a real estate transaction, the goal is to create an animated and structuring urban island at the heart of this mythical sector of the metropolis, "said Minister Jean-François Lisée. 
The project cements a series of interventions aimed at revitalizing the sector, many of which have already been supported by government authorities. It is part of the stride of previously completed work (the Place des Festivals, the Symphonic House, the House of Sustainable Development, 2-22, on St. Catherine Street), in progress (Wilder Building) , or in the process of being (Esplanade Clark), to animate this neuralgic sector of Montreal and toning its urban fabric. 
The project implementation is scheduled for the fall of 2014 and the offices will be available in 2017. The project as a whole will be completed in January 2018. 
