The Assumption - Minister Delegate to the Social Services and Protection of Youth, Minister responsible for the Lanaudière Region and MPs of Joliette, Ms. Véronique Hivon, launched today, at the Cégep Regional Lanaudière at the Assumption, The 2013-2014 edition of the information and awareness campaign aimed at preventing, among young people, the risks and consequences associated with the consumption of alcohol or other drugs, as well as the practice of games of chance and money. 
"I am pleased to launch the 26th week of drug prevention, which takes place from November 17th to 23rd. We have the responsibility, as the health care and the development of its population, to act in prevention to offer our young a better future. The commitment of these in activities that correspond to their interests and passions is essential to their journey. Such a commitment allows them to develop personal and social skills that protect them from the risks associated with consumption, "said Mrs Hivon. 
This year, the theme chosen for young people from 10 to 12 years old is "Living your passions, it's intense," while for the 13 to 24 years, the slogan reads: "Be intense natural - there is so much better to do than consume. 
In order to encourage young people to engage in something that motivates them, while informing them about the adverse effects of alcohol and drug use, or the practice of games of chance and money. , various means and adapted to the interest of young people are put to profit: display, distribution of printed material, tools available online, television message, web placement. 
In addition to land activities for the 17 to 24 years, which will take place until April 2014 in college educational institutions, vocational training centers and adult education centers. 
"Tools have also been produced specifically, in collaboration with the health and social services organizations of the Aboriginal environment, to join the young Inuit and First Nations," concluded the Minister. 
More information can be obtained on the various components of the campaign at the following addresses: 
www.dependances.gouv.qc.ca (for stakeholders) www.intenseaunaturel.com (for young people). 
