Montreal- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, and the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Mr. Jean- François Lisé, announced the award of $ 125,000 financial assistance to the Quebec Fashion Creators Council (CCMQ) for the Ephemeral Cabinet event, which will take place from 4 to 8 September. 
Ephemeral Cabinet | Nomadic Shop of Creators is a promotional and commercial event created for professional buyers and the general public. This pilot project highlights the work of about twenty Quebec fashion designers, including Marie Saint Pierre, Harricana and Philippe Dubuc. The quality of the presentation and notoriety of participants will enable creators to present and offer their collections in a world-class context. 
This event will also be an exceptional place of exchange thanks to its "Fashion Creative Break", during which the general public will be invited to spontaneous encounters with the designers during the dinner break or after the job. 
"The creativity and inventiveness of Quebec creators are assets on which the fashion and clothing industry should rely on," said Ms. Zakaïb. "We hope that the results of this pilot project, designed to meet the specific needs of creators, may also fuel the reflection on the implementation of the Fashion Working Group's recommendations for the promotion of the entire industry. From now on, this project will bring creators of beautiful business opportunities and will shine their talent. » 
"The Quebec fashion industry brings together many dynamic and efficient enterprises that play a key role in designing, manufacturing, marketing and distributing products," said Mr. Lisée. "The ephemeral cabinet will be a great opportunity to highlight the rich potential of Quebec designers. This event will also allow them to explore new markets on the world stage. » 
The CCMQ is a nonprofit professional association created in 2011. This grouping, which is dedicated to creators and their work, promotes the excellence of the fashion industry. It actively supports business development of more than 130 entrepreneurs. Point of convergence for established claws or emerging claws, the CCMQ is engaged in promoting Quebec fashion design here and abroad. 
"The Ephemeral Cabinet is an initiative by creators, a way to meet their audiences. He is inspired by the best practices that were observed elsewhere in the world, "said St. Peter, President of the CCMQ. "The creators wanted to present to the general public and to buyers an unusual point of sale and offer exclusive collections-capsules for a short period, all in a stimulating and internationally level. We have gathered around this project a team of creative from various horizons to give fashion the place that returns to it as a cultural pole. Without the financial support of the Government of Quebec, this project would never have emerged. This concept can be exported, in variable formats, during fashion weeks or other cultural events. » 
The Ministry of Finance and the Economy contributed to the completion of this project by providing financial support from $ 100,000 from the strategic sector development support program and signs of excellence. For its part, the Ministry of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade has contributed $ 25,000. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
