Quebec- The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and the Board of Reserved Applications and Valorizing Terms (CARTV) invite people and organizations wishing to publicize their opinion on the demand for recognition of the indication Protected geographical (IGP) "Quebec ice cider" to take part in a public consultation to be held as of June 13, 2013 for a period of 45 days. 
The Reserved Applications Act and the Valorizing Terms provides that the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food of Quebec, on the recommendation of the Council, may recognize an appellation and reserve use for products certified by an accredited body under the law. In addition, the Regulations for the Request for Application for Appeals specifies that a public consultation is mandatory before the Council decides on the recommendation to the Minister about the name requested. 
"It took several years of work, initiated by the Craftsmans of Quebec (CAQ), so that the ice cider industry will manage to establish the specifications that best defines the product it wants to protect the appellation. Public consultation is the ultimate step of validation of this consensus, "says Anne-Marie Granger-Godbout, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Board of Appellations reserved and valuing terms. 
In this regard, the IGP's "Quebec Ice Cider" specifications as well as a summary sheet that resumes the important points are made available to the CARTV website: www.cartv. gouv.qc.ca/igp-cidre-glace-quebec. All information on the consultation process is also published. 
If you wish to submit an observation about the recognition request of this IGP, you have until July 27, 2013 to send a reasoned opinion. 
After analyzing the results of the public consultation, approved the specifications and ruled on the accreditation of a certification body, the Board of Appellations reserved and the rewarding terms will transmit to the Minister its recommendation on the desirability of recognizing the Appellation "Quebec ice cider". 
