Quebec- The member for Vachon and sentence of the official opposition in terms of transport, maritime strategy and electrification of transport, Martine Ouellet, the member for Saint-Jérôme and spokesperson in the field of economy, Entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports, Pierre Karl Péladeau, as well as the member for Verchères and spokespersons for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, deplore that Quebec does not get its fair share of federal contracts for The construction of ships, while the Maritime Site Davie received only one contract of $ 13.6 million. 
"The federal government is grants more than $ 100 billion for the construction and maintenance of ships. The initial construction contract is $ 33 billion, an amount at which additional costs are added and potential costs. Quebec gets a meager 13.6 million and the Liberal government rejoices, as if we had really got our fair share. On more than $ 100,000 million in contracts, Quebec gets 13.6, 0.01%, while paying 20% of the invoice. Does the Liberal government find this just for our economy and for our workers? "Said Martine Ouellet. 
"Of course, a contract at Davie shipyard is good news for the workers. On the other hand, the Liberals have done nothing so that Quebec will obtain its fair share of this amount of more than 100 billion; What did the Minister Jacques Daoust say to these workers to justify his inaction? It's pretty cleaning to see him rejoice thus, while Quebec has passed by several billion dollars, "added Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"The examples follow one another and demonstrate unequivocally that the Liberal government of Philippe Couillard is Canadian first! While he should stand up and intervene high and strong for Quebec, he rather the round back, leaving Ottawa give contracts to other shipyards. He's even going to rejoice! Federalism, according to Philippe Couillard, it is the pure and simple abandonment of the defense of the interests of Quebec, "continued Stéphane Bergeron. 
"Imagine a little bit of quality jobs we could have created in Quebec if, instead of giving our share, a sum of more than $ 20 billion, the federal government for financing construction and maintenance contracts Ships, we had spent that money in an independent Quebec, "said members. 
