Quebec- The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, and the Minister responsible for the Government Administration and President of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, announce the deposit of the Program of Law 61. This project law proposes new ways to recover the sums paid unfairly by public bodies to businesses operating in the construction industry. 
"We reiterate a clear signal that our government takes all the necessary means to recover the amounts paid too much when granting or the execution of contracts in the field of construction," said Minister Bertrand St -Marnaud. 
First, the bill will allow the Government to undertake damage lawsuits as a result of wrongdoing, on behalf of and with the collaboration of public bodies and municipalities. All will avoid the multiplication of appeals in several judicial districts with regard to the same company and for basically similar gestures. This will result in more efficient use of the collective resources of the government, public bodies and municipalities, as well as a decrease in costs. 
The bill also proposes amendments to extend the limitation periods. Thus, the Government could claim the damage caused for a period of 15 years preceding the passage of the bill and within 5 years of coming into force. 
Finally, following the demonstration of a fault committed by a company, the bill provides that the Government could avail itself of a presumption of damages. Thus, it would be to the company to demonstrate the exact amount of the damage caused, otherwise it would be minimally condemned to the damage established according to a percentage determined by the government. 
Another component of the bill, a repayment program will be offered to businesses to allow the government to quickly recover the amounts perceived too much. This program will be administered by a neutral and independent person and will be offered for a limited period, after which legal actions can be brought. The conditions for this program will be published in the official Gazette du Québec. 
"The bill will allow companies to repay the amounts unjustly perceived as a result of reprehensible gestures, and thus avoid being pursued in civil. At the same time, we offer them the opportunity to demonstrate their real desire to enhance and reach the high standards of integrity to which Quebeckers are entitled to expect. But it is important to mention that in no case, this participation in the program will result in an amnesty for those who have asked gestures that could lead to criminal prosecution, "said Minister Stéphane Bédard. 
The amounts retrieved, both under the repayment program and the outcome of civil prosecution, will be distributed to public bodies in proportion to their loss, after deduction of expenses related to the implementation of the bill. 
