Quebec, on February 13, 2021 - In the wake of revelations that the Chaudière-Appalaches CISS illegally granted $ 8.8 million in contracts to the Liverpool Manor, 2016 and 2017, the member for Jonquière and spokesman. Quebecois Party for Treasury Board, Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the member for Duplessis and Spokesperson for Seniors, Lorraine Richard, claim the intervention of the Auditor General of Quebec (VGR), as well as an independent public inquiry. The way the pandemic has been managed in the accommodation for the elderly. 
IN SHORT 
Indeed, if we rely on the conclusions of the authority of the public procurement (AMP), which looked at the case, the CISISS of Chaudière-Appalaches would not have complied with the law on the contracts of the organizations public and its provisions, put in place following the Charbonneau Commission. "To sum up, the Liverpool mansion did not qualify for government contracts because it did not receive the authorization certifying its integrity. Nevertheless, the CISS, for a reason that remains to be thinned, decided to grant him. This situation is everything except acceptable, especially since it is added to the report reporting the abuse that the residents of the institution had during years. There is certainly about investigation for the Auditor General, "said the member for Jonquière. 
The Parti Québécois is also referring to the comments made by the Minister of Health, Christian Dubé, when asked to what extent CEOs of CISS and CIUSS should be held accountable in such circumstances. "He responded, too generally, that all organizations had to respect the rules. Is. But what does it mean precisely about the CEO of the Chaudière-Appalachian CISS and the role it has played in this granting of fraudulent appearance contracts? Should we remember that this same person is now responsible for the Quebec CVIV-19 vaccination campaign? These questions are worth a lot of people ..., "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Elders: a public inquiry into the management of the pandemic is more than ever necessary 
"Shadow areas, questions, uncertainty, worry, that's enough! The VGQ must make all the light on the case of the Liverpool mansion and, more widely, we must also move forward with an independent public inquiry into how the CVIV-19 pandemic has been managed in CHSLDs and RPPs As we have been calling for it for several months now, "said Lorraine Richard. 
