Quebec- As a result of the decision of Hydro-Québec to open internationally its pylon supply contracts, the member for Marie-Victorin and the official opposition on the energy and Natural Resources, Bernard Drainville, and the member for Saint-Jérôme and Spokesperson for Economics, Entrepreneurship, SMEs and Exports, Pierre Karl Péladeau, urge the Liberal government to require Hydro-Québec that She maintains the expertise and hundreds of jobs associated with the provision of strategic equipment. 
Several SMEs offering well-paid jobs are threatened by this decision of Hydro-Québec. We are talking about nearly 1000 people in the Montérégie, Center-du-Québec and the Capitale National who could see their job disappear. 
"Hydro-Québec, like the crates of deposit, has an economic mission that it must not forget. The expertise we, our businesses and our workers have developed over the years must be kept. We must not lose this strength or jobs, "said Bernard Drainville. 
Liberal inaction must stop  "Is it really profitable for Quebec to send the profits generated abroad when we have the power to find formulas that will enrich Quebeckers? The inaction of the Liberals economically has already trained Quebec in a record of job losses. Before the situation empires, the government still has time to intervene to defend the interests of Quebec, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau for his part. 
"The CAQ has always opposed Hydro-Québec's involvement in the economic development of the regions; For example, it is against the development of a sector specialized in the wind field. Will it still today abandon the Quebec SMEs and the hundreds of workers they hire? Bernard Drainville concluded. 
Remember that as part of the negotiation of the Free Trade Agreement with Europe, the Government of the Parti Québécois had ensured to preserve the right of Québec to adopt or maintain any measure encouraging local subcontracting In the case of construction contracts granted by Hydro-Québec, namely with regard to pylons, turbines, transformers, electrical wires and electricity dispensing or control devices. 
