It was with amazement that I read, on October 18, an article relating to the maneuvers (and the pride!) Of the former President of TELUS, Don Lowry, to obstruct a legitimate process and fundamental: the holding of a democratic referendum.on learns, on reading this article, that Mr. Lowry does not regret having circumtened the rules and sabotaged democracy because he did it on behalf of the Canadian Unity. He admits among others - without embarrassment, almost triumphantly! - Have circumvented the electoral law by providing a repayment to persons making a long distance call and placing call centers outside Quebec. 
But we would be wrong to believe that this is an isolated case. Let's rediscover it: The 1995 referendum on the political future of Quebec has been won by the camp of not through dishonest and fraudulent stratagems. In fact, the evidence showing that the camp of the No has voluntarily attempted to sabotage democracy and corrupt the electoral result are overwhelming. 
In terms of funding, the DGEQ has established beyond doubt that in 1995, the camp of the NO had illegally benefited from $ 539,000 from the federal government. Then, in the book the State Desmarais, the author quotes a source that 30 boxes of documents on the financing of the camp of the NO have been destroyed. The Government of Jean Chrétien even created a Bidon, Option Canada, with an envelope of nearly $ 5 million, which corresponds in fact to the ceiling of authorized expenses for each camp. 
Then, a feature of the Gomery Commission, "Chuck", admitted to purchase for $ 8 million of advertising panels promoting the option of NO. In a ladle, the Liberal organizer Gilles Cloutier confessed before the Charbonneau commission having used similar techniques. He paid cash. 
The sad and famous love-in held in Montreal was also sponsored: VIA Rail, Air Canada and CP, in particular, offered enticing discount to Canadians wishing to attend. Finally, let us remember the record number of citizenship certificates granted by the federal government since the election of the Parti Québécois in 1994 (+ 84% in two years!), And the illegal vote of dozens, or even hundreds of students residing not even in Quebec. 
It is this culture of corruption of our institutions that was bequeathed inheritance to the generations of Quebecers who had to deal with the post-referendum of 1995. It is then the actors of the camp of No, Jean Charest in the lead, who have Taken power in Quebec, implementing the same dubious stratagems to cut oxygen to our independence project and keep Quebec under control of Canada. 
The Charest-Couillard era (from 2003 to 2018) has been characterized by the weakening of our institutions, a widespread corruption discovered in particular during the committees Gomery, Charbonneau and Bastarache, and by the calculated weakening of the self-esteem of the Québécois who, in the eyes of the rest of Canada, were now going to be considered corrupt - we remember the Carnival guy saving with money suitcases at one of the Maclean's. 
The balance sheet of this federalist governance is very sad: Quebec is on a linguistic, cultural and economic decline since. The only ones to take advantage of this corruption of our institutions and democratic processes, it is the friends of the federal regime, such as those who have been discovered as Witnesses to the Gomery Commission and which, like Don Lowry, have Tested with all the seriousness of the world that they considered that their illegal gestures were not only acceptable in the circumstances, but more is sources of pride. 
It is time to get up and assert that such illegal gestures are unacceptable. We must fight against the social standardization of corruption, an attitude allowing him to persist through impunity and the marks of social recognition. It is time for those who are fighting for the freedom of Quebecers and for a democracy free of corruption are those who speak of pride, and that those who weaken Quebec and the foundations of democracy are treated for what they are truly: corrupt. 
