The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, accompanied by François GENDRON, deputy coming out of Abitibe West, and candidates Elizabeth Larouche (Abitibi East), Sylvain Vachon (Abitibi-West) and Gilles Chapadeau (Rouyn-Noranda- Témiscamingue), is committed to revitalizing the regions of Quebec, in particular by fighting against the exodus of young people and making more newcomers establish themselves. 
IN SHORT 
Le Guvernmenter de parts Qualbécois saforing a: 
Brake the exodus of young people to large centers 
"A territory is alive when young families live there. However, currently migratory balance sheets of the regions are not rejoorous; Young people are rather inclined to privilege urban centers. To help reverse this trend, we will improve the non-refundable tax credit granted to young graduates who undertake their careers in a remote resource region; The maximum refundable will increase from $ 10,000 to $ 15,000. And we will allow them to take advantage for 5 years instead of 3, so that they have time to set up in their community, "first advanced the chef. 
"Foreign students will also be encouraged to settle in the region, thanks to a tax credit that will partially reimburse them their tuition fees, continued Elizabeth Larouche. In fact, if the student is established in a big city, it will be reimbursed by 80% of the difference between its tuition fees and those paid by a non-resident Canadian student in Quebec. But if he chooses to live in the region, he will be entitled to a 100% refund of this amount, "she explained. 
In addition, the candidate clarified that French or Belgian students choosing a university in the region now would now pay the same price as Quebeckers. "These students would not pay any additional tuition in the region, but 20% more in Montreal or Quebec City, and 100% of excess costs at an English-speaking university. However, a grandfather clause will apply for those who have already started their studies, "she mentioned. 
To meet the needs of labor, wherever they are 
In terms of labor, the government of the Parti Québécois will organize to know where and what are the needs. "We will create a national registry listing labor requirements, based on business income statements. From now on, these will have the opportunity to indicate the number and types of positions to be filled, as well as the qualifications sought. In addition, the files of the immigration candidates who already have a validated job offer will be treated in priority, "added Gilles Chapadeau. 
Members of Aboriginal nations are also a labor pool that can help relieve the shortage in several areas. "To discuss opportunities and ways to highlight, we will keep a summit bringing together Aboriginal leaders in the first 100 days of our mandate," said the chief. 
At the end of our first term, we aim that a quarter of newcomers have chosen a region as a framework for their new life. "Candidates for economic immigration must complete a grid that gives them points that vary according to their level level, their work experience, their linguistic knowledge, etc. However, currently a candidate who says he wants to settle here in Rouyn, will only have two points more than the one who plans Montreal. We will give the first twice as many points, "says Sylvain Vachon. 
"We believe in our young people, we believe in our regions. And our plan to marry one with the others is win-win: our vast territory will be revitalized, and young families from everywhere will bloom, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
