Québec- The member for Taillon and sentence of the official opposition in terms of health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, considers that the patient needs to be at the heart of the health system and not the minister. However, in what he proposes, the Minister of Health and Social Services, Gaétan Barrette, wants him to be granted the full powers on the network. 
Obviously, in front of the extent and urgency of the needs, the proposed reform provides no solution to meet the real problems of the network, nor to improve access and quality of care for users and patients. That's why the Parti Québécois voted against the principle of Bill 10. 
"Contrary to what the Minister claims, almost all the groups heard in parliamentary committee have issued serious reserves and lively concerns about Bill 10. All believe it will plunge the health network. In a great instability that will paralyze it for several years. Far from generating savings, the bill will generate expenditures, inter alia because of the costs associated with the transition, standardization of computer systems and the redeployment of teams and directions, "said Diane Lamarre. 
"The reform of the Minister Barrette does not seek the improvement of access to care, he has admitted it himself. Instead, she seeks to concentrate all the decisions, even the simplest, in the hands of the minister, which will create a bottleneck in the department and will make the system heavier and vulnerable. In addition, the bill is right in line with the centralizing actions of this government so far towards the regions, that is to say that it represents cuts in local and regional development . Indeed, one deprives municipalities, the CLDs, the youth-employment crossroads - and I pass it - important resources. It's very disturbing for our regions, "she added. 
The hon. Member is also very concerned about the minister's lack of attention as to the situation lived on the ground. "We do not feel sensitive to the realities of the most vulnerable. In the real life, in terms of care and social services offered, everything does not calculate in minutes; It's more complex than columns of numbers! The majority of the groups told the Minister that there were urgent needs to be resolved before implementing this administrative reform. In addition, we have never heard gaéan barrette talking about the difficulties of access for the user, the patient, or the real stakes of the network, such as the need to improve home care and improve access At the front line, or the benefits that could be achieved by tackling overdiagnosis and promoting better monitored by different health professionals and social services. These last measures, there would be improvements and concrete savings in the short term to obtain; That's right now we have to do better! Diane Lamarre continued. 
What will be the minister's amendments? 
"It's been more than a week than we ask the Minister of Health to file his amendments, and he still refuses to collaborate. In our opinion, fixes must absolutely be made to several aspects of his bill, including: 
the maintenance of local advisory bodies, respect for the citizen voice and the integration of local and regional actors in the management of institutions; 
the balance between "health" and "social services" fields of competence for each of the Duos "CEO and Assistant CEO"; 
preserving the current autonomy of the youth protection network; 
the realistic and balanced distribution of powers between regional and ministerial authorities; 
"The Minister will also have to file a detailed transition plan, as requested by the citizen's protector, as well as the cost assessment of his reform, which have still not been made public. Without major adjustments on these aspects and greater transparency on the real impacts of the proposed reform, this bill will remain unacceptable, "concluded Diane Lamarre. 
