Quebec, on December 13, 2019- The member for Jonquière and spokesman for the Energy, Environment and Climate Change Party Party, Sylvain Gaudreault, draws up a very positive assessment of his mission in Spain, to COP25 in Madrid as well as in Catalonia. 
IN SHORT 
"Before leaving for COP25, I claimed that the priority of the Parti Québécois would be to assert the importance of a fair ecological transition; In other words, we must make sure that no worker is left on the tile because of the evolution of practices. But we are visibly in the right place; Everyone was talking about that, at the COP this year! As a result, we are asking the Quebec government to draw up the portrait of the impacts of the ecological transition and the opportunities it creates. To do this, he must entrust a mandate to the Commission of Labor Market Partners, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
It is also very happy to have met many Quebec representatives from the world of business and the green technology industry at COP25. "Their presence demonstrates our leadership in this area. There is an incredible opportunity to create sustainable jobs in Quebec, particularly in our regions, "he added. 
The spokesperson, however, expresses some skepticism with regard to the position of the Government of Quebec on the environment. "Minister Benoit Charette is only confusing when he addresses the enhancement of Quebec GHG reduction targets. We do not even know if his speech refers to 2030 or 2050 ... In addition, we are disappointed with the conduct of negotiations regarding gains recognition of GHG reduction from the carbon market; They are very difficult. At the Québécois Party, we believe that Quebec must go further and have a carbon budget, a measure that already exists in several countries. To do this, we could adopt the Quebec's climate compliance bill that I presented, "he recalled. 
In addition, Sylvain Gaudreault took advantage of his passage in Spain to visit several Catalan independence imprisoned near Barcelona. "I assured them of our solidarity, reminded them of the unanimous motion adopted at the National Assembly denouncing the highly unfair treatment that they are being subject to them. They are very grateful to know each other at their side, "mentioned by finishing the member for Jonquière. 
