Montreal- Partician candidates in Marie-Victorin, Gouin and Chambly, Bernard Drainville, Nicolas Girard and Bertrand St-Arnaud, have made a new case of favoritism affecting the Catania family. The Government of Jean Charest sold accordingly to the F. Catania Foundation a ground to erect a community center in Brossard. The land was rather rescued to a promoter that built condominiums. "With the approval of the government, the public treasury lost $ 1 million for the benefit of a contractor's foundation near the Liberal government. It's extremely disturbing, "said Bernard Drainville. 
In February 2008, Fatima Houda-Pepin announced the construction of a community center on land from the Riverside School Board. In July 2008, the land is sold accordingly, with the approval of the Minister of Education, the F. Catania Foundation, which must build a community center. In September 2008, the Minister of Municipal Affairs announced $ 3.8 million to the F. Catania Foundation for the construction of the Community Center. In July 2009, the land is sold in Broad Investments inc. with a profit of $ 1 million. Condos are finally erected instead of the Community Center. In 2008, Frank Catania Construction leaders paid at least $ 40,000 in donations to the Quebec Liberal Party, as we have identified. 
"This is another case of favoritism for the friends of the Liberal Party that have been able to make a profit of $ 1 million quickly. This is a highly profitable investment return for the Catania family, obtained from the public funds, "said Bernard Drainville, recalling that this company subsequently was the subject of criminal charges. 
"The balance sheet of the Liberal government is little glorious in terms of ethics. Thanks to the hard work of the Parti Québécois, records such as the liberal daycare scandal, the collusion in the construction industry, proud, partisan appointments, appointments of judges, the dubious financing activities of the ministers, the salary of $ 75,000 paid by the Liberal Party to the Prime Minister could be revealed. "It's the Quebecois party that has identified several scandals of the Liberal government of Jean Charest. It is the Quebecois Party which, on September 5th, will restore ethics as he did in 1976 and 1994, "said Nicolas Girard. 
The Parti Québécois offers a series of measures to clean up political manners. Funding for political parties will become public and donations to political parties will be limited to $ 100 per person. General fixed date elections will be established. The number of consecutive mandates of the Prime Minister will be limited to two and the number of consecutive mandates of the mayors of municipalities of more than 5,000 inhabitants will be limited to three. The mandate of the Auditor General of Quebec will be expanded to Crown corporations. A law protecting the whistleblowers in the public service will be adopted. Finally, the departure bonuses for members who leave in the course of mandate without legitimate reason will be abolished. 
"We present concrete and bold measures to end corruption and collusion in order to restore the population in our institutions. We have a competent team that knows the functioning of the state and that can quickly implement these measures as early as September 5th. To clean up and flush up all the nests of corruption, you need a team with a faultless will to get there. The work of a single man is not enough. To eradicate corruption, a whole team is necessary. The only team combines experience, expertise and determination is that of the Quebecois party, "concluded Bertrand St-Arnaud. 
