Quebec- The member for Labelle and sentence of the official opposition in sound habits of life, leisure and sports, Sylvain Pagé, and the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for prevention, Jean-François Lisée , invite the Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport, Yves Bolduc, to move more on the forehead of the fight against obesity and to provide Quebec with a national sport, leisure and the Physical activity that will have a true vision for Quebec society. 
"We are very concerned about the economic and human consequences associated with obesity and overweight in Quebec; We also invite the Minister Bolduc to urgently tackle this issue that affects not only the health of Quebeckers, but also the health of our public finances. The last report of the National Institute of Public Health of Quebec figures the costs directly associated with obesity at $ 1.5 billion a year, an amount to which productivity losses and absenteeism should be added. It is an unacceptable situation that calls for action, "said Sylvain Pagé. 
"The minister must file a national sport, leisure and physical activity policy that will have scope and that will challenge all departments of his government. We expect an ambitious plan of action that will do Quebec one of the most fit nations in the world, "continued members. 
Remember that in June 2014, Minister Bolduc had eager to emphasize the "extraordinary work" of the Parti Québécois to prepare the filing of an ambitious policy to promote healthy lifestyle in Quebeckers. "The minister said he shared our great goal and promised to file the policy in the fall of 2014. We arrive in the spring of 2015 and, after many questions about it, we are still waiting. When will the minister finally act? , Asked Sylvain Pagé. 
"Rather than undertaking a health structural reform that no one wants and slash public health budgets, the government should focus on the real issues that will save it significant sums. Indeed, we know that every dollar invested in the promotion of healthy lifestyles reports three. More specifically with regard to obesity, the return on investment is $ 1.20 for every dollar invested. What does the government expect to act and invest in prevention, rather than making compressions that will have harmful impacts at all points of view, and in the long run? ", Concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
