Quebec- The member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and sentence of the official opposition on international relations, Carole Poirier, strongly denounces the intention of the Liberal government to completely eliminate the subsidy paid to the Liberal government. International Association of Quebec Studies (AIEQ), as well as to cancel the loan of the framework ensuring its direction. Already, this year, the AIEQ had been prevented from a $ 30,000 decrease in its funding from the Ministry of International Relations and the Francophonie (MRIF), which made the government contribution of $ 230,000 to 200,000. $. However, finally, the organization received only $ 160,000 in mid-December. These cups, which total $ 70,000, greatly threaten the survival of the AIEQ. 
"This decision is purely ideological. The Liberals use fiscal austerity to justify cuts to reduce the influence of Quebec abroad. For Philippe Couillard, Quebec must only be a Canadian province like the others. After the desolating episodes of school libraries, scientific magazine cuts and the abolition of Quebec research chairs, we continue to play in the same bad film Liberal; Now the screenwriter speaks to cut Quebec studies. We did not really need this new example of the government's lack of vision for knowledge development and dissemination, "said Carole Poirier. 
The spokesperson recalls that Quebec studies are not partisan; They are in the interest of all Quebeckers, and all governments supported them since their creation in 1997. A large number of Quebeckers benefited from the work of the AIEQ which, through its activities, allows PhD students, researchers, authors and scientists to represent Quebec abroad. 
"Recently, my colleagues Patrick Huot of the PLQ, Sylvie Roy of the CAQ, Françoise David de Qs and I even signed a letter sent to all elected representatives of the National Assembly to raise awareness of the importance of Quebec studies. Encourage to support the AIEQ, through the volunteer support program. Thus, we wanted to partially overcome the cuts and ensure its survival. I do not explain that this member of the Liberal Party has said he wanted to save Quebec studies, while his government decides to completely cut food at the AIEQ. It's hypocrisy! , Added the member. 
New future cuts at the Ministry of International Relations 
According to Carole Poirier, after having threatened to transform the MRIF in a simple secretarial check and to close several Quebec representations abroad, the Liberal government once again demonstrates its lack of vision for the future of Quebec by providing new cuts at the MRIF. . 
"The Liberals abolished three Quebec representations abroad, Taipei, Santiago and Moscow, and they have decreased considerably three others. The worst in all that is that the amount of the cuts imposed on Quebec studies is less than what all partisan appointments of this government will have cost. Repatriate people to name friends of the Liberal Party then, it's expensive. The amount we want to cut at the AIEQ, like the one that has been considered for the resource, it is a candle-by-way economy. It is less than the premium received by the Minister of Higher Education, Yves Bolduc, premiums that he has still not fully refunded. This amount is also less than $ 278,000 and $ 173,365 spent by the Ministers Jean d'Amour and Francine Charbonneau for the redevelopment of their constituency offices. The government must absolutely come back to its decision. He must stop charging Quebec and Quebeckers, while the Liberal Party and his friends are taking advantage of his largesse, "said the member. 
