Quebec- The member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, the protection of youth, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, the member for Rimouski and spokesperson struggling to poverty, solidarity and social economy, Harold Lebel, as well as the member for Verchères and responsible for the Ottawa region, Stéphane Bergeron, denounce the decision of the Minister Lucie Charlebois to divert the budgets of the Community environment to the health and social services network. 
Indeed, last Thursday, we learned from the minister's mouth that a sum of 1.2 million from the Community Organizations Support Program (PSOC) and granted to an Outaouais organization, the Center. Help 24/7, will be transferred to the budget of the new CISS of the Outaouais, an establishment created by Bill 10, adopted under gag. 
"While in the parliamentary committee, the Gaétan Ministers Barrette and Lucie Charlebois had promised that in any case the sums dedicated to the Community would be allocated to another envelope, elsewhere in the network, the government is volute-faced and denies its word. We have reported on our fears several times during the detailed study of Bill 10 and, each time the minister has been defended by saying that such a thing would occur, "said Jean-François Listed. 
"This decision demonstrates a profound incomprehension on the part of the two ministers of what is and what the community is doing, which must already deal with the Liberal government's refusal to enhance its funding to the global mission. We denounce this transfer of sums and join our voice to that of the community environment to ask the Prime Minister to bring back to order his ministers and not to cut food to community organizations, "added Harold Lebel. 
Ministers breaks their promises  "Today, our worst concerns are confirmed. This gesture posed by Minister Charlebois regarding the 24/7 Help Center opens the door to similar decisions in all regions of Quebec. What happens in Outaouais is contrary to all the promises made by the ministers concerned and is simply unjustifiable, especially since it is a service that works well. The population of the region, who should already deal with a historic deficit in the financing of health services and social services, can not be explained to cut this indispensable resource, "report Stéphane Bergeron. 
Remember that in parliamentary committee, on November 6th, the delegate minister Lucie Charlebois said: 
"It will take good reasons for authorization [to transfer sums] to be requested from the Minister and the Delegate Minister. » 
The Minister of Health added on December 6: 
"[It] would have to be a situation of a nasty urgency to move a budget. We can imagine a catastrophic scenario; There, one could have an epidemic of Ebola in Quebec. » 
"Where is the catastrophe in this situation? PSOC Money must remain at PSOC, and the government must stop Piger in the community envelope to bail out the coffers of the institutions, "concluded members. 
