Quebec- On the occasion of a press briefing with the Citizen Movement for Public Health, the member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care And prevention, Jean-François Lisée, denounced the cuts of nearly $ 29 million in public health, which represents 40% of regional budgets and nearly 10% of total budgets. 
"This year, the government has found $ 210 million to increase the salaries of specialist doctors. To get there, he had to cut elsewhere: addiction patients spend at the cash center, waiting lists for autistic children lie down, home care is rationed. The hardest blow has therefore been brought to those who, however, reduce the costs of the health system, to those who lower the prevalence of sexually transmitted diseases to those who reduce smoking and obesity to those who vaccine. It is undeniable: this decision has a direct impact on the health of Quebecers, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Services, alternatively increased investment in prevention, the number of deaths due to diabetes, cancer and cardiovascular diseases, and infant mortality would decrease by 7%. Yet the government has made the choice to cut the budgets devoted to prevention by 10%. 
"In Estrie, the nutritionist who took care of the healthy eating of children from 0 to 5 years has been transferred. In Montreal, the nurse of the clinic of the accidents of work, also viée, as the toxicologist who analyzed the quality of the water and soils. The pharmacist who took care of chronic diseases. The sexologist who gave information on sexually transmitted diseases. These are direct services that are cut, and the Minister delegated to Rehabilitation, the Protection of Youth and Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, always refuses to admit it, "denounced the member. 
"Of course, among the people put on the door by this government, there are sociologists, engineers and economists who gave opinions that the Liberals do not want to hear on the impact of asbestos, casinos, the Turcot exchanger. Moreover, several witnesses say that at a meeting held a few months ago, Minister Charlebois has clearly told them that their opinions on health, is politics, and that "if they want to do the Politics, which they put their face on a pole?. To silence those who defend public health, is this the real reason for the cut? ", concluded the member for Rosemont. 
