Montreal- "In 2013, plus $ 560 million have been invested in culture in Quebec's metropolis. It is thus thousands of artists from organizations and cultural enterprises that have thus been supported by the Ministry of Culture and Communications and its Crown corporations, "said the Minister of Culture and Communications , Maka Kotto, at the launch of the publication of the eye 2013de Montreal cultural metropolis. For the occasion, it was accompanied by the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Jean-François Lisée. 
"We can rejoice on the scope and diversity of the Government of Quebec, which has fulfilled its commitments in cultivation over the past year. 2014 promises to be as rich in achievements, with promising and major projects for the Montreal cultural scene, "continued Maka Kotto. 
"We need to feel great satisfaction with the number of creators, organizations and companies that export and radiate our know-how. This Quebec signature of innovation and originality is attracted international recognition, and we can be proud of our metropolis, its vitality and its cultural fame, "added Jean-François Lisée. 
In 2012, the Ministry of Culture and Communications (MCC) enhanced the Montreal Cultural Development Agreement 2012-2015 that it signed with the City of Montreal, with contributions to $ 97.6 million, This has made it possible to consolidate the library network, support a public art integration program and support cultural heritage. 
The year 2013 was a carrier for the performing arts organizations in the Quebec metropolis. For example, the Montreal's contemporary dance school, the laboratory of contemporary tangent movements, the large Canadian ballets and the agora of dance took advantage of a $ 43 million in principle agreement. For the repair and enlargement of the Wilder Building, in order to settle there, in addition to the $ 20 million in this project the Quebec Society of Infrastructure. 
The theater of the green curtain and the Cirque Eloize have benefited from a government support of $ 2 million and $ 6 million respectively, to highlight their places of creation and renew their equipment, while the National School of Theater has been assisted by $ 1.5 million to carry out asset maintenance work. 
The MCC announced, in September 2013, a $ 50 million financial assistance for the Place des Arts society, so that different upgrade projects are carried out in its real estate complex, which constitutes a district of the district of the district of shows. 
The Youth Theater sector has also been supported by an agreement in principle of the Government of Quebec at $ 11 million so that the International Center for Research and Creation in theater for childhood and youth, the cube, which Gathers the theater the nail and the carousel, settles in the church of Sainte-Brigide-de-Kildare. 
In light of the recommendations of the report of the Working Group on Cultural Philanthropy, chaired by Mr. Pierre Bourgie, and tabled in June 2013, the Government has updated the Program Patronage Investments Culture. This includes $ 44 million in financial commitments, and nearly 400 Montreal organizations have been supported through this program. In addition, on the sidelines of this program, other measures have been put in place, whose entry price to $ 1 for young people aged 13 to 17 in national museums, including the museum of contemporary art of Montreal. In addition, the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts received $ 18.5 million for the construction of the Bishop Pavilion of Art International, in order to house the Michal collection and Renata Hornstein, which they gave to Title of patrons, as well as an amount of $ 500,000 for the renovation and upgrading of its infrastructure. 
In the wake of the observations made during the 2012 Appointment Montreal Cultural Métropole, about the rarefaction phenomenon of affordable places for cultural creators and agencies in Montreal, the Government of Quebec announced, in 2012, the attribution of 5 $ 65 million for the sustainability of artist workshops. On the sidelines of this announcement, the MCC has also made an amount of nearly $ 1.8 million to six visual arts agencies (the Clark Art and Diffusion Center, the circular workshop, diagonal- arts center and Fibers du Québec, Dazibao- Center of animation and photo exhibition, occurrence- Contemporary art and test space and optica) for the development of a broadcast pole on the ground floor of the building of Gaspé, in the mile-end. 
