Québec- Following the announcement of the elimination of dozens of posts at the Grande Library of Montreal, due to the library and National Archives of Quebec (BANQ), and a surprise cup of budgets at the Council of Arts And letters from Quebec, the member for Joliette and the official opposition to the culture and communications, Véronique Hivon, denounces the blind compressions imposed by the government and asks the minister to retreat. 
"While we have just passed the law modernizing the library governance and National Archives of Quebec, it is at least ironic and desolating to see the serious repercussions of liberal austerity on the functioning of this flagship institution of the Culture and knowledge, "said Véronique Hivon. 
Indeed, today's announcement is all the more surprising as during the detailed study, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Hélène David, has ceased to boast the merits of Banq and insist on its importance. It should be noted that this year the big library celebrates its 10th anniversary. "We would have liked to celebrate but, unfortunately, we still have to fight for the maintenance, accessibility and quality of culture services in Quebec. Decidedly, the days are dark and the future seems uncertain for the sector; In addition to the compressions that affect Banq, the Council of Arts and Letters of Quebec learned today that it should reduce its budget of $ 2.5 million. It's foolish! Added by the member for Joliette. 
Recall, however, that in recent months, the mobilization of the actors of the culture environment and the actions of the official opposition have made it possible to obtain the cancellation of unacceptable government decisions, such as the closure of the conservatories in the region, the sale From the Saint-Sulpice library or the forced merger of the Cinémathèque with Banq. "The Government must also retreat on the compressions in Banq, which have the effect of the abolition of positions, therefore the reduction of the services offered to users, as we discover today, as well as on those, unprecedented, which affect the Consulting arts and letters; None of this had been announced during the study of budget appropriations, "Concluded Véronique Hivon. 
