Quebec- The member for Labelle and sentence of the official opposition in sound habits of life, leisure and sports, Sylvain Pagé, the member for Pointe-aux-Trembles and spokesperson in terms of primary education and secondary, Nicole Léger, as well as the member for Joliette and Culture and Communications Spokesperson, Véronique Hivon, denounce the cut of 40% of the secondary program budget; They ask the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Yves Bolduc, and the Minister of Culture and Communications, Hélène David, to return to their decision. 
While Monday, Minister Yves Bolduc recalled the importance of the importance of doing everything in order to promote school perseverance, just 72 hours later, it is learned that the same minister severely amputates the amounts devoted to a good initiative. which aims precisely, through the performing arts, to encourage young people to stay at school. "This is a appreciated program of young people and has proven itself in the past. This decision is totally incoherent with the objectives of educational success, "said Sylvain Pagé. 
"The Minister of Education, Yves Bolduc, has passed master in the art of saying one thing on one side and to do exactly the opposite of the other. We now know that at the same time it claims to give priority to services to students, it cuts very precisely in homework assistance and assistance to students in disadvantaged. Compression in the high-performance secondary budget is just another example, "Nicole Léger said. 
"Minister Hélène David confirms the inconsistency of the Liberal government in school perseverance. Arts and Culture are essential for the development of self-identity, motivation, engagement and sense of self-employment. The minister must come back to his decision, "concluded Véronique Hivon. 
Rather than tackling organizations that accompany young people to academic success, the Parti Québécois proposes to focus on support for learning and culture to encourage young people to speak and succeed. 
