Québec- As today a major meeting between representatives of the cultural environment and the Minister of Culture and Communications, Hélène David, concerning the "surprise" cup of $ 2.5 million at the Council of Arts and Letters From Quebec (CALQ), the member for Joliette and sentence of the official opposition in the field of culture and communications, Véronique Hivon, reiterates his support in the cultural environment and requires the minister that she returns to this unexpected decision That badly founded who will have harmful and long-term harmful consequences for the development and influence of Quebec culture. 
"Since this cut unveiled indecent the eve of our national holiday, we can see, in the light of the cries of the heart launched day after day by the actors concerned, the direct impacts it will have on the cultural milieu Quebec. As much for the deeply unacceptable character of this decision, only for the lack of transparency, the Minister David claimed during the study of the credits that the CALQ budget was enhanced, the situation recalls the sad episodes of the closing announcements of the conservatories. Region and the sale of the Saint-Sulpice library. As she had to do so before the outmaster aroused by these two improvised decisions, the Minister of Culture must achieve the impacts, recovering and retreating, "said Véronique Hivon. 
The member for Joliette also took the opportunity to ask the minister to be transparent as to other "surprise" cuts that have just been imposed, this time, the Cultural Business Development Corporation (SODEC). "As we fear, we have just learned that the SODEC will also be victim of unplanned compressions during the last credit study. The minister must quickly raise awareness of these compressions, who are added to the bad news that accumulates in terms of culture, "the member continued. 
The spokesperson recalls that the most important cup so far from the CALQ budget follows many other compressions that hurt the cultural environment, particularly in the region. "The middle of culture is hit hard by liberal austerity. When it is not the museums that have to settle records, or library and National Library and Archives of Québec that must delete dozens of positions to meet the government's requirements, it is the observatory of culture and communications that undergoes a 40% reduction in its budget and regional culture councils who are victims of a cup of 15%! She said. 
The situation is all the more untenable as the abolition of elected regional conferences also sounds the end of another important source of funding for the development of culture in the region. "Despite the beautiful speeches, Minister David seems definitely more concerned about delivering the Treasury Board orders than to fight for the Quebec cultural community, which is found alone. It should be concluded once again that the defense of our culture and our identity is not one of the priorities of this government, "said Véronique Hivon. 
