Quebec- In concert with the Quebec Association of Response Response Centers (AQCID), the member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, and the hon. Member for Rimouski and spokesperson for poverty, solidarity and social economy, Harold Lebel, denounced, at a press briefing, the cuts at Social assistance and expressed their concerns for beneficiaries who fight against dependence. 
They recall that every year, in Quebec, thousands of people are trying to get out of a dependency situation by participating in the respondent intervention centers programs. The vast majority of them enjoys social assistance, and a very large number is in a homelessness. These people follow the therapies of their comprehensive and want to get by. 
"For the moment, with their social assistance benefits, these people manage to participate in the programs and to take the path of social inclusion, but the Liberal government has decided to cut their food and reduce their benefits, from 20% to 80%, as appropriate. For the AQCID, it means that more than 7000 Quebeckers among the most vulnerable will no longer have access to the treatments offered, and could return to the street or to the hospital. This extreme cup of help to the poorest is a machine to create roaming, "said Jean-Francois Lisée. 
"I understand that the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity only blindly applies the Cups claimed by the Treasury Board; However, with the Minister responsible for Social Services, he should at least attempt to explain to his colleague Martin Coiteous that they will have adverse effects that will cost more in the long run than the short-term money on the back of the beneficiaries , "Added Harold Lebel. 
"It's even extraordinary: the minister told us earlier in February that he did not plan the very serious impacts on the clientele and the 40 community treatment organizations. They learned to the government that they will close, put 75 people and the street, 7000 people, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
"It is inconceivable that these impacts have not been evaluated. This demonstrates not only that the most vulnerable of our society are the first victims of the toxic austerity imposed by the government, but also that it has lost all credibility, "concluded Harold Lebel. 
