Quebec- The member for Lac-Saint-Jean and spokesman of the Parti Quebec in education, research and schooling perseverance, Alexandre Cloutier, the member for Bourget, Maka Kotto, and the member for Rosemont, Jean-François Liée, denounce the liberal government cuts in the services to public school students in Montreal, which may directly affect the graduation rate in the metropolis. 
"While the government should invest to promote academic success - especially in Eastern Montreal public schools, which have an alarming dropout rate - it sabs services to special needs. The Liberals make every effort to aggravate the situation. A complete generation of young people may be sacrificed on the altar of austerity, "said Alexandre Cloutier. 
"In the Montreal School Board alone, no less than 70 job posts are abolished this year. The report by Raymond Chabot Grant Thornton, commanded by the Ministry of Education itself, has clearly stated that the extent of government cuts leaves no choice for schools: student services will be reduced " , lamented Jean-François Lisée. 
No less than 22.5% of families with children are below the low-income threshold in the Montreal area, compared to 13.1% of those of the whole Quebec, recalled the member for Bourget, Maka Kotto. "The most vulnerable students are the first victims of education cuts. The government is destroying efforts for over a decade to increase the diploma rate in Montreal, "he said. 
Prime Minister's provocation 
The members of the Parti Québécois also denounced the provocative words of the Prime Minister of Quebec, which, this weekend, accused the teachers who mobilize for the future of the public school of "corporatism". "Parents and teachers are worried about the future of education in Quebec, and rightly. What is a corporatist to want to protect the services to students and the quality of education, or to oppose the increase in the number of students per class and the cuts in the accompanying services Students in difficulty? The only one who has been corporatized, this weekend is the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education; Recall that they have organized a Liberal education forum at $ 150 the ticket, but that they have failed to invite the first leaders of academic success in Quebec: teachers, "concluded Alexandre Cloutier. 
