Montreal- The National Executive Board of the Parti Québécois met yesterday in Montreal in order to initiate the process aimed at providing the training policy of rules framing the next race. It was recommended that a next National Conference of the Presidents and Presidents (CNPPs) will determine the rules on the weekend of May 28 and 29. The place remains to be determined. 
Also, the National Executive Council endorsed the recommendation of the Caucus of the Parti Québécois to designate Sylvain Gaudreault as the interim leader of the parliamentary wing. "The Parti Québécois team will continue its work both the official opposition and in the field, with the activists and activists, with all the determination and rigor we know. We will denounce the bad decisions of the Liberal government, both economically and socially, in education in health. While our political training will engage in a process aimed at determining the or the next leader of the Parti Québécois, Quebec citizens must know that they will be able to count on our parliamentary team to defend their interests. We will do it in continuity. I want to pay tribute with sincerity at the work done by Pierre Karl Péladeau, I thank him for his commitment, "added Sylvain Gaudreault, head of the parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois and MP of Jonquière. 
On the occasion of CNPP, delegates will be able to amend and discuss a proposal for regulations that will be transmitted soon. "We are at the beginning of this process and it is the members of the instances that will decide. What is certain is that there is a willingness to achieve this process quickly. Activists and activists will therefore work very hard to reach this result, "said Raymond Archambault, president of the Parti Québécois. 
The National Executive Board has also agreed to hold a race ending at the latest in mid-October. All modalities concerning the specific dates, the nomination period and the possible debates will be determined by the CNPP of the Parti Québécois. 
