Saint-Placid- The hon. Member for Mirabel, Denise Beaudoin, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, participated in the inauguration of a Lacroix group plant in Saint -Placid. This new facility required an investment of $ 24 million from the company. 
The government has allocated the project through Investissement Québec a non-refundable contribution of $ 500,000. Lacroix Group specializes in the manufacture and distribution of containers for food. This new factory, which will increase its production capacity, led to the creation of 65 jobs. 
The investment has allowed the company to acquire equipment, buy specialized software for production and develop a design office and a mussel manufacturing workshop. It can increase its production capacity to take advantage of the rise in demand. 
"To remain competitive, a manufacturing company must increase its production capacity, which goes mainly through innovation and modernization of its equipment. I congratulate Groupe Lacroix to put this principle into practice, which allows it, as well as its Québec subsidiaries, to better meet the challenge of competition, and which stimulates the economy of all regions, "said the minister. Élain Zakaïb. "We need such entrepreneurs in Quebec to ensure sustainable prosperity. » 
The member Denise Beaudoin also wanted to congratulate the French company. "Lacroix Group, through its three Quebec subsidiaries, is part of the economic development of the Laurentians region with high quality products, resulting from an innovative and efficient manufacturing method. This investment clearly demonstrates its willingness to continue and even intensify this contribution to our economy. » 
"The support of the Government of Quebec has allowed us to acquire the necessary assets for the pursuit of our growth. The new mussel manufacturing workshop at our Saint-Placide factory will allow us to do more. With increased productivity, we will be able to respond more effectively to demand, "said Lacroix Group of the Americas, Nicolas Bouveret. 
