Montréal - The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, and the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister Responsible for the Montreal Region, Jean-François Lisé, today announced the allocation of $ 9.9 million in Aubisoft. The government will also make changes to the tax credit for the production of multimedia securities, applicable to the entire industry. 
This help will enable Ubisoft to implement, in Montreal, a cluster of online gaming operations, consolidate the infrastructure of its global network and invest in its expertise in motion capture technologies. This project will create 500 jobs and consolidate the Montreal Square as a major pole of the video game industry. 
"The Ubisoft project is important for Quebec. It allows to continue the development of our expertise in the video game industry, which has experienced phenomenal growth thanks to the visionary measures that have been put in place by the Government of Quebec at the end of the 1990s. This project of 373 million Dollars will create more than 500 quality jobs in the metropolis, "said the Prime Minister. 
In addition, Minister Nicolas Marceau has announced that the tax credit for the production of multimedia securities will be amended to meet the new realities of the environment. "It was time to adapt this tax measure to the business model of this innovative industry. Today, the new market is online games, accessible from everywhere and on all platforms. Thus, new types of activities will now be eligible for the tax credit. In addition, the maximum eligibility period for production work is abolished to take into account the continual nature of the new games, "he explained. 
"With today's announcement, our government is clearly demonstrating its interest in continuing the development of promising economy sectors and supporting the flowers of our industry. Experience shows that the presence of a leader like Ubisoft has a catalytic effect on start-up and expanding business, and is a powerful location factor for other players in the industry, "said Zakaïb. 
"The Ubisoft project demonstrates the company's deep commitment to Quebec and Montreal. Today, more than 2,000 people work there in Montreal. This project will contribute to the creation of specialized and structuring jobs in the metropolitan area, and the rise of the video game industry in Quebec. It is an excellent news for the economy of the metropolis, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
Lebulletin of information 2013-9, broadcast today, describes in detail the changes made to the tax credit for the production of multimedia securities. It can be consulted on the website of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, atwww.finances.gouv.qc.ca. 
