Montréal - Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Minister of the Family, Nicole Léger, announce the creation, by the end of 2016, of 28,000 new places with reduced contribution to the Network of Guard Services of Quebec. Thus, in accordance with its commitment, the government will complete the network by making 250,000 places with reduced contribution to better meet the demand of Quebec families. 
The realization of these 28,000 places will be carried out in two phases. At first, the government gives the green light now to the creation of 13,000 new places. The projects selected as part of this first phase follow the call for projects launched in 2011 and have all been recommended by the regional advisory committees. 
In a second step, the government will launch next February a new call for projects for the creation of 15,000 additional places with reduced contribution. Projects will need to be submitted by the end of June 2013. The 22 regional advisory committees will analyze projects received and recommend those that best meet the needs of the environment. These 28,000 new places will all have available within four years. 
"I am particularly proud to confirm that the government is committed to completing the $ 7 dollar service network within four years. Our goal is that by the end of 2016, each family wishing that his child frequents a custody service can do it. It will finally be: a child, a place, "said Pauline Marois. 
In 1997, the Government of Quebec posed several actions to put the well-being of children at the heart of its family policy. The objectives pursued were to recognize the family as a fundamental collective value and to support parents in the exercise of their family responsibilities, while promoting women's participation in the labor market. In this sense, the establishment of a network of reduced contributory education services will have been a decisive measure. 
"Promote the development of children and give them an equal chance from the beginning of their lives is our everyday mission. A child, a place is an electoral commitment that materializes today. Thanks to our government, all parents who wish to have access to a place to $ 7 for their child, "said Nicole Léger, warmly thanking members of all advisory committees, who have not spared their efforts. in recent months to recommend the best projects. 
"Fifteen years after their creation, the popularity of child care is no longer doubtful. Our family policy is avant-garde. It stands out among the best developed countries. It reflects the commitment of the Government of Quebec to the development of children and the well-being of families. This is how we prepare the future of our children, our greatest wealth, "said Pauline Marois. 
