Québec- Minister responsible for the Government Administration and President of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, announced today, with the member for Rimouski, Mr. Irvin Pelletier, the creation of a solution development center In information resources in Rimouski. The establishment of this center will generate 30 new jobs in the region. 
Under the responsibility of the Quebec Shared Services Center, the Center will have as mandate the design, implementation and development of programs, software, applications and systems to meet the needs of departments and agencies in the field of computing. 
"I am very proud of the realization of this project, which will have positive employment benefits in the region, while allowing public administration to meet your labor needs and increase its expertise. IT, "said Minister Bédard. 
The provision of public services to the Quebec population relies mostly on information resources. Think about many online services that allow citizens to do, in a few clicks, a request for financial assistance, a change of address or to produce a tax return. This center of expertise will come to support the provision of services to citizens and meet the different needs of departments and agencies. It will be operational in a horizon of three to six months. 
The government has chosen the city of Rimouski in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region for the quality and proximity of the training offer found there, or fifteen college and academic level studies in the computer field . The establishment of such a center concretizes the government's desire to work with educational institutions by allowing students to benefit from workplace internships. 
"This is an important gesture for regionalization of government services. The establishment of this center of expertise will encourage computer enthusiasts to go to the end of their studies with a new quality employment perspective. All of this will promote the retention of young graduates in our region, "said MP Irvin Pelletier. 
The kickoff will be given in the coming weeks for the recruitment of professionals specializing in the development of applications and platforms for collaboration and technicians that can program software, systems and web integration. 
"The establishment of this center is a first step towards maintaining the expertise in the region. Rimouski offers an excellent partnership opportunity with educational institutions and public administration. The potential of this mesh appears very promising because in addition to creating permanent jobs in the Quebec public service, it will allow students to be exposed very early during their training in the realities of the labor market, a winning tandem has already proven itself in many areas, "concluded Minister Bédard. 
