Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu- The member for Saint-Jean and Deputy Whip of the Government, Mr. Dave Turcotte, announced, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to the Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, the assignment of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 377,454 to the Pole of Excellence Quebec in Terrestrial Transportation to develop an intelligent external luminaire prototype. 
Estimated at $ 943,635, this intelligent exterior luminaire project will have several features. It will serve in particular on charging station for electric vehicles, advertising support and security camera, in addition to providing the community with several other services, such as billboards. The intelligent exterior luminaire prototype will be designed and directed by Imetrik Global, Morelli Designers and Achievements inc. Montreal. 
"Our government is pleased to associate with such a project, which will contribute to the growth of the Quebec electric vehicle sector," said the member Dave Turcotte. "This project will indeed be a link of the transport electrification strategy, which will be unveiled shortly. This strategy will allow us to reduce our oil reliance by focusing on the major force of Quebec that is hydroelectricity. » 
The member was proud of this avant-garde product that will generate interesting spin-offs for its region and for all Quebec. "The mobilization and expertise of the partners of the Quebec Pole of Excellence in Terrestrial Transport guarantee the success of this unique initiative. With its charging terminal function for electric vehicles, the Solis project responds to our desire to give an impetus to transport electricity. » 
"Transportation electrification strategy is one of the pillars of economic policy? Priority employment, announced by Prime Minister Pauline Marois on October 7, just like Quebec industrial policy 2013-2017, which I had the pleasure of making public a few days later, "said Minister Zakaïb. "Together with the national research and innovation policy and the foreign trade development plan, these complementary strategic initiatives aim to build a greener, more modern and more competitive Quebec creator of sustainable and quality jobs. » 
The President of the Cluster, Mr. Martin Dufour, highlighted the peak expertise of the partners of Solis, necessary for the realization of this innovative project. "This project is based on consultation and collaboration between the companies of the Quebec Pole of Excellence in Terrestrial Transport. The strengths of several member companies of the pole will be made to benefit. The support of the Government of Quebec will help us continue the development of the industry and promote international competitiveness. » 
Government aid comes from the development support program for strategic sectors and niches of excellence. The Quebec Pole of Excellence in Terrestrial Transport was established in 2011 to bring together the efforts of the four niches of excellence in Quebec land transport from the approach agreement and those of the Association of Transport Equipment Manufacturers and Special vehicles. The cluster represents the interests of the Quebec land transport industry and works to optimize the resources and expertise of stakeholders in the environment, while contributing to projecting a strong image of the industry. 
This project is part of the agreement approach (concerted action for regional development cooperation), a priority of government action which aims to boost the economy of the regions of Quebec by setting up poles and niches. of excellence. The purpose of this approach is to position the regions of Quebec as distinctive industrial skills found in the world. It relies on regional strengths and expertise as well as the mobilization and dynamism of business people in the region. 
To learn more about the Earth's Transportation Excellence Pole, see page www.transportail.com. 
