Quebec- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of Public Safety, Stéphane Bergeron, launched last night, with the President of The Union of Municipalities (UMQ), Mr. Éric Forest, and the President of the Quebec Federation of Municipalities (FQM), Mr. Bernard Generous, the work of a new Quebec Table on Rail Safety and the Transport of Hazardous Goods . 
The creation of this table is a response from the Government of Quebec to the requests and concerns issued by municipalities, following the major railway accident in Lac-Mégantic on July 6th. It will continue five main objectives: 
mobilize Quebec government and municipal actors around issues related to safety, rail transport and transportation of hazardous materials; 
agree on common positions between the actors of the table in the interventions with the federal government, the US government and representatives of the industries; 
deepen the knowledge of the subject and improve the mutual understanding of the specific issues, roles and responsibilities of each level of government; 
recommend to the various levels of government management improvement and ways of doing things to achieve better risk management related to rail transport, the transport of hazardous materials and land use planning; 
"We have the duty to clearly identify the issues and solutions to ensure that the transportation of hazardous materials, particularly by railway mode, is safe and efficient. This table will put in place a real partnership to identify issues on which the Government of Quebec, municipalities and stakeholders can work collectively to ensure that our concerns are well taken into account by the Government of Canada, "said M . Gaudreault. 
"Rail transport is vital for Quebec's economic development, but it must be done without compromising in any way the security of communities. With our Quebec Civil Security Policy project, we intend to intervene in terms of prevention, risk management and interventions in case of claims. "," Said Mr. Bergeron. 
The Government of Quebec is fully aware that municipalities have an important role to play, as the neighborhood concerns of railroads raise important issues for security municipalities. 
"Their responsibilities are numerous. Among other things, they have to develop civil security plans to intervene quickly and adequately in the event of a claim and are called upon to put in place claims prevention measures. In addition, their development plans must enable municipalities and railways to erect security perimeters around the railways, "concluded Minister Gaudreault. 
