Quebec- The spokesperson for the Quebecois Party responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Maka Kotto, wishes to emphasize the creation of Saint-Jean-Baptiste de Montréal, the Pierre-Demers Committee for the promotion of French in the French Sciences. 
"It's an excellent initiative of civil society! It is to admit that communications in the scientific field are mainly in English. However, I do not think we need to make any fatality, as some people believe. Rather, all occasions must be seized to promote French. Pierre Demers was a remarkable and hard-fighter fighter. He devoted his life to promote scientific exchanges in French. His son, Joel, will chair the committee. I am very happy that he takes over the torch and pursues this fundamental struggle, "said Maka Kotto. 
It has also benefited from the opportunity to denounce the poor liberal assessment in terms of the situation of French in Quebec. "The Liberal government of Mr. Couillard is in my view the worst that Quebec knew about the defense and promotion of the French language. There is something here that falls within the calm capitulation, or even indifference. This government lowly denies the fact that French is declining in the Quebec public space. Remember, for example, in addition to starring the budgets of the organizations dedicated to the protection and promotion of the language, this government refuses to amend the law 101 to subject the federal charter companies, on the pretext that it could shock Canada! "He denounced. 
The member also considers that the Minister responsible for the protection and promotion of the French language, Hélène David, dragged his feet in all the files relating to the promotion and defense of the French language. "Five months ago, after several questions asked in the House, the Minister had finally announced his intention to table a draft regulation that would force retailers to add a French description to their trademark. We are still waiting! The same is true of the revision of the French construction process, such as that of Chum, announced seven months ago. After all this time, we did not even have seen the shadow of a modification project, "he added. 
Note that more recently, the government has not believed to be represented at the Second Economic Forum of La Francophonie, in Paris. "The protection and promotion of French, it is only in the first speeches of the Prime Minister that we hear about it. When it's time to act concretely, the Liberal government shines with absence and indifference, "concluded Maka Kotto. 
