Quebec- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is pleased to announce the launch of a call for proposals for the recognition of three new college centers technology transfer (CCTT). The creation of these centers is one of the measures planned in the national research and innovation (PNRI) unveiled last fall. There are currently 46 CCTTs, or 40 in the field of technology and 6 innovative social practices. 
"Collegial technology transfer centers maintain privileged links with organizations and businesses in the key sectors of Quebec innovation. They allow Quebec to distinguish themselves in research and help develop our economy. Each dollar invested by the Government of Quebec in a CCTT generates an average of $ 3.80 in new capital, which is a very interesting performance for the development of the regions, "said Minister Duchesne. 
The mandate of the collegiate technology transfer centers is to exercise, in a specific area, applied research, technical assistance, information and training activities. Centers provide research and development services, technical support and training, while contributing to the growth of Quebec regions. Their responsibility is the colleges they are affiliated. 
This call for proposals, which will be in force until March 14, 2014, supports the three priority axes likely to bring together the actors of research and innovation, as set out in the NPO, namely the changes. demographics, sustainable development and Quebec identity. It is desired that the projects presented to be related to one or more of the seven priority areas targeted in the NPPA (aerospace, creative, bioalimentary, personalized health care, biotechnology, information technologies and communications as well as renewable agencies. and electrification of transport). The criteria to ensure laughazing between needs and environments will also be considered. Note finally that colleges and regions do not yet have a CCTT. 
The National Research and Innovation Policy has strengthened the budget of the Collegiate Centers of Technology Transfer. This budget will be indexed by 11% for the first three years of implementation of the policy. Thus, basic funding will increase from $ 300,000 to $ 334,000 per center. This is the first time a government increases the funding budget of each center. The total budget for collegiate technology transfer centers is $ 15.2 million in 2014-15 and will reach $ 16.4 million in 2016-17. 
"The evaluation report of collegiate technology transfer centers released last November shows that the activities of the centers have an important leverage effect in the regions. The CCTTs consider regional peculiarities and grow business expertise, allowing them to innovate and grow. Collaborative research and the transfer of expertise, coupled with advanced technical college training for students, promote excellence and help to make Quebec stand out in terms of research and development, "concluded the Minister Duchesne. 
The National Research and Innovation Policy is part of the four strategic initiatives of the Employment Priority Policy of the Government of Quebec. It is the result of many consultations with actors from all sectors concerned with research and innovation: companies, educational institutions, state and society. With an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion over five years, it will make it possible to advance Quebec in the knowledge and innovation society.  For more information on the terms of the Call for Proposals, see lemesst.gouv.qc.ca/creationcctt. 
