Quebec- The Minister responsible for the Government Administration, President of the Treasury Board and MP for Chicoutimi, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, today announced the creation of a resource resource development center in Saguenay. The establishment of this center will generate 30 new jobs in the region. 
Under the responsibility of the Quebec Shared Services Center, the Center will provide information technology departments and agencies such as design, implementation and development of programs, software, applications and systems IT. As last week, another center will be installed in Rimouski, in the Bas-St-Laurent. 
"I am very proud of the realization of this project, which, by creating quality jobs, will have positive spin-offs for the entire region. Also, it is an important gesture for the regionalization of government services, which we believe a lot, "said Minister Bédard. 
The provision of public services to the Quebec population relies mostly on information resources. Think about many online services that allow citizens to do, in a few clicks, a request for financial assistance, a change of address or to produce a tax return. In this perspective, the Information Resource Development Center will come to support the provision of services to citizens and meet the different needs of departments and agencies. 
"The deployment of computer expertise within the government is a priority issue if you want to be sufficient for service delivery and reduce the use of external consultants," said Minister Bédard. 
The government has chosen the city of Saguenay in the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region for the quality and proximity of the training offer found, twenty-and-a college level curriculum and academic in the field of computer science, in addition to having a major core of information technology companies. The establishment of such a center concretizes the government's desire to work with educational institutions by allowing students to benefit from workplace internships. 
The Informational Resource Solutions Development Center will be operational over a horizon of three to six months. In the coming weeks, the government will recruit professionals specializing in the development of collaborative applications and platforms that can carry out programming software, systems and web integration. 
"I am convinced that the establishment of this center of expertise will contribute to stimulating interest in informational resource professions in the region, and that young people will see there a career opportunity to the government, apart from the big ones. Urban centers, "concluded Mr. Bédard. 
