Quebec- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, today announced the establishment of the multilayer bandages and compression clothing necessary for the treatment of lymphedem. 
"The treatment of lymphedema must be recognized in the health care continuum offered to people with cancer because the lymphedema can be a direct and unpredictable consequence of the treatment of their disease. For the sake of equity, all persons eligible for the health insurance plan and with lymphedema, whatever the case, will be eligible for the program, "said Minister Hébert. 
Lymphedema is an accumulation of lymphatic liquid that causes swelling of the affected body part and hardening of tissues, reducing mobility and increasing the risk of infection or appearance of wounds. A lymphedema is called "primary" when the lymphatic system is congenitally deficient, and "secondary" when the lymphatic system has been modified by external intervention, such as a trauma, surgery or radiotherapy that affected ganglia or lymphatic vessels. . The causes associated with secondary lymphedema are primarily surgeries for cancers and radiotherapy treatments. Nearly 80% of cases are related to breast cancer treatments. Currently, some 6,000 people have lymphedema in Quebec, and there are about 650 new cases each year. 
The Ministry of Health and Social Services has entrusted the Quebec Health Insurance Régie with the development, implementation and administration of this new program that is expected to enter into force on January 1, 2014. The Department estimates The costs of the new program at $ 1.4 million for the first year. Note that this program does not cover the reimbursement of non-medical professional fees provided in private cabinet for lymphatic drainage. 
"Since no treatment of lymphedema was now covered by the public insurance plan, this program will contribute to improving the accessibility of treatments. An excellent news for all reached people, "concluded the Minister Hébert. 
