Saguenay - Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister responsible for the Government Administration, President of the Treasury Board and Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Region, Stéphane Bédard, and the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Sylvain Gaudreault, took part today at the inauguration of the ARVIDA alumiller, Rio Tinto Alcan (RTA) Technology Center located in Saguenay. At a cost of $ 1.3 billion, this smelter is a pilot plant that is the first step of an investment program totaling $ 2.1 billion. This extensive program provides for the creation of 740 direct jobs and 2500 indirect jobs. 
"I am very proud to participate in the inauguration of the Arvida alumiller. The implementation of the RTA AP60 technology center will generate very important economic benefits for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region, including the creation of several hundred jobs in specialized suppliers and equipment manufacturers, in addition to the spillovers related to Factory operations. The creation of sustainable jobs in Quebec is ranked first of the economic priorities of my Government, as confirmed by the economic priority employment priority, which provides for the creation of more than 43,000 jobs in the coming years, "said Pauline Marois. 
The ARVIDA alumiller, AP60 technology center will produce 60,000 tons of aluminum annually and will be the reference for new generations of smelters. Several Quebec equipment manufacturers and suppliers participated in the realization of this great project. 
Creation of the first 135 jobs with Arvida alumiller. // (c) Yann Langlais-Plante.Source 
"Aluminum is an integral part of the story of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean," said Stéphane Bédard. The inauguration of this pilot plant is an important step in the RTA commitment to consolidate its presence in Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean and Quebec. I welcome the economic benefits of the implementation of this new technology for the region, for its workers and for the participating SMEs. » 
"The RTA pilot plant is the most strategic for Quebec and the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region, added the Prime Minister. In addition to allowing the development of AP60 technology in Quebec, this project advantageously positions Quebec equipment manufacturers and suppliers for obtaining future contracts, since they have been intimately linked to the implementation of this plant. It is therefore a network of international caliber providers that will continue to grow and allow Quebec to affirm its position as a world leader in the aluminum sector. » 
"I welcome the efforts of workers, project teams, OEMs and the management of RTA who have worked together to make this project and make Jonquière of this new factory that constitutes an exceptional showcase on the world and a great pride for our Region "," said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Remember that in 2006, as part of the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Investment Program, the Government of Quebec has granted RTA an interest-free loan of $ 400 million over 30 years, as well as a Additional energy block of 225 MW at L Fariff. 
To learn more about the Employment Priority Economic Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueEconomique. 
