Montréal - Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet announces the creation of the domestic and community domestic composter assistance program. 
The program will allow small municipalities, Aboriginal communities and some MRCs to obtain financial support for the establishment of individual or shared composters in their territory. The three components of the program, either domestic composting, Community composting of plant composting and community composting in thermophilic equipment, will include the municipalities targeted to provide composers more single-family residences and multibility buildings. 
"It is by combining our actions, those of the small as large communities, which will be able to obtain concrete results in the fight against climate change. The creation of this program will allow smaller communities to benefit from additional resources for the management of their residual organic materials and, as a result, to play an active role in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, "said Minister Blanchet. . 
The Domestic and Community Composter Assistance Program complements the organic processing program by biomethanization and composting (PTMOBC). It is part of the priorities of the PAC-2013-2020 Climate Change Action Plan, funded by the Green Fund. Its implementation also meets the objectives set out in the Quebec Residual Materials Management Policy aimed at banishing places of elimination organic matter. 
It is an initial amount of $ 2 million that the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks injects in the domestic and community domestic composter assistance program, which will come into effect on April 1, 2014. From this date, eligible organizations will have until December 31, 2017 to submit their files to benefit from a subsidy of up to $ 50,000. 
Any information on the three components of the program, the eligibility criteria, eligible expenses and the procedure for submitting a file is available on the Department's website at www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca . 
