Montreal- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, and the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Mr. Jean- François Lisée, salute the constitution of the new industrial cluster of Quebec aluminum, confirmed today at the first annual general meeting of this grouping. This strategic alliance bringing together the actors of the community has the peculiarity of being a national industrial cluster, which will promote a profitable synergy between large aluminum-producing companies located in the regions, those of transformation, suppliers, users from Different sectors as well as the multiple institutional partners, including universities and research centers. The Quebec model of industrial clusters has proven itself and enjoys international recognition. 
"We have taken advantage of our unique capacity to combine competitiveness, cooperation and creativity to promote the growth of the flagship sectors of our economy. Quebec, recognized as one of the global leaders in the aluminum industry, will benefit from the synergy resulting from this strategic alliance between the different actors in the field, "said Minister Zakaïb. 
"We have the privilege of being able to count, in Quebec, on successful and promising companies that diversify and stimulate the development and development of our aluminum industry," said Minister Zakaïb. "Thanks to this cluster, which aims to maximize the use of aluminum in the target markets, we will be able to ensure the economic vitality of our regions. This initiative will have positive spin-offs on all stakeholders in the aluminum industry. That's why we rely on the work of consultation of all our regions to allow the realization of our full potential. » 
The industrial cluster of Quebec aluminum brings together more than 6,000 institutions in Quebec, including nearly 2,200 in the Montreal metropolitan area. It is supplementary to the aluminum valorization society, which is a powerful tool for economic development in the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region. This important industry includes 9 aluminum smelters, whose production activities generate more than 11,000 direct jobs and more than 20,000 indirect jobs, not to mention processing companies that have 5,000 direct jobs and the economic activities generated by some 4 200 suppliers. and equipment manufacturers. 
By focusing on training, support, research, technological development and consolidation of structuring networks, the industrial cluster of Quebec aluminum intends to increase the transformation and use of aluminum. The action plan developed for this purpose provides for the establishment of various work sites. Thanks to the promotion activities and the strengthening of the collaboration between the different actors of the value chain, the cluster intends to make more recognition the potential of the product with the orders, with the objective of doubling, from here Ten years, the transformation of aluminum to Quebec.
In this sense, the role of catalyst in the Greater Montreal Region is an obvious advantage: decision-making and administrative center bringing together the heavings of aluminum smelters, the metropolis also houses a significant proportion of potential users of the product as well as 40% of the transformation companies Aluminum. 
"The metropolitan area, which includes more than one-third of member organizations of the industrial cluster of Quebec aluminum, will take advantage of this sector of its unique expertise, particularly in terms of marketing, market development and research and development. I am sure that these assets will contribute to the achievement of the objectives of this new cluster, which consist of ensuring greater growth in Quebec aluminum industry and a reinforcement of Quebec positioning in international markets "Said the minister listed. 
The secretariat in the metropolitan area will support the industrial cluster of Quebec aluminum, granting it, as part of the Métropole Initiative and Radiation Fund, an annual financial assistance of $ 100,000 to enable it to achieve the Activities planned in its 2013-2015 Action Plan. 
To this contribution adds an amount of $ 135,000 spread over eighteen months and granted by the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, from the Program to Support the Development of Strategic Sectors and Slots of Excellence, Component 1 Support for coordination activities. 
About the Fund of Initiative and Radiation of the Metropolis  This fund supports the completion of initiatives contributing to the development of the Montreal Metropolitan Region and its influence across Canada and international. It is administered by the Secretariat to the Metropolitan Region, which reports to the Minister responsible for the Montreal Region. 
About the Secretariat in the Metropolitan Area  Attached to the Ministry of the Executive Board, the Secretariat advises the Government of Quebec on any question or measure having a significant impact on the Montreal metropolitan area and its development. He assured the Secretariat of the Departmental Committee of the Metropolitan Region, chaired by Minister Jean-François Lisée. The Secretariat develops consultation with its various strategic partners to promote the coherence and convergence of all interventions as well as the growth and dynamism of the metropolitan area. 
