London - Québec Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, announces the establishment in Montreal of the British companyFramestore inc., World leader in visual and animated effects for the film and television industry. With this investment project, 200 new jobs will be created over the next three years in the metropolitan area. In order to support the implementation, the Government of Quebec awards a generous financial contribution refundable to the company. 
"Quebec offers winning conditions to foreign companies that, like Framestore, choose to settle there," said Ms. Marois. Our specialized and competent workforce, our business environment adapted to the needs of businesses and the market situation make Quebec the all-designated place to prosper. In Montreal, cinema and television occupy a preponderant place in the economy. In addition to the economic benefits to foresee in the metropolis, the arrival of Framestore will consolidate the industry and increase synergy between environmental actors, including cinematographic and digital entertainment. It is with pride that we support the company's investment project in Quebec. » 
Framestore also has offices in New York, London and Los Angeles, where it employs some 700 people. The company has pulled several awards over the years, including two Oscars, thirteen Emmy and Three BAFTA. In 2008, Framestore simultaneously won a BAFTA and an Oscar for its contribution to the special effects of the film at the crossroads: the golden compass, worth the recognition of the entire industry. In addition to his work at the small and the big screen, the group's advertising division has produced various and renowned works, including the famous Guinness advertising titled Surfer and the promotional campaign of Coca-Cola and its friendly polar bears during the Super Bowl. The presence of Framestore in Quebec will promote the production of large films and will take advantage of the great creativity of Quebec companies. The first productions planned for Montreal are Robocop (Columbia Pictures and MGM) and All You Need Is Kill (Warner Brothers). 
"The assets presented by Quebec and the strong volume of cinematographic productions that have been found motivated the decision to implement here, affirmed the President and CEO of Framestore, Mr. William Sargent. Montreal fits perfectly with our company. It is a fascinating city whose artistic and musical scene is flourishing. His artistic community is coveted by the film, video games, software and technology industries. In addition to its large pool of skilled labor and its extensive potential for training and recruitment, the metropolis also enjoys many financial advantages, including a favorable tax system and competitive base prices. All of these factors make Montreal a favorite place to continue the expansion of Framestore. The support of the Government of Quebec, not only to our society, but also to companies in the film and television industry, will allow us to use our expertise and our reputation in the development of the film production sector in Quebec. We look forward to being part of a business environment as dynamic and creative. » 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the following RSS feed: www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss 
