Pointe-aux-Outardes- The Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet announces the creation of the first protected marine area of the accountability of Quebec that will protect a territory Marin of 712 km2 in the Manicouagan Peninsula, near Baie-Comeau. Accompanied by the member for René-Lévesque, Mr. Marjolain Dufour, head of the Côte-Nord region and Chief Government Whip, Mr. Blanchet also announced the granting of a financial assistance totaling $ 150,000 for the three NEXT YEARS AT THE ORGANIZATION PARK NATURE OF Pointe-Aux-OUTARDES. 
This $ 150,000 financial assistance will allow Pointe-aux-Outarde nature park to manage the projected aquatic reserve in collaboration with the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP) and middle partners. The marine territory protected by the projected Aquatic Reserve of Manicouagan is located in front of the park and is included in the important area for bird conservation (ZICO) of Baie-Comeau, which includes the coast from Pointe Saint-Gilles, Bark bay, Comeau Bay and part of the Bay of the English. 
"Globally, the preservation of marine biodiversity is a great concern for the 21st century. The government is sensitive to this problem that wears obvious ecological issues, but also poses a significant food and economic challenge. With the creation of the projected Aquatic Reserve of Manicouagan, the proportion of the legally protected Quebec marine territory will increase to 1.3%. International commitments in this area are aimed at 10% by 2020. Today's announcement is a step in this direction and we work on a daring and determined level in order to preserve and highlight the Biodiversity of Quebec Territory, "said Minister Blanchet. 
In addition to helping significantly increase the protected area in the Estuaire and Gulf of St. Lawrence region, the proposed Aquatic Reserve of Manicouagan will also protect several threatened or vulnerable species, to ensure sustainable use of the Resources of the territory and to maintain the biodiversity of coastal, estuarine and marine ecosystems. 
The granting of this projected protected area status will ensure more tight control over the degradation of habitats, water quality and sediment, over-exploitation of commercial species, the decrease in the biodiversity and certain species in precarious situations, including the common seal, the common porpoise and the little whale. 
In addition, this projected aquatic reserve located in the St. Lawrence estuary will help to strengthen the tourist offer of the North Shore region, especially for the ecotourism activities in the Manicouagan sector. Its creation is the result of close collaboration with a committee of partners of the representative of the MRC Manicouagan, the Innu Council of Pessamit, the Pointe-Aux-Aux-Outardes, Fisheries and Oceans Canada, Consulting Park. Regional of the Environment and the World Biosphere Reserve Manicouagan-Uapishka. 
"Today, we recognize the exceptional value of a territory that houses the richest and most productive Estuarian and Marine ecosystems. It is thanks to the assiduous work of all these partners, who have been able to mobilize around a joint project, that this projected aquatic reserve can finally take shape today. We must see this project as a victory for these stakeholders, but also for the citizens of the region, whose quality of life depends greatly on the ecosystems that surround them, "said the member Dufour. 
