Quebec - Member for Joliette and sentence of the official opposition in the field of justice, Véronique Hivon, points out that the announcement yesterday by the Minister of Justice, Jean-Marc Fournier, does not solve in any way the serious crisis that the Quebec justice system crosses and testifies to obvious contempt towards the rules. 
"To implement his announcement, the Minister Fournier must imperatively have a bill passed. But he postponed the filing of such a bill! Worse, the creation of 20 new judges positions is announced, while there are currently 23 vacant existing positions and that the minister does not meet for months! , "Véronique Hivon came out. 
The hon. Member for Joliette recalled that this is the second fully inconsistent gesture posed by the Minister Fournier in connection with the judiciary since the tabling of the Bastarache report. "The first gesture was the announcement of the consecration of the Prime Minister's veto law for the appointment of judges, yet decried by the population and all observers. The second is now throwing powder in the eyes by announcing a rise in the law, without law, the number of judges, while the minister has not even activated to fill vacancies. People have enough of these ways of doing things. It's contempt, "Hivon denounced. 
The member for Joliette also deplores the manipulation of the Minister Fournier who desperately seeks to improve his image by announcing the development of new rooms for megaproces. "The main problem is not the halls, it's the lack of prosecutors. Half of the positions of the team of the Crime Fighting Office in charge of carrying out the megaproces of Hell's are always vacant! ", Is the member for Joliette. 
For her, yesterday's announcement hides a shouting problem. "The justice system is in crisis. Jean-Marc Fournier must stop multiplying ads without effect and must tackle the real issues: the lack of prosecutors and their demotivation following the special law imposed by the government, "concluded Véronique Hivon. 
