Canton-de-Shefford- Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet announces the recognition of the Canton-de-Shefford Nature Reserve, the biggest to be constituted on a property belonging to a municipality in Quebec. As part of the group of Montérégian hills, Mount Shefford will now have 145 additional hectares of protected territory. 
"Today's announcement further materializes our commitment to protecting fragile biodiversity from southern Quebec, where pressures on natural environments are particularly strong. The collaboration of the municipality of the Canton of Shefford and the Appalachian Corridor in this great project is inspiring. The creation of a protected area in this sector, recognized both for its vulnerable species and for the beauty of its landscapes, is a gesture for citizens as well as in favor of the environment, "said the minister. Blanchet. 
The Government of Quebec recognizes the importance of the Montéregian hills for the protection of the South Biodiversity of Southern Quebec. These geological formations are home to some 64 floral species and 25 credible, vulnerable or so-called defective wildlife species. Since 2002, the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP) has invested more than $ 1.3 million through private stewardship programs to support L acquisition of properties for conservation purposes in the Montéregian hills. An additional $ 477,876 was granted for education, awareness and knowledge acquisition projects, and an amount of $ 56,000 has been awarded to support natural reserves recognition projects in these hills. their areas of Piedmont. The creation of this protected area, whose recognition will be perpetual, is part of this approach. 
Remember that the nature reserve status makes it possible to recognize the desire of an owner who wants to devote his land to conservation. This recognition may be perpetual or granted for a term that can not be less than 25 years. 
The Canton-de-Shefford Nature Reserve includes four distinct sectors: Jean-Paul-Forand Park, Montagnards Park, Park Planeau Park and Rue-Chagnon Park, which offer various services to citizens. The presence of a designated species threatened in Quebec, seven vulnerable designated species and three species that could be thus designated was identified in the territory of this nature reserve and certifies its high preservation value. 
"I want to express all the government's assessment for the contribution of the municipality and Appalachian corridor to the protection of an environment that houses exceptional diversity, of which we recognize the value today. This new nature reserve will allow citizens to continue to enjoy a healthy environment that adds to the quality of life that is dear to them, "concluded the minister. 
