Montreal - The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Jean? François Listed, and the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, today announced the creation of 150 new highly qualified jobs at the Montreal Cardiology Institute (ICM) . 
In order to achieve this ambitious project, the Quebec government announces $ 18.2 million to the ICM for the ARTERIA program, which will allow the customization of diagnostics and cardiovascular therapies. 
This project, estimated at $ 49.2 million, will be carried out in partnership with the following companies: Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Servier Canada inc., Medimmune (Astrazeneca subsidiary), Thrasos Therapeutics, Valelant Canada inc., Pharmascience inc. , the Foundation of the Montreal Cardiology Institute, Spartan Bioscience Inc. and Pfizer Canada inc. 
"The life sciences and biotechnology industry is a strategic area in which Quebec occupies a leading place. My government has also made the choice to support innovation and ambitious policies and programs, which allow Quebec researchers to carry out avant-garde projects and advance knowledge. In addition to saving lives, the Arteria program will contribute to the expansion of the CMI Clinical Trial Coordination Center. This project will also consolidate the ICM's position as a center of international excellence in the field of cardiovascular disease, "said the Prime Minister. 
"The industry business model has changed. It is more and more towards the development of partnerships with public research institutions. Our government has made the choice to adapt its help to the new reality of the environment to stimulate research in Quebec, "says Minister Marceau. 
"The global fame and recognition of the ICM, which confirms and consolidate the granting of financial assistance from the partnership fund for an innovative and healthy Quebec, strengthening Montreal as a pole of excellence in the field. life sciences. Innovative, the Arteria project will have undeniable impact on the health of the population of Quebec, of course, and on the economic vitality of the metropolis, thanks to the creation of highly qualified jobs, "said the minister listed. 
"Our government wants to strengthen its poles of excellence and increase activities in key sectors of our economy, such as research on cardiometabolic diseases, oncology, genomics, personalized medicine and neuroscience. The ICM project is therefore a good example of an innovative project that will have concrete impact on the health of people and the economy of Quebec, "concluded the Minister Zakaïb. 
The Arteria project enjoys the support of the Partnership Fund for an innovative and healthy Quebec announced in the 2013-2014 budget. With an envelope of $ 125 million over five years, this fund aims to support the creation of public? Private partnerships between companies and public research centers. 
