Montreal - Quebec's Premier, Pauline Marois, today announced the creation of a working group on cultural philanthropy. On this occasion, it was accompanied by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts, Brian Mr. Levitt. 
"I am pleased to confirm the commitment made by the Quebec government at the 2012 Rendez-vous - Montreal, a cultural metropolis, which was held on November 26, by revealing today the composition of the working group on cultural philanthropy . Cultural sponsorship has evolved in recent years and is the government's duty to change the mechanisms that encourage individuals and businesses to participate in philanthropy in this area. Culture plays a vital role in the fulfillment of the Quebec nation. What it has become, we owe it to our creators, and also to all those who have supported their work and the dissemination of their works, "said the Prime Minister. 
The mandate of the Working Group will be to submit recommendations to the government on the most promising avenues to increase the dynamism of cultural philanthropy and promote the creation of a new generation of patrons in Quebec. 
Minister Marceau recalled that Quebec offers the most generous tax benefits in Canada to encourage private donations. In addition, the government's direct assistance in the form of subsidies in the cultural field, particularly through the Program Patronage Investments Culture, which pays a counterparty grant for each contribution or private donation collected by cultural organizations. . However, despite all these benefits, the level of donations in Quebec is lagging behind what we observe elsewhere in Canada. 
"This working group will therefore be mandated to identify the causes of this delay in the field of cultural philanthropy and, in the light of its findings, to submit to the Government recommendations on the most promising avenues to increase the dynamism. "Did Nicolas Marceau explained. 
The work of the group will begin in the coming weeks. This one will be chaired by Pierre Bourgie, a businessman and great philanthropist. "Mr. Bourgie is one of Quebec's great patrons. His commitment and contribution in the Quebec cultural field, including the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts and the Foundation Arte Musica, make him an inspiring example in the world of business and culture, "said Maka Kotto. 
In order to fulfill its mandate, Mr. Bourgie will be supported by seven members of the Quebec business community. It is : 
Sophie Brochu, President and Chief Executive Officer of Gaz Métro and Past President of the Board of Directors of the Museum Pointe-à-Callière. 
Jo-Ann Kane, Conservative of the National Bank Collection of Canada, President of the Business Collections Association and Quebec Council of Arts and Letters member. 
Benoît Desjardins, Associate in Tax at Samson Bélair / Deloitte & Touche. 
Michel Labonté, former First Vice President Finance, Technologies and Corporate Affairs at the National Bank, Member of the Board of Directors and Secretary of the International Organ Competition of Canada, and former member of the Board of Great Ballets Canadian from Montreal. 
Jacques Parisien, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer at Astral Media, President of Astral Radio, Chairman of the Boards of Directors of the Museum Pointe-à-Callière, the Foundation of the Institute of Tourism and Hospitality From Montreal and the Celebration Society of the 375th Anniversary of Montreal. 
Peter D. Simons, President and CEO of the Simons House and Recipient of the Arts and Affairs Awards of the Quebec Chamber of Commerce (2006). 
Jonathan Tétrault, Associate at McKinsey & Company and member of the Executive Committee of the Montreal Symphony Orchestra. 
Pierre Côté, Assistant Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, will act as Secretary of the Working Group. 
The recommendations of the working group are expected for the end of May 2013. 
