Québec-defending Quebec government appropriations for the metropolis, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Pierre Moreau, confirmed that the Liberal government refuses to commit to realizing the three structuring projects identified by all stakeholders in Eastern Montreal: the Extension of the blue line of the metro, the renovation of the Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital (HMR) and the construction of a roof for the Olympic stadium. 
"In his budget and in his appropriations, the Couillard government made choices and, in any case, the priorities of Eastern Montreal are not part of it," deplored the member for Rosemont and spokesman of The official opposition for the metropolis, Jean-François Lisée. 
In election campaign, the PLQ had committed to advance the records of three Montreal hospitals: Sacred Heart, Verdun and Maisonneuve-Rosemont. In the budget, the priority was given to two of these three hospitals, but the HMR was not mentioned. Minister Moreau has confirmed it. 
"During the election campaign, Philippe Couillard had affirmed about the roof of the stadium: we will take care of it upon our arrival to the government. At the credits, yesterday, Minister Moreau refused to make any commitment beyond the study of the project, making sense of meaning the words held in April by his chief, "continued the member for Rosemont. 
With regard to the extension of the blue line of the metro, identified as a priority by both the metropolitan transport agency, the City of Montreal and the previous government, Minister Moreau said the project would not be treated differently. Other extension projects envisaged, including that of a second extension to Laval. It thus confirms the direction given in the PLQ Platform, which said: "We are committed to completing the western and eastern train projects; We will also analyze the feasibility of carrying out metro extension projects. » 
The East Train is almost completed, and mainly serves municipalities from outside the island. For the future, the commitment to the West Train project is firm. But the blue line does not appear in priorities; It was confirmed yesterday. 
Strangely, it is Pierre Moreau, Minister of Municipal Affairs, rather than the minister responsible for the Montreal area, Robert Poëti, who defended, for the government, the credits of the metropolis. The exchanges have also confirmed that the status of the minister who is responsible has been considerably reduced by the Liberals, in relation to what prevailed under the former government. 
Indeed, the Minister Poëti no longer chairs the interministerial committee of the metropolis, which aimed to give coherence to government action in the region and included the main ministers involved in Montreal. This committee has been dissolved. In addition, Ministers representing Laval, Montérégie, Lanaudière and Laurentians, which were of this committee and its minister to ensure a metropolitan vision of development, now fall under the Minister of Municipal Affairs, as well as the other regional ministers. Finally, the Secretariat at the Metropolitan Region, which generally belonged to the General Secretariat of the Government, now receives the Ministry of Municipal Affairs. 
"Several configurations are possible to serve the interests of the metropolis within the state apparatus," said Jean-François Lisée. The dissolution of the interdepartmental committee of the metropolis, the demotion of the administrative power of its senior officials, the removal of the role of the minister responsible for the coordination of the stakes who encompass the crowns are all decisions that weaken the metropolis in the Quebec state. . » 
Strangely, it is the minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale region, Sam Hamad, who will present on Friday the budget appropriations relating to the Quebec City region. The Couillard Government has decided, this time, not to retrograde the Minister into its management mandate of the National Capital Commission. 
