Québec - "By rejecting an amendment aimed at putting an end to the obligation to adhere to the direct deposit to receive the Solidarity Tax Credit, proposed yesterday by the Parti Québécois during the detailed study of Bill 32, the Liberal government dismisses the reverse of the Human Rights and Youth Rights Commission and prevents many people from getting money from which they would have much need, "said the member for Rimouski and Door -Parole of the official income opposition, Irvin Pelletier. 
In his opinion made public on November 16, the Human Rights and Youth Rights Commission believed that: 
"The Parti Québécois has favorable to the idea that citizens are part of the direct deposit, which simplifies the treatment of the sums received from the state. However, when we force people to register to be entitled to a tax credit that is claimed to be "solidarity", we ensure that people - often even more destitute or vulnerable - who would be entitled to These sums do not have access, "added the member for Saint John and the official opposition to employment, social solidarity and poverty struggle, Dave Turcotte. 
"In the debate on our amendment, the minister preferred to attack the commission rather than welcome his opinion and terminate the direct deposit obligation. When it says that this measure would cost $ 20 million in the state, the minister uses a false pretext since his calculation is for the premise that all the people who use the direct deposit would withdraw, while very few people Already registered will end in the facts, "said the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and the official opposition spokeswoman for seniors, Carole Poirier. 
MEPs also reminded that for several months, they have claimed the holding of a parliamentary committee with general consultations with the aim of studying the opinion of the Advisory Committee for the Fight Against Poverty and Social Exclusion on income targets as well as on the government response on this subject. The holding of a parliamentary commission would help to hear the independent experts in the fight against poverty and social exclusion on income targets and organizations that act directly with the poorest of our society. 
On February 17, 2011, the Parti Québécois already denounced that this measure would penalize the poorest. 
On February 28, 2011, the Protector of the Citizen blamed the Charest government and invited it to take the means to prevent the obligation of direct deposit to obtain the poorest criminalized solidarity. 
On April 19, 2011, the Parti Québécois was pleased to note that the Charest government renounced its project to make direct deposit registration mandatory for persons eligible for the solidarity tax credit and who do not have the possibility of Have a bank account. 
Today, it is deplorable to see once again that listening and the opening of the liberal government are so small ... 
