Quebec- The member for Saint John and the official opposition for employment, vocational training, literacy and youth, Dave Turcotte, arrested the Prime Minister Philippe Couillard, so that CI put in place a new youth policy. To do this, it would have advantage in using the white livreprépared by the former deputy of Laval-des-Rapides, Leo Bureau-Blouin, and the secretariat for youth. 
In the parliamentary committee, the Prime Minister pledged to continue the consultation work undertaken by Leo Bureau-Blouin and to hear some groups that did not have the opportunity to speak. However, it has remained vague about the need to design a new youth policy, as you can like young people and their representatives. 
"It is essential to develop a new youth policy, since this is the only way to really supervise government action," said Dave Turcotte. The resulting strategies or action plans must be referred to it, and the version adopted in 2001 is no longer in the youth of the new generation youth. Elements also worrying that the fight against intimidation, the integration of immigrants or the digital stakes, for example, are not found in the current policy and are an integral part of the White Paper to be submitted to a commission. parliamentary. » 
Recall that in view of the new policy, the Government of the Parti Québécois had lanced Tour destination 2030, which allowed Leo Bureau-Blouin, then parliamentary deputy to the Premier (youth component), as well as Mathieu Traversy, MP From Terrebonne, and Dave Turcotte to hold 125 consulting activities in 17 regions. They were able to hear nearly 4000 young people about their aspirations, their priorities and their vision of the future of Quebec. 
"Help do pas paspiller Les Ressours and like on the recite to making ago. It's consicer le reflex it's. Le Guimernement in the Queng in La Main to the Main to Jeunesse, wifts, he wedding to a robert et at Conbat inventions. Inerait ask a question page of tourner le dos après touss tous bes and efforts. Search minist party doit porber portra les en amemée and donnera to ses ministres about aux geénéuti mountain range! », Injouté of Saint-Jean-de-Anglais de 
In addition, the official youth opposition spokesman indicated that he will remain vigilant about the 18% cuts on the youth secretariat. According to the Prime Minister, these compressions will not affect youth services because they will be mainly absorbed by departments that already serve youth (family, health and social services or education, leisure. and sport, for example). 
"We all know that departments also have cuts. If the Prime Minister himself does not hesitate to slash in his own secretariat to youth, it sends a funny message to other departments as to the priority to be granted to young people, "concluded Dave Turcotte. 
