Quebec- The member for Joliette and sentence of the official opposition in culture and communications, Véronique Hivon, deplored the shortfall of $ 30 million in tax credits for cultural environment, despite recovery partial that the last Liberal budget provides. 
"The budget last year contained bad news for the culture environment, including parametric sections of 20%, without impact analysis. Several concerns were expressed, while the minister was content to say in the middle of fighting. Cultural craftsmen had to remain mobilized for one year so that the government finally sounds right and restore some of the tax credits. However, on the occasion of the study of budget appropriations, we discover that contrary to what has been widely understood, an amount of $ 30 million remains missing, "said Véronique Hivon. 
Cinema and television, the most affected 
"It lacks $ 15 million for the Quebec cinematographic or television tax credit (established at 32% rather than 35%, as originally planned) and nearly $ 15 million for the dedicated tax credit At the cinematographic production department, for which the cut of 20% remains. While movies and television, as many other ways of expression, make us shine, here and elsewhere, and represent an important economic development engine, among others through foreign productions, the government decides to keep the cuts. However, according to the cultural environment, these compressions will have important, even irreversible consequences, "added the member for Joliette. 
Cinémathèque and Cinema Régie 
In addition, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Hélène David, refused to reject the possibility of a forced marriage between the Quebec Cinémathèque and National Library and Archives of Quebec, despite the fact that a strong majority of members have resolved to reject any changes that would jeopardize the existence of the Cinémathèque, its legal status or its governance structure. "The attitude of the minister will maintain the environmental concerns, which fears that the government" bulldozer "continues its road without consideration for the reality of the field, nor for the need to maintain the Mission of the Cinémathèque", continued Véronique Hivon. 
The minister also confirmed his desire to abolish the Cinema Régie to integrate it with the Ministry of Culture and Communications. "However, it was unable to indicate what would happen to the necessary independence of an organism exercising quasi-judicial functions, nor specify the costs generated by the termination of the contract of its new president, appointed there is barely six months, "concluded the spokesperson. 
