Quebec- The Parti Québécois notes with regret the admission of the Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport, Yves Bolduc, who admitted, yesterday during the study of budgetary appropriations, to be intervened in any way Remember the federal government when it withdrew the sports infrastructure of the Canada-Quebec Chantiers Fund. The member for Labelle and official opposition spokesperson for healthy lifestyle, leisure and sports, Sylvain Pagé, is stunned by the minister's lack of leadership in this file. 
"I invite the minister to support Quebec municipalities who are unanimously demanding that we maintain the financing of sports infrastructure in this program. It is a decline in relation to the previous agreement. It is a matter of concern because the vitality of the Quebec economy and the occupation of the territory depends a lot on sports infrastructure projects, "said Sylvain Pagé. 
The member for Labelle is also concerned that Minister Bolduc has no idea how the amount of 850 million is allocated for sports infrastructure in the 2014-2024 Infrastructure Plan (PQI). 
"It's amazing enough to see that the minister does not really have an idea about the use of money as important. We can therefore wonder for who and for what these sums have been placed at the PQI. If the minister concerned can not answer, who can it? , Asked Sylvain Pagé. 
Finally, the member for Labelle is pleased that the minister applauds the work started by the Quebecois party to make Quebec, within 10 years, one of the most fitting nations in the world. The minister even committed to accepting the hon. Member's outstretched hand, which proposes to complement the work that will adopt a national sport, leisure and physical activity, as well as an action plan. . 
"I expect a constructive collaboration on the part of the minister and I will ensure that it has the necessary leadership to challenge all departments that can be used to achieve the objectives of the future policy. In this way, the minister will meet the expectations of all the partners I met at the Consultation Tour which led me in the 17 regions of Quebec, "concluded Sylvain Pagé. 
