Quebec - Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignist Governance and Minister responsible for the North-du-Québec Region, Ms. Elizabeth Larouche, Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs, and Mr. Luc Ferland, a member of Ungava and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Northern Affairs Component), accompanied by Mr. Jobie Tukkiapik, President of Makivik, and Mr. Tunu Napartuk, Mayor of Kuujjuaq, appear today The federal government on the serious housing crisis in Nunavik. 
"It is the Government of Canada that, by unilaterally stopping the construction of social housing for six consecutive years at the end of the 1990s, created the immense housing shortage today in Nunavik. Not only has the federal government shown lax and abdicated its responsibilities, but it has shown omission, negligence and bad faith in its negotiations with the Inuit Nation. These are the highly revealing conclusions of a report made in 2012 by the mediator Dominique Boucheix mandated to settle a dispute between Ottawa and Inuit housing, "said Minister Alexandre Cloutier. 
For its part, and despite the absence of Ottawa, the Government of Quebec deals with the situation, as evidenced by its commitments it has taken alone, announced in the Nordic Northern Development Plan for all. Indeed, by 2016, it is 300 social housing units that will be built in Nunavik, thanks to an effort of $ 79.5 million from the Government of Quebec. 
"It is more than the federal government ceases to close your eyes, assumes its responsibilities and do its part because Inuit live unacceptable human dramas. This situation has also been the subject of a report by the Human Rights and Youth Rights Commission, which has shown that the overcrowding of housing compromises the safety and development of children and entails Physical and severe disorders. Quebec was quick to act. What does the Government of Canada expect? , "Said Minister Cloutier. 
The Government of Quebec is fully aware of the critical situation of housing in Nunavik and is concerned with social issues that flow from housing shortage issues. Minister Elizabeth Larouche has to remember that "this housing crisis helps to aggravate several important social problems, such as school dropout, family violence, suicide, alcoholism and drug abuse, not to mention the propagation of serious illnesses, like tuberculosis. Access to decent and sufficient quantity is an essential prerequisite for providing sustainable solutions to the difficulties of Nunavik's Inuit ". 
As the president of Makivik said, the Inuit of Nunavik, Mr. Jobie Tukkiapik: "We are asking for immediate action to resort the housing crisis and its cascade of devastating effects on our population. This means, on the part of governments, respect for the given word and agreements concluded. Very concretely, we demand a sufficient silver investment to fill the 899 units that are missing to accommodate the families of our communities decently. Overcrowding conditions have made them suffer for too long with governments can no longer close your eyes on its effects. " 
"It is clear to us that Nordic development begins with the accompaniment of communities. The housing crisis is above all a serious social crisis that creates its share of human dramas for the Inuit of Quebec. It must stop once and for all, "said the member for Ungava, Mr. Luc Ferland. 
"Today, the Quebec government challenges the Government of Canada for a catch-up plan to be set up without delay. With $ 185 million, the shortage of housing in Nunavik could be resolved. In fact, we ask for the Inuit to receive the share of them, "concluded the minister responsible for the North-du-Québec region, Alexandre Cloutier. 
