Quebec - "Hundreds of Quebec farmers will not recover from the crisis that Quebec has crossed for years, despite the measures that the minister announced yesterday," said the deputy of Kamouraska-Témiscouata and door -Position of the official opposition in agriculture, André Simard, referring to the ads made by the Farm Financial and the Government, the day before the interpellation on this subject. 
"That the government announce additional measures relating to the agricultural income stabilization insurance program (ASRA) to help agricultural enterprises, particularly in pigs, stabach calves, lambs and cereals, will unfortunately not make any difference for Several producers who have given their lives to find himself before the dawn of retirement, "continued André Simard.  "It's too little too late for hundreds of farmers who, because of the crisis, have been forced to take drastic measures and even in some cases to put the key in the door of their farm," Added by the member for Kamouraska-Témiscouata. 
Since the cuts in the ASRA program in 2009, the agricultural sector gets destructive by the fault of the Liberal government. "The government has acted unexpectedly in this case. The announcements made yesterday at the speed, just before the interpellation, are only an additional manifestation of this improvisation. By doing no impact study, he changed the rules of the game, which caused the closure of hundreds of farms in addition to putting several other farmers in a situation more than precarious. The former Minister of Agriculture, Laurent Lessard, affirmed himself that 2500 farms from Quebec were at risk even before the imposition of the cuts. Since then, how many others have closed or will have to do it? Asked the member of the Quebecois Party. 
In the arrest of this morning, the official opposition spokesperson presented to the Minister of real cases of successful producers, with a great experience, recognized in their environment, having had to close their business overnight because of Cups of the Liberal government. "It's sad to see that the minister is concerned so little about the situation of agricultural producers in Quebec and, by the very fact, the economy of all regions. He must stop living in denial and repair the mistakes committed by his government, "said MP André Simard. 
