Quebec, April 3, 2020-In the last few weeks, the lives of millions of Quebecers rocked. Quebec paused, and a lot of people must now turn to emergency aid. In the context, the Parti Québécois, through its finance spokesperson, Martin Ouellet (René-Lévesque), formulated five proposals that would give oxygen to citizens and entrepreneurs from home. 
Lower interest rate interest rates 
Pending the help of governments, many will have to turn to credit. However, in 2019, one in two Quebecers said to live from one pay to another. All financial institutions should lower their interest rates, and find ways to apply this measure to maximum customers. 
Increased time to repay credit cards 
In the same vein, the grace period should be increased from 21 to 40 days. 
Postponement of mortgage payments, and maximum rate gel 
Recently, the 6 large Canadian banks have followed suit to the Desjardins Movement and announced the possibility of postponing (up to 6 months) payments on mortgages. This is good news, but it's not enough; It is also necessary to prevent rates from increasing. 
Credit Records: Exception for the months of March and April 
If no action is taken, the exceptional situation of recent weeks will inevitably slide Number of credit files. We ask agencies to recognize the anomaly and exclude, temporarily, short-term variations. 
Margin reminders: Gourmandise will not serve anyone 
We need to prevent emergency assistance from governments to enrich financial institutions. While Quebec is on pause, the number of accounts receivable less than 90 days, which serve as a loan guarantee, will melt like snow in the sun. In theory, financial institutions may require margin reminders to businesses. But we ask them to show responsibility and not to take advantage of the situation; Emergency aid must first be used to protect businesses and restart the economy. 
"We are currently experiencing an unprecedented situation. Everyone is called upon to do his part, including financial institutions. In 2008, governments flew to the rescue the big banks; We believe it is in turn to help citizens. It's also in their interest! , "Said Martin Ouellet. 
