Quebec, on February 24, 2017- The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on transport, Alain Therrien, is dissatisfied with the liberal response to scandals affecting the Quebec Ministry of Transport (MTQ). Remember that last June, Ms. Louise Boily and Annie Trudel have been heard by the Public Administration Commission, providing a disturbing testimony on the harmful culture that exists on the MTQ; For any response, the Liberals made a partisan appointment, hoping to camouflage problems. 
"The Liberal Party does not want to deal with the problems at the Ministry of Transport; He just wants to camouflage. As proof, the ultra-partisan appointment of Marc Lacroix, supposed to replace the fallen official Dominique Savoie - who, emphasize it, continues to be paid at great expense by taxpayers. Mr. Lacroix is a regular from the liberal offlicines. He worked for years in the liberal cabinets, in addition to having been organizing electoral for the party, "said Alain Therrien first. 
This week, Marc Lacroix came to present a plan to reorganize the MTQ in parliamentary committee. "This plan was only hollow sentences and blurred concepts. Clearly, it was much more of a communication plan to make the Liberal Party look good that a reorganization plan. Mr. Lacroix echoes the words of his minister, Laurent Lessard, who had formally declared, when entering himself, that he was not there to clean up, "added the spokesman. 
During their testimony, Mrs Boily and Trudel had revealed the existence of intimidation problems at the MTQ, particularly in territorial directorates. Louise Boily told himself to have been a victim. "The internal Auditors of the MTQ would have been intimidated because they had to monitor their own bosses. When the crisis broke out, they were attached to another sector, but, as the subtetice revealed, this measure is only temporary. So, this is just a matter of time before this aberrant situation happens again. In short, in accordance with the liberal method, the problem was swept under the carpet, "sued Alain Therien. 
In the opinion of the member, the government also sends a bad message to whistleblowers by leaving the deputy minister Danièle Cantin, who is the target of intimidation allegations at Louise Boily. "Ms. Cantin has not been the subject of any administrative investigation. Our concerns about the lack of transparency, the culture of extras and intimidation at the Ministry of Transport are far from appeased. The Liberal Party no longer has any credibility when it comes to cleaning. We have no confidence in this worn and opaque government, "he concluded. 
