Quebec- The member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Quebec's social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François listed, asks the government to act now on three fronts: It is necessary to reinvest the $ 20 million in the youth centers budgets in 2015-16, restore suicide prevention measures immediately, and restore to the youth centers the autonomy they had before barrette reform. In addition, the Parti Québécois supports André Lebon's request, expert in the protection of youth and auditor appointed by the government at the youth center of Laval, who calls for general states on youth centers. 
"Staff turnover, abolition of the association of youth centers, extreme centralization with the reform barrette, lack of resources ... It is a real cry of the heart that this expert is launching us, and the government must take note of the crisis that rages In our youth centers. More than $ 20 million have been cut into the youth centers last year alone; There are limits to ask people to do more with less, while needs are increasing. There is a moment when all these compressions endanger our young people. It is seen, in particular, in the prevention of suicide: the interventions must now be done on the phone since, in some youth centers, the support teams, formed of psychologists, have been abolished to save money, "denounced Jean-François Lisée. . 
"How can the Minister delegated to the Protection of Youth, Lucie Charlebois think that stakeholders will better prevent suicide by working in a custody, on the phone? It's completely absurd and put our young people already vulnerable in a dangerous situation, which compromises their safety. Stakeholders find themselves unable to accomplish their work of prevention, support and support, "added the spokesman. 
Recall that before liberal austerity, Suicide Action Montreal was more than 350 health workers each year. Since April 1st, this figure has gone to zero. The situation is the same in the other regions of Quebec: the Quebec Association for Suicide Prevention formed in 2015-16, 660 speakers less than in 2014-15, while it had formed 1875. C ' Is all the more unacceptable as in its report for the youth center of Laval, André Lebon indicated that the establishment of good practices had reduced and even eliminate suicides in accommodation resources. 
"We are asking the government to take advantage of the revision of Laloi on the protection of youth to hold general states on the youth centers in this fall. Another episode should not be expected as the Fugues at the Laval Youth Center to act; We must now give back to the youth centers the $ 20 million have been removed from them, to provide them with the means to protect and accompany young people, and take the time to reflect that is necessary as to the way we takes care of our young people, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
