Quebec, on April 25, 2017- While the United States announces the imposition of compensatory duties on Canadian lumber, the spokesperson for the Quebecois Forest Party, Sylvain Roy, takes note of the announcement of the Government of Quebec for the forestry sector, but remains prudent about the actual effectiveness of the ESSOR program. The Quebec-Canada relations spokespersons, Nicolas Marceau, and international relations, Stéphane Bergeron, deplore the inaction of the Trudeau government on this issue. 
In brief - the Parti Québécois asked for a loan guarantee program for months to help the forest sector.- The devil is in the details; We will carefully monitor eligibility criteria to ensure that aid is really a good port. The official opposition deplores the Trudeau government when it comes to defending the Quebec forestry sector. ** 
"One can only desolate deeply from the United States' decision which, in addition to the disastrous effects it will have on exports, will create an imbalance in our own domestic market, penalizing some more than others, and This, in a totally arbitrary way. But if this aspect of the decision is unpublished, and very unfortunate, no one is really surprised. This conflict has been continuing for years, and it has been months of anticipating the result. It is clear that the Liberal government has not been able to put this time to profit, "said Stéphane Bergeron. 
"After months to procrastinate, after months of inaction, after his failure to defend the interests of the forest workers with the federal government, after months to refuse to engage, or to commit but to nothing Doing more, the Quebec government finally announces today a support program for the forest industry. But will be really effective? This program aims to support projects of expansion and investment, while companies affected by the forestry crisis will be in survival mode, "said Sylvain Roy on his side. 
The Parti Québécois requires public rendered all the details of the eligibility requirements for the program. "The last time the Liberal government has put in place a program of loan guarantees - the reinforcement program, in 2008 - it was a real nightmare for companies. They could not qualify because of the eligibility criteria too restrictive, "added the spokesman. 
Governments, both in Quebec City and Ottawa failed to defend our interests  "We noticed it when filing the budget, and again on the 6th of April, during the sadness of the Minister of Forests, who admitted his failure to represent Quebeckers against the federal government: in the wood record of The Government of Quebec has so far been unable to defend the interests of Quebec to Ottawa! Nicolas Marceau pointed out. 
"For his part, yesterday, before the statement that there would be imposition of countervailing duties, the Government of Justin Trudeau finally stated that it will" defend [IT] vigorously the interests of the Canadian softwood lumber industry. , including using the courts ". This quote is taken from the communiqué of the Ministers Jim Carr and Chrystia Freeland. You may be sure that the Parti Québécois will not forget this commitment, "said the member. 
