Passage at the Fjord Museum, the Bay, the leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, the candidates of the region of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, Sylvain Gaudreault (Jonquière), Mireille Jean (Chicoutimi), Marie- Annick Fortin (Dubuc), William Fradette (Lac-Saint-Jean), Thomas Gaudreault (Roberval), as well as the members of the Environment Team, Marc Bourcier (Saint-Jérôme), Daniel Breton (Saint-Hyacinthe), Norman Beauregard (Louis-Hébert), Jacques Tétreault (Johnson) and Cédric Gagnon-Ducharme (Borduas), presented the most ambitious plan ever unveiled by a political training of importance to deal with the climate crisis. "Above all, we must have the political will to implement it. And we have, indisputably, "said the leader of the Parti Québécois immediately. 
IN SHORT 
The ambitious plan of the Parti Québécois to combat the climate crisis relies on 7 main pillars: 
Governance: Prime Minister, Jean-François Lisé will keep responsibility for sustainable development. It will adopt a law affirming the primacy of the competence of Quebec on the environment, and a "climate anti-ficility" law. The programs of the Green Fund will be revised in depth. 
Transportation: We will focus on electrification, large unblocking, teleworking, carpooling, autoparting and collective and active transport to significantly reduce GHG emissions. 
Spatial planning: The Parti Québécois government will ensure that urban planning and development of our living environments are compatible with a healthy environment. 
The Circular Economy: The Partician government will include environmental factors in the parameters of public tenders and will be obstructing the linear cycle "manufacture, consume, throw". 
Industry: We will actively support innovative companies that contribute to the green economy. 
The buildings: we will boost the wood charter and will save Quebeckers through more energy-efficient homes. 
Hydrocarbons: No new hydrocarbon project will be allowed, and exploration and exploitation permits will be gradually removed. 
"Never has been so serious, as determined to combat effectively against the climate crisis, to curb the degradation of our environment than the next government of the Parti Québécois. Our first budget will resolutely be that of the green turn. Beyond the speeches that are too often incantations to mask inaction, we, we affirm our real political will to bequeath to future generations a greener Quebec, a world leader of the preservation of the environment and the Clean technologies, "added Jean-François Lisée. 
For its part, Sylvain Gaudreault clarified that all the measures contained in the Partician Plan have reduced GHG emissions by 12.7 million tonnes in 2025; It is 23% less than the 1990 rates. "To adequately meet the global warming, it is the challenge of our century. No effort should be made to reach our targets. It is not only about the quality of life of our children and theirs, but also the very survival of our species. The time is no longer to "measurettes" to which the Liberals were used to us. As for the CAQ, it does not even take it into account; The subject is absent from his financial framework, "he lamented. 
"As an entrepreneur, I have always granted a lot of importance to our collective ecological footprint. If I am here, with the Parti Québécois, it is, among other things, because we are the most serious about the environment. We have been in our fight against energy pipeline is. We have been when we bravely chose to turn the nuclear back. We are again today, with our commitment firm to prohibit any new hydrocarbon project in Quebec ", also indicated Mireille John. 
Particularly enthusiastic about the plan presented today, Daniel Breton is categorical: "Finally, courage, ambition! Each of the measures in our plan will accelerate the energy transition, become an emergency. There is also the adoption of a "climate anti-ficility" law, which will now require all governments that will follow one another in Quebec to respond from their environmental actions before an independent entity. Finally, there will be no possible escape, "he said. 
"It's simple: what we propose to Quebeckers today is a change in mentality, the transition to a new era. From now on, all government actions will be considered in terms of the energy transition or the fight against global warming. We will do an obsession. It is our duty to future generations, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
The Climate Platform of the Parti Québécois is available at: 
Https: // fi is eating but. Temper .org / electricization2018 / place form E / PQ-Plate Form E - Charlum 7.pdf 
