Quebec- The member for Verchères and sentence of the official opposition in terms of ethics and integrity, Stéphane Bergeron, finds that Prime Minister Philippe Couillard, deploying as much effort to ensure the return to position and the Appointment of Jacques Turgeon as CEO of the Chum, withdraws, in a way, the confidence he has now granted to his Minister of Health. In front of such a disavowal, Gaétan Barrette has no choice but to leave his duties. 
"With the return of Jacques Turgeon to the head of the Chum, the Prime Minister confirms that his minister has slipped. As several resigned leaders said, Gaétan Barrette has used blackmail and bullying to impose his views. It therefore no longer has any credibility to continue to lead the largest government department, while the Prime Minister had to intervene to guarantee Jacques Turgeon that he will be able to administer his establishment safe from interference and intimidation of the Minister of Health. In the circumstances, Gaétan Barrette has no choice but to resign, "said Stéphane Bergeron. 
"As if it were not enough, to illustrate the discredit in which Gaétan Barrette is now, the Prime Minister benefits from the absence of his minister to repair broken pots. This crisis is not linked to Jacques Turgeon's return or not to the head of the Chum, but to the minister's unacceptable acts. By doing everything to maintain the Chief Executive Officer in place, the Prime Minister confirms having tied behind his version of the facts. We reiterate our independent investigation request on the actions of the minister and the potential other cases of interference in appointments, "he added. 
"The return of Jacques Turgeon is a good thing for the CHUM; This will ensure an adequate transition and reassure the medical profession, the population and the patients, who did not need this crisis created from all parts by the minister. Rather than putting the chum in guardianship, as some planned it, it is his minister that Philippe Couillard has put in guardianship. Should we now understand that Gaétan Barrette is minister, except for CHUM? And what guarantee do we have that he will not do the same thing in other health facilities? Its credibility is irreparably compromised; He must leave, "concluded Stéphane Bergeron. 
