Bromont- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, announced the award of a $ 300,000 grant at the Miqro Innovation Collaboration Center (C2MI) so that it can Support the activities of the Niche of the Quebec Electronic Systems Industry (CISISQ) of the Estrie and Montérégie regions. The strategic plan, which will be tabled shortly, will confirm the new areas of intervention, among other things, to the change of niche naming. 
Financial support, granted through the Academy Development Support Fund, will extend over three years. It will continue the efforts undertaken to develop new projects and ensure the continuity of activities. 
"Among the priorities of our government, those who are at the top of the list are the support of our companies and the development of our niches of excellence in all regions of Quebec," said Élaine Zakaïb. "We are therefore proud to support C2IM as well as CISISQ, which strengthen our expertise within the electronic systems industry in addition to contributing to the development of the niche of the regions of the Estrie and Montérégie. » 
The Minister Zakaïb also helped to welcome the appointment of Mr. Jocelyn Lafrance, who has been acting as Director of CISISQ since last fall and who has led, as such, the development of the strategic plan. 
C2MI, niche hosting organization, is a research and development center of electronic systems and a center of excellence for the accelerated marketing of new products. He is a major partner of CISISQ. 
"Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we will be able to ensure the implementation of our strategic plan and thus position our industry as a key player supporting the entire economic development of the other sectors of Quebec since the microelectronics is omnipresent", has Supported the director of the niche, Jocelyn Lafrance. "We will also be able to better promote the activities of our niche, which generate important economic benefits for our regions. » 
The Agreement (concerted action of regional development cooperation) is a priority for government action to boost the economy of the regions of Quebec. It relies on the regional forces, mobilization and dynamism of business people as well as on the search for excellence in the key sectors of Quebec. It aims to build a competitive regional productive system on the North American and global level in each of the regions of Quebec, by the definition and development of niches of excellence that will become their brand image. 
CISISQ includes multinational companies, SMEs and research and development agencies in the Estrie and Montérégie regions. This niche is distinguished by its dynamism, the implementation of its action plan, the structuring nature of its projects and the mobilization of its actors. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
