Sherbrooke- The Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Elders and Minister responsible for the Estrie Region, Mr. Réjean Hébert, announced, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to the Industrial Policy and the Bank of Economic Development of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the granting of $ 300,000 financial assistance at the Health and Social Services Center - Sherbrooke Gérérian Institute (CSSS-IUGS), for the development of the niche Agreement aging and autonomy, newly named mid-innovation. 
"Sherbrooke and Estrie are pioneers in research on aging. Our research institutions have made it possible to develop a real knowledge with regard to gerontology. Time has now come to give itself the tools they need to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to know how to find out " The Sage-Innovation Agreement, by the help of its new director, Ms. Chantal Michel, will allow the creation of innovative companies around elderly people, that is to say in the gray economy. There is a whole economic sector to create around elderies, whether pharmaceuticals, services, transportation, real estate development, etc. , "Said Minister Hébert. 
"The new name of the niche Agreement, Sage-Innovation, describes in a few words the essence of this vision of economic development. Estrie is distinguished by its creativity and innovation in several spheres of activity. It's our uniqueness and our added value. Innovation will also be part of aging niche. The word? Certainly a wink to the wisdom of our elderly people, but even more, it is an acronym for health, autonomy, gerontotechnologies and Estrie, "said Minister Hébert. 
Thus, thanks to the development support program of the strategic sectors and niches of excellence, the hiring of Ms. Chantal Michel has been made possible. Ms. Michel has a doctorate in the field of physiology / biology and a degree in technology transfer. It has collaborated with companies and specialized technology transfer and technology development facilities. 
"In parallel with an assessment made over the past year, the niche started its strategic planning and the development of its new action plan while taking into account its more oriented repositioning towards the areas of aging and autonomy. Remember Réjean Hébert. "The hiring of a person dedicated to coordination was therefore necessary to ensure the implementation of the projects derived from the Action Plan. Our government is very proud to support the growth of the niche. » 
In close relationship with the different socio-economic actors and the members of the niche committee, the Director will assume various responsibilities of organization, collaboration, monitoring, planning and support while being the main resource person in the niche. 
"Our government has clearly committed to ensuring that each of Quebec regions succeeding in a sustainable way, putting on its strengths, attractions and expertise," said Zakaïb Élain. "The mobilization and consultation of the environment in structuring projects such as agreement is essential to the realization of new approaches to the creation and economic development of jobs and wealth. » 
The Estrie region has national and internationally recognized expertise in the areas of aging and autonomy. The niche of excellence can count on a multidisciplinary and transsecterial network of actors working for the preservation of the autonomy of people weakened by age and chronic diseases. When he has filed his new strategy and action plan, the niche will be able to sign a new five-year implementation agreement. 
The CSSS-IUGS coordinates all the general and specialized services offered to the elderly as well as training, research and knowledge sharing. It is the only health center in Quebec, which has a double university designation. In addition to being recognized as an academic affiliate center, it is one of the two academic institutes of Geriatrics of the province and it is home to one of the largest aging research center in Canada. 
"The support of the Government of Quebec allows us to continue the creation of added value for niche members by stimulating cooperation between individuals, businesses and institutions in the network. This sector occupies a preponderant place in the regional economy, "said the Director General of the CSSS-IUGS and co-chair of the niche of excellence, Mr. Carol Fillion. 
"Thanks to the implementation of structuring projects as well as the engagement of companies and organizations from the niche of excellence, we can contribute to the socio-economic growth of Estrie," said Mrs. Lise Compança , president of the Regional Committee Agreement. 
The Agreement (concerted action of regional development cooperation) is a priority for government action to boost the economy of the regions of Quebec. It relies on the regional forces, on the mobilization and dynamism of business people as well as on the search for excellence in the key sectors of Quebec. It aims to build a competitive regional productive system on the North American and global plans in each of the regions of Quebec, by the definition and development of niches of excellence that can become their brand image. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
