Labelle- The member for Labelle, Chairman of the Government Caucus and Head of the Laurentians Region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, announced, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to the Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank of Quebec, Ms. élain Zakaïb, the award of a $ 147,500 Wooden Signature Grant for a project to commission five green trucks valued at $ 295,000. In addition, a financial contribution of $ 30,000 from the Laurentian elected representatives. 
The aid granted will allow Wood Signature Laurentides, the agent of the implementation of the strategy and the niche action plan with the same name, to use the services of FPInnovations as a project manager to promote The use and implantation of these green trucks among the industrial partners of the niche of excellence whose activities are particularly related to transport. Green trucks are named as well because they will reduce fuel consumption in the order of 10% compared to current consumption and an increase of 2 tonnes of the use payload of forest trucks. 
"The implementation of green trucks is a promising and sustainable project for the economy and growth of our region, which is recognized as a leader in the management of the mixed forest," said Sylvain Pagé. "We are proud to support this project, which will boost our forest transport while promoting newer technologies. These trucks will serve as a showcase to improve, possibly, the energy and technological profile of the entire fleet, composed of 200 forest trucks, the Hautes-Laurentides region. » 
"The Laurentian Wood Signature project is part of a vision of sustainable development that our government shares entirely," says Zakaïb. "Quebec Industrial Policy 2013-2017 is also aimed at the modernization and greening of our manufacturing companies. In addition to helping to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, this project will equip companies operating in the advanced wood processing sector, thus ensuring our competitiveness and the growth of our expertise in this niche of the future for the Quebec. » 
Signature Wood Laurentides is a non-profit organization responsible for coordinating the strategy and implementation of the Action Plan of the Niche of Excellence of the same name in the Laurentian region. 
"Thanks to our green truck project, we will diminish the energy consumption of our transport fleet, in addition to making it more efficient and modern," supported the President of Wood Signature Laurentides, Mr. Raymond Paquette. "It's an innovative and unifying project for businesses in our region, which place the sustainable forest development and the rise of our industrial timber sector among their priorities. » 
The Agreement project (concerted action of regional development cooperation) is a strategic approach to regional economic development resulting from an initiative of the Government of Quebec. The project relies on regional forces and the search for excellence in the key sectors of Quebec. It aims to build a North American and global competitive regional productive system in each of the regions of Quebec, by the definition and development of slopes of excellence that will become their brand image. 
The Niche of Excellence Wood Signature Laurentides includes forestry companies as well as the first, second and third processing of the Bois of the Laurentians region. This niche is distinguished by its dynamism, the implementation of its action plan, the structuring nature of its projects as well as the mobilization of its actors. 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
