Quebec- Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, and the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, have Announced a consultation tour with the aim of developing a strategic vision of economic development of the Corridor of Highway between Sorel-Tracy and Vaudreuil-Soulanges in Montérégie. 
This approach will challenge the elected officials and representatives of the partner organizations of the three regional elected representatives of the Montérégie concerned by the project, CRE Valley-Du-Saint-Saint-Laurent, CRE of Montérégie-Est and the CRE of the agglomeration of Longueuil, the Aboriginal community of Kahnawake and the metropolitan area. It aims to ensure a common and comprehensive understanding of the different issues related to economic growth along Highway 30. 
"Thanks to this consultation tour, we will be able to mobilize our partners to develop and implement a coherent, shared and strategic vision promoting the sustainable development of the Corridor of Highway 30," said Élaine Zakaïb. "We are convinced that this approach will have positive benefits for all Montérégie and the metropolitan area. This is an important project that requires the commitment of all the actors concerned. » 
In May 2013, an interdepartmental committee composed of eight ministers was established to develop a government strategic vision on the Corridor of Sorel-Tracy Highway in Vaudreuil-Soulanges in Montérégie and a related development plan. This committee, co-chaired by the Ministers Élaine Zakaïb and Sylvain Gaudreault, reports to the Ministerial Committee of the Metropolitan Area. 
"Highway 30 will provide the metropolitan area of a bypass by southern Montreal Island to reduce motorway network congestion," said Sylvain Gaudreault. "It is therefore essential to focus on a common vision of economic development that will comply with the vocation of Highway 30 and the Government Guidelines for the Development and Development of the Territory, throughout the Montérégie. » 
The consultation process for the partners will be led by Minister Zakaïb and the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport and Minister responsible for the Montérégie Region, Mrs Marie Malavoy. "Highway 30 has a high potential for development. Business opportunities and projects that emerge from east to west are numerous and will make it possible to make this road a motor of economic development for the Montérégie, "commented Malavoy. 
In addition, the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Minister responsible for the Montreal Region and Chair of the Departmental Committee of the Metropolitan Area, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, will participate in the Consultation Day of Metropolitan Partners While the Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs, Mrs. Elizabeth Larouche, will be present at the Kahnawake community members' consultation day. 
The consultations will take place on 18, 22 and 25 November 2013. They will begin with the representatives of the Valley-Du-Saint-Saint-Laurent, to continue with those of the agglomeration of Longueuil and the Montérégie-Est and end With the partners of Kahnawake and the Greater Montreal area. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
