Montreal- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced the conclusion of an equity interest of $ 8 million in equity share capital in the company Montrealer Beyond The Rack, recognized as an e-commerce leader in Canada. 
The $ 25 million funding round, which participated by other partners, including IRIS Capital and the Tandem Expansion Fund, aimed to support the company in its growth strategy in the longer term. Current investors, Highland Capital Partners, Panorama Capital, BDC Venture Capital IT Fund as well as Inovia Capital, also contributed to the investment project. 
"The e-commerce market has a remarkable growth in both Quebec and elsewhere in the world, and Beyond The Rack is a deemed economic actor who contributes to the vitality of this industry," said Zakaïb. "We are proud to support a growing promising business, creating jobs and prosperity for Quebec. » 
Founded in 2009 by MM. Yona Shtern and Robert Gold, Beyond The Rack is a Montreal company that specializes in online sales, through short-term private events, and offers its 10 million customers a coveted assortment of scratched clothes as well. that accessories for home and cookware at prices up to 80% lower than retail prices. The company, which employed 4 people in its first stammers, now has more than 440 permanent employees, 332 of whom are working at Montreal's head office, located in the borough of Saint-Laurent. 
"This new round of financing will allow us to have the means for our ambitions with a view to developing our private trademark and investing in improving our performance, particularly in terms of logistics and diversification of our Customer, "said Yona Shtern, President and Co-Founder of Beyond The Rack. 
Investissement Québec's mission is to promote investment growth in Quebec, thus contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The company puts companies with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity capital investment, in order to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, it is responsible for the administration of tax measures and prospecting investments abroad. 
