Saguenay - Passage Today in Saguenay, the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, announced investments of $ 7,625,000 for the development of the St. Lawrence and his positioning as a key tourist destination for cruises. international. 
An envelope of $ 5.9 million is made available to ensure the continuation of the cruise strategy support program. This program will allow Tourisme Québec to prioritize the realization of tourist infrastructure projects in the six stops hosting international cruise ships in Saguenay, Baie-Comeau, Sept-Îles, Havre-Saint-Pierre, in Gaspésie as well as In the Islands of the Madeleine. 
In addition to this amount, as part of the tourism industry development program, the granting of $ 1,725,000 financial support to the St. Lawrence Cruises Association (ACSL) for the realization of its 2013-2016 action plan. The aid granted is distributed as follows: $ 500,000 in 2013-2014, $ 600,000 in 2014-2015 and $ 625,000 in 2015-2016. The cost of this plan focused on stopover, on the basis of international cruise companies as well as the quality of the service at destination, amounts to $ 6 million. 
These major investments are complementary to $ 63.7 million announced on 17 October by the Minister, as part of the Employment Priority Policy. The development of the St. Lawrence was then presented as a key factor of growth contributing to the rise of tourism in Quebec. 
"The St. Lawrence is an even young international cruise destination, its notoriety is growing, but the quality of tourist experience must further progress in a context of global expanding and constant growth, where competition unfolds and intensifies. To promote the growth of this industry and ensure the sustainability, as well as to make the significant investments made, it is imperative for the Government to continue supporting stopovers. I am particularly proud to confirm at the ACSL an increased financial support that will deploy over a period of three years. This gesture testifies to the confidence that Tourisme Québec grants this leading partner that is successfully involved in the tourist success of Quebec. The ACSL is a market for marketing the most efficient internationally. The performance of international cruises testifies, "said Minister Bérubé. 
According to the President of the ACSL, Ms. Priscilla Nemey, "these major contributions will continue to continue the momentum of the ACSL to consolidate the St. Lawrence destination, which will move from the emerging stage to an important stage of growth." 
In addition, the development of tourism offer must further progress in stops. The $ 5.9 million envelope will support initiatives that will contribute to enriching the power of attraction of the communities that have chosen to invest in international cruises as avenue for diversification of their economies, and stepping stone towards the creation of employment. 
Any series of initiatives is advantageously in the implementation of the 2012-2020 tourism industry development plan, with regard to the commitment of Tourisme Québec to continue supporting international cruise stopovers and Propel the St. Lawrence to the leading tourist icons. 
The trend that manifests itself on a widest scale for the entire St. Lawrence indicates that the 2013 performance will equal that of the 2012 season. It should be remembered that then, just over 230,000 cruisers and 90,000 crew members had Visited the different stopovers, an increase of 60% compared to the previous season. For the 2014 season, there is a significant increase in performance. 
