Great Entry - The Map of the Madeleine Islands, Ms. Jeannine Richard, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, announced the granting of financial assistance by Tourisme Québec from $ 138,067 at the inn. Salicorn, great entrance. 
The allocated financial assistance will improve the hostel facilities to make it a tourist product of excellence for international cruise clientele. The amenities will improve the welcoming of visitors and facilitate travel to relaxation activities and discoveries offered to cruise practices. 
"The development of the St. Lawrence as a destination for international cruises rests, among other things, on the dynamism of the regions and that of the tourist partners. These are quality projects, such as that of Salicorn, which contribute to diversifying the clientele basin and, as a result, increase tourist revenues for Quebec. In the Magdalen Islands, the international cruise sector has become an element of great pride and I am pleased that the tourism attendant objectives planned for the 2014 season will be more than largely achieved, "said the member Richard. 
According to the Director of Salicorn, Mr. Robert St-Onge, the contribution of Tourisme Québec will help meet the high demands of international cruise customers. "For Salicorn, international cruises constitute a great opportunity to develop the tourist season. The contribution of Tourisme Québec will allow us to reorganize the reception area on the site, and the area of relaxation and activities located on the mound. We would like to thank the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé as well as our member Ms. Jeannine Richard, for their important contribution and support for our social economy company, "said St-Onge. 
Remember that in 2010, projections for the International Cruises season in the Madeleine Islands set up a number of 5,000 passengers in 2014. To date, reservations set up 10,400 the number of passengers that will stop at the islands of Madeleine by the same period. These results reflect the trend that manifests itself widely for the entire St. Lawrence while the unparalleled performance of 2012 will soon be exceeded. Remember that a little more than 230,000 cruises and 90,000 crew members had visited the various stops, a 60% increase compared to the previous season. 
The 2012-2020 Tourism Industry Development Plan, in the rest of the implementation of lastgia of sustainable development and promotion of international cruises on the St. Lawrence River, the commitment of Tourisme Québec to continue until In 2016, in collaboration with the St. Lawrence Cruises Association, the accompaniment of international cruise stopovers. This measure aims to make Quebec a must-see and original global caliber destination by, among others, the development of this sector of activity. 
