Montreal- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, supports the Urban Serres project Lufa Inc.This New company is added to the Cycle-C3E priming fund portfolio , including part of the funding comes from Investissement Québec, which injected $ 16.5 million as a senior sponsor. 
This fund intended for starting companies, and managed by Cycle Capital Management, aims to strengthen the sector of specific technologies in Quebec. It is supported by managers who have recognized expertise in several areas essential to the creation of technology companies. 
Active in the urban agriculture sector, the company Lufa Farms inc. benefits from an investment of $ 1.3 million from the Cycle-C3e S.E.C priming fund. This financial support will be used primarily to build two new farms in the Montreal area. His project consists of transforming roofs into market gardening. Thus, the leaders of Lufa Farms inc. Have been the first in the world to design a commercial greenhouse on the roof of a building. Located in Ahuntsic-Cartierville, this new model of responsible agriculture makes it possible to feed nearly 2,000 people a week. This project is part of the government's willingness to reach food sovereignty for Quebec. 
"Lufa Farms inc. is an innovative company that puts forward a single project in the current trend of urban agriculture. This project combines both advanced energy efficiency technologies, computer technologies, agronomic knowledge and evolutionary distribution system. Increasingly, organizations around the world are interested in clean technologies. They constitute a means of growth and a source of efficiency, but also a competitive advantage. In this regard, I firmly believe that prosperous economic development involves respecting the fundamental principles of sustainable development, "said Minister Zakaïb. 
A recent study produced by EcoTech Québec, in collaboration with the Québec Filing and Investment Fund, demonstrates that Quebec has the assets needed to draw its game pin into the energy efficiency, biomass and residual materials sectors. . 
"It is clear that Quebec can become a model in several sectors of activity related to green technologies. Like France and California, Quebec must commit to promoting the emergence of clean technologies to give an environmental component to its economy. The green economy goes through projects like that of Farms Lufa inc., A project welcomed by both the financial sector and environmentalists. By financially contributing to the start of clean technology companies, Quebec has demonstrated that it is possible to reconcile economic growth and sustainable development, "added Ms. Zakaïb. 
