Drummondville - The Quebec Prime Minister and Head of the Quebecois, Pauline Marois, presents his candidate in the riding of Drummond-Bois-Francs, Daniel Lebel. 
"I am pleased to count Daniel in the Parti Québécois team. I am convinced that this engineer and businessman will gain the confidence of his fellow citizens in the riding of Drummond-Bois-Francs. It will be an undeniable asset in the pursuit of our fight against corruption and collusion, "said Pauline Marois. 
Daniel Lebel was President of the Order of Engineers of Quebec since 2012. He founded in 2000 Managing Consulting Group, a company specialized in industrial engineering located in Drummondville. Mr. Lebel holds a Bachelor's degree in Mechanical Engineering from the School of Technology. 
"I'm proud to commit me to Pauline Marois and his team. Several structuring projects have been realized in Drummondville since the arrival of the government of the Parti Québécois, which is thought only at the UQTR University campus in Drummondville, at the Fairs Center or the new Drummond CSSS child-child center. All this in only 18 months. But, above all, it is the concrete actions of the Government of Pauline Marois to combat corruption and collusion in the construction sector that motivates me to engage politically. The people of Drummond-Bois? Francs can count on me and on my integrity to defend their interests, "said Daniel Lebel. 
Pauline Marois wanted to recall the decisions made by the government of the Parti Québécois in terms of integrity. "The government's first commitment was to combat corruption. In 18 months, we repaired the mess left with 9 years of Liberal government, "she said. 
The first law filed by the government has been laboratory promoting public contract integrity. Note that after more than 4000 verifications made and 235 contracting authorizations issued by the Autorité des marchés financiers in one year, the effects on the practices of companies doing business with the state are already tangible. Indeed, the cost of contracts drops, resulting in savings for Quebeckers. 
Among the actions laid down by the Government, Outrela reform the financing of political parties, include a new contract management action plan at the Ministry of Transport - which has saved $ 240 million in one year - law 10 To meet its functions an elected municipal accused of criminal, and the filing of a bill to recover the amounts paid unfairly by the state to the construction industry. The Government has also eliminated the union placement and introduces a new reference service of the construction industry. 
"The new government culture about the fight against corruption and collusion already makes concrete results, for the benefit of all Quebeckers. I am proud of these achievements. We are determined to continue this important work to maintain the bond of trust between the population and its institutions, in order to build a stronger Quebec, "concluded the Prime Minister. 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
