Sherbrooke- The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Elders and Minister responsible for the Estrie Region, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and The member for Sherbrooke, Mr. Serge Cardin, are pleased to announce the construction of two schools and the expansion of a third for an investment of $ 19.76 million in Estrie. 
"It is with great pleasure that I announce the construction of two schools in the Rock Forest borough, at a cost of $ 17.03 million, and the long-awaited enlargement of the Garden-des-Lacs School. In Saint-Denis-de-Brompton, which is $ 2.73 million. These investments demonstrate that education is the priority of our government. Thanks to these projects, 43 new classes, or 35 in Rock Forest and 8 at the Garden-des-Lakes School, will host the students of the School-of-Sherbrooke School Board. That's enough to communicate the taste and pleasure of learning! Ms. Malavoy said. 
"This year, continued the minister, we will build 23 schools and finance 46 enlargements throughout Quebec, for a global sum of $ 460 million, the double year last year! » 
In total, nearly $ 8.1 billion will be invested in Quebec school infrastructure within ten years. Whether it's addressed, as for the projects announced today, holding assets or other initiatives, these investments testify to the unwavering control of the government to provide quality educational services. Students, in environments conducive to learning and fulfillment, while ensuring sound management of public funds. 
"I am delighted for the citizens of the communities covered by these projects. These infrastructure investments will have direct benefits on services to the population as well as the well-being and quality of life of family-owned families. By responding to important needs of premises and space for students and school staff, our government contributes to social progress and vitality of the economy. It's about me a real vision for Quebec, "said Dr. Hébert. 
"As a member of Parliament for Sherbrooke, I am particularly pleased to take part in this ad. Our government is showing that it is listening to the population and that it poses concrete gestures to offer accessible and sufficient school buildings. The construction of two primary schools in Sherbrooke is an excellent news, "said Cardin. 
Thank Aplan Quebec Infrastructure 2013-2023, the government ensures renewing and improving infrastructure in all sectors, including educational institutions, road network, public transit, health facilities and services. social infrastructure, cultural facilities, social housing and public safety institutions. 
As soon as it comes to power, the government of the Parti Québécois has taken up cleaning in investment projects. The ten-year horizon of the 2013-2023 Infrastructure Plan to evaluate the needs prospectively, depending on the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the associated costs and thus to make the right choices for Quebec. This new way of doing things in planning and infrastructure management is based on honesty, integrity and rigor. 
