Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu- It is with enthusiasm that the Quebecois Party of Saint-Jean announces that after the closure of the nomination period and according to the statutes of the Parti Québécois, Dave Turcotte, current member for Saint- Jean and Deputy Whip of the government, will be the candidate of the Parti Québécois for the riding of Saint-Jean for the next election. 
"It is without hesitation that I decided to shine again the votes in the riding of Saint John, under the banner of the party in which I have been involved for many years, the Parti Québécois". 
"I made that decision because I want, in collaboration with the citizens of the riding, to meet many new challenges, which will make it possible to improve in a concrete and sustainable manner the quality of life and the well-being of the citizens of Saint John. I pledge to continue the work already started and carry out future packaging projects, "declare Dave Turcotte. 
Dave Turcotte, in mandate for nearly 5 years, has an impressive record of achievements to his credit. Among other things, among others, the establishment of 8 new classes and a gymnasium for the four-vents school, the beginning of the work at the Hospital of Haut-Richelieu, the aid sustained and constant to the victims during Spring 2011 floods, the struggle for school dropout and illiteracy, the granting of the work of the urbanization of the Saint-Luc Boulevard and the obtaining of more than 600 new places in CPE for the families of the constituency. These are all achievements that have a real and tangible impact in improving the living conditions of the people of Saint John. 
"It's a privilege and pride of having a candidate as exemplary as Dave Turcotte for the next election. Dave is very involved in our party, it is very generous of its time and attracts particular importance to each of the citizens. It is very motivating for us to know that we can count on the support of our candidate and deputy at any time. So we are going to carry out this campaign to re-elevated for a 3rd consecutive time, Mr. Dave Turcotte as a member of the Quebecois Party in Saint John, "concluded Monica Bernier, president of the Quebecois Party of Saint John. 
