Quebec- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, emphasizes the start of the work of the Parliamentary Commission on Health and Social Services on the living conditions of adults hosted in the center of Long-term accommodation and care (CHSLD). 
"In carrying out this mandate, the Commission will help to inform our reflection on this component of the quality of life of the elders, of which our government has made one of its top priorities. Listening to the population and our partners is a way of highlighting current best practices, while defining innovative and sustainable solutions to the challenges of our network. I will therefore be carefully welcoming the report of the Commission and I carefully analyze its conclusions, "said Dr. Hébert. 
The minister reiterated that it deems essential the improvement of the living conditions of hosted adults and the quality of life in CHSLD. "As soon as our entry, our government took note of the recommendations made in particular by the Auditor General of Quebec in this matter, and we quickly implemented measures to improve the situation," he added. 
In particular, Minister Hébert mentioned the significant efforts made by his Government for the redevelopment of the accommodation and implementation facilities of the environmental approach. Investments have been and will be made to revitalize and modernize CHSLDs that have become obsolete, in several regions of Quebec. In addition, the process of ministerial assessment visits in CHSLD has been revised. These visits have increased significantly and are now carried out with the participation of organizations defending the rights of residents and seniors. 
The minister also evoked other measures of great reach, such as an awareness campaign for elder abuse and the mandate entrusted to the Chair of Research on Merchandance to the elderly of the University. Sherbrooke, which will develop the tools needed to make the fight in the hosting environment as effectively. He also recalled the establishment of a table of partners to discuss issues related to the elders of Quebec. 
The minister reiterated the place reserved for institutional accommodation, complementarity with other available formulas, such as intermediate resources, different innovative or cooperative models as well as home support. "Our government does an important job to develop an offer of care and services adapted to seniors, whether at home, intermediate resources or CHSLD. We are convinced that accommodation institutions have an important role in our vast autonomy insurance project. Indeed, there will always be people who will require this type of living environment given the extent of their loss of autonomy and the magnitude of the services they require. In this sense, CHSLDs are essential partners in our network and will continue to be in the future, "the minister concluded. 
