Quebec - Parti Québécois includes concerns raised by local populations concerning the application of 50% for the protection of the territory of the North Plan. "These concerns were born because the Liberal government did not properly explain its intentions and the impacts of this measure. It's always blurry elsewhere. The Liberal government must now present the studies on which it is based to move forward and reassure local populations. Before going further, the government must unveil the impact studies he has done. " 
That said the member for the Assumption and Spokesman for the Official Opposition on the Environment, Sustainable Development and Parks, Scott McKay, at a few hours from the beginning of a public consultation that Start tonight at Baie-Comeau on the protection of 50% of the territory of the North Plan. "You have to hope that this consultation is not piked in advance and does not fit into a marketing operation. These consultations will be a reflection of the real desire to protect the territory of the government for the North Plan and its ability to listen to the concerns and proposals of the Quebec population and the communities concerned, "said McKay. 
For the official opposition, it is imperative that Nordic development is done by associating local communities. Now, so far, the Liberal government has failed, as pointed out by the member for UNGAVA and the official opposition on the Nordic development, Luc Ferland, after trading with his fellow citizens. "Beyond the announcements by Prime Minister Jean Charest concerning some infrastructure projects and promotional tours outside Quebec, very little regional information has allowed citizens to get a clear idea of what this North Plan represents for The North-du-Québec region. It is not normal for a project of this scope remains unknown for residents of the main region concerned, "he said. 
The Parti Québécois advocates integrated resource management. "Conservation is an economic development engine. It is not enough to protect 50% of the territory, it is necessary to make this protection a real growth lever for the affected circles and all Quebec. It must become a large sustainable development project for Quebec. The areas to be protected must be subjected to a rigorous analysis. We must ensure that these are indeed the most important territories that will be subject to protection. In this sense, local communities are the best to judge, "added Mr. McKay. 
"The Liberal government is under surveillance, it is the champion of the eco-slip! But behind the beautiful environmental principles and the beautiful iced paper documents, there must be concrete and tangible for the regions of Quebec that are at the heart of the North Plan. So far, the only thing the citizens of these regions are witnesses are missions abroad of the Prime Minister, "concluded Scott McKay. 
