Quebec - "With the Government's proposed guidelines for the first Quebec Immigration Plan 2012-2015, the Parti Québécois remains circumspect facing the displayed ambitions and the means set up. To accommodate 50,000 newcomers a year, as the Liberal government wishes, Minister Kathleen Weil will imperatively demonstrate Quebec is able to welcome them and integrate them properly. " 
This is what the member for two-mountains and spokespersons for the official opposition on immigration, Benoit Charette, when the immigration consultation in Quebec is now begun. This consultation has a particular character since the Liberal government has not respected the spirit of the law and keeps this consultation with a year of delay. 
The desire to maintain a high intake threshold per year, while the capacity is not demonstrated, is worrying. "Maintaining a high threshold to reach 50,000 people a year in 2015 requires that the Liberal government take responsibility. It is therefore necessary to give themselves the means to integrate them into Quebec society. However, last year, the Auditor General has shown that the government was incapable and that it is sailing, "continued the member for Deux-Montagnes. 
Recall that in its 2010-2011 report, the auditor made the finding that the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities does not have socio-economic indicators to identify the actual capacity of Quebec to welcome and integrate into use. new arrivals. He even stated that without evaluation, the Department can only make sure Quebec is able to support the progressive increase in immigration volumes, while optimizing the impact of immigration on the development of Quebec. 
"You have to worry about the perspective where Minister Weil does not intend to have such indicators before 2012, as she said last month. Thus, the proposed thresholds do not correspond to the current capacity for integration of Quebec, "said Charette. 
More specifically, the Parti Québécois is questioned on the means that the Liberal government intends to give rise to increase the level of knowledge of French in the candidates of the category of skilled workers. The hon. Member for Deux-Montagnes will ask for explanations that the government does not help improve the functioning of the immigration candidate selection system in the different geographic basins of origin. "The paper selection includes too many gaps and this undermines a successful integration," said the member. 
Mr. Charette will discuss the minister on the desire to rebalance geographic basins, a measure to which the Parti Québécois does not subscribe. "A rebalancing for the benefit of Asia and America could jeopardize the proportion of French speaking people and decrease it. Without Francization Plan, integration is doomed to failure, "he supported. 
"In order for immigration to Quebec to be a success, the means must be given to effective integration. If the liberal past is guarantor of the future, the prospects are not shiny. A stroke is needed if we want to welcome all these people for the next few years, "concluded Benoit Charette. 
