Here is the speech by Stéphane Bergeron, Minister of Public Security, at the announcement of the establishment of a Special Spring 2012 Event Review Commission. 
The pronounced text is authentic 
"A year ago, at such a date, Quebec was plunged into one of the worst social crises in its history. In the minds of those who have been in the first lodges at these events, which we called the "maple spring" was and will remain an intense and unique moment in many ways. 
"The demonstrations, disruption actions, crowd control operations, judicial remedies, all the events that took place during this agitated period have resulted in various sequelae, some of which are always felt. 
"The entire population of Quebec, but particularly some associations, municipalities, businesses, as well as students have suffered the impacts of these events. 
"Municipalities, as well as police officers have had to adjust their ways to try to face this unprecedented situation, maintain social peace and ensure the safety of all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers. 
"These events and overflows have retained media attention from around the world. 
"I remain persuaded that the vast majority of Quebec police and police have acted with all the professionalism required in the circumstances. 
"However, particular situations have been mentioned, and I also invite people who felt injured in a police intervention to file a complaint, if they have not already done so, to the Commissioner for Police Ethics , which is the independent authority to examine the complaints made to the police.  Some 200 complaints have already been made to the Commissioner for Ethics in the wake of spring 2012 events and some have already resulted in procedures with the Police Ethics Committee, which has the power to sanction policemen who included the Code of Ethics policewoman. 
"That said, beyond individual cases, some, attitudes, practices and techniques, on both sides, have sparked questions, reservations and discounts in question. 
"In this crisis, the Government of the Liberal Party, then in power, has been extremely reluctant to negotiate with student organizations, recognizing neither legality nor the legitimacy of the strike movement. Hads a dialogue of deaf that only increased the tension, including between students, resulting in a judicialization of the conflict. 
"Lovers to mise the strike, the government went so far as to adopt under gagging Bill 78. 
"All these actions have gave any of the expected results. On the contrary, the demonstrations have been amplified as a result of the adoption of Bill 78. 
"We have always maintained that the right to demonstrate is a fundamental right and so we did what we thought we had to do. 
"Our Government had committed to repeal the repressive provisions of law 78. And that is exactly what it did in the hours of the appointment of the Council of Ministers of the new government. 
"That said, if the right to demonstrate is a fundamental right, we have always maintained that everything should take place in order and peacefully. 
"Since my appointment as Minister of Public Security, I have been arrested on many occasions so that an investigation into police interventions occurred during the spring 2012 events. 
"I have always stated that as a Minister of Public Safety, I have the duty to receive these requests and to assess them at fair value. 
"But I also have a duty to preserve the integrity of the existing ethical process. 
"That said, the government is also eager to learn from spring 2012 events. 
"A social crisis of such magnitude should never reproduce in Quebec.  As a result, I announce that our government has taken, today, a decree aimed at setting up the Special 2012 Spring Event Review Commission. 
"I want to be clear, this special examination commission will not intervene in the regulations of police ethics, which deal with particular cases where a complaint has been filed. 
"This special examination commission will be mandated: 
"For the purpose of carrying out its mandate, the Examination Special Review Board: 
"To do this, people and organizations wishing to submit facts to the Commission will be invited to do so in writing. 
"They will be able to attach any written document or on audio or video support for their remarks. 
"In addition, as I have just mentioned, the Commission will be able to meet meetings to supplement certain reports or deepen certain issues. 
"The meetings with the members of the Special Examination Commission will take place in private, in order to allow the people who wish to testify can do so in all serenity, freely, without the slightest pressure being exercised and without fear of retaliation. 
"It will be appropriate for the Special Commission to analyze certain aspects of spring 2012 events. It may include: 
"At the end of his work, the Spring 2012 Spring Event Review Board will have to give me a report no later than December 20, 2013. It will include testimony and opinions received, it will contain an analysis of events, As well as recommendations that will aim in particular to enlighten the government in ways of detecting the warning signs of potential social disorders and the best ways to respond to it to maintain social peace in the future. 
"I will make public the report of the Special Examination Commission within 45 days of receipt. 
"I also announce that our government today, by decree, to the appointment of the three members, including its President, who will compose the Special Spring 2012 Event Review Board. 
"These people were selected for their expertise, extensive experience, credibility and objectivity. These people are independent and do not have a direct link with the Ministry of Public Safety or some police service. 
" It is : 
"Me Serge Ménard, who will act as President. Private practice lawyer until 1994, Ms. Ménard was a Bâtonnier du Québec, Minister of Public Safety and Minister of Justice of Quebec. In particular, he set up the squad and piloted the adoption of the Police Act in 2001. 
"Me Bernard Greniera was a judge in the Criminal and Criminal Chamber of the Court of Quebec from 1980 to 2002. He was President of the Quebec Criminology Society from 1984 to 1990 and was appointed Commissioner Investigator by the Chief Electoral Officer. Quebec in 2006. 
"Madame Claudette Carbonaus is distinguished as militant in the trade union movement. She climbed the various levels of her organization to finally access the position of President of the Confederation of National Trade Unions, which she held for nearly ten years, from 2002 to 2011. 
"This special review commission is now put in place and I am confident that its work will be conducted effectively and diligently. 
"I want to emphasize that the Special Review Commission is mandated to draw up a global portrait of spring 2012 events taking into consideration the role played by all the key players involved. 
"The work of this commission does not aim to identify guilty, but rather to bring lighting that will act so as to maintain social peace, better detect the pre-running signs of possible social disorders, so as to Prevent or, at the very least, to prevent the situation from degenerating as was the case during the spring of 2012. 
"From June 1, a website dedicated to the Special Review Commission will be made available. It will find relevant information on the Commission, its constitution, its members, its functioning, as well as the ways of transmitting opinions and testimonies to the Commission. 
"I will let the members of the Spring 2012 Special Event Review Board, who will speak in the coming weeks to clarify the terms of the Commission's work. 
"In closing, I call on the collaboration of all those who feel they can contribute positively to the work of the Spring 2012 Event Review Board. 
Thank you for your attention. » 
