Montreal - Here is the statement made today by the elected Prime Minister, Pauline Marois, at a press conference: 
"I am deeply saddened today. The election evening of yesterday has been darkened by a tragic event. A man died without any reason. The madness struck. 
"The investigation will teach us what happened, but for the moment, my thoughts obviously go to the victims and their families. 
"I also think of the teams of Spectra and Metropolis. People are very shaken and we think of them. Despite this tragedy, we must consider that Quebec is a non-violent society. An actual act of madness can not erase this reality. 
"I am deeply affected but I have to go ahead and assume my responsibilities. Our goal at the beginning of the election campaign was to change the Liberal government and replace it with a government of the Parti Québécois. 
"This objective has been reached. 
"I was also hoping for good voter turnout and the rate of 74% should rejoice. It is a sign of democratic health. 
"I wanted to get a majority but the population has decided otherwise. The time of bipartism is over and you have to learn to work in this context. 
"Even in the minority, I intend to get results for people. My government will cancel the increase in tuition fees by decree. Law 78 will no longer have any place to be. I intend to propose his repeal and I am convinced that the opposition parties will agree. We will then keep a summit on higher education. 
"My Government will also propose amendments to Law 35 to prevent condemned construction companies from obtaining government contracts. 
"I also intend to accelerate the development of the daycare network so that each family needs it can get a place. 
"And then, there is a disturbing decline in French in the Montreal area and Outaouais, which remains at the center of my concerns. We must act and I intend to table a new law 101. I am sure we will find a common ground with the opposition to move forward on this important issue for Quebec. 
"In terms of relations with Ottawa, I have to tell you that I spoke with Mr. Harper this morning. It was a first cordial contact. On this forehead, we will be able to base our action on the existing consensus in the National Assembly. 
"In the coming days, I will take the time to complete the transition from one government to another. This will be done in order, without precipitation and without upset. 
"I will also train my Council of Ministers within two weeks. 
Quebeckers can count on me for results. » 
