Quebec- The member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, made a statement about the Quebec News Council decision regarding a report from Radio-Canada broadcast during the last election campaign. 
" Ladies and gentlemen, 
I want to respond to the Quebec Press Council decision following a complaint filed in July 2014 on a reporting issued on March 31, 2014 at the Radio-Canada, seven days of the ballot. 
Three grievances were analyzed by the Quebec Press Council. 
Lepremier grievored on the lack of public interest of the report. I quote the Council: 
"The subject of the report was of public interest." 
Ledger Foreth Compagnée on the lack of verification of sources and the unjustified use of an anonymous source. On this point, the Council considers that: 
"Radio-Canada and its journalist, Alain Gravel, did not have to report the accusations of their anonymous source that Mr. Blanchet had been complicit with a loan-name financing scheme, knowing that they had Not corroborated, and considering the potentially devastating consequences that such charges could have on Mr. Blanchet, Ms. Marois and the Parti Québécois. 
By disseminating these accusations, they violated both the standards of Radio-Canada as well as those of the guide to the rights and responsibilities of the press. " 
Finally, the enthusiasm complained on a tendentious presentation of the information. The Council declares: 
"There is no doubt that the involved, distributing images showing precisely, and at the same time, what Mr. Blanchet was being denied, seeking to discredit the version of the facts. 
By doing so, the Council is of the opinion that the implications "created the confusion on the true meaning of the information transmitted", and consequently committed a deontological fault. " 
In other words, this report should never have been broadcast. 
Given the decision of the Quebec Press Council, we ask that those responsible for the dissemination of this report which had a significant effect on the last week of the election campaign publicly explain their decision. 
We would also like Radio-Canada, without revealing the name of the anonymous source, can tell us whether this person is a collateral victim of Law 1 on public contract integrity. 
We also ask the CBC company that it sends public excuses to the Parti Québécois concerning the dissemination of this report. 
Finally, we ask that the Canadian Corporation expresses its excuses to the one that was the Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois. 
Thank you. » 
