Quebec- The member for Verchères and spokespersons of the Quebec's Quebec-Canada Relations Party, Stéphane Bergeron, as well as the member for Rousseau and Spokesperson in Finance and Income, Nicolas Marceau, denounce the fact that the Liberal government is still considering transferring tax perception to the federal government, although this idea comes from the Robillard Commission report, known as being truffled with errors. 
"It is unacceptable that the Quebec government is considering abdicate such responsibility; This idea should not even touch him the spirit! How can Liberals decently propose to weaken Quebec's tax action capacity? ", Asked the member for Verchères. 
Conscious that Quebeckers have long wished to produce only one tax return, Nicolas Marceau, however, is of the opinion that it must be produced in Quebec, not in Ottawa. "We would have absolutely no benefit to entrusting this important mandate to the federal government. On the contrary, we would have everything to gain to perceive all taxes and all taxes applying to our territory; It would be advantageous for the public finances of Quebec, it would be advantageous for the taxpayers of Quebec, "he added. 
The member for Rousseau, also stressed that Revenu Québec already receives the GST for the federal government, and that it does at a lower cost and more efficiently than the Canada Revenue Agency. "We will always be winners to take care of ourselves any cases concerning us; The Liberal government must immediately undertake steps to repatriate the entire tax perception, "he continued. 
Stéphane Bergeron, in order to illustrate the difficulties that Quebec would exhibit if he was abandoning the perception of his taxes, recalled the example of Ontario. "Prime Minister Kathleen Wynne, because she does not control his tax revenues, is submitted to the arbitrariness of the federal government for the establishment of the annuity regime, a promise that had, however, helped himself be elected. We must at all cost to find ourselves in such a cul-de-sac, "he concluded. 
