It is with disappointment and misunderstanding that we took note of the decision of Catherine Fournier to leave the Parti Québécois and his caucus, while remaining deputy. 
As a member of the Caucus and the National Executive Board, until today, Catherine Fournier was well the fact that the Parti Québécois is preparing to launch a profound and lucid approach to put it at the service of independence. During this exercise, all stones will be raised. At no time did the member for Marie-Victorin showed his disagreement as to this plan of action or proposed for alternative. Our feeling of misunderstanding is therefore increased. 
Our goal, by the end of 2019, is twofold: to present a new Quebecois party to the public and put independence at the heart of our political action. But, evoke the failure of our approach even before it has been launched, it is defeatist and regrettable. It is all the more because Catherine Fournier uses as a pretext the failure of previous steps, even though it continued its commitment and arose under the banner of the Parti Québécois just five months ago. Since October 1, all the balance sheets and all the analyzes have been welcome, and Ms. Fournier had his place in this reflection. 
Catherine Fournier also asserts that there is no place for a new political party in Quebec, but no longer wishes to participate in the reform approach of the Parti Québécois. This contradiction leaves us perplexed, especially since the member advocates the gathering and the unit slamming the door. 
Finally, this announcement does not affect our intention to continue our approach. We will be gathered in national council on March 23 and 24 upcoming to adopt an ambitious action plan that will lead to a new Quebecois party. It is in this exercise that we invite all Quebec independence. 
Finally, the agreement on the recognition of parliamentary groups last fall is very clear: the PQ constitutes the 2nd opposition group or, rather, "proposal" at the National Assembly for the duration of the 42nd Parliament , since this status is based on the number of elected deputies and votes obtained in the election of October 1; The departure of Catherine of our caucus changes nothing. We will continue to ensure this role in a constructive, serious and rigorous way. 
