The Parti Québécois undertakes with dignity and determination to make every effort to lead Quebec to its national independence. 
Quebec is a Francophone Nation of America. His people, made up of proud and generous people, is the heir of several cultures: Aboriginal, French and British and, finally, from all over the world. It stands out for its tenacity, its strength of innovation, its solidarity, its entrepreneurial spirit and its way of life that its builders have left, over the centuries, making Quebec a modern laity state. 
The sustainability of French is its permanent challenge, to which pitfalls are added that far exceed its borders. As the rest of the planet, Quebec faces the climate crisis, it must deal with increasing social inequalities and stimulate citizens' confidence in democratic institutions. Globalization makes its complex economic development and challenges its cultural singularity. 
Quebec's independence meets contemporary challenges. The history and evolution of the Quebec nation base this project. The Quebec people must draw on what distinguishes it in order to participate fully in the concert of nations. The acquisition of the powers of a truly sovereign state will concretize its national affirmation. 
The Parti Québécois will work tirelessly with, as fundamental values: 
Our political action will focus on the foundation of a country, not on the ordinary management of a province. To do this, we will take each of our decisions so as to get closer to this ultimate goal and seek to gather all the independence. Our action will also be aimed at providing accession and commitment, and building consensus by enhancing the debate and diversity of points of view. Ultimately, the goal is to come to goneful and courageous decisions that rely on scientific knowledge. 
With our values and aware of these challenges, we are convinced that the independence of the Quebec nation is at the same time a necessity, a destiny and a must meet between our pragmatism and our deepest aspirations. 
It will allow Quebec: 
This country, carried by a people resilient and attached to its history, will enter into the future by offering the generations that follow a land of peace, freedom, equality and prosperity. 
Now the Parti Québécois carries this project, convinced that an independent Quebec will take part with dignity and daring to the progress of humanity. 
Download the PDF return 
