Montréal - the spokesperson for the Quebecois health and accessibility of care, Diane Lamarre, asks the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, to set up a public inquiry to clarify the circumstances that have led to the circumstances. Death of a patient at St. Mary's hospital last November and, above all, to prevent such a drama from happening again. 
Indeed, a file published by the Journal The Gazette has revealed, earlier this week, that confusion - between the cuisine authorities of the West Island of Montreal, the leaders and the staff of The hospital - with respect to the types of surgeries that must be carried out or not in St. Mary would have played an important role in the death of a patient. He could not receive, in the required time, a surgery that could have saved his life. 
"We learned that a team from the Ministry of Health last May, would have decided to review the mission of the hospital, while the establishment was without board of directors due to the coming into force of the project 10. A doctor would have removed the right to carry out certain operations, but without the urgency team of the hospital being notified. This is a concern, especially since the hospital authorities have made several conflicting statements about the reasons that motivated this decision, "said the member. 
"What explains the decision to do not do certain operations in St. Mary? Is this budget cuts? The absence of a board of directors, which could have prevented the mission of the hospital amended? Other reasons? Why has the emergency team been notified of the decision only several months after its entry into force? Is the unfortunate death of a patient, in any way, linked to this decision and the confusion that followed? Why did the hospital leaders attempted to have the responsibility of the patient's transfer times to the doctor who was custody, and who the right to operate was withdrawn? And, above all, could this tragic situation reproduce, as some experts caraged in the media? All these issues deserve an answer and, in this sense, an independent public inquiry must be conducted, "concluded Diane Lamarre. 
