Quebec -The MP for Nicolet-Yamaska and official opposition spokesperson for economics, financial institutions and international trade, Jean-Martin Aussant, deplores the Liberal government's refusal to save more than 800 annually million dollars by establishing a single tax report in Quebec. 
"We are the only ones in Canada to have two statements a year. This duplication of structures costs hundreds of millions per year to taxpayers and businesses from home, not counting the additional administrative burden for the Quebec economy in relation to its neighbors, "said Jean-Martin. 
At the National Assembly this morning, the member for Nicolet-Yamaska has strongly denounced the fact that the Liberal government is a deaf ear to this proposal to ease an expensive structure for Quebeckers. Minister Raymond Bachand prefers to increase taxes, tariffs and tuition fees, while imposing a health franchise and juggling with the idea of imposing a moderator ticket in hospitals. "The Liberal government does not want to admit that we could find $ 800 million in savings with a single tax report instead of two. It's not commonplace: $ 800 million more in public services without ping a penny in the taxpayers' pocket, "he added. 
The expensive stubbornness of the Liberal government is all the more inexplicable as a vast majority of the population would prefer only one tax report instead of two. In addition, Mr. Aussant stresses that by receiving the GST on behalf of the federal government, this is a very eloquent precedent. "It demonstrates the effectiveness of a unified collection system. It is also curious that Minister Bachand supports a single tax report would create a baffle with Ottawa: it was Robert Bourassa who had imposed Quebec as a federal tax collector! It is a gesture of efficiency and common sense, a profitable gesture for all, whether we are federalist or sovereignist! ", Pursued Jean-Martin ausing. 
"As the Quebec Revenue Agency is in place, we have everything you need to integrate the perception of federal taxes in Quebec. It would be time to act. Rather than more taxing taxpayers, the Liberal government could save $ 800 million. Why does not he want to do it? ", Concluded Jean-Martin immediately. 
