Quebec- The member for Taillon and spokesperson for the formal health and accessibility of care, Diane Lamarre, denounces once again the control of the information that the Ministry of Health and the Social services about future compressions in the health network. 
"In response to our requests for access to information, we receive the numbers in the dropper. We had asked for cutting plans for each CISS, CIUSS and uncommon settlements. However, we have received only one information page not even responding to most of this demand. The population and elected officials are entitled to know the impacts, on the ground, the cuts made by the Ministry of Health. The department's page table recognizes that there are cuts of at least $ 450 million, "said Diane Lamarre. 
Remember that the member for Taillon recently reported the information control of the Ministry of Health and Social Services, since the adoption of Bill 10 under gag. The response to requests for access to information for the magnitude of the cuts, as well as the optimization measures requested from the institutions, was centralized in the department, never-seen! This is clearly going against the transparency promised by the Liberal government. 
"Opacity is always present. The minister imposes unpublished cuts to our health system. The new CISS and CIUSS leaders must make heartbreaking choices to achieve the cuts required. Our request for access to information is quite legitimate. It aims to know the nature of these choices and the concrete services that new institutions will have to sacrifices. Number of reduced surgeries? Care and services canceled? Number of beds closed? Abolition of positions of attendants, nurses or other professionals? When amputating $ 450 million the health network budget, it is essential to get the details and, most importantly, to know the consequences for care and accessibility for patients. If the minister is so proud of his reform, if he is convinced that his constraints will not affect the quality and quantity of care, he should share the outcome of the measures he imposes, "she concluded. 
