Nicolet- of passage to the convent of the Sisters of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin in Nicolet in the presence of the Mayor, Mr. Alain Drouin, the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Regions From the Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, reacted vigorously to the comments made by the leader of the Liberal Party of Quebec, Mr. Philippe Couillard, who was passing through Mauricie on Thursday. 
The Minister Blanchet first described his meeting with the representatives of the Congregation. "Nicolet, it's a little bit of the little town with great institutions. It is only necessary to think of the Museum of Religions of the World, at the National Police School, at its position as a riparian municipality of Lake Saint-Pierre, recognized for its ecological importance by UNESCO, or at home. Births. Now, if well-ordered charity begins with yourself, I think we need to ensure the sustainability of the cultural and historical heritage of the Congregation, but also the patrimonial treasure that its buildings are. The minister was sensitive to this issue, having himself been involved in the study of the Program 83 on cultural heritage. However, it is on the archival center project for the religious communities that its attention has focused on: "The archives of the religious communities of the region, and all of Quebec, are a cultural treasure. Beyond the duty of recognition, it seems appropriate to study the possibility of making this archival center project a structuring initiative both economically and culturally and historically ". The Minister Blanchet has therefore been willing to gather the sums necessary for a feasibility study to be implemented in order to assess the possibility of bringing together the muséological, historical and economic actors of the region around a project. Could obtain a national mandate of centralization, preservation and enhancement of the archives of the religious communities of Quebec. 
With respect to Mr. Philippe Couillard's comments on the possible implementation of a Hydro-Québec data center in Drummondville, the minister first indicated that his knowledge, it would be A project that is still not confirmed. He also pointed out to have warned the authorities of Drummondville from the very beginning that, given his mandate in the particular context of the decommissioning of the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant, he would not intervene in favor of Drummondville or his own county. "Obviously, he says, if I'm asked not only not to favor my city, but to hurt him, it will be a non-categorical. Hydro-Québec will proceed without interference on my part in this file. I will live with the results. » 
More scathing, Minister Blanchet adds: "I am convinced that the people of Drummondville will be surprised to learn that Philippe Couillard interferes in Hydro-Québec's business, without knowing the parameters of the project, in order to exclude Drummondville for the implantation of this installation. Finally, if Mr. Couillard really wants to address the regional challenges of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, that it knows that I am available to debate it with it where and when it sounds. Talking courage, we are always waiting at the National Assembly. He has the same deputies, the same party, the same culture and the same friends as the PLQ of Jean Charest, "concluded the Minister Blanchet, determined to preserve the recent gains of his government in the region. 
