Quebec- While the Commissioner for Health and Wellbeing (CSBE) has just deposited his ultimate report, Diane Lamarre, Member of Parliament for Taillon and spokesman for the Quebecois health and accessibility of care, deplores the Poor assessment of the Minister Barrette, and insists on the relevance of keeping the CSBE. 
In his report, the organization exposes alarming figures. "In many countries, including France, Norway, New Zealand, the United States and many more, more than 90% of adults are seen in less than 5 hours at emergency. Closer to us, Ontario and Alberta, this figure is 85%, while in Quebec, it is only 65%, the worst performance recorded by the Commissioner. What does the minister expect to act, in particular by involving IPS and better with existing resources - GMF, CLSC - to improve access on evenings and weekends? Even the commissioner says it: the superclinics are not the solution, "said Diane Lamarre. 
"Comparison with other provinces also tells us that despite a higher ratio of physicians and nurses per capita, access is worse than elsewhere. It is learned in the report that almost half of the urgency visits, or 45%, exceed the planned normal time, which equates to 13 million hours lost waiting. Not only do not give the necessary services, but it is expensive: in total, it's more than $ 300 million that are wasted in absenteeism, 500,000 lost work days. The minister must take note of his bad newsletter and act now so that patients have access to care when they need it, "added the spokesman. 
"Once again, it is Quebeckers and Quebeckers who are eating because the minister is looking for his own power instead of looking how better to serve citizens. The abolition of the CSBE, when it reveals us so relevant things, demonstrates that the minister is ready to delete one of the few organizations that gives us objective information about the health system. It is still a proof of his desire to muzzle any criticism, at the expense of Quebec patients, "concluded Diane Lamarre. 
