This is the last speech by Pauline Marois as leader of the Parti Québécois. 
Speech delivered on the occasion of the National Conference of the Presidents and Presidents in Drummondville. 
The pronounced version is authentic. 
Dear militants,  Dear militants, 
I too am happy to meet you! 
In recent weeks, you have been intelligence, I took the time to devote me to the most important in each of our lives: spending time with our loved ones, with family; Chat with our children; Having fun with our grandchildren, for those who have the happiness of being grandparents. 
It's good to the soul and it reminds us why we want to change the world. Why we want to build a country that will allow everyone to flourish, to be masters of their destiny. 
I do not hide it, I really enjoyed this moment of recoil. I was essential to me. I had promised to make an ordered transition, I had to let things get up. 
It is today that I leave the leadership of the Parti Québécois. 
I tell you right away, I will not be a father-in-law. I will be attentive, of course, always available, listening, but discreet. It's your turn, now. 
Today, I want to give you a sincere tribute first. Without your constant commitment, without your fervor, your activism, without your generosity, never the Parti Québécois could have done everything he has done so far. You are the soul of a great party, the heart of an institution you can be proud. 
Imagine what Quebec would be without the Quebecois party. Our culture, our language, our territory, our economy, our family: in all areas, we have allowed Quebec to progress. 
Over our history, we have acted with strength and firmness to strengthen Quebec, to enable it to move forward. And you know what motivated the Parti Québécois to do the same since its founding? 
It is because we share a certain idea of Quebec, this belief that we form a beautiful and great people. That's what pushed us to have such ambitious ideas. The belief that Quebec has everything you need to be a country! 
We still have so much to do ... My dear friends, Quebec needs the Parti Québécois, I have the conviction. And the Parti Québécois, he needs you. He needs each of his activists, each of his activists! 
By still seeing you as engaged and mobilized today, I know we are on the right side of the story. I know when I think back to all the candidates we have recruited for the election campaign. When I see the passion, strength and experience of our parliamentary team, directed with Brio by Stéphane Bédard. There are, in this party, all the talents and all the determination necessary to overcome, to win, to persevere. 
Yes, we are on the right side of the story, when I see Martine and Leo. When I see that two great leaders of unprecedented mobilization are with us and share our dreams! 
They are still there. They remind us that two years ago, in the spring, Quebec's youth clearly expressed its desire to build a society in its image. 
Today's politicians do not have the right to block the avenues of the future, to close the paths of their freedom ... It is not up to us to choose what young people will do tomorrow. It is not to survey firms, it is not the columnists or editorialists to put words in the mouth of young people, to classify them by categories. The future of Quebec, it will be young to decide what it will be! 
As far as we are concerned, we are sovereignists. And, yes, the success of our option largely depends on our ability to convince the youth to choose it. If we want to achieve our goal, if we want to reach it in respect of the Quebec people and generations we want to mobilize, we will need to hear their concerns. 
With you, I have so often punctuated "we want a country". That's our ideal. The ideal of young people is rather to live in an ideal country. 
To be understood, to be heard, it will be necessary to demonstrate that the values that are dear to us constitute the answer to the concerns of Quebecers. That they will allow every citizen and every citizen to develop all his potential. To participate fully in the great movements and the great moments of history. 
It is up to you that it will belong to find the words and to put the gestures that will allow the Parti Québécois to take over the initiative. It will be up to you to find what can still unite Quebeckers. It's up to you now to change the world. 
When I made the choice of political action, it was my ambition. Today, humbly, very humbly, I hope to have contributed a little bit ... 
It has not always been easy ... It took walking after walking. By dint of crossing glass ceilings, we accumulate some scars at the passage ... 
Others had done it before me, pave the way and undergo the shock to be the first. Also, having these pioneers in memory, allow me to speak to each of the women who are in this room and, through them, to all Quebeckers. Especially, to the youngest of them ... 
Ladies, go ahead! 
Each of you will run, which will rise, it will be a reward and satisfaction for all those who have preceded you. It's up to you to play now, girls! 
And to those of you who hesitate, I want to say that I do not regret anything. I do not regret anything. Every criticism, just or unfair, every moment of doubt, every blow hard, it is not what counts at the end of the road. 
Today, what I think is to all that political action has allowed me to achieve. When I started, I dreamed of an exemplary country, a generous country. A Quebec that would give everyone luck, but especially, at each of the place. 
I am proud of everything we did to develop the social economy. I am proud to have offered a better start to our toddlers, offering quality care services. I am proud to have helped so many women return to the job market! 
That's why I did politics. 
My dear friends, we have done, from the road, together, for over thirty years. You have done me the honor of choosing me as chef in 2007. I'm still moved when I think of the trust you gave me. I am moved, especially, of everything we realized. 
Always worn by our sovereignist ambition, the one that makes us dream for Quebec. We have been very proactive, perhaps even hyperactive. I think that in eighteen months we left Quebec a legacy of a value inversely proportional to the life of our government. 
We had prepared to assume power. When I became head of the Quebecois party, I said that I wanted to put the social democracy back to the taste of the day. I wanted we kept citizens at the heart of our concerns to create more wealth. That prosperity be carries with generosity. 
And, in this regard, we delivered the goods. We first restored social peace and protect accessibility to studies by improving financial assistance! 
With our solidarity approach, we have helped the less likely of our society, we have helped those who help them and have prepared the future. We have welcomed social assistance and we have also presented roaming policies and spousal violence. 
We have also implemented a vision for the Future of Quebec by redirecting new health investments to home care. We responded to a courageous reflection that led to the adoption this week of the law on end-of-life care !!! 
Never has a government done as much in so much time. 
On the economic front, we have been loyal to the approach that the Parti Québécois has always put forward. We have thought of visionary policies to promote innovation and help our job creators surpass. 
Help with the modernization of our companies; support for high growth potential projects; a strategy to encourage research and innovation; a plan to increase our exports; And, above all, an innovative project, carrying many possibilities: the electrification of transport! 
In short, we have thought and acted to bring Quebec into the economy of the future. A human, creative, green economy. 
I think the new government would gain building on the bases we asked. Moreover, after saying the opposite in the field, the Liberals finally admitted it in their last Wednesday budget: it was created last year, 47,800 jobs in Quebec! 
The Quebec's modern and social-democratic approach, it gave and it will continue to give results! 
I hope we will continue to assume our membership of the Quebec model. In addition to independence, it is the color we bring in the political landscape Quebec. 
We believe in a government acting in the economy, but wants to support rather than replacing entrepreneurs. We believe in generous social policies, a compassionate approach, not just to take care of our world, but to enable it to flourish fully. We believe that our environment needs to be protected and that this concern can be a source of enrichment and success for all of us. 
Yes, there is a path between leaving it put forward by some parties and the magic wand proposed by others. It is the bias taken for the Québec economy, social dialogue and innovation carried by the Parti Québécois! 
When I became chief, I also said that I wanted to give the defense of Quebec culture to the center of our speech. I speak of culture in its wider sense. As the sum of all the manifestations of the identity of our people. 
I am talking about the work of our creators; of our language and the accent with which we speak it; values we want to establish as a base of our living together. 
In support for the arts and creation, we delivered the goods. We have protected the culture budget and announced many investments. 
In terms of language and defense of our values, I would have liked to go further. Also, I want to remember that these issues are not settled. This mission to protect French, it will remain forever inseparable from Quebec reality. She is part of our essence. 
Similarly, Quebec is far from being the only society in the world to question the way to live better together. Issues intimately linked to modernity. 
This is because we want to build an open, more welcoming Quebec, a tight mixed country, which we must organize our way of life pluralism. Also, the values of equality between women and men, secularism and state neutrality must be constantly reaffirmed and enshrined in our laws and institutions. Those who will pay this question will make a great service in Quebec, as well as to all women and men who live there, since birth or because they have chosen! 
Finally, there is another question that is also important for our identity and our collective future. A concern that has always been at the center of my political commitment, but which will have taken, during my visit as a premier, an importance that I could not suspect. An issue that is intrinsically linked to the history of our party and the inheritance of our founder. This is the protection of our democracy and institutions that make it live. 
Our democracy is the expression of our collective will, our ability to direct ourselves and to exist as a nation. George-Émile Lapalme, one of the fathers of the quiet revolution, said it was, with the French language, our way of joining the universal. 
Our institutions, they had been badly, it will be remembered ... Also, if the story had to remember only one thing, I would like it to be all this work we did to strengthen them. 
Let us remember the brave gestures we asked to end the collusion, waste. We did it by reforming the granting of public contracts and the financing of political parties. 
Above all, we sent a very powerful message. We have given the resources and independence necessary for the police forces and the Charbonneau Commission to do their job. Under our government, integrity has advanced, corruption has declined! 
This work to strengthen our democracy, however, he inspires some thoughts about Quebec's destiny and the future of our country project. I believe that in the current context, the protection of this democracy so dear to our eyes must be a constant concern, a priority issue. There is only to see the planetary context in which we evolve. 
In Europe, some sovereign nations are limited in their collective freedom by their level of indebtedness. The frustrations that generates in peoples lead to the emergence of political movements we have many reasons to fear. Quebec is not immune to this kind of situation. 
If the political and moderate political actors fail to find solutions to our collective problems, if they are deaf to the legitimate aspirations of important parts of our population, more and more of our fellow citizens will be tempted to take refuge in the margins. 
It is the most urgent concern that Quebec's party activists must have: keep opportunes open. 
In fact, it is not only you who are challenged by this question. All sovereignists, all thinkers, innovators, creators, intellectuals, all Quebec's change forces have to resume dialogue, stop working in Chapel and looking for answers to these questions. 
How should Quebec behave in the face of a federal state that is more and more foreign? A government to which Quebeckers do not identify anymore, which do not interest them anymore, but they have not yet chosen to depart? 
How can the generations continue to talk to each other in a context where the simple maintenance of equity will be a challenge? 
How to maintain our solidarity and national cohesion, while cleavages threaten to settle between communities between urban Quebec and rural Quebec? 
What do Quebeckers want? What projects are still able to unite? And, above all, how to bring them happen? 
How to keep possible change in Quebec? 
I allow myself an answer, the only one who comes to me in mind. I think it's still going through independence! 
A sovereignty that must rely on new bases, on new motivations. Or, perhaps rather, a country project that needs to come back to the basics, its foundations. 
We have spoken too much about the sovereignty of the state of Quebec and not enough that of the Quebec people. 
For a long time, we have submitted freedom as the culmination of the sovereignty project. But it may be more freedom that will take us to the country. This democracy we want to build, this ability to decide for ourselves and for ourselves that we want to get, it's the way to independence. You have to put the idea of freedom at the heart of our political action! 
Dear militants, dear militants, I trust you. I have seen all the way we have traveled together. I can not wait to see everything you will accomplish in the future. 
What I came to tell you today is that I will never abandon. I will never abandon you. I will always be at your side, as I said to all Quebeckers, when leaving Quebec. 
I will always stay this young woman who wants to change the world. And I will always fight for freedom. For the freedom of young people in Quebec to build a better future. For the freedom of the poorest to change their destiny. For the freedom of creators to express themselves and realize their ideas. For the freedom of our people to defend his language, to affirm his values. For the freedom of Quebeckers to decide on their own and for themselves. For the freedom to build a country we will be proud of! 
Thank you! Thank you for everything you gave me! Thank you for all you have to give in Quebec. 
I love you! 
VIEWLY DESIGNEDEDEADE MAROIS. 
