Quebec, March 6, 2018 -The official opposition spokesperson for agriculture, fisheries and food, André Villeneuve, said that a government of the Parti Québécois undertakes to set up two Measures In order to avoid other episodes such as that of Chinese raspberries, and to ensure Quebec consumers that they will have in their base of healthy and safe products. And all this will benefit the local economy! 
IN SHORT 
The Parti Québécois offers two measures to provide Quebeckers with healthy and safe products in their base: 
"There is currently laxity as to the standards imposed on imported products, compared to those that apply to Quebec products. A Quebec product is severely inspected at stages of production and processing, unlike imported products. Consequence: situations such as the episode of Chinese raspberries, where two people died, and hundreds of Quebeckers have been sick. Another example: pork produced abroad was high using growth hormones and some antibiotics prohibited in Quebec. Yet the two meats are found side by side on the tablets of our merchants. These gaps in the quality management of imported products must cease. This is what the squad we will put in place will, "exposed André Villeneuve. 
"In addition to promoting the quality of food from here, we will set up a food compliance squad throughout the supply chain, which will integrate the MAPAQ inspectors. In many cases, the rules applied in the country of production are much less severe than those imposed in Quebec. We will end this two weights, two measures. It should be noted that in 2015-16, the Canadian Food Inspection Agency has only tested 2% of imported products, 20% of which were non-compliant. Quebeckers do not always know what their plate contains; Sometimes, even some products should not be there! , Added the member. 
"In addition, the promotion of Quebec foods has been slowing since the arrival of the Liberal government. Because it has put the food sovereignty policy, the momentum given by the Parti Québécois has been blurred. With us orders, it will be the return of a strong state for which the promotion of food in Quebec will be fundamental. We are convinced that not only the two measures we propose will benefit from the local economy, but that in addition, they will allow consumers to choose foods of exceptional quality in terms of health, environment and standards of the Work, "concluded André Villeneuve. 
