Terrebonne- The Prime Minister, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, and the Minister Delegate to the Social Services and the Protection of Youth and Minister responsible for the Region of Lanaudière, Véronique Hivon, today announced that the Government of Quebec tackles the problem of interregional inequity with regard to the financing of health and social services in Lanaudière. For this purpose, an addition of more than $ 8 million is expected, including an amount of $ 4,421,800 that will be used to carry out the Customer Repatriation Plan of Montreal Island to Lanaudière. 
In addition to these amounts, $ 853,500 in services for the elderly, as well as $ 1.8 million to improve services to young adults aged 21 and over the region with an invasive development disorder (TED), such as Autism, intellectual disability or physical disability, such as Minister Hivon announced last Friday. 
"The money we are announcing, in a single year, a 22.5% decrease in the funding gap between the region and those that were historically better financed. The Hébert Ministers and Hivon currently proceed to equivalent ads in the regions of the Laurentians, Montérégie and the Outaouais. Our goal is to arrive, in the medium term, to equity as complete as possible between all regions of Quebec, "said the Prime Minister. 
"The injection of these additional amounts has been made possible by a better budget allowance by program. This method aims to improve the fairness of health financing between regions. It consists of distributing the available budget envelopes by taking better account of the regional characteristics and the needs of the population, in particular from the perspective of demographic change, "said Minister Hébert. 
To respond to the government's commitment to add $ 110 million to improve home care, the Lanaudière region is confirmed new annual budgets of $ 853,500. 
"Improving care and senior services in loss of autonomy is one of the key priorities of our government, as will also confirm our approach to autonomy insurance, which will be unveiled shortly. Immediate improvement in home support will serve more seniors, even more wisely help those who are already receiving services and better support families, "said Minister Hébert. 
These new credits have three components: 
$ 648,500 for the intensification of home services provided by institutions and social economy companies; 
$ 91,800 for the consolidation of service networks integrated with the elderly of institutions, which promote the integration, coordination and continuity of seniors services. Adding stakeholders and case managers for personalized follow-up of people is an essential element of improving seniors' services; 
"Community agencies working with the elderly are valuable partners for the network, especially for home maintenance. These additional credits will enable them to improve their service offering from this clientele, "said Véronique Hivon. 
"My colleagues and I made a commitment to restore, during a first term, equity in the financing of health and social services for Lanaudière. Today, with the announced investments, I am very proud that our government strongly shows its determination, for the benefit of the population from here. The Lanaudière region was owned and must be treated fairly, and our government will continue to work diligently in this direction, be insured, "concluded the minister responsible for the region. 
