Saint-Jerome - The Prime Minister, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Health and Social Services, Réjean Hébert, and the member for Labelle and Head of the Laurentian Region, Sylvain Pagé, announces today that the Government of Quebec Tackles the problem of interregional inequity with regard to health financing in the Laurentians. Thus, an additional credit injection of $ 10,950,600 is announced to cover the increase in service development costs in the region, in addition to new annual budgets of $ 6,181,700 to improve home care and services offered. the elderly. 
"We move forward to acts. Never has a government has been so far in reducing gaps between regions in the allocation of health and social services budgets. For the Laurentians, this means in a single year a 27% decrease in the funding gap between the region and those that were historically better financed. Amounts have also been reserved for the regions of Lanaudière, Montérégie and Outaouais. We will continue this work in the coming years, with the objective of arriving, in the medium term, equity among all regions, "said the Prime Minister. 
The injection of these additional amounts has been made possible by a better budget allocation by program, particularly for the support for the autonomy of the elderly. This method aims to improve the fairness of health financing between regions. It consists of distributing the available budget envelopes by better account of the regional characteristics and needs of the population, in particular from the perspective of demographic change. 
These investments include the addition of credits totaling $ 6,259,500 that will specifically serve as the Customer Repatriation Plan of Montreal Island to Laurentides. 
Investments for home care and services 
As part of the government's commitment to add $ 110 million in home care, the Laurentian region is confirmed by new annual budgets of $ 6,181,700 to improve home care and services offered to seniors. territory. 
"Improving senior services in loss of autonomy is one of our government's high priorities, as will also confirm our approach to autonomy insurance, which will be unveiled shortly. Immediate improvement in home support will serve more seniors, even more wisely help those who are already receiving services and better support families, "said Minister Hébert. 
These new credits have three components: 
$ 4,696,600 for the intensification of home services provided by institutions and social economy companies; 
$ 665,000 for consolidating service networks integrated with elderly institutions, which promote the integration, coordination and continuity of seniors services. Adding stakeholders and case managers for personalized follow-up of people is an essential element of improving seniors' services; 
Community agencies working with the elderly are valuable partners for the network, particularly for home maintenance. These additional credits will enable them to improve their offer of services to this clientele. 
"The region can rejoice in today's announcement, which generates significant spin-offs for our elders in loss of autonomy and for their loved ones. Our government is also very proud to highlight interregional fairness, which will better support Laurentian care teams, in the first line as in more specialized fields, "concluded the member for Labelle and responsible for The region, Sylvain Pagé. 
