Sorel-Tracy, October 20, 2014 - Member for Vachon and official opposition spokesman for transport, transport and maritime strategy, Martine Ouellet, the member for Verchères and spokesperson Canadian Intergovernmental Business, Stéphane Bergeron, and the Federal member of Bas-Richelieu-Nicolet-Bécancour, Louis Plamondon, are worried about the ability of the federal authorities in the event of a major spill in the St. Lawrence Seaway . 
Several recent reports confirm the deficiencies in the Canadian Coast Guard intervention capacity in the event of a major spill. In November 2013, the Committee of Experts on the Safety of Tank Ships criticized the low hydrocarbon recovery capacity in the event of a spill, which is between 5% and only 15%. In May 2013, a Genivar study concluded that the Gulf of St. Lawrence and the St. Lawrence River were one of the two areas of the highest risk of major hydrocarbon spill in Canada. Finally, in September 2013, another Genivar study highlighted the deficiency of the ability of the federal authorities in case of emergency in the Gulf of St. Lawrence. 
On October 7, Prime Minister Philippe Couillard affirmed "that we are quite well equipped, with the federal authorities, all along the river if a misfortune happened in case of oil spill." The Minister Delegate to Transport and the Implementation of the Maritime Strategy, Jean d'Amour, said last week that Quebec had "all the elements in hand to support the municipal world, in the event of an accident."
"Citizens and elected officials are right concerned. There is a significant shift between what the experts and the Prime Minister say. Several reports underline the important gaps of our spill response capacity, and Philippe Couillard claims that everything is under control. The Prime Minister should provide the Population of Sorel the documents on which he is based to make such statements, while all studies say the opposite, "said Martine Ouellet. 
"Transport Canada must be extremely vigilant in the transportation of hazardous materials, which has seen its work severely criticized in the report of the Transportation Safety Board following the tragedy of Lac-Mégantic. As requested by the past, Transport Canada must indicate what measures have been taken, as appropriate, to ensure the safety of the population, and hold public meetings to inform citizens of the regions concerned ", Added Stéphane Bergeron. 
MP Louis Plamondon recalls that in 2010, the Auditor General had been very critical about the federal response capacity in the event of an oil spill. The federal government has also changed the regulation, from 32 to 44 meters the authorized width of ships. 
"The population of the riding of Bas-Richelieu-Nicolet-Bécancour is at the center of the debate on the transport of hazardous materials on our territory and on our part of the river. That is why we must ensure that the transport of this sea by sea is safe and that an adequate and effective plan is expected in the event of a claim, for the entire shipment of ships. The Federal Transport Minister, Lisa Raitt, who, without any justification has been eager to circulate on our river of the Superprétroliers, must tell Quebeckers what are the additional security measures proposed following the Auditor General's report. ", Concluded the member. 
