Montreal- On the eve of the International Women's Day, the Quebec Prime Minister and Head of the Quebecois, Pauline Marois, announces that exceptional women join the Quebec party team, including Gyslaine Desrosiers, candidate in Blainville. 
"Gyslaine Desrosiers has held the position of President and General Director of the Quebec Nurses' Order (OIIQ) for twenty years. As such, its extensive knowledge of the health and nursing profession will be an undeniable asset to improve health care in Quebec, "said Pauline Marois. 
Holder of a Bachelor of Nursing from the Université de Montréal, Gyslaine Desrosiers also has a Master's degree in HEC Montréal Business Administration. It was President and Executive Director of the IOIQ from 1992 to 2012. Since 1998, she has also been Chair of the International Secretariat of Nurses of Francophone Space. 
"During my career of more than 30 years in the field of health, I had the honor to contribute to the improvement of the condition of the nursing profession and the professional health network. I am proud to be part of the Parti Québécois team, a team dedicated to improving care to Quebecers and Quebeckers. I want to participate and, in the first place, represent the citizens of Blainville at the National Assembly, "said Gyslaine Desrosiers. 
"Access to quality health care across Quebec is a priority for the population and for our government. The entry of Gyslaine Desrosiers into our team again confirms our will and our commitment to offer Quebeckers and Quebeckers the best health system, "added the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
Pauline Marois has been packed by the arrival of many candidates who reinforce the Parti Québécois team and believes that Quebeckers will also be. "Gyslaine Desrosiers joins a team of dynamic women who bring all a wind of freshness to our political life. The team that we are constituting is remarkable, not only by the quality of the people who compose it, but also by their unwavering attachment to Quebec. » 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
