The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, announced that an amount of $ 1 million, staggered over the two financial years 2012-2013 and 2013-2014, is Awarded, jointly with Operation Child Sun, four health and social services centers (CSSS), the CSSS Alphonse-Desjardins, the CSSS de Laval, the CSSS Domaine-du-Roy and the CSSS Pierre-Boucher, for projects Capitalization in pediatrics. 
Most of this sum goes to the CSSS Alphonse-Desjardins for a functional renovation at the total cost of $ 597,622, which includes optimization of the Pediatric external clinic. This optimization will be achieved through an increase in the number of consulting offices that will enable the grouping of pediatricians and a redevelopment of ambulatory services. This work will facilitate access to services, reduce the number of emergency consultations and increase the capacity of children and adolescents in need of second-line services, while promoting the privacy of families and preventing more efficient infections. 
"This investment will help reduce waiting time for care and services, which is very important for us, especially when it comes to children. This is the reason why we are so proud to have a child child operation for a partner, because it is an organization that, like us, has the health and well-being of the children of Quebec ", said Dr. Hébert. 
For its part, the CSSS de Laval will receive $ 365,275 to renovate its neonatology unit, which will allow it to increase the number of beds from 10 to 20. The CSSS Domaine-du-Roy, as to He can redevelop his pediatric unit and improve the nine of his rooms with an amount of $ 28,035 and, finally, the CSSS Pierre-Boucher will benefit from $ 9,068 funding to redevelop an area of Waiting and a play area at its external pediatric clinic. 
"All these projects demonstrate that our government is sensitive to the situation of sick children and their families. In addition to providing them with all the necessary care and services, it is very important in our eyes to make their stay at the most enjoyable hospital possible thanks to more friendly and friendly rooms and waiting areas, "said Minister Hébert. 
It should be remembered that these investments are the result of a five-year agreement between the Ministry of Health and Social Services and Sun Child Operation for the financing of pediatric-related immobilization projects. Everyone has committed to invest $ 250,000 a year until 2016, hence this amount of $ 1 million over two years. 
