Quebec- The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, return to Quebec satisfied with the benefits of the International Exhibition of the International aeronautics and space of Paris-le Bourget. They have seen promising partnerships, and their presence has promoted the realization of agreements that will have a significant impact on the aerospace sector in Quebec. Private investments of the order of $ 81 million, creators of structuring employment, have also been confirmed. 
The international airport of Aerospace and the Paris-Le Bourget space was at its 50th edition this year. In all, 1,300 exhibitors and approximately 130,000 visitors and industry professionals were present at this appointment, including about fifty industrialists and Quebec aerospace organizations. Among these included aerospace bomber, Pratt & Whitney Canada, Bell Helicopter Textron Canada, CAE and Montreal International and Aéro Montreal, the industrial cluster of Quebec. 
Ministers were also accompanied by representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, the Ministry of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology and investment Québec. 
"The strong participation of the Quebec delegation has had the effect of confirming our leadership in a highly innovative high-tech market. Our presence at this prestigious event is essential and supports our aerospace industry. It allows Quebec to fully enjoy many business opportunities in the field of aerospace. Private investments that have materialized demonstrate the strength and excellence of our industry, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
"In recent days, we have been able to assert our know-how and the expertise of the Quebec aerospace industry. Our companies are dynamic and constitute partners to be preferred. With its capacity for innovation, its efficient education network and the excellence of its research centers, Quebec has, more than ever, a strong power of attraction for foreign companies, "added Zakaïb Élain. 
During this commercial mission, the Ministers Nicolas Marceau and Élaine Zakaib announced the establishment in Quebec of the French company ATEM, a company for the design and manufacture of coaxial cables and assembly RF (radio frequency) for the industry. aerospace. ATEM Canada will make available in Quebec, nonexistent expertise and will create a dozen jobs. 
The leaders of AV & R Vision & Robotics, which specializes in the creation of automated visual inspection systems and finishing gas turbine pieces for the aerospace and energy sectors, confirmed the merger of their Services with those of the Quebec engineering firm IMAC Automation to train the AV & R group. This merger will double the workforce and to do with the world's largest robotics companies in the world. 
For its part, Aerolia, the number one French aerostructures and important manufacturer of aircraft fuselage elements, will establish a first North American plant in the industrial park of Montreal-Mirabel International Airport. A correlation agreement for the initial duration of fifteen years concluded with Aéroports de Montréal (ADM) provides an investment of $ 9.5 million of ADM and the creation of some 150 jobs. To accommodate the head office and workshops of Aerolia, ADM will build a custom building with an area of 7,300 square meters that will be operational in January 2014. 
A collaboration agreement has also been announced between the National School of Aerospace (ENA) of the Edouard-Montpetit and Aerolia College. It provides, among other things, that Aerolia will offer internships and will hire graduate students from college and ENA. 
Sogeclair, international leader of engineering, has given public the opening of a Canadian subsidiary in the Montreal area that will create about fifty jobs within three years. 
Aéro Montréal will launch a call for nominations for the third cohort of the MACH initiative, which will optimize the performance of the Quebec aerospace supply chain. It also entered into an agreement with the aeronautical competitiveness cluster and SPATIAL SKYWIN for the implementation of the Mach in Wallonia. 
In addition, Aéro Montreal has signed a collaboration agreement with Aerospace Cluster in Rhône-Alpes, a grouping of companies, research laboratories and French training centers. 
AHE, distributor of parts in aeronautics, will be interested in the Montreal area and create fifteen jobs in three years. 
Loiretech, which designs and produces mussels and tools for the formatting of composite materials, especially for the aerospace sector, will settle in Quebec by partnering with the Quebec Composite VCI company. The new entity, Loiretech Canada will be established in Mirabel and create a dozen jobs in the first year. 
Finally, SINTERS America, which specializes in particular in the design and manufacture of maintenance systems and tools for aircraft maintenance, has developed electronic cards for manometric sensors that will be used by the French company Thales avionics. By providing technical and financial support to Sinters America, the Government of Quebec has helped the company to impose itself with this world leader in the industry. 
"These announcements clearly demonstrate that Quebec has an important attractive power that encourages investors to set up at home. In the light of the cases that have been concluded in recent days, we leave with the belief that the mission we have done has been extremely profitable. It is truly a reflection of the dynamism of stakeholders who contribute every day to the strength of the Quebec aerospace sector. There is no doubt that all these projects will contribute to the growth and vitality of our industry, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
To receive in real time press releases from the Ministry of Finance and Economy Saving component, register for appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss 
