Quebec- The Government of Quebec is proud to announce its support to the City of Quebec for the allocation of 60 housing units with a view to carrying out an innovative residential project that will be located in the eco-farmer of the Pointe-Aux. -Lècher. This project, imagined by the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), provides for the construction of an affordable housing building of six-storey light wood frame, a first in Quebec. An illness of symbolic earth emphasizing the launch of this project for families and single persons took place today in the presence of the Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the regions of the Capitale-National and the Chaudière-Appalaches and MP for Taschereau, Mrs Agnès Maltais, and the Mayor of Quebec, Mr. Regis Labeaume. 
"This project responds to two priorities identified by the Government of Quebec, to promote the Quebec wood industry and that make it available to the most vulnerable people with adequate and affordable housing. By supporting projects like this, our government is clearly positioned for social solidarity and sustainable development that takes into account the current and future needs of the Quebec population, "said Minister Agnes Maltais. 
"This building, intended for social housing, will be the highest wooden built. We always said that we were going to innovate in our eco-owners, here is the proof! We do not want to build traditional residential sets. It is the innovation that is the engine of our action in eco-owl projects. And, I confirm that there will be many other innovations in Pointe-aux-Cares and in Pointe-d'Estimauville, "the Mayor Regis Labeaume said. 
The organization a reserve roof, assisted by Quebec's Action-Housing Technical Resource Group, is the project manager for this avant-garde project that will be realized through the AccessLogis Quebec program of the SHQ. The city of Quebec administers this program, on its territory, to meet its affordable housing needs. 
The use of wood, an affordable and renewable resource, contributes to the fight against climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, the manufacture of timber requires less energy and is less polluting compared to steel and concrete. In order to contribute to the promotion of the Quebec wood industry and reduce the impact of its activities on the environment, the SHQ incorporates the principles of sustainable development throughout its programs. For this purpose, 90% of buildings built as part of AccessLogis Québec and Affordable Housing Programs from the SHQ have a wooden frame. 
As a client, the Quebec government is therefore a leader in the application of the Lacharte du Boistee recently made public and which promotes the construction of five or six floors wood buildings. The interest of using wood for buildings of this scale is no longer to demonstrate. On the one hand, this technology will allow faster, therefore less expensive constructions. On the other hand, it offers a very interesting potential on the economic plan considering that housing buildings represent the majority of residential housing starts in Quebec and that cities tend to densify. 
Quebec Housing Corporation Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230000Menages each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Habitat Espace, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
