Quebec, March 23, 2018 -The official opposition to the environment and the fight against climate change, Sylvain Gaudreault, qualifies as "disastrous" the mid-term balance sheet of the 2013-- 2020 on climate change (PACC) of the Liberal government. 
IN SHORT 
"Today we can see that the Liberal government has invested billions, but the measures contained in the PACC have ultimately an overall effect on the environment. It's like REM: billions of dollars, but little impact on decongestion and lower GHG emissions. There are only two years left to the PACC, and Quebec has not even reached half of the total goal, a reduction of 20%. The Minister of the Environment Isabelle Melançon must absolutely launch a Phase 2 of the PACC, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"In addition, pursues the spokesperson, if the government is unable to position itself in the fight against climate change, which it allows at least to municipalities to act! For example, he can launch the Climate Municipalities 2 program, which sleeps in limbo. The $ 30 million that it is endowed would allow municipalities to carry out projects, public transit and spatial planning, which would promote a decline in GHG emissions. » 
Sylvain Gaudreault also regrets that the government does nothing to prevent capital leaks to California and Ontario, while last fall, the Parti Québécois has proposed several measures to do so. "Currently, Quebec companies can not cash their GHG reductions, such as California, with the broadcast of compensatory appropriations. For example, the Liberal government could benefit from carbon capture in our forest sector to sell our own environmental gains on the market, but it does not. It must change, "he insisted. 
"In the same vein, the Parti Québécois suggested many avenues that the fight against climate change is now inseparable from sustainable economic development. Do we think of our industrial transformation measures based on both innovation and energy productivity, or with great unlocking, our project for an ambitious green transport in the metropolis and neighboring regions, "concluded the holder. Word. 
