Quebec- The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltese, wishes to clarify that the proposed Regulations amending the Personal and Family Assistance Regulations. In the official Gazette aims first and foremost to promote participation in the labor market by introducing an allowance of $ 195 for those participating in the measures. Contrary to what some advances, it does not constitute a reform of last resort financial assistance programs. 
"There will be nearly 700,000 vacancies in Quebec from 2012 to 2016, including 75% due to retirement replacements. In a context of growing labor, companies are increasingly open to diversifying their workforce and benefit more from the contribution of under-represented people in the labor market. The amendments aim to better recognize the potential for integrating or feedback of the providers of last remedy financial assistance by focusing on the idea that employment is the best way to break the cycle of poverty, " insisted Minister Maltese. 
The modifications plan: 
Increased age 55 to 58 the age for being eligible for temporary employment constraints: it is about adapting to mutations in the labor market who is experiencing a constant increase in recent years the number of experienced employment workers. When this measure has been created, unemployment was more important and these people were excluded from the labor market. Today, these people are looking for and we want to keep them in use. By participating in the measures, they will have support more than they receive. People who are currently receiving the allowance will not lose it and benefit from an acquired right. 
Make families composed of two adults inadmissible to temporary constraints granted due to the custody of a preschool child: the custody of a preschooler is not an obstacle to employment for a couple. Normal care to a young child are easily transferable between the two adults. At least one of the two adults can integrate employment or participate in a job measure. The right to the allowance will be maintained if one of the adults must provide constant care to another adult, if he has a health problem or has a disabled child other than preschoole. These people will be able to improve their income by employment or by participating in a job-and aid allowance of $ 195 per month or support allowance of $ 130 per month). As such, the Minister wishes to remember that she announced the maximum wage increase at $ 10.15 per month from May 1st, thus crossing a significant symbolic cap. 
Edit Eligibility Rules for the Special Delivery for Dwellings for Addiction Services with Accommodation: New Parameters will be established to promote better integration into the labor market. The Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity and the Ministry of Health and Social Services will jointly work to improve the supply of substance abuse. This revision is made necessary due to excessive excesses, the optimal residence duration in detoxification being 15 to 28 days according to the Association of Rehabilitation Centers in Addiction while many stays exceed 30 months. 
The short-term income impacts of the intended persons have been analyzed. Thus a set of measures will be deployed in order to accompany each and each. 
For example : 
Employment-Québec will accompany all the providers who wish in their employment integration approaches. 
All providers affected by the regulatory measures will receive a letter to inform them of future changes and invite them to present themselves to their CLE to meet an employment aid agent and take advantage of the services offered by employment. Quebec. 
The persons concerned will have priority access to meet with a job aid to assess their situation (needs and employment). 
As part of the strategy all for employment: a new impetus with partners, one of which is to break the cycle of poverty by responding quickly and steadily with targeted groups of remote market. of work, several measures will contribute to prepare and integrate work, or 
The establishment of a new salary support offered to companies hiring experienced unemployed people. 
The establishment of a new program of transitional salary supplements. 
In addition, people will be able to improve their income by: 
"I have a strong intention of leaving no one aside and ensuring that our strategy is fruit. That said, the situation of low-income people must be considered globally, in the light of all government aids available. The social assistance regime is one of the many components of the social security net in Quebec. Several government measures, including refundable tax credits, complete this social security net and increase the disposable income of low-income households, including provider households. It is the overall income available to be considered, and not the level of social assistance, "concluded Minister Maltese. 
Remember that the publication of a regulation as a project, as its name suggests, aims to inform the population as to a draft regulation that the government proposes to take. The government thus demonstrates transparency as to its intentions. Anyone or interested group may obtain information and comment on the project for a period of 45 days. 
