Montreal, March 15, 2018 - Member of Parliament for Joliette, Vice-Chauffe of the Parti Québécois and official opposition spokesman, Véronique Hivon, the hon. Member for Bonaventure and spokesperson for forests, wildlife and Parks, Sylvain Roy, as well as the member for Jonquière, spokesperson for the development of regions and decentralization and chief of official opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, today unveiled a series of proposals to allow Quebecers to reclaim the wildlife sector. 
"Since the Liberals have taken power, in 2014, 100,000 less people are offering hunting or fishing. The government has dramatically increased the price of hunting and fishing licenses, such as resort leases. The first steps we present today respond to the calls we have heard from the ground for months and aim to encourage succession, "said Sylvain Roy immediately. 
IN SHORT 
When the Parti Québécois will take power, in October, it intends to put in place the following six measures: 
Make the initiation permit free to hunt for all; 
Make the fishing license free for under 18 years; 
Reduce the price of the fishing license by 20%; 
Gradually double the number of resort leases drawn by lot annually; 
Restore the consultation table to determine the price of the resort leases and the relevant rating; 
Establish a national strategy to limit the costs of launching ramps. 
For regions 
"In 2015, the Liberal government increased dramatically prices for resort leases on public lands; In Sainte-Thècle, Mauricie, the rise was 530%! This is a frontal attack against the regions which, once again, make the costs of liberal decisions. Currently, some resorts pay more for their lease in the forest only by municipal taxes for their home in town ... it has absolutely no sense! ", Continued the hon. Member for Bonaventure. 
"The Parti Québécois has always been a great advocate of the Quebec public forest, has reminded Sylvain Gaudreault. In 1977, it was a government of the Parti Québécois who redeemed the forest to the population by abolishing private clubs and creating the controlled operating areas, the ZECs. Even today, the only party that offers a vision for regions, which thinks of hunters and fishermen, it is the Parti Québécois. » 
For families 
"Our proposals aim to facilitate access to Quebec Wildlife by making it more affordable. Thus, more families will enjoy great spaces, campsites, nature and its benefits. Because of the lack of vision of the Liberal government for the wildlife sector, Quebeckers have gradually abandoned the idea of practicing their recreation in the forest; As early as October, the tendency will be reversed. The solid part of the Parti Québécois for hunters and fishermen, it is an ambitious approach to restoring the Quebec people the means and the taste of reconnecting with recreation they had abandoned. All our proposals come from the comments that our colleague from Bonaventure has gathered during his tour of Quebec, "has concluded Véronique Hivon. 
To find our leaflet on the subject, it's here! 
