Quebec- The Minister of Labor, Ms. Agnès Maltais, is more than satisfied with his government's achievements in the field of work since his appointment to the Council of Ministers last September. 
"The world of work is a vast and complex universe in which the living forces of our society evolve. As a minister responsible for work, I think our government has been up to its election by asking for several concrete and responsible actions that aim to improve the well-being of Quebeckers, "said the Minister Maltese. 
Quebec employers will need to comply with new safety standards to ensure the physical integrity of workers likely to be exposed to asbestos dust. This new obligation derives from the adoption on May 8, by the Council of Ministers, of a new regulation on the preventive management of asbestos in establishments in which we find workers. 
Employers benefit from a period of up to two years from the entry into force of the Regulations, either in early June, to comply with certain requirements. In particular, they will have to proceed with the visual inspection of their buildings in order to locate and check the condition of the flocking and calorifges (insulating materials). A registry will ensure the safety of the workers most likely to be exposed to asbestos fibers, including those of the maintenance and maintenance sectors. 
As the government had committed itself, Minister Agnès Maltese and his colleague of natural resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, have recently announced that Quebec has a bois charter. This initiative, very well received by the forest industry, aims to promote increased use of wood in construction. 
The charter will allow the construction of wooden buildings of five and six floors, while the maximum height was previously four floors. The government will give an example and focus on the use of timber for all projects funded in whole or in part by public funds. The project manager will have to demonstrate that the use of wood has been evaluated. Renovation projects that consist of the enlargement of a building will also be submitted to the wood charter. 
The legionellose crisis in Quebec City in the summer of 2012 demonstrated the urgency of regulating the periodic maintenance of water cooling towers to protect the health of citizens. Quebec is a pioneer by becoming the first province to introduce regulations providing for obligations to this effect, including those to put in place a preventive maintenance program and to keep a register where all relevant information will be recorded.  The new government has implemented everything in this case, as early as fall, and has adopted an important regulation, under the responsibility of the Régie du Building du Québec (RBQ), which came into effect on May 12, 2013. 
The minimum wage in Quebec now exceeds the $ 10 per hour. On May 1, the general minimum wage rate increased from $ 9.90 to $ 10.15 per hour. The rise is greater than inflation and it takes into account the balance between improving the quality of life of workers and the competitiveness of companies. "The annual revision of the minimum wage is one of the means available to the government to combat poverty and to value the work. The increase in this year benefits more than 365 300 people, including more than 208,800 women, "said the minister. 
Adopted unanimously in December 2012 by the National Assembly as the first law of this Parliament, the Public Contract Integrity Act is the result of intense work carried out in September in consultation with several ministries and agencies, including the Ministry of which Work and portfolio organizations. In particular, it was to COLMATE the breaches of Bill 35 adopted under the previous government and to put forward a new approach, that of ensuring the integrity of the companies even before they submit. This consultation approach has expanded the scope of the law, to reach all types of contracts and to submit all public bodies to the same rules. 
In accordance with Law 30, unanimously adopted in 2011, a regulation on the construction industry's labor reference service should be lodged at the National Assembly with a view to being studied before his adoption. Remember that the construction industry generates annually investments by nearly $ 50 billion. 
Upon arrival in office, the Minister of Labor had to catch up to respect the deadline, since several stages had not been crossed in September 2012. It therefore proceeded, upon his arrival, to a vast consultation of the actors of the Field of work to enforce this important unanimous demand by parliamentarians, to be able to review the regulations before its government adoption. This goal has been achieved successfully. Indeed, adopted in December 2012, the Construction Industry Labor Reference Service Regulations have been seen and commented, in advance transparently by parliamentarians. 
The Government is proud to have led this work that has been achieved by the adoption of this regulation on the operating procedures of the new platform whose management is the responsibility of the Quebec Construction Commission (CCQ). To ensure the success of this operation, the National Assembly unanimously adopted, last December, Bill 6, which sets at 9 September 2013 the start of the activities of this service. Transitional measures have been introduced in this Act and are in effect since February 4, 2013. 
The union placement as well as any gesture of intimidation and discrimination remain prohibited and punishable by sanctions. 
In November 2012, the minister announced the start of the construction industry's office of the construction industry license office, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Labor. 
A new regulation has also been adopted and entered into force on 28 November 2012, in accordance with Law 30, in terms of labor reference permits in the construction industry to strictly supervise the Labor reference. The Office has also been issued first permits in recent weeks. 
All trade union and employer organizations in the construction industry will need to hold a license to use the new Labor Reference Service. Under the new regulation, they will also have to have a code of ethics. 
The Bureau is responsible for receiving and dealing with complaints in connection with its mandate. It has investigative powers and may suspend or restrict a license, revoke it or refuse its renewal in the case of regulatory failures. 
The government has not wait and has made concrete gestures. It has significant regulations and is committed to eliminating intimidation practices on job sites and discrimination in hiring. 
In addition, a Vigie Committee, composed of three credible people who know the world of work, was put in place in November 2012. He will table a report to the Minister of Labor within three months of the first year of implementation. the reference system work. Specifically, the Committee will review the entire system and evaluate its impact on the decline in intimidation and discrimination. The Committee will also provide its opinion on any other matter submitted by the Minister concerning the application of Law 30, including the conformity of the standards of conduct provided for in the ethics code of an association with the objectives of the law and on the objectives of the law. The means of communication authorized by the CCQ. Mobilized and invested by its new mandate, the Vigie Committee has already held several work meetings. 
The RBQ announced, in March 2013, the entry into force of the Regulation to improve safety in the building. Recorded in the Chapter Building of the Security Code, this regulation enacts new standards for the maintenance and operation of public buildings. It aims to improve fire prevention, particularly in sleeping areas and private residences for seniors. There are also maintenance and inspection obligations of building facades and parking lots. These new requirements also meet several recommendations made by coroners as a result of fatal accidents. 
In January 2013, the Minister of Labor announced the publication of a new regulation on water temperature control at tubs and showers in care facilities and private residences for seniors. This new regulation aims to protect the elderly by reducing the risks of hot water burns. 
These changes have long been claimed as the minister was in the opposition. These are simple gestures to protect the most vulnerable people. The minister acted quickly upon his arrival, in concert with the RBQ which will be responsible for its application, because it considered that it was "unacceptable that persons in loss of autonomy are injured or deceive a suites of an accident. which could have been avoided ". 
The Ministry of Labor Mediators-conciliators are experienced specialists in the resolution of labor disputes. They are qualified stakeholders allowing parties to conclude the best possible agreement, taking into account the context and the balance of power. 
The Minister of Labor acknowledges the contribution of the Ministry of Labor in the settlement of major files such as Olymel and Waterville TG in November 2012, that of Bombardier in December 2012, and more recently that of the abi of Bécancour in February 2013. 
