Québec -Alors that the Minister of Finance, Carlos Leitão, reports a budget surplus of $ 2.5 billion, the Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesperson in finance, Nicolas Marceau, the health and accessibility spokesperson, Diane Lamarre, and the spokesperson in education, Alexandre Cloutier, keep to remember that he is the result of draconian cups in public services. Offered to students, patients and elders in Quebec. 
IN SHORT 
"Every week, we report the consequences of austerity - and that the tax cuts promised by the PLQ and the CAQ: a decrease in services, access to more difficult care, closing threats Accommodation for people with disabilities, a rationing of services in the CHSLD ... A few days ago, it was necessary to carry out a battle with the Minister of Education so that food aid was maintained for disadvantaged students. It must stop. The Liberal government must reinvest in education, health, lawsuits and for our elders. He must repair his damage, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
"We know the liberal technique: after having caused immense damage, especially in health and education, the government will spend the next 18 months making announcements, boasting to meet the needs of citizens. But the harm caused will remain, because the small amounts sprinkled here and there will only partly meet the needs, accentuated by the cuts, "added Nicolas Marceau. 
"Healthy, barrette reform cuts have very negative effects on patients, has insisted Diane Lamarre insisted. Waiting for continuous emergencies; Even overflow units are overflowing! This summer, emergencies will have to be closed, for lack of doctors. Disorganization is added to the lack of access. The wait will not diminish! We also note a deterioration in home care. The most vulnerable are targeted. The Minister of Finance harvests money by removing it at the poorest. It must reinvest where needs are: in patient services and care. » 
Alexandre Cloutier recalls that the cuts of recent years have caused harm to several cohorts of students. "While almost 500 schools in Quebec are in very bad condition, while thousands of students from all levels do not get the professional services they need to succeed in due infringing, it's downright indecent from of the government to earn billions of surplus. Young people who are currently in our classrooms have some glaring needs to whom the government has to answer today, "he said. 
