The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the candidates Sylvain Roy (Bonaventure), Pascal Bérubé (Matane-Matapédia), Harold Lebel (Rimouski) and Méganne Perry-Melançon (Gaspé), presented their solutions to facilitate and Encourage the practice of hunting and fishing, and develop the wildlife sector. After unveiling its plan to make regional transport more efficient and accessible, as well as its proposals to give a real freedom to the regions, Jean-François Lisé announced that a government of the Parti Québécois will increase the measures for hunters and fishermen. For families to take advantage of great spaces, campsites, nature and its benefits. 
IN SHORT 
To promote and encourage the practice of hunting and fishing, a government of the Quebecois Party commits to: 
"There are 1,000,000 hunters and fishermen in Quebec. But, for four years, the Liberal Party has made less and less accessible the practice of hunting and fishing, so that the number of people practicing these hobbies dropped from 100,000. At this rate, the hunters and The fishermen will soon be an extinction species, "worried Jean-François Lisée. 
For his part, Sylvain Roy insists: More than ever, the Parti Québécois is the party of hunters and fishermen. "The government has dramatically increased the price of hunting and fishing licenses, such as resort leases on public lands, and has set at the door of dozens of wildlife agents. These are frontal attacks against the regions. The steps we present today respond to the calls we have been hearing from the ground for months and aim to encourage succession, "he said. 
"We will reduce the price of the 20% fishing license for all adults, and that of the 50% big game hunting license for those who will initiate succession. We will offer free licenses to fishermen under 18 and people who learn about hunting. Our goal is to democratize these hobbies, to give Quebeckers the means and the taste of practicing them, "pursued Pascal Bérubé. 
"Forests and lakes belong to all Quebeckers, not just a group of privileged close to the Liberal government, has brought Harold Lebel. Hunting and fishing should no longer be the prerogative of outfitting owners. That's why we will gradually increase the number of resort leases drawn annually, until it doubles, and we will restore the table of consultation to determine the price of these leases. » 
"To better exploit and develop the immense potential of the Quebec Wildlife sector, the Parti Québécois also undertakes to create a collegial center of transfer to wildlife economics, and to re-acquire the 85 faunal officers at the door by the Liberals, In addition to filling the 40 new posts announced recently, "said Megan Perry-Melançon. 
"Hunting and fishing is our culture, our inheritance, our DNA. We want more people, and more young people, discover or rediscover these hobbies that have forged our identity. We want Quebeckers to take ownership of their territories, whether proud. That's it, our plan, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
