The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the member and candidate of the Parti Québécois in René-Lévesque, Martin Ouellet, presented the first commitments of the Parti Québécois to improve transport services in the region. "The Parti Québécois is the Party of the Regions. We prove it again today by announcing that our government will terminate the Air Canada monopoly and will further fund coach services in the region, among other measures, "said the chief. 
IN SHORT 
It was at a press briefing at the Baie-Comeau airport as MM. Lisée and Ouellet announced that a Quebec party government would lower the price of regional flight tickets. "A round trip between Baie-Comeau and the National Capital costs around $ 1500; A little fortune! Imagine: It's near double a round trip flight to Cuba, including hotel! It does not make sense. And the Liberal Party did not find better than to subsidize ticket purchase, which is going to finance the Air Canada monopoly directly, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
"Air Canada is a corporate thug that breaks the competition by fixing the prices itself. This is intimidation towards the smaller players, with the tacit support of the government. This situation has already lasted too far; We will have the courage to attack us. A Parti Québécois government will create the consumer protection office, which will be responsible for defeating monopolies that bring prices. Its first mandate will be to look at Air Canada's practices. We will also introduce a reference price mechanism that guarantees competition. With this policy, Air Canada will no longer be able to release a competitor from the market, "said Martin Ouellet, very much like the situation, given his frequent round trips between the National Assembly and its riding. 
The Parti Québécois also announced that it will fly over the rescue of regional coach services. "For several people, the bus is the only means of transport available at a reasonable cost. Unfortunately, the services diminish as sorrow of grief. Here, on the North Shore, MRCs had to mobilize to offer a second liaison a day between Baie-Comeau and Quebec. This spring, in Gaspésie, a long distance taxi service has ceased its operations. Concerns remain in Abitibi and elsewhere, since several interurban lines are in difficulty. We must act. A government of the Parti Québécois will support the citizens of the regions and their elected officials in their fight for the maintenance of transport services in the region, so as to protect in-danger services, "continued Jean-François Lisée. 
"The Parti Québécois is the Party of the Regions. Each of the commitments we present has the same objective: to allow citizens to live in the region, to work in the region and decide in the region, "concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
For our explanatory sheet, click here. 
