After presented, yesterday, the Plan of the Parti Québécois to make more efficient and accessible transport in the region, the chief, Jean-François Lisée, accompanied by the candidate in Duplessis, Lorraine Richard, have unveiled the most ambitious proposal ever advanced to give a real freedom of decision and action to the regions. 
IN SHORT 
"We announce today a real revolution in compliance with the decision-making capacity of the regions. Under our government, the time when Quebec multiplied the conditions, the criteria, the vets in the use of regional funds will be made. First, we affirm that it belongs to the regions to choose their model of consultation. Then we affirm that it is up to them to determine the best way to use the funds that return to them for regional development, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
The Plan of the Parti Québécois is based on a main observation: to end centralization. "It is time for the Quebec government to cease to constantly impose its views in the regions. Upon arrival in power, a government of the Parti Québécois will put a countercut to any form of centralization of the public apparatus. We will correct the liberal cuts and increase the predictability of envelopes. We will bring the state of the citizens closer, we will give more services in the region. We will also create a parliamentary commission that will crowd on Quebec, to bring Quebec closer to the decisions of the state, "he continued. 
Lorraine Richard added that the Parti Québécois will also increase the predictability of the budget envelopes, so that regional development is not at the mercy of annual accounting deadlines and requests for processing applications. The gain in efficiency and freedom of action for the regions will be considerable. "We also innovate by announcing that regional investment plans for major ministries - transport, education, health, etc. - will be subject to regional consultation bodies for consultation before final decisions, "she said. 
Jean-François Lisé recalled that the Parti Québécois has always been and remains the party of the regions. "The governments of the Parti Québécois have done a lot to recognize and support the regions. I wish to be the Prime Minister who will complement this effort, "cutting the cord" and finally giving the regions a real freedom, "he insisted. 
"I am pleased to announce today that on October 1st, it will be over, the guardianship, the paternalism and the condescension of the Liberals! "Concluded Lorraine Richard. 
For our explanatory sheet, click here. 
