Quebec- The member for Roberval and official opposition on forests, Denis Trottier, is strongly concerned about the threat to several sylvicultural workers. During an exchange at the National Assembly last night, Minister Clément Gignac did not provide the necessary guarantees that all 4,500 sylvicultural workers in Quebec will be able to work in the coming weeks. 
"After three hours of pressing questions, Minister Gignac has been unable to lift uncertainty for hundreds of workers. By refusing to act, we are far from a government concerned about the economy, "denounced Denis Trottier. 
The Parti Québécois points out that this uncertainty has a catastrophic impact for several regions of Quebec, in addition to harming the regeneration of the forest. "There is urgency that the Liberal government is now, not next year," continued Denis Trottier. 
Proximity Forest: Doubtful Liberal Priority 
The member for Roberval deplores the lack of government support to develop local forests. "Last year, the Liberal government has dedicated accurately $ 46,400 for this so-called priority. This is the proof that in the government, we speak a lot, but we do not act little, "said Denis Trottier, who has been disappointed to see how Minister Gignac does not master the forest issues. "Confusing sylvicultural entrepreneurs and forestry machinery entrepreneurs as Minister yesterday has nothing reassuring," he illustrated. 
The Parti Québécois has repeatedly asked in recent years that gestures have been asked to use wood in building buildings to revive the forest industry. "In Ontario and British Columbia, they will have legislation by September to build wooden buildings. We in Quebec, we only study the possibility. It's very shy, "says the member. 
In this respect, the member for Roberval is concerned about the attitude and position of the CAQ on the Quebec forest. "CAQ MPs and Candidates will have to explain why they support the Liberal government and want to block the use of wood in building buildings in Quebec. François Legault must explain why he wants to harm the stimulus of the forest industry, "concluded Denis Trottier. 
