Québec- On the occasion of the second anniversary of the Liberal government, the Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, wanted that in 2014, the Liberal Chief Philippe Couillard was elected by promising basically two things: Being the government of the economy, and change the Liberal Party to form the most transparent and the most respectful government of history ethics. However, it is clear that it has failed in all these areas. "The Liberal Party has become the party of failure, as much in terms of the economy and on that of ethics," he believes. 
"On April 7, 2014, the Liberal Party of Philippe Couillard was elected by promising to create 250,000 jobs, reduce the tax burden of the middle class and families, and to be the most transparent government in history. Two years later, Quebecers and Quebeckers are angry. The government appears completely disorganized and disconnected from the population: broken promises, gestures of incompetence and coffering have accumulated. We find that, unfortunately, the Liberal Party of Quebec has not changed, "added the Leader of the Opposition. 
"With respect to the defense of Quebec's interests, the inaction of the Government of Philippe Couillard does a lot of harm. Systematically, the Prime Minister ranks on the side of Ottawa, or he does not dare to ask anything. We did not get anything for the forest industry or Bombardier, while the federal government continues to invest millions in the Ontario automotive industry. We have no agreement to cancel the reduction of federal health transfers. And we are still waiting for an agreement for the Bloc Payment and without any condition of the Canada Building Canada Funds dedicated to local infrastructure, "he illustrated. 
"Before the insensitivity of the Government as to the effects of the cuts and the abandonment of the regions, the inconsistency of the huge wage increases granted to doctors to the detriment of patients while families pay more, the fury to defend the indefensible in the ethics records and economic incompetence of this government, we ask: where is the Prime Minister? ", Continued the leader of the official opposition. 
"We ask Philippe Couillard to govern for all Quebeckers. Among other things, he must put Quebec back on the road to growth. There is emergency, "concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
