Montreal- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, today announced the allocation of a loan of 1.2 million Dollars to Technicolor Canada for a project estimated at more than $ 7 million. This aid will allow location, in Montreal, a special effects and post-production studio of its division The Moving Picture Company (MPC), a world leader within the film and advertising industries. In all, 200 jobs will be created in the metropolitan area over the next three years. 
"Our support for the establishment of this studio will promote the creation of 200 quality jobs in this advanced area, for which Quebec's know-how is recognized internationally," said Pauline Marois. This multi-million dollar investment will be structuring for the Quebec cinematographic industry, while attracting international caliber talents in Montreal and strengthen the Quebec cluster of cinema and television. » 
"We are currently witnessing the establishment of a new niche, that of the animation and special effects services, in which the talent of Quebecers will be able to shine, added Élain Zakaïb. The arrival of companies in this sector will attract major productions, which will generate subcontracting contracts for several Quebec SMEs and will create specialized jobs in Quebec. Already, major American film producers, such as Paramount, Warner Bros., Fox, Dreamworks, MGM and Columbia Tristar, expressed interest in the arrival of MPC in Montreal. » 
"The implantation of this giant will have a training effect, even locomotive, for our film and television sector," added Pauline Marois. Montreal will become even more attractive for major film producers, thanks among others to its skilled and available workforce. With the arrival of MPC, we send a strong signal to the rest of the world. We have all the assets to become a major center of the global film industry and special effects, and my government is present to support the growth of this key industry in the Quebec economy. » 
