Sorel-Tracy- The candidate of the Parti Québécois in the riding of Richelieu, Sylvain Rochon, accompanied by the member for Taillon and spokesperson for the official objection to health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, is worried Health cuts and possible loss of services for citizens. 
"Every week demonstrates it: the Liberals cut ideologically, without worrying about the consequences for the population. The Cuteillard government now sabs our health system, under the false pretext of sanitizing public finances. Yet the cuts it imposes have devastating effects in Montérégie. People who wear our health system at armials are worried. What they tell us is that the Liberals pass the numbers before the world, and the structures before services, "said Sylvain Rochon. 
"The Minister Barrette goes against the current approaches in the world. Everywhere else on the planet, health systems are developed according to the course that the patient will have in the network. We try to quickly identify the care it needs, as well as the person who can provide them effectively, safely and at the best cost, whether a social worker, a nurse, a doctor or a pharmacist. Conversely, the minister has a hospital-centric vision; He does fi of the patient, "added Diane Lamarre. 
Meeting with unions 
The member took advantage of his visit to Richelieu to meet union members of the CSSS Pierre-de Saurel, whose jobs are threatened. 
"With Bill 10, adopted under gag, all intermediate cadres in tag. Regardless of their tasks or expertise, we now consider all these people as interchangeable. It is very disturbing, not efficient and, above all, extremely demotivating for these employees, "she added, at the end of the meeting. 
"Today, we had a concrete example of the lack of consideration of the Liberals for our region. How many of these 1500 people will sell their home and leave Sorel-Tracy definitely? Liberal centralization will have harmful, short and long-term effects in Richelieu, Montérégie and in all regions of Quebec. I mentioned the CSSS employees as from March 10, I will be their spokesperson at the National Assembly. I will fight for the riding of Richelieu to be emptied of its substance, and I invite the constituents to take the party of their region by giving me a clear mandate so that I continue to wear their aspirations, "concluded Sylvain Rochon . 
