Montreal, October 16, 2019 - It is on the 10th of October last the period of applications to the National Executive Board of the Parti Québécois. The election presidency subsequently released the list of candidates and found that there was only one application for the Presidency. Dieudonné Ella Oyono will be elected without opposition as the president of the Parti Québécois at the Congress of 9 and 10 November next in Trois-Rivières. 
Of Gabonese origin, Dieudonné Ella Oyono holds a master's degree and doctoral schooling in economics and a career in the field of economic development, the city of Montreal. Arrived in Quebec in 2001, he began his involvement in the Parti Québécois in 2012 and he successively held the duties of candidate for the Parti Québécois in the riding of Saint-Henri-Saint-Anne in 2018, then president of the riding of advanced -Oles-trembles. "We will come out of the November Congress with a more agile organization, which will allow us to be in the diapason of the Quebec population, with a redefined mission and values. We are a party whose purpose is to make Quebec a country. It must be clearer than ever: our project must be unifying, intergenerational, interregional and intercultural. He must touch all Quebeckers, whether they arrived yesterday or 400 years ago. We must join all those who believe in Quebec, and that's what we're going to do, "said Dieudonné Ellla Oyono president. 
Dieudonné Ella Oyono will succeed Gabrielle Lemieux, whose mandate started in 2017 will end at the November Extraordinary National Congress. "It is with great pride that I will pass the torch in November next, at the end of a broad approach of modernization that will lead us to the revival of our political formation. At the end of our Extraordinary National Congress, the Parti Québécois has delivered independence to the center of its action and adopted an approach and functioning of the most modern and effective. I have all confidence that Dieudonné Ella Oyono, as a new president, with his skills, dedication and ability to gather, will be fully able to continue the work that has been started to promote the vision of the Quebecois party for the future. From our nation "concluded the president of the Parti Québécois, Gabrielle Lemieux. 
- 30 - 
SOURCE : 
Lucas mederenach 
Particular Party Communications Manager 
514 663 6519 
