Here is Pauline Marois' speech, leader of the Parti Québécois, pronounced on the occasion of the closing of the National Council in Drummondville: 
The pronounced version is authentic 
"We worked well at the end of the week. We gave yourself an action plan. In government, we will continue to build a Quebec for all, bringing confidence, pride and ambition. 
"On the side of the Parti Québécois, the main task for the coming months, it will be to promote sovereignty. 
"By adopting the new Funding Act at $ 100, we freed ourselves from an obligation that took too much time as activists. From now on, we can devote ourselves much more to doing what we are fascinating the most: political animation. And we will be able to devote this energy and this time regained to promote the most beautiful idea: freedom. Quebec's political freedom: our independence. 
"As the premier, I am very proud to talk about our project. I did it from the board of the Council of Ministers. I also talked about sovereignty on the opening speech of the session. Nicolas Marceau spoke when reading the budget. I spoke about three continents: in Africa, Europe and America. 
"It's my responsibility as the first minister of a sovereignist government. It is the responsibility of ministers and deputies. It's yours too, you activists. 
"And then, our party has more than 90,000 members. At the last count, it was more than all the other parties gathered. 
"If each of us speaks with his heart of our Quebec country project, each in his own way and with his reality, we will touch a lot of people. 
"We have sometimes been put on the defensive since the referendum of 95. But it's over that time. As of now, we go to the offensive! 
"U idée of freedom engut, the ids qu'u peupulous liuountne moon has been topporthike the night weeps to Grandeese and Toute to Force. 
"On the other hand, and we see it with the Liberal leadership race: the federalists do not dare to make any request to reform Canada in the sense of our aspirations. They did not even try to make us believe that they want to change things. There is a significant mutation of the debate on our future. 
"In 1980, the federalists promised change. For the youngest who did not live this: Imagine that the federalist camp was going so far as to say that a "no" it was a "yes" to change ... 
"At the 1995 referendum, they still promised to change Canada to respond to Quebec's aspirations. Today, they do not even hope to change. 
"There are only two possible choices: Canada as it is or sovereignty. That's a difference. It means that remaining in Canada is the guarantee that Quebec will never fully respected. 
"Sovereignty is the opposite: it is the guarantee that we will finally be free of all our choices! 
"In the past, some federalist leaders passionately defended Canada. That time is over. We have to ask what they left as arguments. 
"Nobody believes that the federal framework is advantageous for the future of French. Not with a constitution that has been imposed on us and which has helped weaken the law 101. 
"For language, Canada is a risk, while sovereignty, it's a guarantee! 
"Our opponents know that in Canada, there can not be real Quebec citizenship. Not with this Canadian ideology of multiculturalism, which, again, is imposed on us. No. 
"In matters of citizenship, Canada is a risk to Quebec, while sovereignty is a guarantee of respect for our common values! 
"To evacuate the debate on the future of Quebec, the federalists tell us about baffles. They tell us that Quebeckers do not want baffles. I do not want any baffles. 
"But look: we had a federalist liberal government as much as possible for nine years and the baffles with Ottawa have multiplied: gun registry, young offenders law, health transfers. 
"Of course, the Liberals have tried to make the least noise with these disagreements, but Ottawa's decisions hurt and denote a lack of respect for Quebec. 
"Staying in Canada is the insurance for Quebec to be perpetually confronted with failures. Sovereignty, on the contrary, it is the beginning of a great positive history for us and for the next generations. 
"Is it advantageous for Quebec whatsoever Ottawa leads foreign policy on our behalf? Did you hear Raymond Bachand, Pierre Moreau or Philippe Couillard say that? Of course not. 
"Canadian foreign policy is becoming more and more distant from our interests and values. In this respect, staying in Canada, it means others will speak in our name in the world, while sovereignty guarantees us a foreign policy in accordance with our aspirations, our interests and our values. 
"Some have advanced the idea that it was advantageous to remain in a great economic set. But then, why Canada does not integrate into the United States, a very big economic set? 
"The answer is obvious: it is because Canadians want to make their own decisions. This is because Canadians cherish their sovereignty. Stephen Harper finds it very important Canadian sovereignty. 
"I am on the same wavelength: I too find it very important the sovereignty ... Quebec sovereignty! 
"Let us ask the question: What are the background arguments of our federalist opponents to convince Quebeckers to stay in Canada? 
"Some will tell us," Yes, but there is equalization. Without it we would be poor. There is nothing. And that, it will be necessary to tell Quebeckers. 
"All these decisions that have been taken by Ottawa in favor of Ontario enriched it. The presence of the federal government on Ontario that provides tens of thousands of jobs very well paid. 
"The concentration of financial and transportation services has enabled Ontario to earn huge commercial surpluses, year after year. 
"When I talk about these Ottawa decisions, focusing air transport in Pearson, Toronto, all Quebeckers who travel know what I'm talking about. 
"To go east, in Europe, how many of us must first fly to the west, to Toronto? And how to explain that there is no direct flight from Montreal to Asia? 
"Multiple billion investments for the car industry and nuclear power have also helped. Despite all this money, you imagine that Ontario also affects equalization. 
"Yet, we never hear anyone suggests that Ontarians are not good. 
"If Quebec has been a beneficiary of equalization for three decades, it is not because Quebeckers are not good. This is because in Ottawa, decisions are not taken according to our interests. 
"Ottawa has awarded a contract of more than $ 20 billion to build federal vessels in Atlantic. This money paid by Ottawa, it also comes from our pockets to us, Quebeckers. 
"I challenge the federal government to invest $ 20 billion in the electrification of our transportation and I guarantee you that in a few years Quebec will be too rich to receive equalization! 
"We must also explain that by doing sovereignty, we will save billions of dollars by eliminating bureaucratic duplicates. Let's be concrete. Let's do Quebec people with sovereignty, we will stop paying for royalty, for the Governor General or for the Senate. And why would we continue to finance another Parliament who adopts laws that too often go against our interests? 
"What is the advantage of Québec to finance the billions two ministries of the environment, two ministries of justice, two ministries of agriculture, two ministries of citizenship, two ministries of immigration, two ministries of Finance, two ministries of the industry, two ministries of natural resources, two ministries of public safety and two ministries of transport. 
"And in addition, we are obliged to fulfill two tax returns. 
"If in Quebec we seek to reduce state spending and reduce bureaucracy, there is nothing better than sovereignty! 
"By eliminating all these administrative duplicates, Quebec Sovereign will save more money than it receives from Ottawa. Our taxation will be consistent with our interests and public policies. 
"We can use our money where our real economic interests are. We can use our money where our social, cultural or scientific priorities are. 
"Sovereignty, it's paying, it's exciting, it's inspiring. 
"And then, the fundamental reason, it remains the simple thing that we are a people. We have a story and we want it to continue. We have a language well to us, which we love. We have our ways to do in all areas. And we have this creativity, which does more and more our trademark in the world. 
"I have nothing, me, against Canada, against Canadians. On the contrary, I would love to live in good neighborhood with Canada, each one taking one's own decisions. I am convinced that a sovereign Quebec will maintain very good relations with Canada. 
"Sovereignty is a positive idea. And it must be explained to Quebecers. I will continue to do it for my part, like all our members. 
"As a government, we prepare the ground by offering a responsible government and integrates with Quebeckers. 
"First, bringing back confidence, breaking corruption and renovating our democracy. Economic and financial trust next. Quebeckers must have confidence in our economic capacity as people. 
"We have asked several major gestures and we continue resolutely. We have to straighten our finances, because it is our responsibility as a government, but also because it is an act of freedom. 
"We need to improve our public services and meet the decreet, daily needs of Quebecers. And then we have to strengthen the pride of people towards our identity, our culture, our language and our history. 
"The party, for its part, will devote most of its energy to promote sovereignty. We need to consider the future with confidence. You know, things can change very quickly, if we put ours. You have seen everything we have done together since last fall. 
"So, we'll roll up our sleeves. We will go to see the world and we will tell them why we want a country. 
"I ask everyone to reconnect with the spirit that animated our party in its infancy. We have to go out, speak, convince. I ask each of our ministers to talk about sovereignty and explain our project whenever possible. 
"Simply assert that you think it's time for Quebec to become a country. I ask you to talk to your family, to your colleagues, to your friends, to the people you meet. 
"I'm asking you to leave no one saying that sovereignty is no longer relevant: it's not true! 
"Imagine if hundreds of thousands of people get together to go out, talk and convince Quebeckers one to one that it is time for a country. 
"Imagine that, a French-speaking country in North America. 
"Imagine a country populated by eight million women, men and children who govern themselves on a vast and beautiful territory. 
"In this country, we hear about French with all accents. It is beautiful this country. He's waiting for us at the end of the road. 
So, let's continue! » 
