Québec- On the occasion of openness of openness in the National Assembly, the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, said that his Government intends to give high priority to the recovery of public finances and the acceleration of economic growth Quebec in the interest of all Quebeckers. 
Significant cost overruns were observed in major infrastructure projects in Quebec. To prevent this situation from happening again, Pauline Marois proposes to strengthen the rules of management. Thus, in the coming weeks, a systematic review of investments will be made, without calling into question the projects or delay them. 
"The expense control effort is already well engaged in all departments, but we want to ensure that we maintain great rigor, the only way possible if we want to protect our collective capacity to act. This is the only way to achieve budget balance in 2014 and reduce the ratio of our debt to GDP, "said Pauline Marois. 
In order to lay the foundation for a sustainable and strong economy, the government intends to act on three fronts: the responsible exploitation of natural resources, the establishment of an economic strategy that puts on entrepreneurs and innovation, and the Relaunch of exports. 
In terms of natural resources, the Prime Minister announced a real northern development plan: the North for All. A Nordic Development Secretariat will thus be created with the aim of coordinating all government actions. A new mining royaltime regime will be put in place to further enrich Quebecers. The government intends to encourage businesses to transform more among us the resources that belong to us, while ensuring compliance with best environmental practices. The Premier also addressed the oil potential that the government is committed to exploiting and has announced the government's willingness to adopt a bois charter. 
The government will promote innovation and entrepreneurship with the adoption of a national research and innovation policy, and the creation of the Quebec Economic Development Bank. The launch of an industrial strategy for transport development and own energies will take the basics of the 21st century economy. In a longer-term vision, consultations and analyzes will be conducted to establish an energy independence policy. 
In terms of exports, the government will work on a foreign trade development plan to reduce our annual trade deficit. The government will focus on attracting international investments and deploying on foreign markets by relaunching our exports. 
Finally, other important sectors will be involved in boosting economic growth. The government will build on agriculture and food sovereignty to renounce this important sector of activity. An ambitious development plan for tourism will attract valuable capital into our economy. The government also intends to table a framework law to recognize, promote and develop the social economy. 
The premier emphasized the need to revive investment and build on entrepreneurship and innovation. She expressed her belief regarding the economic dynamism of Quebec. "We have all the assets to make Quebec one of the most prosperous places in the Americas, thanks to a successful economy on sustainable development, prosperity putting at the service of all. » 
