On February 7, 2015, the Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, spoke to the citizen party activists gathered in National Council in Laval. Here are his speech notes. 
The pronounced version is authentic. 
Dear militants, dear militants, it's always a pleasure to see you again. 
Thank you to the Laval activists to receive us for this National Council. 
It's always a privilege to address you, activists. You who are the strength of the Parti Québécois. 
I will start by presenting yourself a person, a militant, who works very hard to join our team of deputies at the National Assembly. I speak of course our candidate in Richelieu, Sylvain Rochon. 
It's a guy from Sorel-Tracy, a field guy, who knows his riding very well. Since November, he speaks to people, meets the groups, demonstrated compassion and wants to change things. It is a leader, capable of standing up and well representing the people of Richelieu at the National Assembly. 
I had the opportunity to participate in two events in Richelieu, and I can tell you that the mobilization around him is impressive. 
Besides, I'm sure there are many voters in Quebec who would like to be instead of the people of Richelieu to send a message to the Cuteillard government ... 
As Sylvain Rochon says, for the people of Richelieu, the choice is clear: in front of the Liberal-Caquist austerity, we can undergo or unite. 
We will unite behind you, Sylvain. We will be present in the coming weeks until March 9th. 
My friends, welcome the future member for Richelieu, Sylvain Rochon! 
Yesterday was a sad day for Quebec patients. The government has decided to impose the reform of the Doctor Barrette by gagging us on Bill 10. 
I would like to greet the passage and those who made the road, that night, from Quebec, after a long day of gag. 
The government tried to prevent them from being here, but it's badly knowing the Parti Québécois team. Our deputies are activists, just like you, and they are here. 
It's a competent, engaged team near his world. It's really a huge honor for me to be their chef ... for a few months! 
I invite them to get up so that we can all thank them together! 
The priorities of your group of deputies are clear: we will defend families, support regions and local development, and promote equal opportunities. 
We have also worked for patients and health workers. You know, in health, the Prime Minister promised us sea and world. He knows that, his, health ... We saw it in Saudi Arabia ... 
What he forgot to promise us is that he would plunge the health network into an improvised, sloppy reform, set up by Minister Gaétan barrette. 
The government achieved Mr. Barrette's dream: being at the center of the health network, without any consideration for patients or those who care. The Minister "Bulldozer" has chosen not to listen. 
This structural brewing will paralyze the network for years. It will cost money instead of saving it. It's not just us who say it, they are also the stakeholders of the health network. Even the Liberal school club, the CAQ, finally understood the bill and ran behind our position! 
At the Parti Québécois, one believes that patient priorities are effective front-line care, quality seniors' residences, home care, prevention. It is also a strong community environment, as well as health staff that are respectful. 
I have a thought for workers and health professionals who will have to live with this structural brewing. 
To defend the priorities of the Québécois party in health, we have a competent member, who, before the arrogance of the Minister Barrette, stands up. It was his first gag and she led him brilliantly. 
Bravo, Diane Lamarre! 
Fortunately, yesterday was not a day centered on Gaétan barrette. 
Thanks to Quebec and the path we had traced, the Supreme Court has recognized medical assistance to die as well as the full skill of Quebec in this area. 
The law on end-of-life care passed in Quebec is the result of the Special Commission on the issue of dying in dignity, a tremendous parliamentary initiative, you know it. 
It includes not only medical help to die, but also the whole issue of palliative care. She has changed our way of seeing. It is a smart approach, respectful of the population. Gaétan Barrette should have been inspired. 
This law is owed to many people. But a person, especially, has been at the heart of this great project. And we have the chance to have it with us. 
Véronique, thank you for led this master battle! 
Dear friends, we are aware of the magnitude of the task at the National Assembly. We are the only ones to propose a different vision. 
It is in this spirit that Sylvain Gaudreault has filed a bill to affirm the precedence of the jurisdiction of Quebec in environmental matters. In other words, Sylvain proposes that it be up to us to decide what is happening in Quebec, not at the National Energy Board, not the federal government, not to the governments of the other provinces, to us! Bravo, Sylvain. 
I told you, our priorities are clear. We choose to be on the ground, with the world, to defend families, regions, local development and to combat inequalities. 
On the liberal side, what do we do? We centralize. We cut. We abolish. With the support of the CAQ. 
Liberals choose easy savings on the back of the poorest and families; They choose to have a short-view accounting approach without any vision of our society. 
Is that what we want, in Quebec? Choices based on individualism? On leaving? About the abandonment of our regions? 
Since the arrival in the power of Philippe Couillard, we find one thing: we can not trust him. 
During the election campaign, he spoke a lot, he promised a lot. And since he was elected? It browsing views. He denied his commitments, one after the other. He shows his true nature. We can not trust him. 
What is the more damage is that the Liberals govern in a closed vase. They have no respect for partners or for the actors on the ground. They are convinced to hold the supreme truth. 
That may be why Philippe Couillard centralizes everything in Quebec City, that it cut into the resources of CLDs, CJEs, Crees. 
For the Liberal Party, it's very simple: the regions no longer exist. Families are not important. The rich must be richer. As for the middle class and the poor ... Too bad for them! 
At the Parti Québécois, we believe that we can make different choices. 
For true equality of opportunity, any citizen, no matter where he lives in the territory of Quebec, has the right to obtain services, to be supported. Every Quebecker has the right to have a government that believes in him and the potential for the development of his community. 
Quebeckers are able to shine in all areas. We made our brand in a multitude of sectors, such as aeronautics, aluminum or video game. 
We can better than the destructive austerity of the Liberals and the CAQ. That's what we defend, to the Parti Québécois. 
Austerity is:  a cup of 300 million in the budgets of the municipalities;  a cup in the financing of rural solidarity;  The abolition of the support fund in difficulties. 
Philippe Couillard makes the choice to listen to the Council of the Patronat, who said that we had to close the regions and the devitalized villages. But is it the choice of citizens? 
We, the Parti Québécois, we make a different choice. Because our Quebec is also a Quebec region. We are proud of each of them, we are proud to occupy our great and so beautiful territory. We are proud of all our villages and all our cities. 
We are Quebec, all Quebec! 
In economics, it's the same. The government is absent. It becomes embarrassing when the Prime Minister goes abroad. 
In election campaign, Philippe Couillard promised the creation of 250,000 jobs. He does not believe it. 
Do I have to remind you that more than 40,000 full-time jobs have been lost since the arrival of the Liberals? And what does the Prime Minister do while jobs are lost? He's waiting and he stays in his office. He makes "the personal choice" - eh yes! - wait for the liberal effect. 
You need an economic policy for Quebec. It is constantly claimed at the National Assembly. 
If the Liberals have no idea, we have for them. Quebec must have ambition! That's the starting point. 
We know that together we can do great things. For example, in our economic policy, we had chosen to make Quebec a leader in transport electrification. It was a carrier project, a clear vision. 
We can focus on exporting, supporting our SMEs, our entrepreneurs. The fall of the dollar must be an opportunity to support our manufacturing companies. 
Well! No, the government is waiting ... 
If the government does not know what to do, that it continues at least in the path we have traced. This is the way of the future of Quebec. 
For the future, we must also believe in us. Believe in our families. 
During the campaign, Philippe Couillard said that it was not going to increase child care rates beyond inflation. But what did he do? Still "a personal choice"! It attacks middle-class families by significantly raising tariffs. 
But what you need to know is that the government wants the end of the CPE model. He slowed the development of places and blocked all the projects that were in progress. 
We had implemented progressive measures to support families who make the envy of all Western democracies. Even Americans and President Obama dream of creating reduced contribution daycare. 
This program, we have set it up, even in a difficult economic context. Because families must be at the center of our priorities. 
Our greatest collective wealth is incarnated in the development of families. As we know, a rich society draws its strength in the renewal of its generations. 
Another file on which the Prime Minister expects and does not intervene: religious fundamentalism. 
Well, we must not mention his passage in a country "which-on-do not-do-it-say-the-name" ... that, I understood it. 
But it will still have to have the prime minister explains where his "personal choice" come from and his discomfort to act against fundamentalism! 
Yesterday, I asked him a question at the National Assembly. He cited, but changing the words he had employed! Instead of saying "religious fundament", Philippe Couillard has self-succed and talked about "religious drifts"! 
COUDONC! What is the problem when it comes time to denounce fundamentalism? 
Fighting religious fundamentalism and radicalism, it's not a personal choice, it's a choice of society! 
Can Philippe Couillard tell us, moreover, a form of fundamentalism that respects equality between men and women? Can he tell us a form of fundamentalism that promotes the rights of homosexuals? Can we tell us a form of fundamentalism that respects the boundaries between public life and religious life? 
Agnès Maltais made a clear proposal to understand, document and prevent religious fundamentalism: that of providing Quebec from an observatory in this area. 
Experts could look at the phenomenon of fundamentalism and help us to live better together. 
We must act! May the other parties follow us in this process! 
My friends, this week marked the beginning of a new important step in the history of our party. The management race is officially launched. 
Madam and gentlemen, thank you for the quality of the campaign you lead so far. You do honor to the activists and activists of our grand party. 
Bravo for your proposals. 
I invite the candidate and the candidates to get up, so we can, all together, congratulate them! 
To be leader of the Parti Québécois is to be a party who believes Quebec would grow better if we made our own choices. Instead of choosing individualism, we must choose the collective! Instead of choosing centralization, we choose the regions! 
Faced with the liberal to flat-ventry in front of Ottawa, we make the choice of freedom, independence. Because we have to take our decisions about what is happening here in Quebec. 
And the way to do it is to choose, for us, for our children, that Quebec become a country! 
With the quality of our candidate and our candidates, I am convinced that the next chef will inspire, convince and bring Quebeckers to say yes! 
The future of Quebec goes through a country! 
Thank you my friends. 
Good national council. 
And good race to the party of the Parti Québécois. 
