Quebec- Danson opening speech, the Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, assured that solidarity would be the guideline of all government actions in the fields of education, health and social services , justice and the development of cities and regions. 
Solidarity calls for everyone equal opportunities. To do this, access to education is a key element. Thus, after canceling the increase in tuition fees, the government will respect its commitment to hold a summit on higher education. A series of measures will be put in place to combat school dropout, including allowing Quebec's primary and secondary schools hundreding hundreds of professionals to help the staff in place. Efforts to literacy and vocational training are also among the government's priority actions. 
With regard to early childhood, the government aims to ensure that each child has his day's day's place within the next four years. Thousands of places will be announced shortly and, from the beginning of next year, a call for projects will be launched to complete the network. The government will go forward with kindergarten to four years in disadvantaged circles. 
In terms of health, government priority is to facilitate access to the first line by acting on several fronts, including by adding 50 family medicine groups within two years, 170 family physicians within one year and several Professionals and nurses in family medicine groups, while giving an increased role to pharmacists. The government's goal is to ensure that more than 750,000 Quebeckers have access to a family doctor within two years. 
A national care and home care policy will also be developed to support seniors and caregivers. This reform will begin this fall with a working group on the creation of autonomy insurance. Measures will also be made in terms of mental health, roaming and social housing, spousal violence and distress among young people. 
In the justice sector, the government aspires that criminals and recidivists are severely punished, while committing rehabilitation, especially youth. The government will expand access to legal aid to the greatest number by the gradual increase in eligibility thresholds. To ensure the appearance of justice when police officers are involved, the government will introduce a bill to institute an independent investigative investigative office for all investigations that order by the Minister. 
To ensure the safety of the population, the government will table a bill with a view to creating a Quebec register of firearms without restriction. This register will be put in place when the Quebec data contained in the Canadian Firearms Registry will be obtained. 
Quebeckers are of interest to the metropolis, the National Capital and each of the regions are strong. The government will ensure that all regions of Quebec can enrich themselves. A decentralization framework law will be proposed to enable local decision-makers to make choices adapted to their situation. The national rural policy put in place in 2001 will be renewed. 
"Quebec remains the place in North America where wealth is the best shared and where the level of violence is the lowest. We have a tradition of mutual assistance that dates back to 400 years and which served us very well. We must be proud of these achievements and continue on the path of this solidarity, "concluded the Prime Minister. 
