Quebec- The Government of Pauline Marois will build on the promotion of the identity and the defense of the interests of the Quebec nation during its mandate. This is the commitment that the Premier of Quebec took today, Ms. Pauline Marois, on the occasion of the discours of openness to the National Assembly. "The minority status of the government should not immobilize us as a people, while we come out of nine years of torpor," she said. 
In identity, the government will act on three fronts: language, culture and citizenship. In order to preserve the place of French as a common public language, a new charter of the French language will be filed. "A majority of us agrees to defend and promote the place of French in our society, with respect to the English-speaking community. We do not all agree on the means and scope of gestures to do, but we know that we must act, "explained Pauline Marois. 
With the French language, culture defines us as people. Our creators are at the source of this culture and they will be able to count on unwavering support from the government. Through granting agencies, funding for creation will be increased gradually. 
Exporting Quebec works and cultural products will be more supportive. Quebec will hire talks with the federal government to repatriate budgets and cultural programs. A parliamentary committee on the relevance of a single price price law and its impacts will also be put in place. Finally, the teaching of Quebec's history will be strengthened in Quebec schools. 
In the area of citizenship, fundamental questions need to be decided. A charter of secularism and a law on Quebec citizenship have been proposed. Since these proposals should benefit from the membership of the greatest number, the government will launch consultations to reach a balance point that will make progress on these issues. 
Finally, the Government of Pauline Marois will continue its efforts to highlight the interests of Quebec on the international scene and before the federal government. A new breath will also be given to relations with Aboriginal nations. 
"Quebeckers remain shared on the national issue, but the idea that Quebec stands up and defends its interests unites a vast majority of us. Quebec has everything to gain to talk about its own voice in the world, to be present in international forums where our future is emerging and implementing its own foreign policy according to our interests and values. The government will continue to promote this idea that the only future worthy of the name for the Quebec nation is to regain its freedom by founding a new country, a country that looks like us, a country for all, "concluded the Prime Minister. 
