I would first like to offer our solidarity and our support for hurricane victims in the West Indies and the United States. 
When I took, for the first time, my card from the Parti Québécois, I knew, like you all, that I became a member of a party like the others. But really not like the others. 
Other parties only want to govern. We are more ambitious and generous. We want Quebeckers to govern themselves. That makes all the difference. 
Because being at PQ, it is first to say that Quebeckers are something like a great people. It's feeling it in his head, in his heart and in his guts. 
It is not just believing, it is to know that women and men here have the resources, talent, audacity and wisdom to be masters of their destiny. 
The PLQ and the CAQ want Quebec to stay in Canada for eternity. They find it normal that Quebec asks in vain for permissions in Canada, forever. 
They find it normal that Quebec pleads in vain for a right to do things differently, forever. 
They accommodate that our fair share of investment, recognition and respect, forever. 
Not us. We do not find that normal. Frankly, we do not take it. We have too much respect for people from here to find normal to be said no, that we do not have the right, we can not. 
We love Quebec too much to think that it is condemned to remain the disturbing minority of the neighboring nation. 
We, in this room, and all those who listen to us tonight and who share our convictions, let us see independence a great door that we open on the future. 
Once this door has been franché, Quebec will be able to offer its contribution to other progressive nations in the world. Imagine the time lost, for 20 years, to tour the climate only to explain that we did not agree with Canada. Independent, Quebec would be part of the great coalition of countries that wanted to act for the good of the planet. We would have added our voice to others, when it accounted for, where it was counting. And it will still count, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. 
Foreign analysts, as recently in the Quotienthe Guardian, discover that behind his modern image, Justin Trudeau defends as the oil sands as Stephen Harper. It only seems more clever to sell this most polluting oil in the world. And it is him, Justin Trudeau, the friend of the oils, who will represent us at the next steps of the fight against warming? I can not wait for Quebec to speak of his own voice. In his green voice. 
Tax havens, it is another crucial issue. The more we will close them, the more the nations will be able to find their income, the better we can meet the needs of our citizens, the better we will fight against inequalities. In recent months, the Parti Québécois, the Unanimous National Assembly and, in Ottawa, the Bloc Québécois tried to force Justin Trudeau to close tax havens. He refused. And just after he has open another, to the Cook Islands. International discussions against tax havens, it is not Justin Trudeau, the friend of paradise, who should speak on our behalf; It's a sovereign Quebec. 
Independence, it is a door where finally enter the self-esteem, responsibility, freedom, the true presence in the world. 
A thousand other changes 
And it is because the Parti Québécois embodies this historic change that it is also the instrument of a thousand other changes that have transformed Quebec for the better. 
If there are, in Quebec, generous parental leave, pay equity for women, the automatic perception of food pensions is that millions of people voted for the Parti Québécois. And it is because a remarkable woman has devoted his life to embellish family life, Pauline Marois. 
If you think the Grand Network of Custody Services created by the Parti Québécois must become accessible with a single rate and must offer even more quality places for our children, then you share the opinion of the Parti Québécois. 
If you believe that the start of the school year must no longer be a financial chasm, if you think that education must be the permanent priority of the nation, then you share the values of the Parti Québécois. 
Do you want to know why every Quebec citizen, whatever his income, is better protected than his neighbors from North America, with car insurance, drug insurance, LALOI on the protection of the consumer, LALOI on health and Labor safety, more generous labor standards, especially for pregnant women? This is because millions of people have trusted the Québécois party proposals. 
And if you want tomorrow, Quebec to cut the bridges with tax havens, bring back fraud and favoritism, if you want more social justice, and a minimum wage at $ 15, then you are about to vote for the party Quebecers. 
By entering the Parti Québécois, I knew that his founder, René Lévesque, had made the fight against corruption and the occult financing of the Liberal Party one of his greatest battles. We have been faithful to this fight. During the Charest Years, we forcefully claimed a new cleaning. In power, the Government of Pauline Marois has put the double bites to reinstate the political funding of the parties, including the municipal. We do not say enough how we kept head to large construction and engineering companies to force them to submit to a big cleaning. During the years Cute, we continued to dig in the bases of a liberal cropping culture and bizarre accounts in Switzerland and the Bahamas. 
In the last 40 years, under which Governments has Quebec experienced its strongest economic growth? Under those of the Parti Québécois, and from afar. And even, on average over 40 years. So, yes, the PLQ is excellent for public relations, with snoring formulas. The North Plan, the maritime strategy, the true business, both hands on the wheel, quality is not an obstacle to the low prices, the party of the economy. But it's wind. (Ah, I am reported that there are one of these slogans who were not the PLQ, my apologies.) 
Do you know why companies that were medium in size, like waterfalls, Bombardier, CGI, became international giants? This is because the Parti Québécois has prompted investors to trust them, with Jacques Parizeau's share savings plan. 
Do you know why Quebec is one of the world's high-tech places? Video games, optics, personalized health and everything else? This is because the Parti Québécois has been the precursor of tax credits for research and development. The war had to be seen by the Liberals against Bernard Landry's projects on the new economy. Money wasted! They said. Today, they pretend it was their idea. 
Business Development Funds in the Region, the Fonds de solidarité and Fondaction - Syndialities investing in companies, never-vu - the recognition and promotion of the social economy: these are all of the Quebec party achievements . All progress against the liberal culture of leaving and leaving. 
We are the party of economic nationalism and Quebec entrepreneurship. Unlike the PLQ, we will protect our strategic headquarters and we will not let our RONA leave. The PLQ has chosen to invest 6 billion in REM in Montreal and ask, keep well, in local purchase: 0%. On the other side of the border, in the United States, they ask for 60%. To defend our economy, the Couillard government does not have the pass mark. 
A Parti Québécois government will promote local purchase, wherever possible, in transport, agriculture, cities and regions. Other industrialized countries do, in accordance with international agreements. What is expected to have as much business sense as our competitors? 
Each government of the Parti Québécois has accompanied the entrepreneurial succession. It was the "rising guard" of Jacques Parizeau, then the Biron Plan for SMEs, and the paved plan for new businesses. Starting in 2018, we will live the largest entrepreneurial wave in our history. More than 40% of under 35 and over one-third of Quebeckers want to start their business. We will be at this rendezvous. Our government will make it possible to transform their intentions into projects and their projects in success. 
With our PME priority plan, we are guided by two principles. First: "Once is enough". When the contractor submitted his information to a government department or government agency, it is enough. That the state is copies, not the entrepreneur. Second Principle: "Let them work". During the first five years of a new company, whether private, social or cooperative, the regulatory framework will be significantly reduced. 
And when a company closes its doors, we will promote its redemption by its employees and executives. They know that; They hold there; They will not deliberate. That's it, too, economic nationalism. 
Environment 
If there is a packaging economic nationalism site, it is the green turn of our economy. We lose $ 18 billion each year in purchase of foreign oil. While pile up in our tanks of electricity surpluses. The more we will get out of oil, the more we will invest here, in our green industries, these billions that escape us. 
The first budget of the government of the Parti Québécois will be the green turn. The PLQ and the CAQ dream of building new dams. For the Parti Québécois, the next James Bay, it will be in the green renovation of our housing. It will be in our schools and hospitals, which will freeze oil to move to geothermal. It will be in every neighborhood and suburb where solar panels, green roofs and green alleys will improve our quality of life. 
It will be on our roads, where the Parti Québécois government will really combat congestion. By really involving carpooling and caring. By multiplying electric bus circuits. 
By supporting Quebec and Montreal projects for more robust transit. By converting to electricity the fleets of school buses. Do you know that a Tesla electric car component is made on the south shore? And if we were doing more than just a component? In electrification, our government will see big. And, yes, we will make a test bench for the electric monorail project that could, tomorrow, connect Montreal, Quebec and the other major urban centers of Quebec. 
The future of Quebec, it is not oil. The future is in the electrical inventiveness of our entrepreneurs, our engineers, our researchers, our public services. 
And, the future, it is not to allow Justin Trudeau to build on our territory an extreme petroleum pipeline that would cross 860 of our streams. This pipeline, TransCanada wants it to crosses the St. Lawrence River on the beetles of Saint-Augustin-de-Desmaures. 
While the PLQ and the CAQ applaud energy is, we learned this morning that TransCanada reflects in the future of the project. We do not want TransCanada to think, we want TransCanada to stop energy! 
And I know someone who wants to stop energy is. 
(Norman Beauregard entrance) 
Normand Beauregard, our candidate in Louis-Hébert. A specialist in sustainable development. He has lived in Louis-Hébert for 30 years, has devoted his life to environmental and development issues and it is, for good, the candidate of the PQ in Louis-Hébert. Other parties chose in Louis-Hébert candidates who did not pass the quality test. On the contrary, we have chosen a major candidate. A candidate who knows how to stay calm in the storm and who knows how to take his place in a debate. He has a lot of practice, he is 12 in a family of 12 children. A candidate to measure hopes and challenges of the people of Louis-Hébert. A candidate they can be proud of. Thank you, Normand. 
If you think all health, education or economic development decisions must be taken by a small group of people who concentrate the power and give orders, so no, you will not be comfortable with the Parti Québécois . 
For us, regions must determine their own projects and development. For us, advice in health must represent healthcarees and patients, and not blindly apply the last lubies of the minister. For us, consultation, participation are the keys to success. 
Health 
And speak of health for a moment. Let's talk about the minister. Gaétan barrette had white card. He voted all the laws he wanted, abolished all the counterparts he wanted, named all the senior executives he wanted, dismissed all those he did not want. At first, Quebeckers gave him the benefit of the doubt. And they waited. WHEREAS the results. And the results did not come. The disappointment is huge. 
My concern is that Quebeckers think there is nothing to do. That never our health system will work properly. For 15 years, the Liberal doctors have been at the bedside of the system and the main result was an explosion of ... the remuneration of doctors. 
At the Parti Québécois, we do not promise to solve all health problems in a few weeks, as Jean Charest had said in 2003. But we will do it otherwise. 
There are 20,000 doctors in Quebec who do a remarkable job. But with the Liberals, everything is centered on them. Which causes a huge traffic jam. 
There are also 200,000 other health professionals. Nurses, pharmacists, dentists and dental hygienists, audiologists and optometrists, psychologists and physiotherapists, paramedics and social workers. At the Québécois party, we want to give them more power, as they have elsewhere in America and Europe. More responsibilities, more autonomy, for more direct care to patients. 
That's what they have been asking for years. They are ready, they want it. They can disengorge the system, clear time to doctors to deal with more serious cases, no vaccination. These 200,000 professionals say, ultimately: Free us of Liberal doctors ministers! 
The Liberals and Gaétan Barrette fought against the establishment of autonomous superimmer clinics, such as Sabsa to Quebec City. 
For us, the time has come, on the contrary, to extend to all Quebec Superinfiring clinics, including CLSCs, for minor emergencies and monitoring certain diseases. And, yes, it will be open on weekend nights. It's possible. With the PQ, it will finally be reality. 
François Legault - Listen well - has recently proposed that doctors give more money to encourage them to delegate tasks to nurses. At the time of the creation of the CAQ, it was one of its flagship proposals: give more money to doctors. It's a fixed idea. I do not know if it stands. 
In fact, François Legault is at the origin of the worst decision of public finances of the century. When he was a minister of health, he gave up the pressures of the medical corporations and accepted that their remuneration be calculated according to the Canadian average. We have not done for teachers, nurses, plumbers, cisieres or any other profession, but for doctors, yes. 
Then Gaétan Barrette and Philippe Couillard applied Legault doctrine. Consequence: on each new dollar invested in health, 75 went to the compensation of doctors. Rather than patients, elders, at the front line. François Legault has committed another expensive mistake. Become head of CAQ in 2012, it is he who convinced Gaétan barrette to make the jump in politics. 
François, we are ready to forgive you a lot. But that, we will never forgive it! 
We, the Parti Québécois, we will have the courage to repair the errors of Legault, Couillard and Barrette. We love our doctors, but we think they are paid enough. With us, every new extra dollar invested in health will be entirely in care. 
Who we are, at the PQ? 
We are often asked: finally, at the PQ, who are you? 
It's simple. First, we believe in Quebec without good sense. That's why we want independence. 
And we believe in the collective tool of the nation: the Quebec state. We want to make it much more effective, much closer to people, less complicated for entrepreneurs, farmers, citizens. 
The CAQ and the PLQ constantly devalues hundreds of thousands of women and men who get up every morning to offer citizens a public service. It looks like they are at war against the state, against the employees of the state. The result is disastrous. Demotivation, burnout, resignations, loss of expertise. 
At the Québécois party, on the contrary, we want to rely on the artisans of the public service, his teachers, his professionals, to engage together for better ideas and services. The CAQ wants to stifle the state. We want to allow him to better breathe, to better serve citizens. 
And we believe that Quebec has an identity. To no other anyone. And it is worth being known, taught, celebrated, shared, respected. 
Identity 
Allow me to read two strong quotes on identity. Which define very well the choice that presents itself to us. 
The first is very recent. She is Justin Trudeau, who said the bottom of his thought to a journalist Dunew York Times, shortly after his election. 
"In Canada," he said, there is no fundamental identity, no dominant current. There are shared values - opening, compassion, the desire to work hard, to be there for one another, to seek equality and justice. These qualities are what makes us the first post-national state. End of quote. 
It has the merit of clarity. In the Canadian Trudeauist project, there is no identity or collective project. It's sad. 
Now, I will read you the quote that Grand Camille Laurin had chosen to put on the first page of its cultural development policy. 
"The homeland is a common project, a continuous creation of our solidarity efforts. [...]. To be together is an infinitely complex orchestration, whose invisible leader is the shared belief that this set exists, that it has a meaning throughout history, that we must be attentive so that it does not relax [ ...]. The most serious disaster that can threaten a people, it is the indifference of its members in the form of its future. » 
This is another choice, and it's our choice, in Quebec. We have a past, a present and a future that make sense. A strong identity that defines us and supports us. We are not just individuals. We are a nation. 
But a nation that passes a funny moment. Precisely because of the tension between the Canadian vision of things and the Quebec vision of things. 
And we have been witnessing for some time to a permanent trial of the Quebec difference. The word "identity" is at the accused's bench. Even though the decline of French is confirmed, the French defense proposals are considered suspicious. 
We live under the era of the Cuteillard doctrine in linguistic material. He stated that all workers in a factory mounting line should know English, in case an English-speaking buyer would pass by and would like to ask them a question. Federal judges have found it very good and have inscribed the Cute doctrine in the case law, bringing back 40 years the right to work in French in Quebec. 
Even the parade of the National Day has been the object, this year, a saving campaign. There is, on a background of Trudeauism, an offensive to guilty the national impetus Quebec, weaken it, to shrink it. 
The Couillard government adds a layer, with a consultation on systemic discrimination and racism. The Commission will surrender Quebec this fall to accumulate exhibits. 
A proposition all the more proud as the Liberal Party has rejected, for months, 20 proposals from the Parti Québécois aimed at reducing discrimination on hiring and racism. 
Our commitment is concrete. A government of the Parti Québécois will quickly implement concrete measures to better recognize the diplomas and achievements of Quebecers for adoption, to reduce discrimination on hiring, to make a place for diversity on the boards of directors. Public companies and in state staff, where the Liberals have failed. I can not wait to lead the government of inclusion, real and concrete. 
What is targeted by the trial that the government organizes is not the actor primarily responsible for the real problems of integrating neo-Quebec - the party that inflated immigration without creating the conditions of its success, so the PLQ . No. This is a liberal pre-election political operation of Quebecers, warmly supported by Quebec Solidaire. 
The real target is the very majority of Quebeckers, and present in diversity, to clearly affirm, in the face of religions, the secularism of the state and the equality of men and women. Autoproclated prosecutors knowingly make the amalgam between religion and race, as if these realities were interchangeable. As if all who, from Voltaire, wanted to separate the Church and the state, while defending the freedom of conscience and worship, were intolerant. It's the world upside down. 
Quebeckers and Quebeckers have forged their secular beliefs in their fight of more than half a century to free oneself from a considerable grip of the Catholic religion in their lives, as in their public services and their state. For Quebecers, and especially for Quebeckers, this decline in religion in their lives has been a liberation. A major collective gain to which the Parti Québécois participated. In fact, our party is born with this movement. He embodied it and embodies it again. 
And it is essential to tell our fellow citizens who missed the previous episodes that we do not speak here of a distant past. It is only 20 years ago that Quebeckers have renounced the Christian character of their school boards. It is only 12 years ago that they abolished Catholic and Protestant teaching in public schools. 
There was resistance. Christian groups, priests, bishops who did not agree. There were legal remedies. But do you know what? With the decline, I would like to thank them for one thing: he never wanted them through the spirit of accusing Quebec "Christianophobia". The word has never been pronounced. 
So, yes, having wanted and lived this major withdrawal process of the religion of their lives, the vast majority of Quebeckers and Quebeckers see the return of religious signs, whatever they are, in their public services as a regression. They wish to remain faithful to themselves. In all, they wish to live in a society which, while respecting the beliefs of each, values the secularism and the freedom of women. 
It is their right and they deserve a government that will be by their side. For the moment, the government in Quebec City, Ottawa and the leaders of Quebec Solidarity, they only have opponents. 
The historical role of the Parti Québécois 
This is not the first time Quebecers are accused of racism and withdrawal on them. This is not the first time the signs of linguistic decline accumulate. This was the case in the 1970s. The Parti Québécois had, starting in 1976, reversing the steam. Adopt, against a fierce opposition, a structuring law for the linguistic and cultural future of Quebec, the Charter of the French language. 
The Parti Québécois is still called upon to play this historic role. In the first 101 days of our power, we will adopt the law 202 to stop the decline of French and reversing the steam. 
First, by restoring the right to work in French, extending the law 101 to companies from 25 to 50 employees - what is always refusing the PLQ and the CAQ. Then, by ensuring that 100% of future immigrants and their spouse are admitted to the territory only if they demonstrate a good knowledge of French - what the PLQ and CAQ refuse. 
This goes through the obligation, for Quebec students of CEGEPs and English-speaking universities, to demonstrate a real knowledge of French for graduation. An essential step in ensuring their success in the Francophone labor market and to reduce English unilingualism - what is refusing for the PLQ and CAQ. 
I already hear the Liberals accuse us of wanting Quebeckers to learn English. Seriously. René Lévesque spoke English perfectly. Jacques Parizeau cultivated an accentbritish. Lucien Bouchard, Bernard Landry André Boisclair, Pierre Karl Péladeau, all bilingual and trilingual. Pauline Marois. Prime Minister, she went there and made remarkable progress. I am a witness! 
I will ask you a riddle. Who said, "Do not clog his eyes. We do not have a choice. We live on an English-speaking continent and, speak English as needed, while living in French at home, should be normal. " Who said that? Jacques Parizeau, in one of his latest interviews. 
The Parti Québécois is in the tuning of all the parents and all young Quebecers who want to master English and Spanish, and a third and fourth languages. Of course. 
And the debate we have on CEGEPs is exactly that one. How to meet the legitimate desire of Quebeckers, and Jacques Parizeau, to master English without Anglicize part of our population? 
Our answer: To ensure that our Francophone Cegeps actually offer those who wish it an enriched English course with a session in an English-speaking CEGEP. Learn English without aggravating. 
And encourage English-speaking students to come to a session in Francophone Cegeps to master French. Including CEGEPs from Quebec regions that today face a shortage of registrations and who will look for students around the globe. Why not go looking here, in our English-speaking community, to better share with them our common language? That's bold. That's unifying. This is to meet the needs of young adults and the nation. 
Define our nation 
To this new historical effort on the language, our government will add a clear and serene affirmation of the Quebec difference in a Quebec constitution. 
How to define what René Lévesque called our "vital difference"? 
First, there are evidence, QuebecForming a nation has its territory. Quebec in an official and common language, French, and all the inhabitants are called to teach it, to know it, to share it. Quebec has embodied in a very rich cultural production mainly Francophonequi expresses both its origins, its evolution and its credit. All Quebec students should know the essential works. 
Quebec is the fruit of a singular historical narrative, always in the making. The knowledge of this story is part of the experience of a common Quebec citizenship. 
Then there is our attachment to our immense territory. Our local rootings. The pride of being Gaspésien, Beauceron, Abitibi or Lake. I should name them all. The pride of the people of Quebec, city of history and future. The extraordinary standing laboratory of ideas, meetings and creation that is Montreal. 
And, in this vast, rich and alive territory, from Champlain, our first and perhaps greater hero, we wanted to weave with the indigenous nations of friendship and mutual respect relations. There were setbacks. Deep scars that belongs to us to dress together to better prepare for the future. But the great peace of 1701 to the peace of the brave 2003, there is a desire to live side by side, in a mutually beneficial exchange. Quebec identity owes a lot to its aboriginal footprint. I wish to see a moment or indigenous identities will be able to say proudly that they owe a lot to their Quebec footprint. It is the spirit of Champlain who must guide us today, tomorrow, and for independent Quebec that we want to build. 
Then, there is our particular attachment to universal values: 
Quebec is not the only place to equality between women and men is a precious acquis (and even incomplete). But because of our history, this desire for equality is expressed intensely and is part of our fundamental identity; 
Quebec is not the only place where there is a business spirit, coupled with mutual assistance and consultation. But our minority status has made these approaches to action and decision of the strong elements; 
Quebec is not the only place where societal justice lacquet. But the march of a French-speaking population which, before the quiet revolution, was underpaid and socially decommissioned to a modern society of a high social mobility and demanding to aim for equity in all its forms made of this quest a salient feature of our collective life. 
Quebec is not the only place where democratic will is present. But patriots who vote in all villages the 92 resolutions claiming more democracy, passing through the responsible government, to the laws on the democracy of René Lévesque and Robert Burns, recent advances in sanitation From our political practices and persistent debates on the search for an even more equitable voting system, our engagement for the democracy is inseparable from what we are. 
And Quebec, I spoke earlier, scored, in his modern identity, walking towards more secularism. 
That's what we are. And that's what we invite all Quebeckers of yesterday, today and tomorrow. This is the Quebec version of living-together, which is neither Canadian nor american or European nor better or better than other advanced democracies. She is simply Quebec. She deserves respect. 
The path of victories 
Our party. Your party. The biggest party in Quebec. With its 80,000 members. The party that has the most members of each of the four generations that have led us so far. 
Yes, four generations. First, those who, with Pierre Bourgault, showed in 1966 that 11% of Quebecers were independent. I ask you to get up, those who voted in 1966. 
The second generation demonstrated in 1980 that 40% of Quebecers wanted independence. Get up, those who voted in 1980. 
The third generation, which demonstrated in 1995 that half of Quebecers were ready for independence. Get up, those who said yes for the first time in 1995. 
The fourth generation, well represented by our new president, Gabrielle Lemieux. In 1995, she was 9 years old. Those who will say yes for the first time during the next appointment with independence, get up. 
Since you have chosen me to lead our grand party, I wanted to bring out better than ever the balance between these four generations of independence. And I thank you all for participating in this great generational opening project. In one year, the number of members under 40 jumped by 40%. In six months, experienced activists opened up young people by giving them more responsibilities in all our bodies until the presidency. We can say today: Mission accomplished. And that everyone can reach out to Quebecers of all ages and demonstrate, better than yesterday, that the Parti Québécois is the house of all generations. 
And that he is also the house of Quebec's all the origins, all beliefs and credit. I am pleased to announce that before this Congress, we did not have as many delegates from the great diversity of Quebec. 
I wish to greet all the members of the National Executive Committee who have accompanied us in this transition since 2011. In particular those who have done the whole course: Elise Péloquin, Danielle Gagné, Paul Crête and the outgoing President, Raymond Archambault. 
You leave us a party in good shape. Present throughout Quebec. Many more on the internet than any other training. Ready to meet the great challenges that await us: hunting the Liberals, without replacing them with the Caquists, succeed independence, in that order. 
We made a great collective decision. First, that of not holding a referendum in a first term. Then, that of clearly soliciting, in the election of 2022, the mandate to propose and succeed independence. 
Some are surprised to hear from independence on every occasion, since the referendum is not imminent. I tell them: Disrupt yourself. Independence is a solution to immediate problems, not only historical. 
We are independently every day. We are not referens every day. 
Our government, in a first term, will take full care of restoring its momentum and its pride to the nation. And at the 2019 federal election, with our friends from the Bloc (greetings at Martine Ouellet), we will put the federal parties and Justin Trudeau to the challenge. Why, every year, Ottawa deprives the Québec economy of $ 4 billion in productive investment, which would be its fair share? 
Why did Ottawa took billions of dollars in the pocket of Quebeckers to massively support oil in the West and Newfoundland, to support nuclear and automotive in Ontario, without ever giving the same treatment to Our economy? Why, over the next few years, will Ottawa take in our pockets of $ 30 billion to finance super-jobs in Halifax and Vancouver for the Canadian Navy, without giving ourselves in return ? Ah, yes, it's true, they send us something. While we finance good jobs, wealth and dignity elsewhere, Ottawa sends us a check for assistance, equalization. A check coated in a thick envelope of contempt. I can not wait for this federal election of 2019. I can not wait for the accounts of what it costs us, Canada. 
From 2018 to 2022, the Parti Québécois will be at work, with our partners of yes Quebec that I greet, to prepare and inform Quebeckers on the independentist offer of 2022. What would be, the first five Years of a real maritime strategy if we all had our powers? What would be better healthy, or for drugs, if we recovered the powers and the billion lost in bureaucratic duplication with Ottawa? And the single tax report, which would save 700 million a year to Quebecers, how would it be? 
As a government, we will restore tone and pride in Quebec. As movement, we will meticulously prepare our independence proposal for 2022. 
You have to go through the first step. That of the election of October 2018. 
And I would like to speak to the voters who are tempted by the other parties. 
First, to liberal voters. Disappointed with what has become of their grand part under the direction of Jean Charest then Philippe Couillard. Scandal scandal, ethical fault with ethical fault, not to mention a toxic austerity for our children and elders. The Liberal Party needs a long opposition cure, to find its benchmarks. 
Je le dis aussi aux électeurs anglophones.We know how disappointed you are by the current Liberal government. Unimaginable cuts that hurt the young and the elderly. An inability to handle crisis situations. A government that never seems to find it’s ethical compass. It’s time for change. For good, clean, green government. And that is the Parti Québécois. We are in favour of Quebec’s independence; there is no doubt about that. But our commitment is firm; we will not put this issue to a vote until the subsequent election in 2022. In our first mandate, we have much to do in terms of health, education, justice, the environment, our shared Quebec identity, and the incredible entrepreneurial wave that is brewing among the younger generation and new Quebecers. And there’s one thing of which you can be certain. With the Parti Québécois, the Anglo vote will never be taken for granted. 
Voters at the CAQ, my message is simple. Compare the CAQ solutions correctly and ours. Compare and you will see that for your access to the health system, for a real free school, for the quality of child care, for the quality of your environment, for the success of small businesses, the solutions of the Parti Québécois are more effective, more efficient Thoughtful, stronger. 
Solids like the tremendous team already elected members of the Parti Québécois, without even counting the new applications that will be added. She is here, the skill you are looking for. She is there, the succession of which Quebec needs. Which you need. 
To the voters of Quebec solidarity, finally, I have a very important message that I would like you to listen carefully. Your desire to make Quebec a more just, green, more egalitarian place is admirable. But we are prisoners, you and us, a dilapidated electoral system that promotes the Liberals. Unfortunately, as long as we have changed the voting system, vote solidarity is to help a liberal or a counterpart to win. It's getting exactly the outset to the one you are looking for. 
There was a solution, that of making a pact between us. Eighty-seven percent of Quebec solidarity voters were favorable, like us. But your party slammed the door to this common sense solution. Your party has plunged you into the electoral trap of the progressive and independence division. 
The only way out of this trap is to vote for the party who is formally committed to reforming the electoral system in time for the election of 2022. I take the solemn commitment to you today. We stay there. Why? Because in 2022, we want to add up the forces and the independence parties, not divide them. To get there, next year, elected a majority of Quebecois deputies. 
When I took my card from the Quebecois Party, I knew I entered a large coalition. People from the regions, Montreal, Quebec, who came from the work of the land, the factory, teaching or care, people who lean to the left, right. People planted in the center of the center or who do not care, the important thing is to advance towards progress and to the country. 
What we sodes us, too, in this great house founded by Lévesque and Bourgault and Parizeau and so many others is that we are in the image of Quebeckers on this corner of continent. We never give up. 
Through the pitfalls and conjunctures, upwards and progress, gusts and clarifications, we never give up. We are the party of the builders of Quebec. Something in us pushes us to always transform Quebec for the better. It is stronger than us. 
We are happy when Quebec goes even further. A little more flourishes. A little more. Until finally, it is completely itself. 
Thank you. 
