On January 30, 2014, the Prime Minister Pauline Marois, was invited to speak at a luncheon organized as part of the Montreal International Relations Council Policy Series. Here are his speech notes. 
The pronounced version is authentic. 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
Thank you for being displaced so many today. 
I first want to greet the Council of Montreal International Relations Council as well as its Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Pierre Lemonde. I am honored to launch the programming of the 30th year of activities of the Corim by presenting the economic vision of my government. I recognize a strong desire to help ensure that Quebec is part of the global recovery. 
To achieve this, it will be necessary to count on our metropolis. Admiral vessel of our economy, university degree of high knowledge and innovation, creative space, and host city of the consular body and prestigious international organizations: the success of Montreal and that of all Quebec are intimately linked. 
We have seen it in 2013. It is thanks to the mobilization of all the actors that Montreal will continue to welcome the headquarters of the International Civil Aviation Organization. 
This illustrates that even if we face a strong competition, it is by joining our efforts that we can raise the biggest challenges. 
We have had our lot in recent months. 
I think among others at the tragedy of Lac-Mégantic, still fresh to our brief, but also to the terrible fire of Isle-Verte, where the various stakeholders are still at the work right now. I want to raise my hat today to these heroes daily and thank them on behalf of all Quebeckers! 
These trials should not paralyze us. On the contrary, they must push us to go further in the development of this Quebec built by our elders and all those who preceded them. 
That's what I did last week as part of the economic mission I did in London and Davos. A mission that is part of my government's desire to support the creation of paid jobs for Quebeckers, in all regions. And, in fact, this trip abroad ended by the investment announcement totaling nearly half a billion dollars and which will create more than 600 jobs. 
Our participation in the Davos Economic Forum was also an opportunity to make lucid findings on the global context in which Quebec evolves. Discussions I had with my political vis-à-vis, as well as with business leaders from around the world, I have some confidence. The confidence that 2014 could be the starting point for global economic recovery. 
On the other hand there is a necessity: that of ensuring that this recovery is accompanied by a strong job creation. This concern is all the partners and our competitors. In this context, I am very pleased to see that we did what it was necessary. 
I am convinced that Quebec is ready for world recovery! 
To get there, we use all the levers and all the powers available to the government. We want to make sure Quebeckers can enjoy it, see their standard of living improve and enrich themselves. 
We are not the only ones. The US president expressed exactly the same intention during his speech on the state of the Union, pronounced before yesterday. 
Since we arrived in the government, in September 2012, that's what we work for. We set up all the conditions for Quebec to know a period of sustainable economic expansion. 
We first had to make courageous decisions and put difficult gestures. We saved billions of dollars to Quebeckers, leaving Quebec from nuclear energy and asbestos production. We also gave orders to the major infrastructure projects, whose delays and costs were out of control. Now we have resumed an investment pace that, nearly 10 billion a year, remains considerable. 
It was also necessary to resume control of state program spending. 
You know, I have been Minister of Health, Education, Family, President of the Treasury Board and Minister of Finance. I participated in the achievement of the zero deficit, during the 90s. So I was very aware that it would ask for an effort at all times. 
But it had to be done and we did it. 
Government spending growth is currently under control for the first time in ten years. On the income side, we unfortunately been faced with a less dynamic economy than expected, as well as a very low inflation. 
The vast majority of Western states, such as private forecasters, had to review their decline estimates. You are not without knowing that this low inflation always arouses some concern, among analysts. 
This situation requires us to remain vigilant about the control of expenses. It also requires us to act resolutely to stimulate the economy. 
So we had to make choices. We could have, as the opposition requires, to obstinate us to reach the zero deficit since this year. To get there, it would have been necessary to increase the tax burden of Quebecers. Or reduce government spending by nearly $ 2 billion. In both cases, it would have hurt the families of Quebec. It would have ended with less economic activity, fewer jobs and, ultimately, less income for the state. 
The other possibility was to repel the achievement of balance, keeping a much lower deficit than our neighbors. 
At the same time, it was imperative to go thoroughly with an ambitious and bold economic policy. 
In other words, we had the choice between austerity and prosperity. 
The choice we did is growth, development and job creation! 
While maintaining expenditure control, we put in place measures to attract private investment. It is the engine of any lasting recovery. 
From September 2012 to December 2013, Investissement Québec authorized more than 2000 financial interventions. These have made it possible to realize private investment projects totaling nearly $ 10 billion, which will create or consolidate more than 29,000 jobs. 
The positive effects are already felt on the ground. However, we want to go much further and we continue to press the accelerator. 
Last fall, we presented a very ambitious, voluntaristic economic policy. It will help create 115,000 new jobs and lead to $ 7.6 billion in investments within three years. It first provides for flagship measures, intended to whip growth. 
The idea is to provide fuel into our short-term economy, through investments that will be beneficial in the long term. 
The first of these measures is to use our electricity surpluses to attract investment and create jobs in all our regions. This advantageous tariff tariff offer program different sectors: 
We also set foot on the accelerator for investments to modernize our schools, sports and leisure infrastructure, as well as separate establishments. This adds to the ten-year tax leave for strategic investments, announced in 2012 and enhanced in the fall. 
These actions already give results. For example, this major investment of the multinational Ericsson, who chose Quebec to build digital data research and processing facilities. 
On another plane, we also focus on our culture. 
In Quebec, it is not only a motive for pride and inspiration, but also a source of wealth. Abroad, we make a trademark. 
We rely on the contagious creative spirit of our metropolis to attract the most innovative projects. 
And it gives results. In London, I announced the arrival of Cinesite, a British special effects company, which chose Montreal to create 200 quality jobs. 
There were many other ads, like White Star Capital, which comes to provide funding for start-up, Quebec, digital technology companies. 
This adds to the Aldo Group, Fleuron of Fashion, which invests 363 million, here in Montreal. 
There is also the Volvo mobility project, and those of RER Hydro, Pratt & Whitney, Bridgestone, Aerolia and I could continue for a long time. 
To attract these investments, it is necessary to stem very strong, to be extremely convincing and proactive. Other states do not spare efforts, either. We are not the only ones on the track. In some folders, it's upon arrival that the race is played. 
It was still the case in Europe last week. We must fight and use all the tools of the state. In Davos, we announced an agreement with the Spanish Ferroatlántica company, which will open a factory in Quebec by investing $ 375 million, which will create 300 direct jobs. What seduced our new partner is the exceptional quality of our workforce, the availability of our energy as well as our bold tax strategy. 
It proves that we just targeted. 
I say it to all Quebeckers: our government is determined to do everything to win, to do everything to get investments and jobs. 
We want to build a richer Quebec! 
Quebeckers are able to surpass, reach new heights of excellence in all areas, including wealth creation. 
From this belief stem the four major strategic initiatives of the Employment Priority Economic Policy. 
This first includes an ambitious industrial policy to revive manufacturing employment in all regions of Quebec. We devote significant financial means for SMEs as well as large Quebec companies. We support the modernization of their processes to help them become more productive, greener, more innovative. 
The second priority of action is to build on this intangible asset that has always allowed Quebeckers to stand out. It is our ingenuity, a trait of character that may comes to us from the immensity of our territory and the rigor of our climate. 
We are sentenced to exceeding. Nowadays, it is our graduate institutions that perpetuate this tradition. 
Because we can count on their excellence, we have the certainty that it is by creating jobs in today's laboratories that we build the economy of tomorrow. 
This is the purpose of the new national research and innovation policy; I greet the Minister responsible for its implementation, Mr. Pierre Duchesne. 
When I left the government in 2003, research and development investments in Quebec accounted for about 2.8% of our GDP. We were well positioned before the rest of Canada as well as most OECD countries. In 2011, this figure was only 2.3%. We are determined to resume our place in the early ranks. Our goal is to reach 3% of GDP devoted to R & D. 
To do this, the government will invest $ 3.7 billion in five years in research and innovation. 
In connection with industrial policy, a particular emphasis has been placed on supporting our innovative companies. We will also support the valorization and transfer of research results, as well as the synergy between researchers and industrialists. We will win by putting on our intelligence, our creativity and our audacity. A daring that is also found in our aggressive foreign trade development plan. This is the third part of our economic policy. 
The balance of Quebec's foreign trade has not been spared by the economic jolts of recent years. In coherence with our measures that promote productivity and innovation, we now give the means to our companies to be more competitive in the markets. The goal is to sell more products and services elsewhere to create more jobs here. The recent decline in the Canadian currency opens a door that we simply can not ignore. 
We want to boost exports through the consolidation of traditional markets, such as the United States that shows encouraging signs of recovery. We also rely on the development of new markets. It is not for nothing that we supported the conclusion of the global economic and trade agreement between Canada and the European Union. 
Quebec is positioned as the key partner of European companies that want to set up in North America. This is the message I got delivered to Paris, Monaco and Brussels at the end of 2013, then in London and Davos at the beginning of the year. 
We will continue to multiply trade missions on all continents, supported by the 28 representations of our network abroad, whose dynamism is inversely proportional to the size. 
While I was moving on last week, the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisé, was in Japan, with our academics and entrepreneurs. This mission followed other interventions of the same type, in markets with tremendous potential, such as China, Mexico and even Africa. Inspired by our experience in the International Organization of La Francophonie, we also believe in the potential of this emergence continent. 
Our entrepreneurs are able to gain markets around the world; They proved it. What I'm telling them today is that they can count on the unwavering support of the Government of Quebec to conserve their expanding markets. 
Finally, I want to talk to you about a site that is close to the point where I placed it under my personal responsibility. This is our transport electrification strategy, the fourth and final part of the Employment Priority Economic Policy. 
I talk about it whenever I meet political decision-makers or business leaders, here or abroad. I can tell you that interest is great. 
Last December, in Paris, I announced the establishment of the Franco-Québécois group on the electrification of transport, with Mr. Pierre Moscovici, Minister of the Economy and Finance of the French Republic . This initiative will be co-chaired by two major entrepreneurs. This is Pierre Karl Péladeau, which is also chairman of the Hydro-Québec Board of Directors, as well as Vincent Bolloré, CEO of the important French Bolloré group, which operates an electric battery plant in Boucherville. 
In Davos, I received a lot of interest for this project and I found that we are ahead of competition. 
We place ourselves at the forefront, as we do in our partnership with California to harmonize and integrate our cap programs and exchange greenhouse gas emissions rights. 
Quebec already has clean energy, which we have in abundance. We expect our expertise, both in the electrical processes and in the manufacture of buses, metro, trains, batteries or components. 
Our goal is to make Quebec a world leader in the electric transport sector. We did it in the aeronautical field. We did it in the field of video games and special effects. In my view, it is clear that transport electrification is the new niche of excellence that Quebec must appropriate. 
With this visionary project, we will get rich and create jobs with us. We will replace oil imported with clean energy, produced in Quebec. This will also allow us to bring us closer to energy independence. 
However, we are aware that our demand for oil will not disappear overnight. In this period of transition to green energies, Quebec's oil potential can play a role. 
These times are the opportunity for a possible exploitation of this resource. In this regard, I have always been very clear. If the potential is confirmed, our government intends to exploit this wealth. We will do so responsibly, by adopting the best environmental practices. 
And I want to say this to all Quebeckers: if there is oil exploitation in Quebec, we will ensure that this wealth enjoys first and foremost to Quebeckers! 
This is so for all our natural riches. Maximize their benefits in terms of investments, revenues, jobs and the benefit of the entire population, it is the meaning of our action. 
A new equitable and transparent mining royalty system is in place, and Quebec has finally endowed with a law on mines worthy of the 21st century. With the North for all, which frames and supports Nordic development, we offer investors an attractive, predictable and fair environment. 
For two years, the price of raw materials has dropped significantly. Investments felt in Quebec, as in the rest of Canada and around the world. But, in the medium term, the urbanization of emerging countries will continue, demand will increase and prices will recover. 
Once again, thanks to our actions, we will be ready. Already, the wood market is restarting. In favor of the national rendezvous of the Quebec Forest, which concluded in the enthusiasm last November, we are ready to take advantage of this recovery. The actors in this industry have found optimism after years of crisis. 
The forest goes again synonymous with wealth and jobs for all Quebec! 
So we have a responsible government that controls its expenses and supports employment across Quebec. It is formed by a dynamic team that propels all over the world to promote Quebec and proposing a bold vision of short and long-term economic expansion. 
Everything is in place for Quebec to take advantage of the revival of the global economy! 
This is what we keep in mind, in the context of prebudget reflection. 
We have already made our colors known. Our priority is to control our expenses and support employment. 
The opposition tells us that its priority is the immediate fiscal balance, leaves to curb economic growth and employment. 
The choice is clear, so: we can choose prosperity or austerity; You can choose to accelerate or brake. 
My choice is to implement economic policies that are good for employment, good for our regions, good for our families. Policies for more prosperity, more solidarity and more pride. 
The opposition parties therefore have a choice to do them too. They will do it in the careful look of the citizens of Quebec. 
Me, I clearly express my wish: I want us to work together to move Quebec forward! 
I am an optimistic nature ... all my experience pushes me in this direction. 
In the past, I saw Quebeckers doing beautiful and great things, as well collectively and individually. 
For the future, so that our children can exceed themselves too, we still have many challenges. 
You have to be ambitious, you have to be bold. Whether it's job creation, productivity, innovation, our trade deficit or the state of our public finances, a lot of work is waiting for us. But, in front of the magnitude of the task, we must not lower your arms. 
We need to mobilize. Nothing justifies the negative speeches. Quebeckers radiate in all areas. 
Now, our challenge is to enrich us even more. I chose. I chose the audacity, I chose the determination. 
Together, Quebeckers can succeed! 
Thank you, spend an excellent day. 
To view the Prime Minister's conference at Corim: http: //go.pq.org/bb1 
