Quebec- The Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignist Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, held to share the expectations of the Government of Quebec and Quebeckers, with a view to the next speech of the Federal Governance Throne.. 
Next Wednesday, the Harper government will convene federal elected officials for a new parliamentary session in Ottawa. "This is an opportunity for him to correct the bad economic decisions he has made against Quebec and who are detrimental to Quebec businesses and workers," said Minister Cloutier. 
Recalling Quebeckers for more than a year Quebec has undergone too many economic rebuffs from the federal government, the Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs Alexandre Cloutier regrets "that the Conservatives were first taken directly to Workers and the Quebec economy with their employment insurance reform. We see in the hearings of the National Examination Commission workers and companies in Quebec who suffer the effects of this reform. Now the Harper government attacks directly to the training of the Quebec workforce and model that helps those who are not entitled to employment insurance ". 
Minister Cloutier also condemns the federal government's decision to end the $ 116 million agreement that allows Quebec to have a very effective and consensus labor training model for both the National Assembly Which has adopted two unanimous motions in labor market partners who, on May 15, have also condemned the federal approach. 
"Remember that the Prime Minister, thanks to his leadership, went to seek the support of all the provinces to claim the right of withdrawal with full compensation for the new Canadian grant to employment," said Minister Alexandre Cloutier. . 
The decision of the last federal budget to gradually eliminate the 15% tax credit currently benefiting from contributors to workers' funds would almost only penalize Quebec. Indeed, it is from Quebec that will come nearly 90% of the federal government's savings in five years ($ 312 million in $ 355 million). 
It is all the economic world of Quebec, the Patronat Council at the Chamber of Commerce of the Metropolitan Montreal, which condemns the implementation of this federal budgetary measure. "When we talk about workers' funds, there are not only numbers. There are jobs and businesses that are created. It is thanks to these funds and their attractiveness that companies like Renaud-Bray and Air Transat have emerged in Quebec. It is quite incredible that Ottawa tackles directly to the Québec Fiscal Funds model, "said Alexander Cloutier. 
Securities  The current system of securities is, according to the OECD, the second most efficient in the world. Despite the opinions of the Quebec Court of Appeal, that of Alberta and the Supreme Court judging its project, Ottawa announced with Ontario and British Columbia wanting to move forward with the creation of A Canadian Securities Commission. 
"Ottawa is getting encroached in our fields of skills and it is still a flagship of the Quebec economy. It attacks the very foundations of our economic vitality, "worries the Minister Cloutier who wants to remember that the securities sector employs more than 100,000 people in 3,000 companies in the metropolitan area. 
Since the first announcement of the federal government on its willingness to establish a pan-Canadian securities commission that centralized its activities in Toronto, there were three motions of adopted at the National Assembly to denounce the federal project and a unanimous shield. in the economic circles of Quebec. 
Minister Cloutier reiterated his opposition to the new federal tax that Ottawa wants to impose on users for the construction of the Champlain Bridge. Each year, more than 60 million vehicles circulate on this bridge by which more than $ 20 billion in foreign trade, or nearly 7% of Quebec GDP, are transported. 
"It's a nonsense to introduce a new federal tax for the shift on the Champlain Bridge when we know the consequences that could have on traffic in the Montreal area and for the Quebec economy. It is out of the question to introduce a toll on the largest trading axis in Quebec, "said Minister Cloutier who also holds to recall the consensus of the Bureau of Partners on the Champlain Bridge against the establishment of A toll. 
Last week, it is unanimous that the 82 municipalities of the Metropolitan Community of Montreal rejected the idea of reducing the bill to the public and businesses and asked Ottawa to assume themselves. Reconstruction costs of the Champlain Bridge. 
Finally, the Government of Quebec wants to recall that more than three months after the tragedy of Lac-Mégantic, the federal government is still slow to tighten the rules governing the transport of hazardous materials. 
Transportation of hazardous materials by train is significantly increased. In 2013, nearly 9 times more trains like that of Lac-Mégantic circulate on our rails than in 2009. 
"Federal laxity in rail safety has significant impacts on Quebec's finances. Quebec has argued its requests to the federal government and it is clear that no action has been made since, "said Alexandre Cloutier. 
"All these Ottawa decisions have major negative economic impacts for Quebec. Today we are asking the Harper government to rectify the shot as part of its Speech from the Throne to stop making decisions that affect Quebeckers' economic interests, "concluded Minister Cloutier. 
