The read version is authentic 
We have just lived together with the greatest democratic exercise in a political party in Quebec. Since our riding congresses up to this large national congress, nearly 10,000 citizens, the Madeleine Islands to Outaouais, have invested their time, yes. Their intelligence, yes. But, above all, their intimate knowledge of women and men from here. There is no better connected to Quebeckers, their problems, their dreams, their projects. 
Thank you, delegates for your rigorous work. Thanks to the organization of the Congress, the Steering Committee and the team of the permanence, led by Alain Lupien and Simon Bissonnette. This success is the fruit of several months of preparation. Thanks to more than 200 dedicated volunteers, who started early, who ended late, so that our debates take place as best as possible. 
Thanks to our presidency of Assembly, Lyne Marcoux, and Karine Rodrigue, our conductors who have led our master's hand exchanges. 
Thank you to our President of the National Executive, Raymond Archambault, for your years of activism, and welcome to Gabrielle Lemieux: we can not wait to work in your company. 
Thanks to the executive members who leave their position: Danielle Gagné, Nancy Gagnon, Paul Crête, Philippe Dufort, Yves St-Pierre, Nicolas Dufour. 
Congratulations to members of our national executive: 
Obviously, our president, Gabrielle Lemieux. 
Jennifer Drouin, Elise Péloquin, Claudel Petrin Desrosiers, Jennifer Drouin and Eve-Mary Thai Thi Lac. 
Alexis Gagné-Lebrun, Daniel Brassard, Jocelyn Caron, Marc Desnoyers and Frédéric St-Jean. 
The President of the National Youth Committee: Marc-André Bouvette. 
Our deputies representatives: Dave Turcotte, Catherine Fournier and Mireille Jean. 
Bravo! 
The program we have just adopted is the fruit of Quebec's collective intelligence. For the great project of our national future, we have traced together the path of victories. First, hunt the Liberals, without replacing them with the Calciers, then succeed independence, in that order. 
We also renewed the party activist. 
This is the theme the path of victories that has led us so far and who guided our work. Today, we move to the other stage. You have to turn to all Quebeckers to make our proposals known, our solutions. 
And you need a strong theme that embodies that in a few words. And who will bring us until next summer, so until the beginning of the election campaign. 
We have thought a lot in recent weeks. All kinds of proposals were made by militants by voters by deputies by communicators. 
Before you reveal the theme chosen, I'm going to make a look. A hat shot. To an extraordinarily endearing Quebecker who has just left us. Tex Lecor. He was a singer, animator, painter, you know it. It was also a great independence. Like all the artists, which made him the happiest, it is the love of his audience. Let's send this message of love, with a standing ovation. 
He was also humorist. When I was a young journalist in Ckac, he was very happy to make us listen to his phone's insolences, before putting them in waves. 
So, it's a little tribute to Tex that I will make you the insolence of slogans, presenting you first the proposals we rejected. 
They were not selected, those. Then we thought, finally, that Quebeckers had enough of the hollow words. They want concrete, and that's what we offer them, concrete. 
So here is the theme that will bring us for the next few months; Count countdown with me: in five, four, three, two, one, zero ... 
A solid plane. Zero slogan. 
For 15 years, the Liberals weakened Quebec. Our language, our regions, our health care, our child care services, our schools. They even weakened the social climate. 
Quebec needs a solid plan. From a solid party. And a party that has already demonstrated that he knew how to make Quebec stronger. 
The Parti Québécois firmly flourished, with the law 101. Faced with the new signs of decline of our language, the Parti Québécois is still called upon to play its historical role. He will do it with the law 202. The Parti Québécois has a strong plan to assert our values, to advance secularism, to act quickly and concretely for the successful integration of Quebeckers. 
The Parti Québécois has endowed Quebec families with a large family policy and a strong network of child care. In power next year, we will restore accessibility and promote the quality of the CPE network to finally offer, to each child, a quality place. And, with us, the start of the school year will no longer be a financial chasm for the parents. 
In health, we pay today the mistakes of the François Legault Ministers, Philippe Couillard and Gaétan Barrette, who have yielded the lobby of medical corporations and engulfed in the compensation of doctors 75% of all the nine money spent in health. At the Québécois Party, 100% of all new health money will go to care and service to patients. 100%. 
Our 20,000 doctors are great. The time has come to release the competence of the other 200,000 health professionals: nurses, pharmacists, optometrists, audiologists, paramedics and all others. They are willing to offer more clinical acts. They are ready to disengorge the system. They are willing to make our health services stronger. 
The Parti Québécois has a strong plan to restore power to the regions, to protect our headquarters, to promote local purchase, to accompany like never before the SMEs and the generation of young entrepreneurs. 
The Parti Québécois has a strong plan to make Quebec one of the world's largest nations. 
And the Parti Québécois has, by far, the most competent team, the most seasoned, the strongest to lead Quebec. 
Our task today in Louis-Hébert and all over Quebec is to turn to each citizen and every citizen, to make our priorities known, our proposals. 
And invite all Quebec to come and build, with us, a solid Quebec. 
Thank you. 
