Quebec- "Every day, still too many Quebeckers suffer from the effects of poverty and social exclusion. The gap between the rich and the poor is constantly increasing. The decisions taken in recent years by the government, such as multiple increases in electricity tariffs or the $ 200 health tax, have nothing to improve the plight of the poor. Nearly ten years after the passage of the law to combat poverty and social exclusion, it is time to take stock. " 
It is in these terms that the member for Saint-Jean and spokesman for the official opposition in terms of employment, social solidarity and poverty struggle, Dave Turcotte, claimed the holding of a real commission Parliamentary for the state to better combat poverty and social exclusion. The Québécois party returns to the expense with this request, this time alongside the collective for a Quebec without poverty and with the support of several organizations that work daily with the poorest. 
For the member for Saint John, this parliamentary commission would help to hear experts and also those who work every day with the poorest. "Today at the National Assembly, for four hours, we will hear the Advisory Committee on Fighting Poverty and Social Exclusion and the Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity. That's good, but you have to go further. The gap is widening between the richest income and the poorest. Obviously, the distribution of wealth is not done properly, "added Dave Turcotte. 
Ecart between Les Riches and Les Paufres fell 
Selon the Center d'edundail in La Pauceté et la Estlingué that is from Les Données AvaS Aviaubs (2009) Q Which Pauvre Aviible $ Alors You Lend Plus RiS avait a $ 69 $ 200. The quintile le plus riches avait donc a reveal 4.7 fois plus Élevé Queen Dos Phuahs. By 1990, the quintile the one pove thee else at 12,2 épinging the plus riche de 52 $ 9,12 The écart equal to 4.3 fois. There are donvi queuation we're sciated pas. 
The member for Saint-Jean recalled that the Parti Québécois offers several ideas to combat poverty and social exclusion including the repatriation of EI in Quebec and the exclusion of any act pricing policy, Like "moderator tickets" or any other form of regressive taxation in the field of health. 
"The Liberal government measures the meaning of decisions on the poorest. It is time for it to remove its pink glasses and notes the reality: with the growing traffic of food banks, the number of citizens in poverty is larger today than ten years ago, "has concluded Dave Turcotte. 
