Quebec- Team Members of the Official Opposition PME Priority, MPs Alain Therien (Sanguinet), Mireille Jean (Chicoutimi) and Martin Ouellet (René-Lévesque), took stock of three-month tour in the regions Quebec on the theme of regulatory relief. The observation is clear: our SMEs remain confronted with a bureaucratic and regulatory burden far too heavy. 
The SME Priority Team met with entrepreneurs in all sectors, including manufacturers, retail and services. During a tour having led it in Germany, Great Britain and Spain, the leader of the official opposition has, on his side, visited several companies with the aim of leaking the best European practices in respect of Support for SMEs and innovation. 
IN SHORT 
"In the last three months, we have traveled nearly 7000 kilometers to meet the leaders of 237 SMEs and associations working with them in 41 municipalities. Today we reveal a list of the 10 government departments and agencies most often pointed out by these entrepreneurs when it comes to bureaucratic difficulties. Through all regions and all sectors of activity, it was Revenu Québec that wins the palm! As a result of the entry of play, Alain Therrien. 
"There is a lot to do to facilitate the lives of our entrepreneurs. Over our meetings, we have heard horror stories: incredibly long delays to get routine permissions or even just to talk to an official; A maze of aid programs in which entrepreneurs are often lost; government departments and agencies that do not talk to each other; Administrative costs that are literally as high for an SME than the amount of the grant it seeks to get, and I pass! From these testimonials, we will write and publish a report that will reflect the main findings we do, but which will also contain concrete solution tracks to facilitate the lives of our creators and job creators, "added Mireille John. 
"Our SMEs also told us how difficult it can be for them to have access to government calls for tenders, as well as the disadvantages of enterprises established in the remote region compared to those located in large centers. They also denounced that the fact that innovation budgets were reserved for large companies. A government that is committed to economic nationalism and regional economic development should indeed tackle these unacceptable and inconsistent barriers, "concluded Martin Ouellet. 
