Quebec- While the Supreme Court of Canada imposes a new 18-month ceiling for the causes in the Quebec Court and one of 30 months for the files before the Superior Court, the member for Joliette and spokesman for the Quebec. Véronique Hivon, Required again by the Minister of Justice she puts in place a concrete plan of action to improve the effectiveness of the judicial system. 
"Not only the records on the minister's office do not settle, but in addition, the Department's budget is frozen and the Director of Criminal and Criminal Prosecutions has undergone cuts of $ 5.2 million. If nothing is done, the new ceilings will allow accused to get by, due to the abandonment of the procedures. Think of Gilles Vaillancourt, whose trial is scheduled for 2019 only, 6 years after the filing of the charges, and Richard Henry Bain, whose trial is still not completed nearly 4 years after the attack at Metropolis. Does the minister expect other defendants escape justice before acting? , "Said Véronique Hivon. 
"As of November 2015, I questioned, in the House, the Minister of Justice on endless deadlines for criminal justice, in the wake of Fiasco des Megaproces Sharqc, whose procedures were abandoned, thus allowing members of the Hells Angels to cope without condemnation. The minister then claimed to work actively with all justice system stakeholders to reduce deadlines, before freezing the budgets of his department and to submit the PCPP to budget cuts, "added Véronique Hivon. 
In February 2016, the hon. Member demanded an action plan to improve criminal justice. "We asked that this plan be deposited before the end of spring. The stakes were young victims of sexual assault whose memory? Forgot? The details of the attacks, because of the time too long, which allowed accused to get by. This is one of the many examples of the concrete actions requested from the minister, who has still not delivered the goods. How can Quebeckers trust a minister who acts so slowly to accelerate our justice system? She concluded. 
