Québec- At a press briefing this morning, the member for Taillon and spokesman for the health and accessibility of care, Diane Lamarre, and the member for Taschereau, Agnès Maltese, questioned the Real intentions of the Minister Barrette as to the transfer of CLSC professionals to GMF. 
On this occasion, the members were accompanied by Nancy Corriveau, Vice-President of the Federation of Professionnels (FP-CSN), Mélissa Gouette, Vice-President of the Federation of Health and Social Services (FSSS-CSN), as well as What from Danny Roy, President of the SPSSS-CSN, union of professionals and technicians in the health network in Quebec City. Initiators of a Petition sponsored by the Parti Québécois, they call for suspended the transfer of CLSC's professional resources to GMF to assess the impact of this measure on the population and stakeholders in the network. 
"The health system is not the ownership of the minister. It must specify its intentions so that we are able to assess the consequences of these changes for patients. In terms of accessibility, we have difficulty how the CLSC dismantling will be beneficial for them. As we expect less than an hour in a CLSC to see a social worker, we can wait several days, several weeks, or even several months to get an appointment in GMF. The minister did not even explain what criteria he set the number of social workers transferred. Where are the gains for patients? How will the benefits and risks of this move will be measured? Improvisation must stop, "said Diane Lamarre. 
"We learned that in the Quebec City region, 39 of the 49 social workers with CLSC social welcoming will be transferred to GMF. In addition, the community organizations of the entire territory are currently weakened, Lower Quebec City has lost 15 community stakeholders because of the SPLI, and the Sabsa Clinic will soon end its appointment service because of corporatism. Medical of the Minister of Health. We are worried, and health professionals as well as citizens are right to be too, "added Agnès Maltais. 
"We must not forget that patients who go to CLSCs are generally more vulnerable and often not enrolled with a GMF family doctor. How will they have access to the resources and professionals who will be transferred there, since it is necessary to be registered in a GMF to get an appointment? Many have only social problems without health problems. What is the point of directing them to a GMF? We reiterate that the minister must present his plan and, above all, to assess the consequences of his decisions on patients and access to care before implementing them, "have concluded members. 
To sign the petition, go to the addressHTTPS: //www.assnat.qc.ca/en/exprimez-your-opinion/petition/petition-6033/index.html. 
