Montreal -The MP from Pointe-aux-Trembles and official opposition spokesperson for the metropolis, Nicole Léger, has vigorously denounced the issue of the dismantling license of the Montreal Shell refinery by the Minister of Resources Natural and wildlife, Nathalie Normandeau. 
"After having made the parliamentarians work for months, after hearing a mandate of initiative to the National Assembly, after promising that it does not dismantle the Shell refinery before the report of the Commission is tabled, which Not done, the minister breaks his commitment and sends a letter ordering dismantling. I am furious! "Said the member for Pointe-aux-Trembles. 
"How can we be as scornful of parliamentarians' work, questioned Nicole Léger. In recent months, members of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries, Energy and Natural Resources have heard several stakeholders, including the directorates of the three Québec refineries, and the discussions had made it possible to reach A compromise on the findings and recommendations to be transmitted to the Government and all had been consensual, until the Liberals fail to fail as a result of their volte-face, manipulated by the minister, "explained the Member of Parliament in a statement issued ten days ago. 
The member for Pointe-Aux-Trembles also lamented the moleilness of the licensing conditions: "The Minister asks Shell to inform him of any difficulty in supplying Quebec into petroleum products, but what will it be able to do When these difficulties occur? It will be too late because the refinery will already be dismantled! While Quebec has to move towards its energy independence, the minister prefers to weaken by allowing the reduction in Quebec refining capacity, while demand is already larger than supply. " 
Nicole Léger recalls that the closure of the shell refinery represents a shortage of $ 240 million in economic spin-offs for the Quebec economy. "The government thinks only at the North Plan and forgot to consolidate what is already here in eastern Montreal, where there are workers, families, businesses and economic development to do. Nathalie Normandeau must at least support financially and logistically, right now, the revival committee of East of Montreal if it has at heart the future of the metropolis, "said the member for Pointe-aux-Trembles . 
