Quebec - While more than a million Quebeckers still do not have a family doctor and access to care is deteriorating, the Liberal government continues the dismantling of our CLSCs. The member for Taillon and spokesman for the health and accessibility of care, Diane Lamarre, once again denounced the hasty transfer of professionals, such as social workers and psychologists, CLSCs to GMF. At a press briefing, she asked the Minister of Health and Social Services, Gaétan Barrette, to stay at this umpteently improvised reform that relies on any probative experience. 
On this occasion, the member was accompanied by Mr. Jean Lacharity, Vice President of the CSN, Ms. Mélissa Gouette, Vice-President of the FSSS-CSN, and Ms. Nancy Corriveau, Vice-President of the FP-CSN, Who initiated a petition requesting a downtime to assess the impacts of transfers on access to care, the population and stakeholders of the network. The Parti Québécois has deposited this petition signed by nearly 10,000 people. 
"We learned recently that a dozen CEOs of CISS and CIUSSs made the decision to repel the transfer of CLSC professionals to the GMF, because, of their own admission, the deadlines imposed by the Minister Barrette are unrealistic. We must welcome their decision to take the time to do things right. It is more necessary to evaluate the consequences of these transfers, since they will obviously reduce access in all CLSCs in Quebec. This time, the Minister of Health directly disturbs the efforts of social workers and psychologists who are currently under their professional responsibility of people in need. These should not be left behind; It is certainly necessary to add professionals on the front line, especially in GMF, but it should not, to do this, dismantle a whole pan of our public network! We must also make sure to have the good professional in the right place, at the right time, and nothing justifies the choice of the minister to empty our CLSCs of their resources. Moreover, all the people who need a social worker do not necessarily need a doctor in a GMF, "denounced Diane Lamarre. 
"The minister imposes all-azimuth reforms and irreflected. We look forward to that there are managers capable of seeing that resources can not be transferred with such precipitation. They used their common sense because they are, unlike the minister, more connected in the field and closer to patients and professionals who rub shoulders on a daily basis. Now, the minister must admit that his reform is not beneficial for patients and that on the contrary, it appears immediately to access and deprives Quebec's care and services that they greatly need and for which they invest a lot of money. We must end the improvisation and rampage of our public health network, "concluded the member. 
