Quebec- The member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesperson for the official opposition in housing, Carole Poirier, as well as the member for Gaspé and spokesperson in terms of municipal affairs and regional development, Gaétan Lelièvre, are worried about recent resignations to the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ) and the impacts that the Minister of Municipal Affairs and the occupation of the territory will have, Pierre Moreau, on the future of social housing in the region. 
"We have repeatedly said that cuts in dwelling programs are harmful. It is very disturbing for the future of social housing, in the region and everywhere in Quebec. The Liberals have cut renovation, the emergency renovation program, as well as the Rénovation Québec program. They have significantly reduced the home adaptation program for people with disabilities and are now addressing accessLogis Québec. People and regions are worried, and with reason. Liberal austerity is unacceptable; Minister Pierre Moreau must reinvest in these programs immediately, "said Carole Poirier. 
The member for Gaspé also denounced these cups. "By aiming for the construction, a major pan of the Quebec economy and the regions, they directly affect our development. This is in addition to all cups in local expertise and development resources. It has also been learned that only 4 out of 24 technical resource groups have affected their grant from the Community Agency Program, normally paid in September. In addition, un federated regions and the popular urban redevelopment forehead are still waiting for money too. For all these reasons, we join our voices to the coalition not affects my regions!, Which requires a clear recovery of government actions, "he added. 
The hon. Member further points out that according to a study by the AECOM firm, published in 2013, "[P] at each dollar paid by the SHQ as a grant, $ 2.3 were injected into the Québec economy. In terms of value-added, that is to say, wealth creation, it is estimated that fallouts at $ 1.027 billion ". 
A serious governance problem 
"We have learned yesterday the resignation of two members of the SHQ Board of Directors. These resignations are added to another, and we know that two members will not renew their mandate. In short, the Board of Directors loses five members, which makes it completely inoperative. The resuncings tell us that they are deeply dissatisfied with the programs in programs that manages the SHQ - AccessLogis, in particular - and in all habitat improvement programs. The reasons they invoked, the interference and lack of vision of the government, are worrying. It is also learned from the mouth of one of the resigners that Minister Moreau and the CEO of the SHQ, which he has appointed recently, will completely short circuit the Board of Directors of the SHQ. It's a serious governance problem, "concluded Carole Poirier. 
