Quebec- Following the resignation of the Director General of the University of Montreal (CHUM), Jacques Turgeon, and that of the Chairman of the Board, Jean-Claude Deschênes, the member for Verchères and Ongoing opposition word of the ethics and integrity, Stéphane Bergeron, and the member for Taillon and spokesperson for health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, consider that the Minister of Health and Social services, gaetan barrette, must leave office, because of the magnitude and severity of the awards assigned to it. 
The Parti Québécois also calls on Prime Minister Philippe Couillard immediately launch an independent investigation to know all other potential cases of interference in the process of appointing health network executives who can involve Minister Gaétan barrette. 
"The charges of political interference and abuse of power are very serious. The Chairman of the Chum Board of Directors, an expert in governance of the health network, also resigned, can not tolerate this situation longer. He denounced the ways of making Minister Gaétan barrette. For us, it's very clear: the minister must leave office. We call on the Prime Minister's responsibility, "said Stéphane Bergeron. 
The chairman of the board of directors, in a press point, said: "In terms of governance, responsibility is not synonymous with submission. Such attitudes must cease. He also mentioned, speaking of the Minister Barrette, that he used half truths, and that there were demographic manipulations, abuse of power and untimely interventions. MEPs also note that Jacques Turgeon, by resigning yesterday, waived his departure bonus, which he could have cashed next Monday. 
"We have the flagrant evidence of what we move forward from the beginning: Bill 10, adopted under gag, gives absolute and undue power to the minister. It is an important denial of democracy. The gestures being blamed for it are unacceptable and constitute total contempt of governance rules. The harmful effects on the organization of the CHUM are serious. The health network can not be managed as the minister does. He has to leave, "added Diane Lamarre. 
An independent investigation is necessary  "In light of the facts against the Minister Barrette, we ask the Prime Minister to immediately set up an independent investigation, led by a neutral expert, on potential other cases of interference and abuse of being able to imply the minister in the Appointment of executives. Given the seriousness of the situation, the Prime Minister is responsible for ensuring the sound management of our health network, "concluded Diane Lamarre. 
