Québec- Following the controversy aroused by the resignation of Yves Bolduc and its decision to receive its estimated departure bonus of more than $ 150,000, the member for Verchères and official opposition spokesperson. Ethics and Integrity, Stéphane Bergeron, announced that he would submit a bill again to abolish transition bonuses for parliamentarians who resign in the course of office. 
"It is obvious that Bolduc, with this unfortunate decision, missed his political life. This event has shown that the transitional benefits that MPs can affect during mandate are totally unacceptable in the eyes of Quebeckers, especially in this era of austerity imposed by the Liberal government, which asks them to tighten the belt. Currently, the population has the impression that austerity applies to everyone except the Liberals! Stéphane Bergeron said. 
Ritchens With Dearest Présente La Loi Only De l'Présente Présente Puestem De l'Prémime de Protege de l'Prime Some month of Depart summary is mandat on mondat, à moins de tripplonstants exceptionnelles exceptionnelles exceptionnelles. Liberal part is available with the object of the Denderge and Avait Emzzuses, alternions to the al worter free new sleeens in empochant leur prime. 
"We must rejoice that the Prime Minister finally understood, it seems, the indecent nature of the position defended by the members of his political training. However, one must deplore its impotence to influence the decision of its former minister. Now that he said that premiums must stop, we rely on his support to quickly call the bill that we will table. This will be an opportunity for him to show leadership and coherence, "to continue the member for Verchères. 
"Beyond the special case of Yves Bolduc, it is high time that the representatives of the Quebec people are putting on the tips of the company's expectations and that they define clear beacons. This situation must be avoided if we want to restore the confidence of the citizens of Quebec towards our democratic institutions. Parliamentarians have the sacred duty to cherish our democracy, which is based on the confidence of the population. It is therefore up to us to act accordingly, "concluded Stéphane Bergeron. 
