Quebec- The member for Marie-Victorin and the official opposition on energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, requires the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, Pierre Arcand, to be transparent and promptly provide explanations with respect to Hydro-Québec's senior management series. He also requests that the three senior executives referred to in parliamentary committee. 
According to the information made public, in addition to the CEO, Thierry Vandal, two other senior executives of Hydro-Québec (Marie-José Nadeau, Executive Vice President - Corporate Affairs and Secretary General, as well as Georges Abiad, Large Manager of the 'Implementation of smart meters) have resigned a few days apart. 
"Three resignations to strategic positions in a few days, it is not a common situation, it is not commonplace. Quebeckers, shareholders of Hydro-Québec, have the right to know what is happening. Minister Pierre Arcand must put cards on table: when Thierry Vandal resigned, was the government aware of the other two resignations? Are these resignations related to failed in many cases, including the implementation of smart meters? There is eel under rock, "said Bernard Drainville. 
A parliamentary committee to make the light  The Parti Québécois requests that these three senior executives be heard in parliamentary committee to shed light on their resignation and so that they can explain their decisions, particularly in intelligent meter records, the thermal power plant in Bécancour and the supply. in international pylons. It should also be remembered that last December, the grand boss of UPAC claimed to carry out various investigations into Hydro-Québec contracts. 
"Parliamentarians need to know more about all these issues. These people must report their decisions before their departure; They are attributable to it. Let us remember that as a result of the historical losses of the Fund, in 2008, parliamentarians could not get all the responses of the leaders before they leave. This is a question of transparency, "concluded Bernard Drainville. 
