Cowansville- The Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Elders and Minister responsible for the Estrie Region, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today announced that the Health and Social Services Center (CSSS) POMMERAIE is authorized to launch a public vacation rental tender to move the Cowansville Family Medicine Unit (UMF), affiliated with the University of Sherbrooke, and enable it to enhance its capacity welcome. 
"We have made a commitment to improve the accessibility of care and services by consolidating the first line and increasing the number of family physicians. This announcement is precisely for this purpose, since these new provisions will increase the family medicine capacity of the Université de Sherbrooke all by accentuating the offer of service to the territory population, "said the Minister Hébert. 
Cowansville's UMF occupies temporary premises that had been used to house the emergency in Brome-Missisquoi-Perkins Hospital during major expansion work in 2009-2010. Today's announcement allows it to look for the premises that will welcome it permanently. This new environment, which will have an area of about 1,050 square meters, will allow the UMF to accommodate four additional residents, for a total capacity of twelve residents, two external and a trainee specialized nurse practitioner in care first line. 
The costs of this real estate solution are estimated at $ 243,600, including rental facilities and other related costs. The amount of the non-recurring allocation that will be granted for the purchase of furniture and equipment, as well as the operating budget linked to its new capacity will be confirmed later. 
Currently, about 45% of medical students are heading for family medicine, while 55% are moving towards other specialties. The consolidation of this UMF is part of the government's willingness to increase the number of graduates in family medicine to reverse these proportions, and thus to better meet the current and future health needs of Quebec society. 
