Quebec - Quebec's Party blames the Minister of Culture and Communications, Christine St-Pierre, who did nothing to prevent demolition, last Monday, from Casimir Dessaulles in Saint-Hyacinthe, a heritage jewel built around 1850 . 
"The walls of this house were filled with memory that shaped Quebec's history. His disappearance leaves a big void in the heart of Saint-Hyacinthe. Despite the fire, she was recoverable. It is appalling that the Liberal government and particularly Minister Christine St-Pierre have done nothing to safeguard it, despite repeated requests made in that sense, "said the member for Saint-Hyacinthe, Emilian Pelletier. 
The house Casimir Dessaulles was the residence of Georges-Casimir Dessaulles, MP, businessman and mayor of Saint-Hyacinthe for more than 25 years and nephew of Louis-Joseph Papineau. It was also the residence of his daughter, Henriette Dessaulles, known under the pseudonym of Fadette, the first woman journalist in Quebec. She wrote in duty from 1910, the daily life founded by her cousin, Henri Bourassa. It is in this house that Henriette Dessaulles wrote his diary, recognized worldwide as a masterpiece of female literature. On the architectural level, this house had particularly distinctive attractions, including its interior staircase in a helical brick, an impressive construction and probably very rare, not to say unique. 
The member for Drummond and the official opposition for the culture and communications, Yves-François Blanchet, find itself ironic that the indifference of the Minister St-Peter to the approaches of his colleague and the community of Saint-Hyacinthe has manifested at the same time when parliamentarians conduct the study of Bill 82 on cultural heritage. "Now we know that the St-Pierre minister has done nothing to protect this heritage treasure, how can we swallow all the beautiful words she has made during the study of Bill 82? She has just missed an opportunity to demonstrate her susceptibility for Quebec heritage, "added the member for Drummond. 
"The minister blames us for not letting still the current version of his bill. However, it does not even use the powers that the current law gives it to preserve treasures like the Casimir Dessaulles house. It leaves the free field to those who want to demolish our heritage and we are concerned that the new law is not a sufficient tool for it to be otherwise than one of the risks of Bill 82 is precisely that it transfers responsibilities to municipalities, but without financial resources or expertise to fulfill itself. Meanwhile, Quebeckers attend the loss of inestimable cultural well, "said MP Yves-François Blanchet. 
