Quebec -Presentation of Documentary Documentary Hole Story at the International Film Festival in Abitibi-Témiscamingue Last Saturday in Rouyn-Noranda, the member for Vachon and spokesperson for the official opposition in terms of mining and shale gas, Martine Ouellet, notes a striking constant: the mining development in 2011 continues to be a colonial development just as in 1870. It is pitiful to see the Liberal Party perpetuate this colonialist development to the advantage of foreign multinationals rather than in the profit of Quebecers and Quebeckers. 
"This documentary of Richard Desjardins and Robert Monderie draws up an excellent mine history in Quebec. Certainly, there have been significant improvements for working conditions and in the protection of the environment, but the issue of orphan sites remains a major challenge. In any case, this documentary illustrates, unfortunately, too well as the development of mines in Quebec is not made to the advantage of Quebeckers still today, "Martine Ouellet said. 
The Parti Québécois welcomes the ongoing mining boom in Quebec for a few years. This mining boom is not attributable to the northern marketing plan of the Liberal government, but at the price of metals. Now, although the price of gold is five times higher than eight years ago, that the price of nickel is three times higher and that the price of iron is five times higher for the same period, The current royalty regime gives crumbs to the Quebec state. These are hundreds of millions of dollars that we lose every year, despite the 300 million announced by Mr. Bachand. "Still in 2010, 10 minutes out of 19 did not pay any fees. Why? Because our royalty regime applies to net profit so after a whole series of deductions. Although the Minister of Finance welcomes the rate of 12% to 16%, it remains unless for 10 mining, 12% of 0 = $ 0 and 16% 0 = yet 0 $ ", Denounced the member for Vachon. 
Given the non-renewable nature of mining and gold resources and after viewing the Documentary Hole Story, the Parti Québécois claims more than ever a depth revision of the royalty regime. "Our basement is sold to multinationals for a bite of bread. These resources belong to us and it is normal to claim the maximum profits, "continued Martine Ouellet. 
Before this reality decried into the documentary, the Parti Québécois asks the Liberal government to open up and accept the amendments for a proper royalty regime and to promote transformation in Quebec. "What the Documentary Hole Story tells us is that Quebeckers do not take sufficient use of gold, iron, nickel and other minerals, as was the case in 1870. C ' is why the position of the Liberal Party in the study of Bill 14 does not hold. 
Indeed, for almost 40 hours, the Parti Québécois seeks to adopt amendments so that Quebeckers can resume control of their natural wealth, but in vain. The Liberal government even voted against amendments for more transformation in Quebec, which would create four times more jobs than extraction only. Unbelievable! 
"It's time to take control of our natural riches. It is a treasure that belongs to all Quebeckers. At the Parti Québécois, we therefore propose to extract better royalties, to increase the transformation on our territory, to establish a sharing of overprofit and to take interests in operating companies. However, what we can see is that the Liberal Party does not have to heart the economic development of Quebecers, but only the enrichment of foreign mining companies. Minister Serge Simard will harm Quebec's economy if he does not change an attitude during the study of Bill 14, "concluded Martine Ouellet. 
