Québec- The Québec Party candidate in Jean-Talon, Clément Laberge, supports citizens who challenge the Sillery Patrimonial Program (PPU), currently undergoing a public consultation. 
Remember that the PPU of the Sillery heritage site is not an exclusively municipal issue. In fact, under Cultural Property Laloi, the City of Quebec must obtain the authorization of the Minister of Culture before changing land development or authorize new buildings on this unique heritage site, which testifies to beginnings of New France. The Liberal candidate seems to be ignoring this reality. 
According to Clement Laberge, in its current form, the PPU is not in the interest of the citizens of Quebec. Not only because it would jeopardize a high-value heritage site and that it would cause a clearly exaggerated densification in the sector of Faubourg Saint-Michel, but also because it leaves too many important questions without answers. 
"I was with the hundreds of citizens who moved for the information session and the neighborhood council. The answers they obtained are generally imprecise and arouse more concerns than they reassure. It is essential to take the time to better define the public uses of the heritage site and to demand promoters that they then register their projects in this vision, rather than to do the opposite, as is the case now, " supported the candidate. 
In addition, Clément Laberge said he was particularly surprised to hear that the Minister of Culture and Communications, Hélène David, had negotiated and confirmed that she agreed with the PPU of the City of Quebec, and this, Even before the public consultation process could take place. "It's a way of doing things that do not respect citizens. As in the case of the Saint-Sulpice Library, the minister must recognize his mistake, prioritize the consultation and cancel the authorizations that she could have emitted in the meantime. If he was attentive to the population he wants to represent, Sébastien Proulx would join this request, "he concluded. 
