Québec- The most recent job data, published this morning by Statistics Canada, demonstrate the background trend towards a positive growth in Quebec with a creation of 15,000 jobs. Quebec has more than 4 million jobs, for 4,013,800 Quebecers and Quebec. There is a decline in the unemployment rate, which is 7.6%, a second decrease of 0.3 consecutive percentage points of this rate. Note that the unemployment rate was 7.9% at the same period last year in September 2012. 
"These figures confirm that the labor market offers good prospects for the coming months. Already, from January to September 2013, employment increased by 56,400 (+ 1.4%), of which 47,300 (+ 1.5%) full-time, compared to the same period of 2012. Moreover, Employment analyzes-Québec predict that between 2012 and 2021, 1.4 million jobs will be available throughout Quebec. All must be able to take advantage of this opening of the labor market, "said Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltais. 
"The new economic policy that our Government has recently disclosed will give a new impetus in the short term to the Quebec economy since it has considerable public investments as well as tax measures that now benefit families and businesses in Quebec. A series of structuring measures will also stimulate our niches of excellence and private investment. Because this policy has specific objectives and offers ways to respond with force, it will have a major impact on job creation, "added the Minister of Finance and the economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau . 
In September, he was created 11,100 jobs in the Montreal Census Metropolitan Area and the unemployment rate fell by 0.5 percentage point, at 8.1%. For 12 months, it has been created 36,600 jobs. 
The Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity, through Emploi-Québec, acts both as a producer, user and national and regional data broadcaster in the labor market. In particular, it produces Lebulletin in the labor market in Quebec that reports monthly of the evolution of employment, the labor force and unemployment in addition to identifying information by region, by sector of activity and by profession, as well as comparisons with Canada and Ontario. This will be available at the end of the day on the website of Employment-Québec at the following address: www.emploicbec.gouv.qc.ca/imt/emploi-au-quebec.asp. 
