Québec- The most recent employment data, published this morning by Statistics Canada, show that the labor market remains dynamic in Quebec, since a new Employment Quebecers and Quebeckers' summit was reached last November. "With some 4,056,500 people involved, or 8,600 more than October and 6,800 more than at the last summit last January, there have never been so many workers on the market. of work in Quebec. From January to November 2013, employment increased by 50,100 compared to the same period in 2012. For the private sector, this increase is 55,900. Thus, it is the largest number of people in Participate in the economic growth of Quebec and thus, to ensure a better future, "the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity said, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais . 
The strength of the labor market has been supported in recent months and the last year, allowing Quebec to display an unemployment rate in November to 7.2%, which has been the lowest rate since January 2013 and A rate comparable to that prevailing before the 2008-2009 recession. "Employment data unveiled this morning confirm the growth in the labor market planned for the 2013-2014 budget. Employment Priority Economic Policy will further enhance this growth, supporting businesses to increase their investments. Within three years, it will create more than 43,000 additional jobs, for a total of nearly 117,000, "said Minister of Finance and Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. 
The Quebec labor market therefore continued its growth, particularly because of the dynamism of the Montreal metropolitan area, which gave a gain of 55,400 jobs in the first eleven months of the year compared to the same period of the year. past. The unemployment rate for this region is now 7.5%; It was 7.9% last month. 
The Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity, through Emploi-Québec, acts both as a producer, user and national and regional data broadcaster in the labor market. In particular, it produces Lebulletin in the labor market in Quebec that reports monthly of the evolution of employment, the labor force and unemployment in addition to identifying information by region, by sector of activity and by profession, as well as comparisons with Canada and Ontario. This will be available at the end of the day on the website of Employment-Québec at the following address: www.emploicbec.gouv.qc.ca/imt/emploi-au-quebec.asp. 
