Quebec- The Minister responsible for the Government Administration and President of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, unveiled today, in the presence of the mayors of Quebec, Montreal, Gatineau and Sherbrooke, an agreement providing for adoption, in a spirit openness and collaboration, a common license to use their open data. This announcement is in the wake of the 3rd International Day of Open Data that will take place on February 22nd. 
The Government of Quebec and the municipal governments already incurred in an open government approach have thus adopted the brand new version 4.0 of the Creative Commons license. At the international level, this version is recognized as one of the least restrictive on the rights of use of open data while protecting copyright. In this sense, Quebec is presenting the licenses used elsewhere in the world. 
"Today we ask an important common gesture for the open government. The use of a harmonized license of open data with cities is essential since it allows the standardization and compatibility of our respective data. The proactive dissemination of government information is one of the concrete solutions to combat corruption and restore citizens' confidence in their institutions, "said Minister Bédard. 
In addition to the new license, the big cities and the Government of Quebec are committed to standardizing their datasets to promote simplified access to developers and facilitate the design of reusable universal applications by citizens. For example, applications developed from the open data of the City of Gatineau such as the location of parking or road works in progress can be functional in each of the other cities. 
"In 2011, the Quebec City undertook, in collaboration with the open capital group, a process of revaloring its public data that led in February 2012 to launch its open data portal. More than 50 data sets are currently available on topics as varied as large events, parking terminals or cycling networks. It is with pride that the Quebec City adheres, like several other administrations around the world, to the standardization movement of the license for use and standardization of open data. It is undeniable that this will create even more wealth by facilitating the work of developers: it will never have been so easy for our community to design universal applications or to make a multitude of developments on the web, "said The Mayor of Quebec, Mr. Regis Labeaume. 
"I hope that the adoption by our cities of a common license to use open data will increase opportunities for collaboration and open the door to even further exploitation of these valuable data, which are the basis of the Smart city concept. In fact, the smart and digital city office that we put on foot will give a primordial place to open data not only to promote transparency, but also because these data will develop desired applications by citizens, "said The Mayor of Montreal, Mr. Denis Coderre. 
"It is in a will of transparency that the City of Gatineau is pleased to participate in the agreement of a common license to use open data. Gatineau opened its data portal in January 2013 to better meet the expectations of citizens and to take a step towards transparency in municipal activities. I am pleased to announce that Gatineau is the first city in Quebec to make available on its website information on election expenses of elected officials, in an accessible and reusable format, "reborn the mayor of Gatineau, Mr. Maxime Pedane. Jobin. 
"At the beginning of the 21st century, we are resolutely entered into the digital age. I am very proud that Sherbrooke is associated with this initiative for the future, with its municipal peers and the Quebec government, "added the Mayor of Sherbrooke, Mr. Bernard Sévigny. 
In order to emphasize the adoption of the common public data license, the hackaths will take place simultaneously on March 22 and 23 in the cities of Gatineau, Quebec, Montreal and Sherbrooke. A $ 5,000 scholarship will be given in each municipality. The cities of Gatineau, Lévis, Longueuil, Montreal, Quebec and Sherbrooke will make available their first sets of standardized data on this occasion. 
In addition, the Government of Quebec and the participating cities will unite in hosting the community of developers and citizens interested in holding a Quebec hackath that will take place in Quebec from March 24-29. The Government of Quebec and the municipalities will then give a price of $ 2,500 each for the best application developed for a total amount of $ 12,500. 
Recall that the Government of Quebec has adopted, like the precursors that are the United States and several European countries, the principles of an open government which, thanks to new technologies, allow for greater transparency of government data. , more active citizen participation and improved collaboration between state employees. 
To date, 343 datasets have been released on the gate www.donnes.gouv.qc.ca. It includes data from the Electronic Tender System (SEAO), the Québec Automobile Insurance Company (SAAQ), the Ministry of Transport (MTQ), from the Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR) and from the Ministry of Health and Social Services (MSSS). The potential for reuse of these data by civil society is the development of user-friendly and innovative applications to research and development as well as data-journalism. 
