Quebec- "I think this time it's too much! Minister St-Pierre uses the Superior Council of the French Language (CSLF), an organization responsible for studying the state of French in Quebec, for partisan purposes and is responsible for a serious drift in the manipulation of information and The publication of erroneous statistics. The CSLF's opinion on the CEGEP teaching language published in March 2011 has been corrupted by figures that did not reflect reality. It's as if the Quebec state lied to itself! Today said the member for Drummond and sentence of the official opposition in terms of language, Yves-François Blanchet. 
In this opinion, the FSLF reported a significant increase in the new allophone registered in CEGEP in French. It was 51.7% in 2007 to 64.2% in 2009, according to data collected by the Directorate-General for Academic and Collegial Affairs and the College Education Branch and provided by the Research Directorate, statistics. and information from the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport (MELS). However, this Ministry has just published new figures that demonstrate that the number of allophones frequenting CEGEP in French was 51.3% in 2009 and 53% in 2010 (provisional data for 2010), a difference of 12% for the same year 2009. 
"We are far from 64% announced last year. An error would have been serious, but here it's worse: we manipulated the numbers to make them say what they do not say. Why has the MELS communicated inaccurate figures to the FSLF and why it has published a notice on data that it has received just a few days before publishing it in March 2011, without asking for the Less counter-verification? It should also be remembered that this notice had been published a few days before the Congress of the Quebecois party, which was to discuss the CEGEP proposal in French ... Chance still agrees on the liberal family, no doubt! Added Yves-François Blanchet. 
"The minister is responsible for a serious misconduct. I do not think she himself, the FSLF or even the MELS are entitled to be judge and party by investigating this case themselves. Minister St-Pierre is no longer trustworthy. He is the duty of the Prime Minister to intervene personally while he is held in Quebec City The Global Forum of the French Language where he argued great advocate of language and law 101. It's unworthy. The French language is not a vulgar electoral accessory in the small partisan arsenal of the Liberal Party, "concluded the member for Drummond. 
