Québec- The latest job data, published this morning by Statistics Canada, show that employment has grown significantly in October with 34 100 new jobs. Note that in full-time jobs, the gain is 39,600. Compared to the rest of Canada where it has lost 20,900 jobs, including 14,700 only in Ontario, the Quebec economy demonstrates its robustness. The unemployment rate was 7.5%, 0.1 percentage point less than last month. In Quebec, it is 4,047,900 people who are employed, only 1,800 less than the summit reached in January 2013. These figures are an obvious demonstration of the great confidence of Quebeckers to their economy and the labor market. . 
In October, in the only Montreal census metropolitan area, it was 15,300 jobs that were created, while the unemployment rate fell by 0.2 percentage points, at 7.9%. Compared with the same period last year, it was created in the first ten months of the year 56,400 jobs, a performance to emphasize. 
"Employment is at the heart of the action of our government and the tools of economic policy priority employment will allow Quebec to continue its growth. The new economic and social policies will continue to support the creation of jobs and wealth, which certainly has a positive impact on the trust of citizens and entrepreneurs towards the Quebec economy, "said the Minister of Finance and the 'Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. 
"Quebeckers and Quebeckers are right to remain confident towards the labor market. The increase in the active population of 32,400 people demonstrates. Jobs are available and I invite all those who are not used to contact their local employment center. They will be able to find consulting services, support, as well as a diversified training offer to improve their situation, "said the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women. Mrs. Agnès Maltais. 
In addition, note from January to October 2013, employment increased by 53,300 (+ 1.3%), of which 47,500 (+ 1.5%) full-time, compared to the same period of 2012. 
The Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity, through Emploi-Québec, acts both as a producer, user and national and regional data broadcaster in the labor market. In particular, it produces the Labor Market Bulletin in Quebec, which reports monthly of the evolution of employment, the labor force and unemployment in addition to identifying information by region, by sector of activity and by profession, as well as comparisons with Canada and Ontario. This will be available at the end of the day on the website of Employment-Québec at the following address: www.emploicbec.gouv.qc.ca/imt/emploi-au-quebec.asp. 
