Québec- The most recent employment data, published this morning by Statistics Canada, indicate that the labor force increased by 9,200 in April, a sign that Quebec remains positive against the labor market. There is also a significant performance in the Montreal Census Metropolitan Area (CMA). 
Indeed, it is in the CMA of Montreal that job creation has been the most vigorous with 16,500 new jobs. The unemployment rate has also decreased by 0.1 percentage point. In comparison to the first four months of 2012, the Montreal CMA has 72,600 jobs more than the same period in 2013. 
"Less than 8%, the unemployment rate remains one of the lowest rates in the last 30 years in Quebec. The steady increase in the labor force testifies to a constant confidence of Quebeckers with regard to the labor market, "said the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible From the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais. 
In April, the level of employment increased in Quebec with the creation of 2,700 additional jobs. This carries to 43,600 the rise of jobs compared to April 2012. In the first four months of 2013, Quebec has 87,000 more jobs compared to the same period last year. 
The manufacturing and accommodation and catering services sector are those that have experienced the highest increase in the number of jobs in Quebec, with respectively 17,100 and 15,900 created, compared to March 2013. 
The Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity, through Emploi-Québec, acts both as a producer, user and national and regional data broadcaster in the labor market. In particular, it produces the Labor Market Bulletin in Quebec, which reports monthly of the evolution of employment, the labor force and unemployment in addition to identifying information by region, by sector of activity and by profession, as well as comparisons with Canada and Ontario. This will be available at the end of the day on the website of Employment-Québec at the following address: www.emploicbec.gouv.qc.ca/imt/emploi-au-quebec.asp. 
