Québec- "After the regions of the Capitale-Nationale, Estrie, Lanaudière and Montreal, the Health Québec (DSQ) file will be deployed gradually in all regions of Quebec from this summer. We now go on a project of experimentation in only four regions to a concrete national project ". This is announced today by the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, on the occasion of the official launch of the National Information Campaign on the Health Quebec. 
This campaign focuses on informing citizens about the Health Quebec file and to let them know their rights, including refusing to participate in the DSQ. It also aims to support the benefits that citizens can draw from their participation in the Health Quebec file. According to the law, the dissemination of the campaign is done within 30 days preceding the deployment activities. Thus, as of today and until June 14, 2013, messages will be broadcast by various media: TV, radio and internet, as well as through an information sheet, which will be distributed in all The homes of the new regions where the Health Quebec file will be deployed. 
"In addition to announcing the launch of the deployment activities at the quantity of Quebec, the campaign presents the benefits that citizens can draw from this modernization of the health system. The Health Quebec file will significantly contribute to strengthening front-line services and ensuring better patient follow-up, wherever they are. His deployment across Quebec is good news for citizens and for the health and social services network, "said Minister Hébert. 
The Health Quebec file is an information system that aims to make accessible health professionals accessible certain health information essential to front-line services. This information is quickly made available to doctors, nurses and pharmacists, safely. This tool will contribute in great way to the efficiency of the health and social services network, including faster intervention and more effective follow-up. 
Health information deemed essential or will be collected by the DSQ include: 
For more information on the Health Québec file, or to know how to express a refusal to participate, citizens are invited to visitwww.dossierdeante.gouv.qc.caou to call services Québec at: 
514 644-4545 for the Montreal area;  418 644-4545 for the Quebec City region;  1 877 644-4545 (no charge) for other regions;  1 800 361-9596 (ATS, free of charge) for hearing or dumb. 
