Quebec- While Bombardier's management has confirmed having held discussions with the Airbus company, the member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the member for Sanguinet and spokesman of the Parti Québécois Economics and exports, Alain Therrien, and the member for Rousseau and the Finance and Income Spokesperson, Nicolas Marceau, arrested Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard and his Minister of the Economy, Jacques Daoust, In order to know what measures they will take to defend the interests of Québec taxpayers. 
"Bombardier is not just the shareholder case, it's the business of all Quebeckers. Taxpayers supported the company significantly over the years. The Government of Quebec has been financially involved in Bombardier's development, particularly the CSeries program. If the Government of Quebec accepts today that a majority stake in the program is transferred to foreign investors, Quebeckers will be able to pay to finance the aircraft sold by a foreign company. It would be unacceptable. The Couillard Prime Minister must tell Quebeckers what he will do concretely to prevent this from happening, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
Alain Therrien recalled that a loan of 117 million was granted to Bombardier for this purpose, as well as a $ 1 billion aid to finance the sales of CSeries devices. "The government has made the empty marketing announcement specialist, such as those about the North Plan and the Maritime Strategy. This time, he must act concretely and specify what steps will be taken. The Minister Jacques Daoust must tell us what he will do to protect this Quebec flagship, "he added. 
"The possibility that Bombardier is sold also recalls the importance of acting on the legislative level to better protect our headquarters. A broad consultation with the business community was held in the spring of 2014 and a report had been produced. The government has no reason not to implement it, "said Nicolas Marceau on his side. 
"It's about the economic development of Quebec and the defense of our interests. The Liberal Prime Minister does not have an economic plan. We know it and see the effects every day. It does not act either to protect our head offices or to promote their retention in Quebec. It is more time than concrete measures are put in place by the Liberal government, "concluded the official opposition. 
