Quebec- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, took advantage today Launch of the National Information Campaign on Health Quebec (DSQ) to draw up the progress The four pilot regions being deployed, the regions of the Capitale-Nationale (2010), Estrie (2011), Lanaudière (2011) and Montreal (2012). 
Currently, three main areas or categories of clinical information are deployed: 
"By the end of the year 2013, we aim that each region of Quebec has begun to deploy at least one of the three main areas of the Health Quebec file. We aim to allow as soon as possible the exchange of health information on patients, mainly between the first line stakeholders, "said Minister Hébert. 
Indeed, the recommended deployment approach favors front-line services and pursues several other objectives, such as: 
To date, health information on more than one million citizens residing in the regions of the Capitale-Nationale, Estrie, Lanaudière and Montreal are available for consultation. Nearly 400 of the 800 pharmacies of these regions are connected, as are 23 public laboratories, which represents 57% of the volume of analyzes produced in these four regions. Public institutions in Quebec already proceed to digitize all their results of medical imaging. In addition, 94.6% of these imaging test results have already been archived in DSQ's information banks. Also covered by 45 family medicine groups (GMF) and other medical clinics, 6 emergency rooms as well as 9 local community service centers (CLSC). 
"The Health Quebec file is a major technological breakthrough for our network and for health professionals who have been waiting for the deployment of this project for a long time. It will simplify the work of thousands of network workers while allowing better patient follow-up, "said Minister Hébert.  Among the many advantages of the DSQ, note a faster intervention in an emergency, a decrease in the number of test and examinations, a reduction in the risks of adverse drug reactions, as well as better overall care patients. 
The individual information contained in the Health Quebec file is treated with confidentiality. Rigorous safety measures and an access mechanism protect this information and make them accessible solely solely authorized persons and exclusively for clinical purposes. 
In addition, in order to ensure better security, each access to a patient's medical information leaves an electronic trail to know who has consulted and at what time. 
For more information about the DSQ, or to know how to express their refusal, citizens are invited to visitwww.dossierdeante.gouv.qc.caou to call services Québec at: 
514 644-4545 for the Montreal area;  418 644-4545 for the Quebec City region;  1 877 644-4545 (no charge) for other regions;  1 800 361-9596 (ATS, free of charge) for hearing or dumb. 
