Quebec- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, accompanied by the member for Taschereau and Minister responsible for the Capitale-National Region, Agnès Maltese, today announced that the Website of the Child Jesus Hospital has been selected to establish a new hospital complex bringing together under one roof a very extensive range of specialized services. This is an investment of up to $ 1.7 billion. Mr. Hébert also confirms the maintenance of a hospital mission for the Hôtel-Dieu in Old Quebec. 
The minister made this announcement after carefully analyzing the study submitted by the Quebec Real Estate Corporation (ISP) and after a series of meetings with several community stakeholders, both favorable to the maintenance of the Hôtel-Dieu. On its current location that those advocating a move on the site of the hospital of the Child Jesus. 
"We have carefully soup the advantages and disadvantages of each option. The decision we make today is first and foremost a decision taken to ensure optimal health services to the population of the Capitale-Nationale and Eastern Quebec. The successful project has the advantage of grouping a significant critical mass of specialist doctors and other specialized professionals who can work in synergy and complementarity. It will also add private rooms, build a completely new radio-oncology center and a new hospital hotel and to realize the planned neuroscience flag for recent years. These are all important benefits for patients and health professionals. In addition, this choice testifies to a real long-term vision, as the site offers expansion opportunities to meet future needs, "said the Minister of Health and Social Services. 
The government respects the three tags that the first was to ensure major benefits for the population. "Investment, with regard to these benefits, is at an acceptable level, particularly because of the optimization efforts that will be deployed. Finally, in the light of the many meetings and consultations carried out in recent months, the project rallies a majority of stakeholders, "added Minister Hébert. 
At the end of the work, the new hospital complex on the website of the Child Jesus Hospital will have about 760 beds, about thirty operating halls and an emergency with an increased number of stretchers. The new premises will be available in stages between 2019 and 2025. In particular, the radio-oncology center can be inaugurated in 2019, on the same date as the one in Old Quebec. 
The Minister has asked the Health and Social Services Agency and the CHU of Quebec to optimize the project, in order to respect a $ 1.7 billion ceiling for the capital and equipment budget, and make it more functional by examining, for example, the possibility of building in height. It should be emphasized that the new projected facilities are larger than those proposed in the scenario of the expansion of the Hôtel-Dieu, because they include the realization of the flag of neuroscience, the construction of a radio-oncology center. Who will have at least 14 treatment devices, or 7 more than currently, and the creation of a brand new state-of-the-art research center. 
Teams and patients will be able to count on new and even more functional infrastructures. They will be easily accessible by their proximity to significant road axes and by adding 1,266 parking spaces for a total of 2,600. 
As the director intended for the project of reuse of the current premises of the hotel-Dieu de Québec, the hotel-Dieu de Québec will retain its emergency, open 24 hours a day and seven days a week, with a technical tray including a radiology service and a laboratory. First line services will be accessible, including through the presence of a family medicine unit. The hospital also fence 60 convalescence and postoperative beds, 10 palliative beds, 30 beds in transient functional rehabilitation unit and 50 beds for adults with physical disabilities leading to a heavy loss of autonomy. 
To this hospital vocation would be added the repatriation of many teams active in public health or health of the population, as well as that of administrative staff of the health network. Preliminarily, it is estimated at 1,500 the number of people who will work in the buildings maintained and used for the health mission. 
Minister Agnès Maltais said, "I welcome the decision today because it responds to the concerns I had set up recently, the importance of supporting the vitality of Old Quebec and to keep the mission. health of the establishment. The project presented also has the advantage of limiting disturbances related to major construction work, avoiding, on the one hand, to disturb the tranquility of the institution patients and contributing, on the other hand, to preserve the quality of lives of residents of this internationally renowned tourist place. » 
Minister Maka Kotto said: "For almost four centuries, the hospital mission is inseparable from the very identity of Old Quebec, which is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. We wanted to make any development project from the current hospital facilities of the capital to be done in the continuity and in respect of this remarkable social and cultural heritage, for which we are indebted to the community of Sisters Augustine. » 
The project concerning the future use of the current Hôtel-Dieu will be the subject of a consultation with the authorities concerned in such a way as to maximize the impact on economic, residential and urban development, as well as the enhancement of the heritage. 
The ISS evaluates the net cost of facilities at $ 232.6 million, given the fact that certain surplus buildings may be on sale, in particular to allow their homes processing, and that other premises may be rented. . 
"Now we are launching the necessary steps to implement this great hospital complex on the site of the Child Jesus Hospital. The conditions are met for the Capitale-Nationale region and the CHU of Quebec are still different in the fields of health care, teaching and health research, "concluded Minister Hébert. 
The SIQ Analysis Report on the two scenarios envisaged and the report of the Capitale-Nationale Health and Social Services Agency on the project to reuse the current premises of the hotel-Dieu de Québec are available on the website of the Ministry of Health and Social Services: www.msss.gouv.qc.ca/presse 
