Montreal, February 18, 2018- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesperson for health, accessibility to home care and support at home, Diane Lamarre, and the service porter Social and youth protection, Dave Turcotte, presented the health work schedule of the Parti Québécois government. It is a question of quickly recovering the situation of access to care for Quebeckers in October 2018 and within 12 months, in particular by redistributing resources in the right place, by making Quebec a nation more fit, and By supporting health professionals as well as community organizations. 
IN SHORT 
"For 15 years, Quebeckers pay the price of mismanagement of the health system by the Liberals. We inherit an weakened and demobilized health system. Without promising to set everything in a few weeks, we will completely change the approach and will throw the basics of a patient-centered system, no longer on the remuneration of doctors. From October 2018, we will begin the decompartmentalization of occupations, and we will proceed with the addition of home care resources as well as for families, a child with a spectrum disorder of autism or intellectual disability ", immediately indicated the official head of the official opposition. 
"We can do better than pour another $ 2 billion to specialist doctors, something that should never have happened. Because, contrary to what the Liberal government tries to swallow, there is no economy to achieve by further increasing the remuneration of doctors. The billions announced must be invested with emergency in home and local care for all Quebeckers. Upon arrival in power, we will manage the remuneration of doctors. We will ask for the electoral mandate to do this, "Rented Diane Lamarre. 
"We also know that to improve in the long term the health of Quebeckers and save significant amounts of health care, it is necessary to take the turn of prevention. Our plan therefore provides for the deposit of an ambitious political sport, leisure and physical activity, in order to make the Quebec nation one of the most famous in the world, "says Sylvain Pagé, The official opposition spokesperson for prevention, public health and healthy living habits. 
"The first budget of our government will reinvest in home care, in the protection of youth, public health and to support vulnerable people. Our networks have suffered important cups, and we know that our duty is to support staff and community organizations that work every day to help our world, "has concluded Dave Turcotte. 
Here is the implementation schedule. 
