Montreal- "A first review of public finances indicates that the risks concerning the budgetary situation are more serious than has suggested my predecessor. However, this does not prevent us from reaffirming the government's commitment to respect the budgetary objectives, "said the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, in the presence of the Minister responsible for the administration Government and President of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, during the deposit of the Monthly Financial Operations on June 30, 2012. 
Minister Marceau recalled that the adoption of the Balanced Balance Act and the Attack of the Zero Deficit are two achievements of a Partician government. "Even if the financial data on June 30 are already a deficit of $ 1,517 million after three months, the budget balance forecast for 2012-2013 is maintained at $ 1.5 billion," he said. 
The minister said that the risks surrounding the government's financial situation already identified by the former government are more important in terms of expenditure and income. "Expenditure overruns, which Raymond Bachand estimated at $ 800 million, are in fact $ 1.1 billion. In addition, its economic growth forecast was overvalued, which also creates pressures on revenues of $ 500 million. In total, therefore risks are $ 1.6 billion, "he wished to clarify. However, he reaffirmed the firm commitment of the government to reach the budget target set for this year and the return to the financial equilibrium from next year. 
In addition, the President of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, indicated that all departments were called upon to respect the expenditure objectives set for them for 2012-2013. "Departments and agencies have already been informed that they will have to comply with the target of expenditure increase by 2.0%. Our government has always been the zero deficit party, and we rely once again to succeed, despite the state of public finances left by the previous government. » 
Mr. Bédard has also specified that due to overruns in the costs of several capital projects carried out in recent years, the government intends to examine the entire management and approval process for infrastructure expenditure. Government of Quebec. The Government has requested Infrastructure Québec to provide an external firm's mandate to audit infrastructure projects. 
"I will finish my public finance review in the coming weeks, and we will publish later this fall an update of the economic and financial situation of Quebec," concluded the Minister of Finance and the economy. 
Monthly Financial Operations Report As at June 30, 2012: http: //www.finances.gouv.qc.ca/documents/mensuel/en/menfr_rmof_7_02.pdf 
