Québec- Following the Deposit Dubudget 2014-2015 by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, welcomed ambitious investments in the cultural sector. 
"Despite the deplorable state in which the previous government has left the public finances, we have found the means of clearly showing our desire to contribute to the cultural development of Quebec. The measures announced today testify to our commitment to Quebec creators, "said Maka Kotto. 
The government announces investments of $ 150 million for the implementation of the new digital cultural strategy, thus creating favorable conditions allowing cultural sector companies to make the digital turn. This strategy will have repercussions on the Quebec economy and the whole cultural chain by allowing the consolidation and development of direct and indirect jobs. 
"We undertake the digital turn with the two feet well anchored in the 21st century. It was time. These investments show that it is a priority for our government to improve and facilitate the process of creating, producing, disseminating and consuming artistic works and to give full access to Quebec culture in digital space, " added Maka Kotto. 
The 2014-2015 budget comes to formalize the creation of the Future Fund Patronage Culture, announced by the Prime Minister of Quebec in July 2013. An omnibus bill will be presented by the Minister of Finance and the Economy and will aim in particular the creation of this funds. An amount of $ 5 million will be used to perpetuate the Program Patronage Culture and thus to meet the financing needs of cultural organizations. An annual levy of $ 5 million on specific tax on tobacco products will ensure the sustainability of the program and thus will meet the financing needs of cultural organizations. 
The investments foreseen in the 2014-2015 budget to equip Quebec of quality cultural infrastructures are ambitious. Remember that the government will contribute financially to different structuring projects throughout Quebec, including the Montreal Museum of Contemporary Art Museum of $ 18.9 million, as well as that of the Longueuil Cultural Complex at 20 M $. These achievements will provide the population with access to arts and culture and quality offer throughout the territory. 
The Montreal Symphony Orchestra, the artistic organization whose fame is no longer to do, sees its renewed funding for the year 2014-2015, thanks to the renewal of the agreement between the Ministry of Culture and Communications and Loto -Chebec. 
"The Montreal Symphony Orchestra does us all over the planet. This virtuoso set welcomes the greatest names of symphonic music around the world every year and helps to make Quebec known as a high place of culture and talent, "said Maka Kotto. 
In addition, the government will support successful and sustainable projects surrounding the 375th anniversary celebrations of the Montreal Foundation. To do this, an amount of $ 25 million will be granted to the Montreal Archeology and History Museum for the expansion of Pointe-à-Callières. This project will preserve archaeological and historical sites of national scope and make them accessible to all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers. 
The government maintains its position on the debate on the selling price of books and will soon submit a bill frame the selling price of new printed and digital books. This approach aims to preserve the network of independent libraries, which guarantees diversified access to books in all regions of Quebec, for the benefit of the Quebec population. 
"It's the budget that Quebec needs: responsible, solidarity and visionary. Not only do we go to the achievement of balance, but we continue to create jobs and wealth, thanks to the Employment Priority Employment Policy, which gives results: in four months, we have supported projects totaling $ 4 billion in investments. Remember that in 2013 it was nearly 48,000 jobs more than 2012 in Quebec. We anticipate the creation of 45,000 jobs for 2014, "concluded the minister. 
