Quebec- "Today we ask another gesture to bring back to integrity into politics. We continue our work to restore confidence and combat cynicism. By depositing this bill, which abolishes the premiums to the deputies leaving in the course of mandate, the Government respects another commitment made by the Parti Québécois in the last general election, "said the minister responsible for democratic institutions and the Citizen participation, Bernard Drainville. 
The law of law 33Desposed today to the National Assembly provides that a member who resigns under office will no longer be eligible to receive a transitional allowance, except for reasons of health or family. If the Office of the National Assembly considers, on the opinions of the ethics commissioner and the ethics, that the reasons of health or family invoked prevents him from fulfilling his duties, the member may receive his transitional allowance . 
"An elected official who chooses from his own will resign during the term of office does not respect the moral contract he has taken with his constituents. There is no reason that justifies that it is rewarded for that. It should not be entitled to receive its transition allowance, "said Bernard Drainville. 
"We have to give the example if we want to bring back the confidence of Quebec people with regard to the political class. If a candidate said, "It is possible that I'm tired of politics and I leave my seat before the end of the mandate you're going to entrust me," I'm not sure that the population would vote very hard in his favor " , for his part, added the chief government whip, Marjolan Dufour. 
Finally, Bernard Drainville invites all parties to collaborate in the passage of the bill. "The good will expressed by the opposition parties on the intentions of the government must now translate into good collaboration so that the bill is adopted quickly. We have the opportunity to send a clear message to the public that their members intend to fulfill their mandate, that voter vote is meaningful and that he will be respected by each of us. » 
