Quebec- The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane de Courcy, said today to the National Assembly a new immigration law in Quebec to replace the Current law Date of 1968. The new law makes it possible to update the issues related to immigration and to create a new way of choosing immigrants based on a statement of interest. 
"Quebec is perceived as a destination of choice and we want that to stay as well. Our current deadlines are however too long. Too long for immigrant people who put their life project in parentheses while waiting for our response. Too many too for Quebec society, since we are selected today according to the files received a few years ago and needs of several years ago. Quebec and people who want to live there deserve that we do differently and that we do better, "said Minister Diane de Courcy. 
The bill promotes francization, regionalization and integration, and particularly employment integration. He recalled that integration is a shared responsibility between the immigrant and the host society. It also emphasizes the importance of promoting the common values of Quebec society with immigrant people. "Francizing, integration and regionalization are not even mentioned as objectives in the current law," says the minister to illustrate the importance of a new law. 
Immigration requests to Quebec in the economic category have steadily grow in recent years. Increasing demands helps generate an increasingly difficult inventory to control, lengthening the time of treatment at the same time. From 2009 to 2011, the inventory reached nearly 100,000 requests for immigration; It is currently consisting of about 80,000 files. 
One of the objectives of the new law is to ensure that Quebec's popularity on the international scene is an asset to choose immigrant people. The instrument of this asset will be the establishment of the declaration of interest, a system that has already proven itself, particularly in Australia and New Zealand. 
According to this new system, the candidate must first submit a declaration of interest and satisfy a number of criteria to integrate the bank of applications. According to a priority order defined according to the needs of Quebec, the targeted candidates will then be invited to make a formal request for immigration. The Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities will be able to continuously select the most suitable candidates to meet the needs of Quebec. 
Candidates who have not been invited to submit their application and whose statement has expired will see their declaration withdrawn from the bank. However, they may have a new statement of interest if they wish. 
"This method has many assets. The large number of immigration applications linked to the popularity of Quebec will become an advantage rather than engorging the system. The bank of applications will allow us to choose the best talents to ensure the development of Quebec society and the development of our common language, "said the minister. 
Several other provisions aim to improve good governance practices: to have the levers necessary to prevent and suppress fraud, protect immigrants and Quebec society, and strengthen the integrity of immigration programs. For example, immigration consultants will be attributable, under penalty of sanction, the veracity of the information provided. 
"The Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities has invested significant efforts to modernize its processes and improve the services it offers immigrants. I am proud to help accelerate this modernization and have contributed to better defining the coherence and continuity of immigration, francization, integration and regionalization interventions. By 2014, Quebec must have a modern immigration system in order to achieve an objective to which we all adhere, that of a strong Quebec of its immigration, "concluded the minister. 
Listen to the Minister to table the bill at the National Assembly! 
