Quebec- The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport and Minister responsible for the Montérégie Region, Mrs Marie Malavoy, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory and Minister of Transport, M. Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, welcome the report of the working group on the agglomeration of Longueuil. 
Chaired by Mr. Pierre Deland, this group was established in December 2012 by the Government of Quebec. His mandate was to analyze the needs of the agglomeration and to propose ways to enable him to meet the challenges of his development, whether regional or metropolitan. 
The work has made it possible to bring out interesting avenues of work and it is in the sense that the working group has made a series of recommendations to meet the identified findings. Among other avenues, the report proposes to conduct a campaign to promote the specificities of the territory, to obtain a partnership agreement in tourism and to carry out a major metropolitan recreational development project. 
"The Quebec government has led this serious exercise and it is in this same spirit that we intend to continue our efforts and work with the agglomeration of Longueuil to develop its full potential," said Minister Gaudreault. 
The agglomeration of Longueuil has experienced remarkable economic development and the strong growth of the population awaited in the coming years should support this growth. "With this report, the government recognizes that the agglomeration faces its own issues. As soon as possible, we want to take a new step, that of identifying, in conjunction with the president of the agglomeration of Longueuil and the mayors of related cities, the suites to the recommendations of the report, "mentioned Minister Malavoy. She also wanted to thank the President, Mr. Deland, and the members of the working group to have invested in this consensual approach. 
"The development of Montreal and that of the Longueuil agglomeration are intimately linked. It is therefore important that a stowage can be well located the challenges of the agglomeration in the perspective of the development of Greater Montreal. By improving government coordination, as described in the report's recommendations, our government will allow the agglomeration of Longueuil and Montreal to comply and become complementary to the benefit of their citizens, "added the minister. 
The report is at the following address: www.mamrot.gouv.qc.ca. 
