Quebec- The Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Régie des rentes du Québec, Ms. Agnès Maltais, presented to the National Assembly the bill creating voluntary savings regimes -Restraite (rvert). These regimes will target all workers in Quebec, employees and autonomous, who do not have access to an employer retirement savings plan. The filing of this bill had been announced when reading the November 2012 budget and the relevance of its measures confirmed by the Committee of Experts on the Future of the Quebec pension system chaired by Mr. Alban d'Amours. 
"By this bill, the Parti Québécois government wants Quebeckers and Quebeckers an additional additional tool to enable them to gain better financial security at retirement age. Too many workers do not have enough savings when they retire. It must be helped to go beyond the basic income of public schemes. In this sense, the RVS represent an interesting tool to the extent that they are collective, volunteers and save economies, "said Minister Agnes Maltese. 
The bill provides, as of January 2014, the approximately 90,000 companies of at least five employees, which currently offer no registered retirement savings plan or tax-free savings plan for which A salary deduction is carried out or no registered pension plan, will have two years to comply with the obligation to provide an RVER to their employees. Once this step is crossed, the choice to adhere or not to a rover will remain the responsibility of each worker. 
Thus, the RVER will allow workers to have access to a retirement savings plan that will include the benefits of a collective plan. The NRVs will ensure both professional savings management by directors subject to rigorous requirements and advantageous management fees arising from the accumulation of a significant volume of savings and a low-complex product offer. 
Easily accessible, simple, flexible, inexpensive, tax deductible and adapted according to the age of the contributor, the RVER will also allow workers to choose or modify their contribution rate according to their ability to save. The default contribution rate will be 2% on the date of entry into force of the plan. It will increase gradually in subsequent years. Another advantage, a change of employer will have no effect on the worker who can keep the amounts accumulated in his plan or transfer them to another plan. 
The NRVs will enable employers to set up a simple, economic retirement savings plan, easy to manage and conducive to employee retention. This bill responds to demands repeatedly repeated by economic actors and the low cost of managing these schemes will make them even more interesting. 
Third parties, such as investment fund managers, trust companies and people insurers will administer these new regimes. The Autorité des Marchés Financiers will have to issue an authorization to each director, authorization that will register this RVER with the Régie des Pentes du Québec. The Régie will be responsible for monitoring these regimes and ensure compliance with the RVER Act. 
The Labor Standards Commission, for its part, will ensure that all the employers concerned offer these plans to their employees within the scheduled time. 
"With the implementation of the RVS, we want to raise the two obstacles that usually prevent workers from saving, the discipline to contribute regularly and the management of the amounts accumulated. This is one step closer to a global solution to ensure better retirement financial security to all Quebeckers, "concluded Minister Maltese. 
