Montreal- The Quebec Prime Minister, Pauline Marois, accompanied by his parliamentary assistant (youth component) and deputy of Laval-des-Rapides, Leo Blouin office, today proceeded to the unveiling of the White Paper on Quebec Youth Policy . 
"Our youth is creative, talented, bold and open-minded. His ideals will help make Quebec a better society. It is precisely for our young people to fully realize their dreams that the government is preparing a new policy that is entirely devoted to them and in which they will meet again. For the first time in a long time, our young people can count on a government who wants to listen to them and who is determined to support and accompany them in every stage of their career, "said the Prime Minister. 
Blank one generation to multiple aspirations is directly derived from the many suggestions and proposals presented by Quebec youth during the Regional Tour destined 2030, led by the secretariat to the youth, as well as through the web consultation that accompanied it. It proposes several new initiatives that correspond to the aspirations of youth and is an important step in the preparation of future youth policy. The discussions it will generate in parliamentary committee will enrich and specify the proposals submitted by the Government. 
"Our youth is creative, talented, bold and open-minded. His ideals will help make Quebec a better society, "said the premier. (c) Parti Québécois 
The White Paper addresses youth projects in four stages. First, young Quebeckers want to form a healthy generation. This implies for them to adopt healthy living habits as soon as possible. In this respect, the government will soon unveil a national sport, leisure and physical activity, as well as a national policy of prevention and healthy lifestyles. 
Second, young people want the school to become a stimulating environment. The government has launched a school renovation plan in the fall to provide a healthy and modern environment for students. In addition, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sports is developing the first national policy to combat school dropout. The future policy will further strengthen government action to bring the maximum of young people to finish their schooling with the obtaining of a qualification or a diploma. 
Third, young people want to make the best school and professional choices. They need help manage their transition periods and choose the way that will passionate them, both in their studies and at the beginning of their active lives. The government, in collaboration with the partners of the community, will undertake a feasibility and opportunity study on the Cité des Trades de la Montreal project. This project aims to promote trades of the future and professional, technical and scientific trades, to disseminate information, to create bridges and adapt school courses. 
Finally, young people intend to flourish in working life: they want to exercise a stimulating profession, reconciling it with the family they wish to found, and build their lives in the middle or region to which they are attached. The Government wants to encourage work-family-study conciliation by raising awareness of workplaces and allowing university students to benefit from atypical custody services that meet their needs. 
"If previous generations were brought by the number, ours should be brought by its determination to build a Quebec in its image. This White Paper aims to support youth in this determination, "said Leo Office-Blouin. (c) Parti Québécois 
According to the Quebec Institute of Statistics, 15-29 years represented 28% of the population in the 1970s, and they represent only 19% today. Faced with this observation, the government wants to create more intergenerational collaboration by focusing on mentoring and increased youth place in decision-making places. 
"If previous generations were brought by the number, ours should be brought by its determination to build a Quebec in its image. This White Paper aims to support youth in this determination, "concluded Leo Bureau-Blouin. 
For more information, visit the Destination 2030EtConsult the White Paper (PDF) 
