Québec- The Government of Quebec has taken note of the report published by the Committee of Experts on the Future of the Quebec pension system. "A complete and serious analysis of the report will now need to be made so that we can, as much as government as a society, decide on the continuation of things in this complex and important file. The question of retirement touches us all. The choices we will do today will affect both retirees and young people, employers who their workers, "said the Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women and the Status of Women's Régie des Pentes du Québec, Mrs. Agnès Maltais. 
His colleague, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, echoed the new social contract mentioned by the Expert Group: "The Pension Plansitarian situation Municipalities is worrying and the question of pensions calls us all. We will have to make important and necessary decisions for the entire Quebec society, "said the minister. 
Ms. Maltais and Mr. Gaudreault also want to thank the seven members of this prestigious independent committee very sincerely. They have volunteered many hours in the preparation and writing of this report. They generously put their time, expertise and credibility at the service of Quebeckers. At the request of Minister Agnès Maltese, the Chairman of the Committee of Experts, Mr. Alban D'Amours, will explain the report of his committee to Quebeckers by touring the regions of Quebec. This tour will allow the entire Quebec society to seize the importance of the issue of the future of retirement in Quebec. 
"Without assuming solutions that will be retained, it is clear that the status quo is no longer a viable pension option. Ms. Maltais added. "The challenges are great and our government will take responsibility, but in the face of the extent of choices, it is essential that a real social debate is done in Quebec. We will therefore propose to the National Assembly the holding of a public consultation on the retirement system next fall, "explain Ms. Maltais. The latter believes that the parliamentarians of all parties are animated by the same objective: to offer a suitable retreat to all Quebec workers. "Associate all parliamentarians with the identification of measures to be taken over
Retirement is the best way to achieve this goal, "added the minister. This debate will also allow all groups and citizens who wish to participate actively in the construction of a new social contract in this area. 
In the short term, before the urgency of the situation, concrete actions should be posed with respect to pension plans. "In the coming months," she adds, I will ask the government: 
Minister Sylvain Gaudreault has announced that it intends to change the settlement of municipal pension plans quickly to give them additional tools that they could use in the short term. 
Remember that the Committee of Experts on the Future of the Quebec pension system began its work in November 2011. The group of experts was mandated to examine the Quebec pension system to improve it so that it Be viable and efficient in the context of new economic and demographic realities. 
The Committee is chaired by Mr. Alban d'Amours, President and Chief Executive Officer of Desjardins Movement (2000-2008). 
It is composed of : 
