Quebec- Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignist Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, as well as the Minister delegate Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Ms Véronique Hivon, make public the report of the Committee of Experts on Federal Interventions in the Health and Social Services sector from 2002 to 2013, committee composed of gentlemen Denis Lalumière and Pierre Malouin, two former deputy ministers at the Ministry of Health and Social Services. 
The conclusion of the 121-page report is unequivocal. The experts say "persuaded that the cohesion and efficiency of the Quebec health system would be improved if the federal government withdrew from this field of competence of Quebec and transferred the resources it devoted to the Quebec government. » 
"Federal interference [...] are a phenomenon that continues to repeat itself over the years. Although the amounts involved change the level of available resources to meet the needs of the Quebec population, these federal interventions disrupt the operation and, above all, the governance of the Quebec health and social services system ", note the experts. 
More specifically, the experts have listed 37 federal interventions1 which, for the most part, are put in place under the "federal spending power", which has never been recognized by the Government of Quebec. These interventions have multiple repercussions on Quebec's own orientations, priorities and approaches, on the level of resources available, on the management and administration of the Quebec health and social services system, as well as its governance. These impacts are particularly attributable: 
At the financial level, experts find that Quebec does not get a fair share of the federal government's amounts of these health and social services. The gap between what it has received and the amount it would have been entitled to receive according to its demographic weight is $ 830 million for the period 2002-2013. 
Experts also emphasize that the number of federal public servants in the field of health is outright if we compare, all proportions kept, to the Government of Quebec, which has the responsibility to manage the system of health and social services. They believe that important resources could be transferred to Quebec, as in other provinces, if the federal government has respected skills sharing. 
"Despite Quebec's constant efforts to fully exercise its health and social jurisdiction, the report confirms the existence of overlap and duplication between the two levels of government, to the detriment of the Quebec population. In addition to creating undue confusion, this disrupts the functioning of our health system. The report states, among other things, that the federal government interference causes a break in the fluidity of the services offered, the projects funded by the federal government offering no guarantee as to the sustainability of their financing. This reality is unacceptable. In a difficult fiscal context, where the entire network must make colossal efforts to improve its efficiency, Quebec must be able to act as the sole project in the field of health and social services, "said Minister Réjean Hébert. 
"This report makes it possible to understand the direct impacts of the federal interference in the Quebec health network. In addition to disparate intervening in our health network, the federal government, by doing so, creates important problems of efficiency and ethics. Today, the federal government can not deny that its health interventions are counterproductive and, in addition, unfair for Quebec. The mismanagement and waste of public funds must cease, "said the Minister Delegate for Intergovernmental Affairs and Sorableist Governance, Alexander Cloutier. 
"The report considers, in particular, as a case of study the strategy of roaming control partnerships (SPLI). At the very moment, Quebec has its first national roaming policy, this review will demonstrate that the federal government wishes to unilaterally dictate guidance in the field and that in addition, there is a significant difference between the Federal Framework. and Quebec's guidelines and priorities in this area. To be able to prevent and counter the roaming effectively, it is imperative that the Quebec guidelines are respected and that the federal government ceases to deny respect for the specificity of Quebec in an area of its competence, "said Minister Véronique HIVON. 
It should be remembered that the Council of Ministers agreed to form a committee of experts to develop a global portrait of federal health and social services interventions, at the same time as another committee mandated to carry out a similar exercise in the field of municipal affairs. 
The report of the Committee of Experts on Federal Interventions in the Health and Social Services sector from 2002 to 2013 can be consulted at the following address: www.msss.gouv.qc.ca/presse 
