Quebec- As part of the SME week, which is held from October 20 to 26, 2013, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, made the document simplify the life of companies and better regulate -Repport on the implementation of government measures for regulatory and administrative relief. 
"In the wake of economic priority employment priority, our government is committed to reducing the regulatory and administrative burden of companies, especially SMEs. In this regard, we intend to reduce the cost of administrative formalities by 20% by 2015, which will allow for annual savings of more than $ 300 million for businesses, "said Minister Marceau. 
This report reports measures implemented by the Government to reduce the weight of the regulations and administrative formalities affecting companies. Government action is grouped under four main components: 
The Minister recalled that last January, the Government proceeded to the establishment of a monitoring committee, co-chaired by Mr. Jean St-GELAIS, Secretary General and Clerk of the Executive Board, and Mrs. Martine Hébert, Vice-President for Quebec of the Canadian Federation of Independent Company, in order to ensure rigorous implementation of government measures. "It is fundamental that the government and businesses work together in this project," added the minister. 
"The whole government apparatus is involved in reducing paperwork. In accordance with the recommendations of the Working Group, almost all departmental departments and agencies have filed a plan to reduce the cost of administrative formalities under their responsibility, "said St-Gelais. 
In this regard, Ms. Hébert said that the work of this committee, which brings together ministries, agencies and private sector partners, makes it possible to act concretely to support businesses. "The Government has committed that in the framework of the revision of government policy on regulatory and administrative relief, a 'SME' clause forcing departments and agencies to develop application modalities adapted to SMEs or, otherwise, to justify their decision. This is a decision that will have tangible and beneficial effects for Quebec companies, "she said. 
The report reports concrete measures for companies. For example : 
"Government efforts to reduce the regulatory and administrative burden of businesses will continue to maintain a competitive business environment, while acting on the continuation of the main objectives of the protection of the public and the environment", has concluded Minister Marceau. 
The report is available on the Ministry of Finance and Economy website at www.finances.gouv.qc.ca. 
