Quebec- In response to the presentation of the energy policy of the Liberal government, the member for Sanguinet and spokesman of the Parti Québécois in terms of energy and natural resources, Alain Therien, denounced the lack of means, the absence of consistency and maintenance of the uncertainty that characterize it. 
"The Prime Minister claims that his energy policy is based on his economic policy, ignoring the fact that the latter does not exist! For the moment, energy policy comes down to five targets without new means to achieve them. The 15-year-olds announced today are mostly accounting for expenses already planned to the Green Fund, "said Mr. Therrien. 
After a long wait, it is indeed noted that few new means are identified. The adoption of concrete measures is once again postponed. Another waiting period begins for the filing of three action plans and several amendments to the legal framework. 
"The future means will be essential to judge the effectiveness of this energy policy. We are used to liberal targets ever reached: 250,000 jobs, debt reduction, economic growth. All promises, become targets, who did not prove, "said Alain Therrien. 
The uncertainty is responsible for the Prime Minister continues and undermines the economy and development of our regions. "The chaos that surrounds the hydrocarbon sector continues, investors and our entrepreneurs got only" if "the Minister of Energy. With regard to the wind industry, the lack of clear projects in terms of projects may cause hundreds of job losses in a structuring industry for the Quebec economy. The industry was only entitled to wind, "added the member. 
On the other hand, when last December, on the sidelines of COP21, the Prime Minister announced the end of natural gas in Quebec, it is surprising to note the great place for natural gas in energy policy. Another liberal inconsistency. 
Finally, the government has announced the filing of a zero emission law, one year after the one proposed by the Parti Québécois. "In terms of transport electrification, among others, our policy was really more ambitious than that of the Liberals. Another year of lost, "concluded Alain Therrien. 
