Quebec- In order to concretize the government's commitment to the social economy, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory and Minister of Transport, Sylvain Gaudreault, today submitted a draft law to optimize the contribution of this sector of activity, which is an important lever for the collective wealth and development of our regions. 
"In Quebec, thousands of social economy companies produce goods and services in order to meet the needs expressed by communities. In doing so, they result in significant socio-economic benefits. Time therefore seems to me to give this area the place that returns to it, in order to promote a citizen economy that puts the human being and the common good at the center of his concerns, "said the Prime Minister of Quebec. 
This law will recognize the contribution of collective enterprises in all government institutions and policies. In addition, it will establish a permanent place of dialogue between the Government of Quebec and the actors of the social economy in order to continue the establishment of new public policies. 
"This bill is part of a global trend that many countries put in place a legal framework for the social economy to recognize it as a sustainable prosperity activity. By adopting it, Quebec would take part in this innovative movement and stand out in the North American context, "continued Minister Gaudreault. 
Let's add that this draft Framework arrives after a consultation process with the middle actors, who welcome this initiative. Moreover, in order to recognize their contribution and to strengthen the dialogue with them, a provision now refers to the site of the social economy and the Quebec Council for Cooperation and Mutuality as their privileged interlocutors in this matter. 
Remember that in Quebec, 7000 social economy companies, including 3300 cooperatives and mutuals, employ more than 125,000 people and generate a collective benefit that exceeds $ 17 billion. 
