Québec- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, said today to the National Assembly the law on the Transport Infrastructure Agency of Quebec . 
"With the tabling of this bill, we are crossing an important step. This agency is the autonomous and effective organization that Quebec needs to meet the high expectations of the population and meet the multiple challenges of transport infrastructure in the coming years, "said the minister. 
"The Quebec Transport Infrastructure Agency will aim to control the cost of road projects, to strengthen the expertise of the Quebec State, to move the political influence of carrying out the work and to provide decentralization on the whole. of the territory ", continued Mr. Gaudreault. 
The creation of the Transport Infrastructure Agency is part of the wake of government initiatives to ensure sound management of public investments in road projects. LALOI ON INTEGRITY IN PUBLIC CONTRACTS, LEPLAN QUEBEC INFRASTRUCTURESIVE THAT LESACTIONS IMPLEMENTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT Following the recommendations of the security-kpmgs are among these measures. 
"For just over a year, our government has acted with determination and diligence so that Quebeckers pay the right cost for public infrastructure. The agency we want to put in place meets this goal, "said the minister. 
The Agency will have the mission to maintain and improve the road network whose management is currently the responsibility of the Minister of Transport. It will have the mandate to plan, schedule, design and monitor conservation and improvement interventions in addition to the operation and maintenance. 
The Agency will be administered by an independent board of directors according to the rules of the Governance of Crown Corporations Act. It will be composed of 9 to 13 members, including the President of the Council and the President and CEO. Members will be appointed by the Government, on the recommendation of the Board of Directors and taking into account the profiles of competence and experience written and approved by it. 
The agency will be attributable to its results before the National Assembly, the government and the public. To do this, it will have to produce a strategic plan, a citizen service declaration and an annual management report. It will also have to act within the budgetary boundaries awarded by the Government. The books and accounts of the Agency will be checked by the Auditor General each year and whenever the government does. 
In addition to the mechanisms provided by law, a project supervisory committee, under the board, will be created. It will include, among other things, when necessary, the implementation of recovery measures to ensure optimal risk management, costs and timelines at any time. 
The agency will have more autonomy in the management of its resources. Indeed, it will not be subject to the Public Service Act. It will have more flexibility in hiring, remuneration and classification of its employees. Therefore, she will consolidate and develop her expertise more quickly. 
The mission of the Ministry of Transport will be refocused on its strategic role: to define the guidelines and major transport policies with a view to supporting sustainable mobility and modal integration. The Department will maintain its jurisdiction to develop laws, regulations and financial assistance programs. It will continue activities related to land, sea and air modes. 
"The agency we propose constitutes a normal development of the Ministry of Transport, which celebrated its 100th anniversary last year. Through the approach we advocate, public funds will be more than ever used efficiently to optimize the road network, thus contributing to the economic development of Quebec, "concluded Minister Gaudreault. 
