Quebec - "We can discuss the issue of trade union placement in the construction industry. However, when we know that the union investment is barely 15% of all the investment, we understand that the game of Minister Thériault is to give the impression that the Liberal government is working to put in step. The building medium while in fact, it closes your eyes on much more urgent and important problems. " This is what the hon. Member for René-Lévesque and spokesman of the Official Opposition on Work, Marjolan Dufour, reacting to the deposit, by the Minister of Labor, Lise Thériault, Bill 33. 
He recalled that the Liberal government has already taken steps to stop the phenomenon of intimidation in the construction community. "The National Assembly has passed a law in 2004 to put an end to harassment and discrimination on construction sites. Minister Thériault already has a toolbox, why does not use it? Marjolain Dufour wonders. 
The member also offered himself the fact that the minister admits that Law 73, adopted two years ago, has plenty of holes, but that it further postpones the deposit of another bill for clogging. "Law 73 had to prevent any legal person accused of defrauding the State could not obtain state contracts for five years. We know the result: even if a contractor recognizes being guilty, even if the minister says that there will be sanction, the building board does not do anything. Meanwhile, even if they are guilty of defrauding the state, entrepreneurs pocket millions of dollars and still obtain contracts. It's total impunity, "denounced the hon. Member. 
The Parti Québécois intends to collaborate in the study of Bill 33, as it has done with the dozen other bills that the Liberal government has done in the last two years to avoid a public inquiry. "Parliament can make laws, so it should be applied! Anyway, only a public inquiry into the construction industry is needed. Provide patches before this public inquiry is a "plaster" on a gaping wound, "the member concluded. 
