Québec- The member for Laval-des-Rapides and Parliamentary Assistant to the Prime Minister for the youth issues is very proud of the deposit yesterday, by the Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, at the National Assembly, Dullivre Blanc on the Quebec Youth Policy. 
"I undertake to continue to bring the concerns of youth in the enclosure of the National Assembly. At the coming parliamentary committee, we will hear the suggestions of youth groups and other parliamentarians in order to inspire ourselves with their recommendations to improve the work that has been achieved so far, "said Leo Bureau-Blouin. 
The two-generation white papers is directly from the many suggestions and proposals presented by Quebec youth during the Regional Youth Consultation Tour, led by Mr. Leo Bureau-Blouin, as well as the web platform. Accompanied. It proposes several new initiatives that correspond to the aspirations of youth and is an important step in the preparation of future youth policy. The discussions it will generate in parliamentary committee will enrich and specify the proposals submitted by the Government. 
The White Paper presents in two parts. The first, discovering his passions and to take action, addresses the projects raised by young Quebeckers with respect to the acquisition of healthy lifestyles, to build at school a stimulating living environment, to make better school and professional choices and to flourish in active life. The second, building Quebec of the future, refers to the reflections heard during the consultation on the future of Quebec, more specifically the exchanges between young people, their social commitment and the development of intergenerational alliances. 
The parliamentary committee that will follow will allow to discuss these reflections as well as the ten new concrete initiatives contained in the White Paper, including the implementation of a service program to the community, the development of pilot projects. duty in schools as well as the establishment of student parliaments in secondary schools. 
"The deposit of the White Paper represents a new stage of the process that will lead to the adoption of the next Youth Policy. In the long term, this policy will guide the offer of services of a dozen departments and agencies which, in 2012-2013, represented investments of nearly $ 500 million. Our government intends to offer young people the support they need to cope with the new demographic realities of Quebec from 2030, "concluded Mr. Leo Bureau-Blouin. 
The Youth Secretariat is mandated to advise the government in the field of youth and to assist the Prime Minister in the exercise of his responsibilities in this regard. It ensures the coordination and monitoring of government action in this area. 
To consult the White Paper, go to the website: www.jeunes.gouv.qc.ca.to Read the Prime Minister's Blog Ticket: http: //go.pq.org/baj 
