Québec- On the occasion of Pride Montreal, the official opposition and MP officer, Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the member for Joliette and spokesman for the Quebecois, Véronique Hivon, have been required to reaffirm The commitment of the Parti Québécois to provide better recognition to LGBT people and to support the fight against discrimination, homophobia and transphobia. 
Moreover, members of the Parti Québécois have been part of the various activities held as part of the 10th edition of Pride Montreal. In particular, in addition to the head of the official opposition, the members of Alexandre Cloutier, Véronique Hivon, Diane Lamarre, Jean-François Lisée, Agnès Maltais and Martine Ouellet attended the parade of the 2016 Montreal Pride, who was held this year under the theme "Our flag, our nature: green. 
"As a society, Quebec has already made great advances in favor of LGBT people. It is recognized by the world that we form a progressive, open nation, and we can be very proud of it. However, a piece of path remains to be done: among other things, we must continue to fight homophobia and transphobia, two phenomena that persist, unfortunately, said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"Let's bet on awareness," said the member for Joliette, Véronique Hivon. We must target the surroundings of the most vulnerable LGBT people, for example those from cultural communities where homosexuality is not accepted, or more difficult. I also think of LGBT seniors, as well as those who live out of major urban centers. Let's make sure that all these people never have to live the tragedy of isolation or exclusion, "she said. 
The Leader of the Official Opposition took the opportunity to remember that it was the Government of René Lévesque which has adopted an amendment to the Charter of Rights and Freedoms of the person who prohibits the discrimination based on sex or sexual orientation. It is also a government of the Quebecois party which, more recently, has legally recognized the unions between same-sex spouses. "The Parti Québécois has always militated for equality and will continue to do so. That's why we will closely monitor the current Liberal government; Its recent compressions, totaling a million dollars, have had real consequences, including the removal of the second awareness campaign to combat homophobia - despite the very conclusive results of the first gender campaign, in 2013 - and the reduction Training provided by the National Institute of Public Health to sensitize professionals to the realities of LGBT people. The cause, recognition and rights of persons LGBT must not be a decline. We therefore demand the government that it unlocks the funds needed to hold the second awareness campaign. Never integration or openness to diversity should be sacrificed in the name of austerity, "he concluded. 
