Rimouski- "The Rimouski-Neigette Health and Social Services Center is designated, after a rigorous analysis process, Eastern Regional Cancer Center," announced today the Minister Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, in the presence of the Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and Minister of Tourism, Pascal Bérubé, and the hon. Member for Rimouski, Irvin Pelletier. 
"We recognize the remarkable clinical expertise of the specialists and professionals of this institution, which offers specialized services of investigation, surgery, systemic treatment and radio-oncology to people with cancer in the East-du- Quebec. In this new context, interregional network stakeholders will continue to take advantage of physician, pharmacists and other professional professionals, "said Minister Hébert. 
A regional center like that of Rimouski offers a range of specialized services that help boost the Quebec regional and interregional carcology network. Clinical and management experts are required to participate in network consultation and coordination activities, thus contributing to the center a real crossroads for the fight against cancer in the region. The establishment and animation of communities of practice related to the different disciplines which, with the support of the Health and Social Services Agency and the Quebec Carcology Directorate, will promote the development of closer links between the teams. 
"Our government is doing the fight against cancer a priority, and it is with the help of local, regional and supraregional teams that we can take up this great challenge. The new designation of the Rimouski-Neigette Health and Social Services Center will consolidate and develop, throughout the Eastern Quebec, a patient-centered cancer service offer, through all the Stages of the continuum of care and services, "explained the minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Minister of Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé. 
"Rimouski-Neignette's cancer recognition is an excellent news, not only for the Bas-Saint-Laurent, but also for all the eastern Quebec. I would like to pay tribute to the staff of the health and social services center and teams who devote themselves to people fighting cancer, "concluded the hon. Member for Rimouski, Mr. Irvin Pelletier. 
