We will never say enough: it is today, in our classrooms, that written the future story of Quebec. As a former Minister of Education, I know how much the most fundamental, most essential record for our collective future. 
To ensure that all students have a chance to succeed, it is an ambition that all Quebeckers have to share. To achieve this, the student must be at the center of our efforts. 
The Parti Québécois has a plan to encourage our young people to persevere and to keep them at school until graduation; Because a diploma is the best pledge for a paid job. 
Our will is to raise the quest for success of our young people to the rank of great collective project. To allow each of our children to become an autonomous, fulfilling and free adult of his choices. This is how we build a more independent Quebec. 
Already, the Government of the Parti Québécois has embarked on the development of a first national policy to combat school dropout, which will aim that by 2020, two out of three students obtain their diploma in the required times , and that 80% of them arrive there before the age of 20. 
Quebec would become one of the nations with the best graduation rate in the world. 
From the outset, I can announce that our action will be organized around five axes: to detect delays; Make school an attractive living environment; help students in difficulty; mobilize all the actors of our company for success; and promote vocational training. 
I would also like to emphasize the importance of recognizing the work of our teachers. They are on the first line, day after day, to support, encourage and transmit their knowledge to our students. 
So I want to take the opportunity to make a personal commitment: we will showcase the teaching profession by ensuring us to recognize teachers as unmissable partners in the success of our students. 
To promote the success of the greatest number, the choice is very clear. Only the Parti Québécois has a vision to encourage our young people to persevere at school. In education, as healthy, we rely on the sharing of skills and the diversity of talents. 
At the Québécois party, we have the team to get there, we have the plan. And we are determined to ensure the success of our students. 
