Québec- The spokesman for the Parti Québécois in education, research and educational perseverance, Alexandre Cloutier, asks the Liberal government to stop provoking teachers and other educational workers, and to negotiate in good faith In order to arrive at a regulation that will allow the renewal of their collective agreements. 
"The Liberal government has only itself to blame for the week of disturbances that we have just lived in schools in all regions of Quebec. After months of discussions, he still has not deigned decent offer to teachers and professionals in the education community, preferring to play the provocation. The government must give up its intention to impoverish workers and start negotiating in good faith, "said Alexandre Cloutier. 
Today, after four days of strike affecting all public schools in Quebec, the Parti Québécois questioned the Minister of Education for two hours at the National Assembly, on the occasion of an interpellation session on the widespread loss of education of the education network for it. On this occasion, Alexandre Cloutier insisted that the mobilization of the last days is unprecedented. "I have never received as many messages from parents, teachers and other educational professionals. Unanimously, they are concerned about the impact of education cuts, the removal of hundreds of specialist positions - specialty education technicians, speech therapists, orthopedagogues, psychoeducators - and declining services for students to special needs, among others. These people are right. The compressions imposed by the minister directly compromise the chances of success of students. It is a generation that risks make the costs of short-view policies of the Liberals, "he added. 
Finally, as to the renewal of the collective agreements of teachers and other educational workers, Alexandre Cloutier believes that the government must stop feeding social tension and recognize the fair value of their work. "I do not know a worker in Quebec who would accept that his purchasing power is reduced every year for five years. The intransigence of the President of the Treasury Board makes it impossible for any settlement. I remind him that education is not a simple column of numbers. It's an investment in our collective success, "he concluded. 
