Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu- The member for Chicoutimi and Head of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, accompanied by the member for Labelle and President of the Official Opposition Caucus, Sylvain Pagé, as well as the hon. Member for Saint John and President of the Regional Caucus of Montérégie, Dave Turcotte, traced the assessment of the parliamentary wing caucus, held in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu. 
Stéphane Bédard has strongly denounced the waitition and inaction of the Liberals on all plans, especially with regard to the economy and job creation. "The prime minister hesitates, says a lot of words and never acts. He stays in his office and waits for the liberal effect. He must come out of his hibernation and act for economic development, "he said. 
"The impacts of liberal austerity are felt everywhere; Families and local development, in particular, make the costs. We have seen it here, in Montérégie, and members see it in all regions of Quebec. The government does nothing, offers nothing to stimulate the economy and job creation. Day after day, month after month, the numbers confirm it. The Liberals are the champions of job losses, "he added. 
Stéphane Bédard noted, moreover, that Quebec has the worst job balance in Canada. On the net, since the arrival of the Liberals, he lost 18,000 jobs in Quebec, while he was created 54,000 in Ontario. In addition, ISQ announced today that Quebec GDP decreased by 0.4% in October. We therefore speak of two declines in the last three months. Finally, yesterday, Quebec exports have been learned from 11.5% in November (the last month measured); This fall is much more marked than in the rest of Canada. 
"Our priorities are unchanged. We will fight for job creation, we will defend workers, we will propose actions to fight fundamentalism, we will be vigilant so that wealth is well distributed and we will support families who are constantly the target of the policies. Liberal-Caquist austerity, "continued Stéphane Bédard. 
The same liberal inaction in the file of religious fundamentalism 
"We have presented our intention to introduce a bill to create an observatory of religious fundamentalism, in order to understand and document the phenomenon, and to prevent the radicalization of people at risk. Fatima Houda-Pepin wanted this debate to be non-partisan; So we tend the hand to the government because it is urgent to act. We must not wait until other tragic events occur, "concluded the official opposition leader. 
