Chapais- The Minister of Natural Resources and Responsible for Nordic Development, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, took advantage of his transition to Chapais today to announce that a financial contribution of $ 795,000 over three years is awarded to the Jamesian Table of Mining. to support its work 2012-2015. 
"The government wants to promote responsible mining development in combination with communities. The total financial contribution of the $ 795,000 partners granted to the Jamesian Mining Table goes in this direction since it gives the means to a regional body to ensure a strategic monitoring of the mining industry, "said Martine Ouellet. 
"This financial assistance will allow the Jamesian table to promote the creation of thousands of jobs and the growth of companies that require a skilled and competent workforce. His experience will not be profitable only to the region, but also to the whole Quebec, "said Luc Ferland, hon. Member for Ungava. 
"By financially supporting the Jamesian Mining Table, the Quebec government contributes to the productivity and competitiveness of this growing economic activity sector," said the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltais. 
Labable Jamesian mining consultation is a non-profit organization that realizes applied research in the field of mining exploration throughout Jamesie. Since the last 12 years, it has been mandated, among other things, to manage a mining aid program in the James Bay territory. In addition, it has drawn a provisional portrait of human activity on mining development in the territory of Abitibi-Témiscamingue, Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean and the Labrador border region for the Ministry of Health and social services. The Jamesian Mineral Concertation Table sits on numerous provincial, regional and local committees and organizations dedicated to Nordic development and acts as a privileged interlocutor of the Regional Council of James Bay elected officials. The total contribution of partners to the Jamesian mining table amounts to $ 795,000 over three years, $ 150,000 from the Department of Natural Resources, $ 195,000 in Québec, $ 225,000 from the Regional Conference of the Regional Conference. elected from James Bay and $ 225,000 from the James Bay municipality. 
The Jamesian Mining Concertation Table brings together several stakeholders: the Ministry of Natural Resources, the Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, the Regional Conference of the elected representatives of James Bay and the municipality of James Bay. Each Party contributes financially or otherwise at the Jamesian Mining Table to consolidate, develop and foster technology transfer as well as support the implementation of initiatives highlighting the mining potential of the North-du-Québec region. 
