Chapais- The member for Ungava and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Northern Affairs Component), Mr. Luc Ferland, on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, M . Sylvain Gaudreault, today announced, in Chapais, measures that will ensure the sustainability of certain road links in Nord-du-Québec. On this occasion, he was accompanied by the Minister of Natural Resources and responsible for Nordic Development, Ms. Martine Ouellet. 
The Municipal Road Improvement Assistance Program aims to support municipalities in the management of road infrastructure under their responsibility. Thus, over the next three years, the city of Chapais can count on a financial assistance of $ 400,000 from the Government of Quebec. This aid will be used to carry out some work on the municipal road network. 
"This grant will adequately support the city of Chapais in the planning and implementation of its operations to improve its road network," said the member for Ungava, Mr. Luc Ferland. 
The Quebec government recently decided to transfer R-1005 road management, linking Lebel-sur-Quévillon and Matagami to the Ministry of Transport. The whole was formalized yesterday, by the publication of the decree in the official Lagazette of Quebec. "The interview and repair of '' the crossing '' between these two cities will now be under the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport. The expertise of the employees and equipment of the MTQ will ensure the realization of the necessary interventions on this road, "said Ferland. 
In the coming months, the Department will report to assess the general condition of the road. Subsequently, rehabilitation measures will be determined to ensure the sustainability of the infrastructure and the safety of users. 
In addition, the 2013-2015 programming of the Ministry of Transport provides for investments of more than $ 150 million for the 2013-2015 period in Northern Quebec, of which more than $ 30 million will be devoted to conservation. Roads. The list of the main projects selected is available on the Ministry's website, at the address www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca. 
