Quebec- The member for Vachon and spokesperson for the official opposition in mining and shale gas, Martine Ouellet, said no surprise from the results of a recent poll made by the light marketing firm for the newspaper From Montreal where Quebeckers believe they do not withdraw sufficient benefits from the exploitation of their resources. 
In this survey, 59% of Quebecers believe that the royalties perceived are insufficient. For Témiscabitibians, this proportion climbs at 73%. "When three in four citizens in a mining region want the state to get more, is that they are tanned to see as much money in the pockets of the mining companies. It should make a government reflect, "said the member for Vachon. It reminds the passage that 10 minutes out of 19 did not pay any fees in 2010. The Parti Québécois wishes to adopt the principle of a fee on gross income of miners, as is the case for sandpillages and gravel. 
A majority of Quebeckers also believes that Quebec could withdraw more benefits from its mining resources if the government emphasized for projects of 2nd and 3rd transformation on Quebec. "Transforming our resources here allows you to create three times more jobs than just extraction. With the same ton or the same ounce, one could work thousands of Quebeckers with structuring and value-added jobs, "Martine Ouellet supported. 
For the Parti Québécois, mining companies must be taken up and contribute more for the restoration and redevelopment of an exploited territory. "The time when a company emptied the basement leaving the site abandoned is over. It takes cleaner and more responsible mining development, has supported the member. In this sense, it misunderstands the Liberal government's refusal to make public restoration plans and guarantees payments. "Currently, Quebec must assume an invoice of $ 1.2 billion for orphan sites. This is the least that invoice is shared with the mining, the main beneficiaries of our resources. The Liberal government is firmly objected. Why is he trying to defend the mining before Quebeckers? "Martine Ouellet wonders. 
"While the study of Bill 14 continues, this survey comes again reinforced us in our positions. It should also make the Minister Serge Simard bend who systematically refuses any proposal to enrich Quebecers, "said Martine Ouellet. 
