Quebec- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, and the Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs, Elizabeth Larouche, today hosted the President of the Makivik Society, Jobie Tukkiapik, so That the President of the Kativik Regional Authority (ARK), Maggie Emudluk, in order to sign the agreement on the financing of measures to reduce the cost of living in Nunavik. 
"We care about the consequences of the high cost of living on Nunavik families. That's why we are considering putting in place immediate action, while continuing to work together on pacifiers to be made in the longer term. I am pleased to see that our work has resulted in an agreement between the parties, in a context of nation-nation relationship. I salute the work done by the mandated representatives. I am hopeful that these measures will make it possible to improve the quality of life of Nunavimmiut in a tangible way, "said the Prime Minister. 
"Our government believes that it is important to act now to improve the situation of Nunavimmiut. The signed agreement plans to grant the ARK a temporary grant of $ 33 million over three years to mitigate the cost of living in Nunavik. In addition, on the sidelines of the agreement, the government has enhanced the component relating to the Nordic villages of the Tax Credit for Solidarity. Indeed, as of January 1, 2014, the amount granted annually as a basic amount per adult and as an additional amount for spouse will be increased from $ 810 to $ 1,620, which will double the annual cost of this measure, bringing it about $ 7 million. This tax measure and the subsidy therefore represent, over a three-year period, a combined help of $ 54 million, "added Pauline Marois. 
The cost of living in Nunavik has been a topical topic for more than twenty years. Due to a series of factors, including the removal of communities, the lack of roads and the rigor of the climate, the costs of goods and services in Nunavik are considerably higher than elsewhere in Quebec. Fuel, food and transport are some examples. 
Recall that it is on the occasion of a meeting between the Prime Minister and the leaders of Makivik Society and the ARK, held on June 21, which he was decided to form a working group to look at on the high cost of life in Nunavik. For this purpose, a special warrant of the Prime Minister had been entrusted to the Secretary General of the Government, Jean St-Gelais, and both parties had agreed to signify an agreement by December 31 of the 'current year. 
