Sherbrooke- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, accompanied by the member for Sherbrooke, Mr. Serge Cardin, confirms the financial contribution of the Government of Quebec to two innovative projects in Sherbrooke. An amount of $ 25,000 is thus attributed to SOCPRA management for a project of accompanying intellectual property valued at $ 100,000. In addition, a $ 284,000 financial contribution is paid to IXTROM Group to support a technology showcase project of more than $ 700,000. 
"Our government is present in all regions of Quebec to support the implementation of innovative projects such as SOCPRA and IXTROM Group Management. We are also happy to support technological showcase projects, "said Zakaïb Élain. "In order to improve the efficiency of our actions in the regions in terms of economic development and, above all, to simplify the lives of our entrepreneurs, we recently tabled the bill creating the Quebec Economic Development Bank. It will act as an important leverage of economic prosperity by promoting carrier, innovative and, above all, job creators. » 
"Sherbrooke is one of the most dynamic cities in Quebec economically. She is actually a key growth pole, where the knowledge economy and the manufacturing sector are growing in harmony, "said Serge Cardin. "The projects presented today demonstrate, beyond any doubt, its great economic vitality and its strength in innovation and research. I am delighted with our government's contribution and I congratulate SOCPRA management and IXTROM Group for the implementation of their projects, which announce interesting strong benefits for the region. » 
Since 2007, SOCPRA management has been providing intellectual property management services related to the University of Sherbrooke's research results and its affiliated institutions, with the aim of advancing technologies. As part of its project, the organization may provide an intellectual property support service to companies established in the territory of Estrie. SOCPRA management includes companies that are part of the key streams of the Sherbrooke Innopole and those participating in the Government of Quebec Agreement, based on the regions' niches of excellence. Two files are in progress within the organization and three others are currently analyzed. 
"For businesses, having access to a specialized intellectual property resource can sometimes be difficult," said Josée Fortin, President and Chief Executive Officer of SOCPRA. "Companies that develop innovative technologies also need advice for the protection of their intellectual property. SOCPRA management can accompany them and contribute, by the very fact, to the success of their innovation approach. I greet the participation of Sherbrooke Innopole and that of the Government of Quebec in this project. » 
"By the time the companies must innovate to distinguish themselves, they will benefit from this project with a privileged access to intellectual property resources and advice", is pleased by Mr. Pierre Bélanger, Director General of Sherbrooke Innopole. "The new SOCPRA service will also promote the marketing of the innovations here, whether by transfer to existing businesses or by creating new businesses within the key sectors. » 
IXTROM Group has been specializing, since 2009, in the design of decision-making software for the decision and coordination of interventions aimed at ensuring better risk management and emergencies. The company's project is to implement the IXGMAS M2 software to the Directorate General for Civil Security and Fire Safety of the Department of Public Safety to demonstrate the functionality. This software will allow the Department and its partners to effectively manage alerts, assess the level of risk thereof and optimally respond to emergency situations. 
"Our vision is to become a leader in the design of decision-making and real-time emergency management software," said Ixtrom Group President. "We are developing innovative, unique global software, which may be a user-friendly way with the complex technological environment of our customers. The system that is technologically displayed is a platform for communicating without the Internet or telephone network during critical situations. The installation of our software within the Department of Public Safety will contribute to increasing our company's reputation with other governments or public sector organizations. » 
