Montreal -Ars that she set up a portrait of mine development in Quebec, the member for Vachon and spokesperson for the official opposition on shale mines and gas, Martine Ouellet, believes that the liberal strategy is a disaster. Announced. 
"For eight years, the price of metals has exploded, gold being increased from $ 300 / ounce to $ 1800 / ounce, $ 30 / ton iron at $ 150 / ton. The craze for minerals in Quebec is very present. Even without a North Plan, this craze exists and will maintain as long as the price of metals will be high, "said Martine Ouellet. 
The member for Vachon believes that Quebec must benefit better from this craze. "We could, as a society, benefit more from the impact of this mining development if the Liberal government ceased to make marketing and was more interested in the real issues. These are hundreds of millions of dollars a year and jobs in the processing industry that Quebeckers will lose because of the lack of vision of the Northern Marketing Plan of the Quebec Liberal Party, "she added. 
Mining resources belong to Quebeckers 
Given the non-renewable nature of mining and gold resources, the Parti Québécois insists on a depth revision of the royalty regime. "We sell to multinationals our basement for a bite of bread. As if it were not enough, the red carpet takes place by multiplying public investments to facilitate the extraction of minerals. It is necessary to review the royalty regime for Québec to maximize the benefits of the resources that belong to it, "continued Martine Ouellet. 
"It's time to take control of our natural riches. It is a treasure that belongs to all Quebeckers. It is therefore necessary to extract better royalties, plan an overprofit sharing and seriously consider participating in operating companies, "the spokesperson, stressing that China and India, two fast-growing countries, have Major needs and are the most involved in the ownership of Quebec deposits. 
In the coming days, the member for Vachon intends to crisscross Quebec to meet the population and regional economic stakeholders. She will express the firm will of the Parti Québécois so that Quebec will resume the control of its natural riches. 
