Gatineau - Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, and the Minister Delegate to Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, announce the payment of a $ 37,500 financial contribution to the GatineauDestination organization to enable it to upgrade its business plan, to develop a communication plan and to assess the needs for the creation and implementation and implementation an office. 
"By highlighting the banks of the Outaouais River, the Gatineau Destination organization demonstrates that it shares our vision of sustainable development of the tourist offer for Quebec," said Élaine Zakaïb. "Our government is proud to support it in the realization of its project, which will offer the local population, families and tourists a place of rally and a fun urban space for the presentation of regional and international events. » 
"Gatineau Destination is an eloquent demonstration of the dynamism of the Quebec tourism industry," added Pascal Bérubé. "We are very pleased to associate with this organization engaged in structuring projects for the City of Gatineau and the Outaouais region - projects that showcase our regional heritage while generating economic benefits for the whole of Quebec. . » 
Destination Gatineau is a non-profit organization whose mission is to manage, plan and monitor tourist, social, sports, cultural and community activities on the sites entrusted to it. The organization proposes a redevelopment of the banks of the Outaouais River, the fall of the boilers at the Lady-Aberdeen bridge, over a distance of 6 kilometers. This project also targets the implementation, Gatineau, the Canada Science and Technology Museum and the development of a promenade of civilizations. It will ensure an animation, ten months a year, in the heart of the city of Gatineau, while highlighting the natural beauty of the site. 
"I thank the Quebec government for its support for the Gatineau Destination project," said the Mayor of Gatineau, Mr. Marc Bureau. "Little by little, this visionary project takes shape. I also want to salute the commitment of the many partners and organizations that formally support this project, which will make Gatineau a tourist destination of international renown. » 
"Thanks to the support of the Quebec government, our project can materialize more easily," supported the Director General of Gatineau destination, Mr. Claude Hamelin. "With a new business plan, a communication plan and a regional office, the Gatineau destination team has all the tools to deliver an exceptional project to the expectations. » 
