Mistissini- The Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, and the Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs, Ms. Elizabeth Larouche, were in Mistissini today to participate in the official signing ceremony of the final settlement agreement on the transfer of Certain lands of Mistissini to the Government of Quebec, in the company of the grand leader of the Grand Council of Cree (Eeyou Istchee), Mr Matthew Coon Come, the Vice-President of the Cree Regional Administration, Mr. Rodney Mark, as well as the Chief From the Cree community of Mistissini, Mr. Richard Shecapio. 
This agreement allows Quebec to recover more than 2,300 km2 of land, an area corresponding to the land base allocated to the neighboring community of Oujé-Bougoumou during its creation. This by-law with the Community of Mistissini represents the acquittal of the government's financial obligations towards the cries of Mistissini, under Annex G of the peace of the brave. It will also allow the maintenance of conditions favorable to the development of natural resources. 
"As head of the Nordic Development Secretariat, I am pleased to be present today to formalize this important agreement for communities Oujé-Bougoumou and Mistissini. This agreement testifies to our government's desire to support the Cree community of Mistissini so that it can highlight projects that contribute to their vitality, "said Martine Ouellet. 
In return for this landline, a $ 20 million will be paid to the community. This amount will be an important economic leverage that could ensure the development and diversification of Mistissini's tourism offer. This is part of the context of the new service offer related to the joint management of the Albanel-Mistassini-et-WaConichi Lakes Wildlife Reserve and the Future Albanel-Témiscamie-Otish National Park. 
"This agreement confirms Category IA, IB and II land for the Cree Nation of Oujé-Bougoumou, the last criterical community to be formally included in the James Bay and Northern Quebec Convention. I would like to express my sincere gratitude for the cooperation we have had with the Government of Quebec during the negotiations that resulted in this signature. We are very pleased to see our neighbors of Oujé-Bougoumou get a land excise and enjoy the same rights and privileges as other cried communities, "said Mistissini's leader Richard Shecapio. 
"By this signature, our government demonstrates that it honors its commitments and has the harmonious development of Aboriginal communities in Quebec. The Community will be able to enjoy a renewed socio-economic dynamism that will stimulate the job market for young cries in the region. Here is a good example of an investment that is part of a northern development that benefits everyone, "rejoiced Elizabeth Larouche. 
