Longueuil- The Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, and the Chief of Operations of the Mining Corporation The Stornoway Diamonds, Mr. Patrick Godin, have made the point today about their close collaboration that led to the opening of the Route 167 to the Otish Mountains, the Mining Road of the Fox Project and the creation of a new aerodrome. 
"The collaboration between the Stornoway Company and the Government of Quebec allowed the extension of the Otish Highway Highway. With the renegotiation of the agreement, the government allowed Quebeckers to save $ 125 million. The opening of the diamond mine will allow the creation of nearly 1,200 jobs. This is a concrete example of the new preferred approach by the Quebec government with regard to the realization of infrastructure in the North, "said Martine Ouellet. 
"By having entrusted Stornoway the responsibility to continue the work leading to the Otish Mountains, this will have permitted at the same time to promote our entrepreneurs in the region. The expertise of Chantiers Chibougamau has been solicited for the manufacture of wooden bridges. The construction of the road leading to the Otish Mountains will not only provide mining development, but will also facilitate access for shouting communities to their trap territory. This clearly demonstrates the willingness of our government to make Nordic development a priority, "said Luc Ferland, the member for Ungava and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources, Nordic Development component. 
The Otish Mountains Road is a public infrastructure over its entire length (240 km), between Témiscamie and the Renard Diamond Project. The first section, the extension of Route 167 (143 km), is under the responsibility of the Government of Quebec. The second section, the Fox Mining Road (97 km), is under the responsibility of Stornoway. The latter was constructed mainly by companies in the James Bay region, including those associated with the Cree of Eeyou Istchee. It should be remembered that this new infrastructure is public and will benefit both Nordic and Aboriginal communities and mining companies wishing to settle in the region. 
The construction of the fox mining path cost about 10% less than expected. The Government of the Beak has accepted that the balance of the pre-t that had been granted? For the route 167 to the company Stornoway diamonds is used for the construction of a new AE? Rodrome. In accordance with? willingness? From the government, this project is based on a shared infrastructure approach. This has the advantage of minimizing the number and reducing environmental impacts. Thus, the Aerodrome of the Otish Mountains will be accessible to other users, including cries and jamians, and what, has? Just pricing. It will also serve as a diversion track, ensuring better security for regional air transport. 
The construction of the aerodrome will allow local contractors and workers who participated in the construction of the Otish Mountains Road to extend the duration of their jobs. 
Its exploitation, which should begin in 2016, will create 432 direct jobs and 740 indirect jobs for the first 11 years. An investment of $ 800 million is planned for the construction of the mine. 
"The development of the North what? Be? COIS is a strategic element of the economic policy as? Be bec- Priority? employment. The potential of the north of what? Bec must be developed? of responsible manie in order to maximize the falls for all local communities and that? Be? COIS. With its Fox project, Stornoway demonstrates that it is possible to make responsible mining development, in partnership with communities and the government, for the benefit of all Quebeckers, "concluded Martine Ouellet. 
