Quebec - "The Charest government is refusing that the economic benefits generated by Northern Development benefit all Quebeckers. In this sense, the proposals we have made to improve the mines bill have all been rejected. The government is more stubborn than ever and it is the Quebeckers who are the costs, "deplored the member for Charlevoix and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pauline Marois. 
On the occasion of a press conference with the member for Vachon, Martine Ouellet, from the member for Rousseau, Nicolas Marceau, the member for Ungava, Luc Ferland, from the member for René-Lévesque, Marjolate Dufour, of the MP for Duplessis, Lorraine Richard, and the member for Marie-Victorin, Bernard Drainville, Pauline Marois recalled the principles that should guide the development of North: 
Our non-renewable resources should benefit more than one generation;  The transformation of our resources must be maximized;  State participation in private companies that exploit our resources;  Overall taxation for the mining sector that provides Quebeckers with a fair share of the wealth created by the exploitation of the resource;  Transparency and rigor from the government;  A concern about local and indigenous communities. 
"Bill 14 on mines was a great opportunity to integrate the principles that guide us. However, the government refuses. The Mining Spokesperson, Martine Ouellet, and his colleagues proposed a dozen essential amendments to enhance the bill. They were all rejected without debate. The Liberals refused to discuss royalties and even to talk about the transformation of our non-renewable resources. When we know that the transformation provides three to five times more jobs, it is downright irresponsible on the part of the government, "has insurgence the leader of the official opposition. 
Quebeckers are the great losers of Liberal Nordic development. Over the past year, the increase in mining profits has been eight times larger than the increase in royalties perceived by the government. "We can not tolerate this situation anymore. Quebecers have the right to have their money, "she added. 
"The exploitation of our non-renewable natural resources should benefit future generations. These resources must enable us to do anything more productive with the collective income that will be drawn up, to develop a real knowledge-based economy, "said Pauline Marois, specifying that our resources must be a stepping stone to finance the True sectors for the future that are renewable energies or electrified transport and to support education and health systems. 
"Nordic development is an ambitious project that the Parti Québécois shares. However, we can not agree today with the government's orientations to develop the North. We can not agree with royalties and mineral rights too low, with the lack of transparency and the indifference of the government to promote the 2nd and 3rd transformation of our metals. The North belongs to Quebecers. We must share together the wealth that is created, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
For future generations 
Transformation of resources to Quebec 
We filed an amendment that requires maximizing resource processing in Quebec. The Liberal government refused. 
We asked to develop Quebec expertise in the exploration, exploitation and processing of Quebec's mining resources. The Liberal government refused. 
We asked that the law also aim to develop Quebec expertise in the exploration, operation and processing of Quebec's mining resources. The Liberal government refused. 
Royalties and mining rights 
We have asked that the mining rights regime contains a mandatory royalty on the production value as well as sharing with the state of profits exceeding a normal return and a mechanism for financial participation in strategic projects. The Liberal government refused. 
We have asked that the law assures the citizens of Quebec a fair share of the wealth created by the exploitation of mining resources, while taking into account other possibilities of use of the territory. The Liberal government refused. 
Transparency 
Another proposal from the Parti Québécois: 
We proposed to create a chief mining position, inspired by the Chief Forestier model, having the mandate to ensure that the exploitation of mining resources reports to Quebec women to offset the loss of these non-renewable resources, Ensuring financial control with mining companies on behalf of the Government of Quebec, as well as a technical control over the volume operated and the value extracted. The Liberal government refused. 
