Quebec- The Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Regions of the Capitale-National and the Chaudière-Appalaches and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, on behalf of the Deputy Premier Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, announces the award of $ 123,340 financial assistance to the Jacques-Cartier Fish farm business inc. For the realization of its project of redevelopment of its fish facilities. 
Located in Cape Health in the Portneuf region, the company specializes in the breeding of the Fountain char and rainbow trout for the seeding market. It wants to improve its environmental performance by decreasing phosphorus releases from its activities to a maximum of 4.2 kilograms per tonne of annual production. To achieve this target, that is set in the sustainable development strategy for freshwater aquaculture in Quebec (Straddaq), it will provide improvements to its farmed basins and modify its water treatment system. 
"By adopting good practices and environmentally friendly modes of production, Jacques-Cartier's fish farming cares about its competitiveness and takes into account the environmental concerns of the Community. This is a good example of a project that promotes the harmonious development of our region, "said Agnès Maltais. 
It should be noted that the Straddaq is the result of the consultation of all freshwater aquaculture actors in Quebec. The strategy highlights innovative ways to reduce the impact of fish farming on the aquatic environment without jeopardizing the acquis and the development potential of the industry. 
The financial assistance of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food is granted under the Aquabeu program; This measure frames with the objectives defined in the food sovereignty policy, since it contributes to the harmonization of the sector with the environment while encouraging companies to engage in the path of sustainable development. 
For further information on food sovereignty policy, consult the blog dedicated to it (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www .mapaq.gouv.qc.ca / Policya). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
