Quebec- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, is satisfied with emergency-environment interventions on the spill site of about 450,000 liters of oil In Sept-Îles Bay, particularly in difficult climatic conditions episodes. Emergency-environment teams ensure a constant follow-up of the situation since the heavy fuel oil spill at the Natural Resources Cliffs, Pointe-Noire cliffball plant. According to estimates, about 450,000 liters of fuel oil have been dumped into the factory's emergency basin on Saturday to Sunday, of which about 2,000 liters reached seven-island bay. Emergency measures have been deployed quickly as soon as the incident report limits the progression of the tablecloth. 
Estacades have also been installed in the bay to confine the spill and reduce the iridescript to the bank. Air overflights are carried out regularly to check the state of the sector. The difficult weather conditions that have seven in the Tuesday region complicated operations, but the department ensures that all required actions are implemented to contain damage. In addition, to ensure that there is no negligence on the part of the company, the file has been transferred to the Ministry's investigations. 
In addition, in order to initiate a reflection on better prevention protocols, Minister Blanchet has applied for a report developed on the causes of the accident, even if the effects will be limited. "If people or if the company are guilty of negligence justifying a sanction, we will act accordingly, but it is not the heart of my concern. The equivalent of the contents of four train tank wagons has been dumped and 2,000 liters have reached the sea. I want to know how and why this situation has occurred in order to adapt our ways to do, in concert with all people in good faith that it concerns. The level of risk will never really be nil, but we can make sure that it is still as much as possible, "said the Minister Blanchet. 
Subsequently, the Department will evaluate the possible interventions to strengthen the requirements and significantly reduce the risks associated with the management of hazardous materials, and of course the frequency and extent of environmental accidents. 
