Quebec- While the Federal Minister of the Environment has decided to authorize, under conditions, the spill of 8 billion liters of wastewater in the St. Lawrence River, the spokesman for the Parti Québécois in the field of environment , sustainable development and the fight against climate change, Mathieu Traversy, is of the opinion that what we will hold back from this crisis is that David Heurtel no longer has any credibility as Quebec Minister of the Environment. 
"The new conditions established by the federal government prove that David Hréttel has precipitated the City of Montreal to perform this spill, without having all the available scientific information. Therefore, he failed in his protecting role of our water and our environment, "said Mathieu Traversy. 
The Parti Québécois recalls that David Heurtel refused to make public make documents relating to the authorization of the City of Montreal. "More than a month after the start of this crisis, Quebeckers find that the minister based on documents that citizens could never have access to make his decision. However, we have asked for multiple times, without success, to make public the opinions consulted by his department, the evaluation of the other options as well as that of the cumulative impact on the St. Lawrence River, "added the member. 
In addition, the situation has highlighted gaps in procedures for the rejection of wastewater by municipalities. Added to this is the fact that the Liberal government remains passive; He reacts to crises rather than proposing solutions. The Parti Québécois, like several actors who are concerned about the quality of the water, think we have to learn from this episode. "The Quebec government needs to look at sustainable solutions to the treatment of wastewater. Yes, there are! The problem is the current wearer of these solutions. In our opinion, with his rehearsal bundles, David Heurtel disqualified ", continued the spokesman. 
Finally, the Parti Québécois deplores the federal government's decision to authorize this spill, while the expert report stipulates that a lot of information remains unavailable, among other things, that concerning cumulative impacts on the fauna and flora of the St. Laurent. It reminds the new federal government that it has promised, in the field of investing, within 10 years of 20 billion in green infrastructure, which includes those dedicated to water, including the treatment of wastewater. "The federal government can not just wash their hands and close your eyes. It will have to work better with the Government of Quebec, always according to the priorities that Quebec has established, "concluded Mathieu Traversy. 
