Laval- The member for Laval-des-Rapides and Parliamentary Assistant to the Prime Minister (youth component), Mr. Leo Bureau-Blouin, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, today unveiled the details of a large housing project for families, single people and seniors on a slight loss of autonomy, with low or modest income. This initiative, led by the Ellen Wood Solidarity Cooperative in collaboration with the 2000+ Technical Resource Group, provides for the construction of a building of 166 affordable homes in Laval. 
The SHQ has awarded a $ 500,000 startup loan to the organization that continues its process in order to carry out its project. When all the criteria of the AccessLogis Québec program have been satisfied, the SHQ will give its final downstream and financial assistance of nearly $ 12 million will be granted for the construction of this residential set very expected by the environment. 
"This future residential complex will allow families and seniors to evolve in a quality environment and adapted to the needs of each. Social diversity will contribute to the creation of a wealth where everyone's forces can be used for the well-being of all. This intergenerational solidarity is a very important value for our government and that is why we are very proud to be associated with this project, "said Leo Bureau-Blouin. 
The project involves the construction of a building that will be erected in two parts; One of 13 floors for families and the other 6 floors for single people and the elderly. It should also be said that this project includes innovative energy efficiency measures such as a heat recovery system and a solar energy preheating system. 
Through its AccessLogis Québec and Affordable Housing programs, the SHQ contributed to the construction of nearly 32,500 affordable homes throughout Quebec. Some 5,700 other homes are in progress, which represents a total investment of more than $ 4.6 billion from governments and their partners. 
In addition, in the 2013-2014 budget, the Government of Quebec announced a $ 231 million budget for the construction of 3,000 affordable housing. 
In the Laval region, there are 1,053 community and affordable housing units that have been delivered, or are in the process of being, which represents realization costs totaling nearly $ 156 million and significant economic benefits for the region. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the Quebec Housing Corporation contributes to improving quality. of life of 230,000 households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Habitat Espace, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
