Montreal- The Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, today announced that an investment of $ 27 million is planned for the expansion of the Novoclimat 2.0 program at the multi-party building component than bonuses at the Multilogement large. Both components encourage the construction of high energy-efficient multi-performance dwellings and modify construction practices to integrate energy efficiency measures higher than in effect. 
"Novoclimat 2.0 certified homes reconcile lower energy bills, improved building quality, increased comfort for occupants and better air quality for buyers who choose instead to invest in a more efficient home," said Martine Ouellet. 
The Novoclimat 2.0 program aims to have a multibutment home with a height of three floors or less, built by entrepreneurs certified by the Quebec Standards Office. The buildings are inspected, tested and delivered with government homologation confirming their energy superiority. In the long term, this enhancement will help reduce the energy consumption of new buildings of about 20% compared to the new requirements of the Quebec Construction Code. Maximum financial assistance for this component is $ 3,400. An investment of $ 15 million spread over three years is planned for this part of the program. 
Promoters wishing to build a multibutment dwelling with a minimum height of four floors up to a maximum of ten floors can also benefit from the Novoclimat 2.0 program. The building assessment process carried out at different stages of construction, financial assistance and technical support are also part of the program. Maximum financial assistance for this component is $ 2,925. An investment of $ 12 million spread over three years is planned for this part of the program. 
Since 2004, the Novoclimat Component Housing program has reduced greenhouse gas emissions of more than 5,400 CO2 equivalent tonnes, which is equivalent to removing 1,600 vehicles from the road network. On the economic front, this program has allowed more than 2,650 manufacturers and 635 ventilation specialists to build nearly 15,000 housing units through financial assistance. A total amount of more than $ 22 million has been granted. 
The Minister of Natural Resources has made it possible to recall significant government investments in energy efficiency. "These are $ 465 million that have been announced to support four energy efficiency programs, either eco-efficiency and Technoclimat ($ 400 million), Novoclimate 2.0- Maison ($ 25 million) and heat green ($ 65 million). No other government has made as much investment as important in energy efficiency, testifying to the deep desire of our government to contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, "said Martine Ouellet. 
