MONTREAL - The Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, announces $ 400 million financial assistance for the establishment of ecoperformance and technoclimat, two new energy efficiency programs designed for businesses. They aim to help businesses significantly reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. 
"Ecoperformance and Technoclimat focuses on innovation in the transportation sector as well as in industrial, commercial and institutional settings and promote the creation of more than 11,100 high quality jobs. Effective use and conversion to renewable sources enable companies to make significant energy gains and reduce their operating cost, while significantly contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gases, "said Martine Ouellet. 
Ecoperformance aims to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and enterprise energy consumption through the financing of projects or measures related to consumption and energy production, as well as improvement in processes. A total budget of $ 344 million is planned to support the actions of the program that will allow the creation of 9,600 jobs. Ecoperformance aims to reduce GHG emissions of 1,475,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalents, which is equivalent to removing 435,000 vehicles from the road network. To do this, the "Analyze" component of ecoperformance will list and quantify potential measurements of fossil fuel savings and greenhouse gas emission reductions as well as costs to introduce them. In the "energy management" component, it is planned for hiring managers and their training and the purchase of the tools needed for their work. The "Implantation" component, meanwhile, will provide financial support for energy efficiency projects, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions or conversion to low GHG emission energy sources. 
TECHNOCLIMAT aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and encourage the development of new technologies or innovative processes for energy efficiency, transportation and emerging energies. With a budget envelope of $ 55 million, Technoclimat will create 1,500 jobs. TECHNOCLIMAT offers financial support for project promoters who are part of various stages of the innovation chain. FINANCIAL SUPPORT is available for eligible expenses for demonstrating, measuring, precommatic and disseminating of technological innovations and research and development in recognized research centers. The amounts allocated to each type of activity can add up, and the maximum amount of the financial assistance granted to a project is now $ 3 million, or $ 5 million if a project is considered strategic in electrification of transport. 
For more information on ECOPERFORMANCE and TECHNOCLIMAT, ConsultantEfficaciteEnergetique.mrn.gouv.qc.ca. 
