G Aspon - Minister Delegate to the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Islands-de-la-Madeleine Region, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, on behalf of the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, announces that a government assistance of $ 228,954 is awarded to Merinov, aquaculture and fisheries innovation center for Quebec for The realization of a project to use wind energy as a means of propulsion to replace the fuel consumption of a trawler. 
"Replace oil from the wind, that's what Merinov offers. We encourage fishing companies to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and fuel costs. The Quebec government is proud to encourage the development of new energy-efficient wind technology, "said Martine Ouellet. 
The Merinov project consists of developing and testing an innovative kite device specifically designed to tow a fishing vessel to reduce the necessary motor power for its propulsion. The project will take place over 2 years. A 20% fuel economy is targeted when the system has been optimized. For example, one can consider that a shrimp fishing vessel consumes an average of 100,000 liters of fuel per year. Fuel savings would reduce operating costs and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This technology could generate a fuel economy of around 20%, or 20,000 liters per year. Thus, it prevents more than 50 tons of GHGs. 
Support innovation in the fisheries and aquaculture sector in partnership with Merinov is one of the actions of the 2013-2018 Action Plan "Developing Our Fisheries and Trade Aquaculture" that I recently announced to Îles-de-la-Madeleine. The Department is proud to contribute financially to this project whose results could offer our fishing companies an additional tool to reduce their operating costs while encouraging sustainable fishing practices, "said François Gendron, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. 
"As a minister responsible for the Gaspésie-de-la-Magdalene region and hon. Member for the riding of Gaspé, I am very pleased to see this innovative project. This green and clean energy is an appreciable asset for the riding of Gaspé and, above all, for the economic development of our region. This project also testifies to innovation efforts that unfold in the fisheries sector to improve efficiency and reduce the ecological footprint of this important industry for the region, "said Gaétan Lelièvre. 
The Ministry of Natural Resources and the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, respectively, $ 215,693 and $ 13,261 under two complementary programs. 
The Ministry of Natural Resources' Energy Innovation Assistance Program is funded by the share of energy distributors and encourages the development of new innovative technologies or processes in energy efficiency or emerging energies. The Innovamer, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, aims to improve competitiveness and increased value added in the fisheries and commercial aquaculture sector through support for activities. research, experimental development and technological transfer. 
