Montreal - "One beam of 25 tons of concrete collapsed last Sunday and the Minister of Transport, Sam Hamad, tries to make us believe that he is not responsible. Does the notion of ministerial responsibility exist in this government? The reality is that the Charest government and Sam Hamad have shown laxity in this issue. The Tunnel Ville-Marie is a neuralgic road infrastructure for transportation in Montreal and it is the government that is responsible for both motorists and the management of public funds devoted to its maintenance, " Told the official opposition spokesperson for transport and deputy of Gouin, Nicolas Girard. 
"While an inspection report, in 2008, indicated the critical state of the Viger Tunnel, a road infrastructure that hosts more than 100,000 motorists a day, the Ministry of Transport has entrusted engineering firms with the preparation. Plans and quotes without ever validating them, in a context where the safety of users could be involved. By the way, who authorized the contractor to thin the wall supporting the beam that collapsed? Moreover, how is it that no surveillance of this important site was carried out by the Ministry of Transport, which was also recognized by the Minister today? "Said Mr. Girard. 
"In the light of the Johnson commission and the warning made by Jean Charest Engineers in 2008 on the loss of expertise at the Ministry of Transport, the Government should have, from the moment, take action to remedy the Location while billions of dollars are invested in the development and maintenance of our road infrastructure. We have the proof today that the loss of expertise in the inspection and monitoring of projects of our road infrastructure can compromise the security of citizens. The government, which is guiding the safety of motorists on the road network and the proper use of public funds, must find this strategic expertise in very short term. Thus, he could provide Quebeckers and Montrealers with the road infrastructure for which they contribute to be developed and maintained under the responsibility of the government, "said Mr. Girard. 
