Montreal - "The collapse of an important structure of the Tunnel Ville-Marie worries Montrealers; The Charest government and the minister must be transparent. The Parti Québécois therefore requires the government to make public all road infrastructure inspection reports in the Montreal area and more particularly with the Ville-Marie highway. It is necessary to finish with this culture of the secret of this government, "said in pressing the spokesman for the official opposition on transport and deputy of Gouin, Nicolas Girard, who was accompanied by the member for Sainte-Marie -Saint-Jacques, Martin Lemay. 
"Recently, Minister Sam Hamad declared the Gazette on a daily basis, which he refused to make the inspection reports on the state of the Mercier Bridge. In the Tunnel City-Marie file, will the minister adopt the same attitude towards Quebeckers or will he evidence that transparency is necessary to reassure Montrealers and Quebeckers on the state of our Road infrastructures? "said Mr. Girard. 
In 2008, in a letter addressed to Prime Minister Jean Charest, engineers from the Ministry of Transport pointed out that they could no longer guarantee an acceptable level of security for the population given the scale and number of projects in progress in Quebec . "The collapse of the Tunnel Ville-Marie beam did not have a victims and to avoid another incident of this kind, the Minister of Transport must say to Quebeckers if his department has enough resources to ensure the Security of Quebec motorists on our road network, "said Mr. Girard. 
"This new incident on our road network, after those affecting the Champlain Bridge and the Mercier Bridge, has inevitable impacts on the life of Montrealers and especially for those residing in my riding. Today we find ourselves with serious problems of road congestion and rather disturbing security issues. These are the consequences of the mismanagement by the Charest government for eight years, road infrastructure in the Montreal region, "concluded the member for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Martin Lemay. 
