Québec- The Parliamentary Wing of the Parti Québécois wishes to restore certain facts with respect to the hiring of liaison officers in the official opposition of the official opposition, a practice compliant with the rules. 
Regularly, people are astonished to discover that political attachés and liaison officers are remunerated by the National Assembly or, in the case of the Government, by the Executive Board. It is, however, what is expected in the regulations of the Assembly, adopted by all parties. 
The remuneration and working conditions of staff of the National Assembly's firms is very clear. It stipulates that "[l] Councilor or the Political Attaché performs professional tasks entrusted to it and which are in particular the duties of Assistant to the Director of Cabinet, Press Officer, a researcher or 'liaison agent. They are "political" attachments in the broad sense, not specialists in legislative work. Political parties, forever, apply this rule and comply with non-partisan notices of the Assembly to ensure it respect. 
It is expected that political attachés and liaison agents must have a "home port". Their function is, by definition, to leave the port to go to the citizens. They may be called upon to perform their duties in the field, at the National Assembly, at the permanence of the party, in the constituency offices, or even at home, in their region. In addition, when a party is in power, these attachés work in regional minister firms, also funded by public funds. The list of liaison officers attached to each Liberal Regional Minister attests. 
Obviously, we are surprised to learn that other policy formations do not have as much interest as we have political attachés in the field, in all regions. This is the result of choice and priority setting in the allocation of resources allocated to us. To the Parti Québécois, our priority is to meet citizens. 
Although its opponents are majority in sitting at the National Assembly Office, the parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois specifies that it will continue to work with other parliamentary groups to establish best practices, in the interest citizens. If surveys are triggered, we will participate fully and emphasize that they are also on political attachés and liaison officers from other parties, including those of the government. If the Liberal Party and the Future Quebec coalition, which today play the offended virgins, are honest in their approach, they will allow without problem to submit to investigations. For our part, we will be happy to participate in the clarification of the rules, if the need arises. 
