Quebec- The hon. Member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the member for Saint-Jean and spokesperson for employment, vocational training, literacy and youth, Dave Turcotte, The hon. Member for Chicoutimi and Spokesperson for Economics, Entrepreneurship, SMEs and Exports, Stéphane Bédard, as well as the member for Rousseau and Funding and Income Spokesperson, Nicolas Marceau, deplore Economic stagnation since the arrival of the Liberal government. They ask the Prime Minister the holding of a great forum on the economy and employment. 
"This is the worst performance of Quebec since May 2005. The Liberal government is drinking its own record of mediocrity. The Prime Minister must recover. We must be more efficient to advance Quebec. Northern development and the maritime strategy will not be sufficient and will have no short and medium term impact. I reiterate my offer of collaboration to the Prime Minister, he must bring together all the actors to equip Quebec with a real policy of full employment, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"Employment is the surcharge in Quebec since the arrival of the Liberals in April 2014, while it was barely created 7600 jobs. During the same period, it was 163,000 jobs in the rest of Canada. Where is their election promise to create 250,000 jobs? Stéphane Bédard continued. 
"The stagnation of the economy must stop. Job losses in several sectors of the economy accumulate without the government reacting. Women and men who lose their jobs live difficult situations and need to be supported, "said Dave Turcotte. 
MEPs also note that the unemployment rate increases from 7.6% to 8.0%, in addition to a drop in the rate of activity (0.4%) and the employment rate (0.5%) . 
"Liberal austerity and economic inaction of this government are the causes of the decline in economic growth. Cups accumulate; There is no economic development policy and economic consultation tools have been weakened. The government must recover and gather all stakeholders in order to have a real policy of economic development, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
