Quebec- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, and the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élaine Zakaïb, Announce Officially the holding of a public consultation on the project of Enbridge, who wishes to reverse the flow of the pipeline 9b. 
The mandate to hold special consultations is entrusted to the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries, Energy and Natural Resources. The hearings will be held from 26 November to 5 December 2013 and the submission of a report to the National Assembly will take place no later than December 6, 2013. Minister Zakaïb will be a member of this commission for the duration of the mandate. The Commission will also hear the Enbridge company, the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, the Minister of Natural Resources, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal affairs, regions and occupation of the territory, as well as representatives of the economic, environmental, municipal and experts. The Commission will also be able to receive the submissions of any group or any citizen who wishes to contribute to this consultation. 
Interested persons and organizations will be able to formulate their comments and recommendations regarding the implementation of the three principles for the management of the oil sector: to ensure the safety of people, protect the environment and obtain economic benefits for all Quebecers. 
"The exceptional nature of the project and the issues raised demanded that the elected officials of the National Assembly be called upon to hear the experts, interested parties, environmental groups, municipalities and citizens. I hope that this consultation exercise allows all issues of interest to Quebec society, both environmental and economic issues, and that the representativeness of all points of view is assured, "said Minister Zakaib. 
Turning with rigor this file, the Government of Quebec is aware that environmental issues go beyond the issue of hydrocarbon transport by oil pipeline. 
"As soon as we recognize the economic issues, for the jobs and for Quebec's expertise in petrochemicals, it is necessary to question the mode of supply and transport of oil which is the safest. This issue adds to energy independence issues, diversifying sources of supply and environmental imprint. The Quebec government addresses these issues seriously and considers that Quebeckers must give yourself a top-level forum to discuss it. This is why we felt that the mandate should be given to a special parliamentary committee, "said Minister Yves-François Blanchet. 
"Pipelines are used to transport hydrocarbons since the very beginning of the oil activities. Nevertheless, the risks associated with the malfunction or breakage of equipment exist. The various points selected by the government should be carefully studied to minimize the potential environmental impacts of the pipe stream 9B, "said the Minister Blanchet. 
With respect to the safety of equipment in the event of reversal of the flow and their general condition, the Government also requests the Enbridge company to make available data collected during its own recent inspections, as well as the methodology of inspections performed. These data will be subject to independent counter-expertise that will characterize the state of the facilities, to establish a diagnosis and formulate requirements, if any, as to the safety of the inversion project. 
Recall that the Enbridge pipe 9, a 30-inch operating diameter pipeline since 1976, located between Montreal, Quebec and Sarnia, Ontario, westernly transported crude oil from regions such as North Sea, West Africa and the Middle East. Enbridge plans to reverse the oil flow and increase the overall capacity of this pipe. The National Energy Board (ONE) has already approved in July 2012 the inversion of the pipe 9a between Sarnia and the post of North Westover, Ontario. Enbridge now wants to obtain the necessary permissions to reverse the oil flow of the pipe 9b, located between North Westover and Montreal. With the realization of this project, Enbridge aims to meet the demand of the eastern refineries of Canada. 
