Quebec, July 18, 2014 - The member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesperson for the official opposition in housing, Carole Poirier, denounces irresponsible liberal cuts on the Rénovation Québec program (PRQ) who force cities, Montreal And three-river, among other things, to suspend their subsidies for access to property and home renovation assistance, measures that mainly benefited families. 
The Liberal government has made the wrong decision to stop contributing to the Quebec Housing Corporation PRQ (SHQ). The PRQ, in force since 2002, allowed to subsidize municipalities so that they set up significant homeownership and home renovation assistance programs, which were 50% funded by the Government and 50% by cities. Montreal and Trois-Rivières, like several other cities, benefited from the PRQ, which had allowed them to create several programs today suspended. 
As was the case for the cups in the home adaptation program and the renovation program, that the Parti Québécois denounced, Minister Moreau confessed, during the study of appropriations, having made no impact study prior. 
"It's an absurd and incoherent decision. In addition to penalizing the families again, the Liberal government goes wrong by claiming to save by cutting in this program. All studies on the socio-economic impacts of the SHQ activities clearly demonstrate that public housing assistance is an investment and not an expense. For each dollar paid by the SHQ as a grant, $ 2.30 are injected into the Québec economy. For a government that claims to want to create wealth, this is the demonstration of its lack of vision and coherence, "said Carole Poirier. 
Measures for families: a priority for the Parti Québécois  Remember that the government of the Parti Québécois had made the retention of young families on the island of Montreal a priority for the metropolitan area. In September 2013, he released the progress report of the Montreal Steering Committee = Families. In the election campaign, the Parti Québécois also committed to following the recommendations and act concretely on the two main pitfalls for the retention of families: the cost of dwellings and the availability of units meeting their needs. The improvement of the programs of the SHQ was part of the concrete measures contained in the Report Recommendations. 
The government of the Parti Québécois also planned to equip Quebec with a national dwelling policy to increase the consistency of state interventions, to promote coordination of actions, in addition to enabling the sustainable development of the dwelling. . 
"The inconsistency of the Liberal government in housing proves the need to implement a global and coordinated strategy. I ask Minister Moreau to return to his decisions regarding the programs of the SHQ and to pursue the actions of the Parti Québécois. He must quickly present a national dwelling policy and propose harmonious and studied interventions rather than imposing cuts that have been the subject of any analysis, "concluded the hon. Member. 
