Quebec- Following the publication of investigation results by the Protecteur du citoyen, the member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesman, Jean-François Lisée, denounced the inaction of the Government Liberal and his minister delegated to rehabilitation, Lucie Charlebois, to give access to rehabilitation services to the hundreds of children who picked up on a waiting list. 
"The case on which the citizen's protector has been addressed in his investigation illustrates that of many other young people with an autism spectrum disorder (TSA), which must wait, on average, two years to receive services. . The child concerned by the Protector's investigation waited for four years; Four years during which this young person did not receive any support, despite the fact that all stakeholders and the minister herself recognize that the inferior intervention is most likely to give convincing results. And it is not to mention that the Ministry of Health and Social Services has set itself a 12-month target for access to services, targeting it is visibly unable to respect, "said Jean- François Lisée. 
"Compressions of nearly $ 600 million, in 2015-2016, in the health and social services network hurt. As proof, the budget for the services in intellectual disabilities and autism spectrum disorders has been increased by only 0.74%, which is concretely translated by services in the institutions, since the sums granted. do not even fill the cost of indexing. This is unacceptable! The minister must stand before his leader and refuse that autistic children make the fees for austerity, "he added. 
While the government cuts health and social services, the prevalence rate of autism spectrum disorders, which is 1%, continues to double every four years. The number of young people in need of services is always more important; Despite this situation, the Liberal government closes our eyes and seems to wait for the problem to settle alone. 
"In another report published last March on access to services for young people with an intellectual disability or autism spectrum disorder, the Protecteur du citoyen required the filing of an action plan by the Minister, No later than June 19, 2015, to follow up on its recommendations and reduce waiting lists. Where is this plan? What does the minister expect to make concrete gestures to improve access to services? ", Questioned the member. 
Recall that since the launch of the first action plan, by a government of the Parti Québécois in 2003, the necessary measures to prevent the rise in the prevalence rate and the increase of the waiting lists, which were nevertheless predictable, have not put in place during the liberal reign that followed. "All Quebeckers, especially young people with a TSA, pay today the price of Liberal Laxism," concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
