Quebec, on July 20, 2016 - Member of Parliament for Taillon and spokesperson for the health and accessibility of care, Diane Lamarre, and the member for Taschereau, Agnès Maltais, are relieved as the 1600 patients attending The cooperative without a doctor Sabsa will continue to be followed and treated. 
Indeed, by a support agreement with CAPIs' CAPITAL-NATIONAL, the Minister of Health and Social Services has finally recognized the exceptional contribution of the work of specialized nurse practitioners (IPS) and Sabsa clinic staff. 
"From the start, the Parti Québécois supported the Sabsa Clinic and recognized his contribution and expertise. We have always believed that IPS and other medical and psychosocial staff had an important role to play in our public system. After many questions in the room, a petition to the National Assembly, several meetings, press conferences and visits to the clinic, where we have seen its necessity, we find that the big sense finally finds its place for the citizens. However, we will continue to question the Minister of Health on his resistance to IPS public clinics, who are a real solution for lack of access while his reforms do not result in concrete results for Quebeckers, "said the member. taillon. 
"The founders of Sabsa, as well as the organizations and the people who have supported them from the beginning, know that this model serves an outstanding clientele that is too often escapes to more conventional services. These disadvantaged people are also entitled to adapted and accessible services. I look forward to seeing that Sabsa can pursue his mission, because the government has finally heard right. This volte-side could have occurred well before, to avoid letting patients and professionals in uncertainty, "said Agnès Maltese. 
The two MPs, committed to this clinic for two years, want the minister to continue opening and maintaining health services that meet the needs of people, where they are, and who adapt to their reality. "The minister took a step in the right direction, but remember that in many places in Quebec, older people, children and chronic patients still do not have access to adapted public services. The presence of IPS clinics could meet various needs effectively, "concluded Diane Lamarre. 
