Montreal- In the aftermath of the election campaign, the leader of the Parti Quebecois, Pauline Marois, took advantage of the announcement of the candidacy of the President of the Montreal School Board, Diane de Courcy, in the riding of cremazie, for Present the Parti Québécois commitments for the success and perseverance of students. 
"The Parti Québécois places success and school perseverance at the forefront of any action affecting the school system. All our decisions must be motivated by this objective, knowing that the future of Quebec goes through an educated and educated youth, "said Pauline Marois. 
According to the latest figures available from the Ministry of Education, in 2010-2011 the dropout rate was 17.4%, if the private schools are taken into consideration, where the dropout rate is 6.6%, Which is very largely lowering the average. Without private institutions the rate is 20.1% for the 72 school boards. When comparing the situation by sex, there is a significant difference between boys (24.8%) and girls (15.6%). 
"In 2003, the Prime Minister promised, his hand on the heart, reduce school dropout in five years. What we notice nine years later is that the Liberal government has changed the calculation method to give the impression of having reduced school dropout. In addition, the difference between girls and boys is still important and in some school boards, the dropout rate is still very high, reaching even 40%, she added, stating that Quebec is In the 7th range of the provinces with respect to the graduation rate, all levels of study combined, with a rate of 77.9% according to data from Statistics Canada. Quebec is below the Canadian average (78.3%), largely behind New Brunswick (in mind with 86.5%) and our Ontario neighbors, which occupy the 4th place with 83.2%. » 
Quebec is pale in relation to other Canadian provinces with regard to the graduation rate. That's why the Parti Québécois will make every effort to make us some of the best, so that our children end up their school career by winning a degree. 
To do this, a government of the Parti Québécois: 
Will hire 600 additional professionals by 2015; 
Will analyze the relevance of establishing in the disadvantaged circles the kindergarten four years full-time, while ensuring that a close consultation is established between the CPEs and the school so that children receive appropriate services as soon as they receive the appropriate services to their needs; 
Strongly encourage the mobilization of all sectors of society in the fight against school dropout. Already, the regions of Quebec are mobilized thanks to the regional consultation bodies on school perseverance and educational success. Days of perseverance are held in each region in February, whose symbol is the white and green ribbon. The Parti Québécois will continue to support these initiatives; 
Will enhance the autonomy of institutions to ensure that school directorates are educational leaders in their environment and first responders in the success and perseverance of students; 
Will improve the quality of primary school courses and improve teachers' teaching tools; 
Will offer any young person from 16 to 18 years old a training or learning solution; 
"Nine years after the arrival of the liberals in power, the school dropout is still important and Jean Charest did not keep his promises. As for François Legault's CAQ, she chose to embark on a structural debate by promising the abolition of school boards. This idea of the CAQ recovery of the ADQ will make us lose years and make the bureaucracy in Quebec City again. The choice of the Parti Québécois is different. For us, it is the children before the structures, "concluded Pauline Marois, recalling that she had halved the number of school boards when she was Minister of Education. 
