Trois-Rivières- The leader of the Quebec's Party and MP, Pauline Marois, promises to adopt a policy of food sovereignty if the Parti Québécois is brought to power during the next general election. This is the commitment she took today while she visited the farm man. Leclerc in Trois-Rivières with the member for Champlain, Noëlla Champagne, the member for Kamouraska-Témiscouata, André Simard, the candidate of Laviolette, André Beaudoin, and the candidate of Bellechasse, Clement Pouliot. 
"In almost 25 years, the proportion of food consumed and from Quebec has dropped by almost half of 78% in 1985 to 33% in 2009. If each Quebec consumer purchased for $ 30 more foods by Every year, sales would sweep by $ 1 billion in five years. That's why we need to reverse this trend, "she said. 
The main goal of the Food Sovereignty Policy will increase from 33 to 50% the proportion of Quebec's food we consume. The advantages of such a policy are numerous. It allows the creation of several jobs, private private investments in all regions as well as the pride of consuming products from home. Buy locally also includes other advantages. Foods are cooler, they require fewer conservation and packaging agents. Transportation costs are reduced and in total, less greenhouse gases are produced. 
To do this, the Parti Québécois offers: 
"A policy of food sovereignt has only benefits for Quebec and its population. In addition to promoting the occupation of the territory and the economy of all regions, it will develop the pride of people everywhere towards what we are capable of doing, "added Pauline Marois. 
The leader of the Parti Québécois has also committed to review the protection and ownership of agricultural land in Quebec. "The law on the protection of the territory and agricultural activities as well as the law on the acquisition of agricultural land by non-residents have both been adopted by a government of the Parti Québécois in the late 1970s. The time has come To adapt them to the new realities to allow our farmers to remain owners of their land and avoid land speculation. It is also necessary to better protect the agricultural lands of urban sprawl. » 
To do this, a government of the Parti Québécois commits to: 
"If we want to cultivate our lands to feed us and enrich us, we must protect them. In recent years, foreign consortia have expressed their intention of buying Quebec farmland. This request comes from emerging countries that lack agricultural land. This is an issue that was addressed by the Pronovost Commission and for which the Liberals gave any follow-up. It is disturbing to see a government refuse to act and also worrying about seeing the CAQ to be favorable to a tenant agriculture, "said Pauline Marois. 
"Our agricultural land is our wealth and our pantry. To protect these lands and do food sovereignty, it is with a government of the Parti Québécois and a team competent in agriculture that we will achieve these goals. Our agricultural land must remain our property and serve to enrich us collectively, "she concluded, recalling that the Parti Québécois is the largest political force in Quebec with its 90,000 members. 
