Sorel-Tracy- The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, proposes to create the Economic Development Bank of Quebec. This is the commitment it took this morning as it presented the candidate of the Quebecois party in the riding of Richelieu, Élaine Zakaïb, a specialist in regional economic development. 
This bank will consolidate all the programs, agencies and ministries of the Quebec and federal governments that are doomed to economic development. The main objective of this measure is to offer a one-stop shop for entrepreneurs and improve the coherence and management of Quebec's economic development. The Bank will also have a local and regional consultation mandate with, in particular, local development centers. 
"The bank will be present in the 17 regions of Quebec. Its mission will be to support the creation and growth of our businesses. It will offer patient capital, venture capital, direct loans and loan guarantees to SMEs, social economy companies and communities. One of the tools they will have will be a resource development fund administered by and for regions, "she explained. 
The Parti Québécois proposal will completely review the public venture capital allowance, including the controversial formula of regional economic response funds (proud). The Parti Québécois undertakes to cease to entrust the management of sums mostly public to private interests. 
"The proud has shown that too often private interests related to the Liberal Party have been able to divert largely public sums for regional entrepreneurs. We must be able to exercise more rigorous control over the allocation of amounts devoted to the development of our regions. It must be ensured that this money really serves with regional economic development, "said Pauline Marois. 
Stressing the commitment of the Parti Québécois for a harmonious and sustainable development of natural resources, Pauline Marois explained that "the bank will also include a sectoral entity dedicated only to the development of natural resources: the Quebec society for the development of natural resources. This will allow us to take the means to maintain or even increase Quebec participation in companies related to the exploitation of our resources and to consolidate Quebec expertise in the field. » 
"We offer a clear and bold vision of state action in the economic development of all regions. We have the ideas, we have the team and above all, we have the political will to enrich all Quebeckers from all regions, "concluded Pauline Marois, mentioning that it is now up to us to choose. 
