Mont-Saint-Grégoire- "We have the duty to better take care of our elders. The aging of the population is an important issue that needs to become a real priority in Quebec. We must humanize the way we take care of our world. We are responsible for helping seniors live as long as possible at home by providing quality, varied and accessible home care. » 
It is in these terms that the leader of the Quebecois party, Pauline Marois, presented his party's commitment to our seniors. On this occasion, she was accompanied by the candidate of the Parti Québécois in the riding of Saint-François, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and other candidates from the Montérégie. 
Quebec will experience a significant aging of its population that will result in exorbitant costs if a turn is not done now. To meet this challenge, the Parti Québécois proposes the establishment of a national care and home service policy, as well as autonomy insurance. 
"This turn will reduce the burden of caregivers families and loved ones. Thousands of people, mainly women, become close caregivers who, too often, do not have the necessary training and support. It becomes difficult to reconcile work, family life and assistance to aging parents, "said Pauline Marois, pointing out that the Québécois party proposals bring concrete solutions to real problems experienced by many people. 
This turn will also allow the Quebec state, particularly to our public health system, to take up the financial challenge related to the aging of the population. For example, an elderly person waiting at the hospital, for lack of better, costs $ 200,000 a year; In a CHSLD, $ 60,000. Costs for intensive home care can be estimated at around $ 25,000 a year. 
The National Care and Home Services Policy will ensure that more seniors and loss of autonomy can remain at home, near their families, as desired by a vast majority of them. They will be able to receive the care and professional services they need no matter where they live. 
"To finance this turn, we propose to create autonomy insurance. This fund would reserve amounts exclusively devoted to seniors and caregivers. This is an intelligent investment that will benefit everyone. Other states have done it successfully. We must achieve this turn without delay, "said Réjean Hébert, who co-chaired the public consultation on the living conditions of seniors in 2007. 
"A crucial debate on the future of our elders must be held by polling day. The Liberals make promises that are contradicted by their assessment, while the fate of our elders is totally absent from François Legault's speech. 
On our side, we have clear and strong proposals that demonstrate that a government of the Parti Québécois will make our seniors a priority, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
