Montreal- The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, is committed to resolving the student crisis if his team is brought to power on September 4th. "The solution we propose is the only responsible outcome to solve the social crisis we have lived for six months. » 
Pauline Marois agrees to cancel the 82% increase in tuition fees in the first 100 days of a Quebec government, to repeal Law 78 and to hold a higher education summit to review funding and the Universities Management. During this summit, which will bring together all the actors in the world of education, both students and representatives of the academic world and civil society, all subjects can be addressed until the indexation of rights tuition. 
"The social crisis created by Jean Charest has lasted enough. It's been six months since the population is in the street to express its dissatisfaction with a worn and corrupt government. It's time to solve the problem and stop feeding the crisis as the Prime Minister does. By freeing the tuition fees and holding a summit on higher education in the first 100 days, social peace can be restored and young people can all attend their classes, "added Pauline Marois. 
At the Parti Québécois, our position is clear and realistic. There will be no increase of $ 1778 in tuition fees. We believe that education is fundamental for the advancement of Quebec society. That's why we want to maintain accessible tuition fees to allow the largest number of young people to receive higher education. 
"On September 4, Quebeckers will have to choose between the Liberals and the Caquists, who want to increase the tuition of tuition in a drastic way, to indebted the youth and to make the crisis last with the law 78, or the Parti Québécois, which proposes A responsible solution to resolve the crisis, "she said, recalling that a landmark survey demonstrated that 85% of respondents were in favor of holding a higher education summit. If the crisis has lasted so long, it is that Jean Charest's Liberals had as a strategy to use the student conflict to hide their balance sheet. It's up to us to choose now. » 
"If Jean Charest has been so hard towards our young people, it is to make us forget how far it was in front of corruption. The Liberals have sufficiently used the student crisis to manipulate the population. It's time to change direction and change this worn and corrupt government. Jean Charest has already shown that he was unable to settle the crisis. The Parti Québécois proposal is the one that will solve the crisis once and for all, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
