Quebec- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, responds to the government's commitments following the higher education summit and announces investments to $ 5 million in the college network to strengthen support services for students and students with special needs. 
Of the $ 5 million, $ 3 million is allocated to strengthen services to the student population with special needs and $ 2 million comes from the special needs allocation program (PABP) - Adult component. 
"In the stride of the higher education, the government is committed to providing additional support to the college network. Today's announcement is proof that the government is holding its promises. Young people with particular needs are more likely to be admitted to college and it is important to support them in the pursuit of their studies. With this investment, colleges will be able to respond more adequately to their needs. This is an excellent news that will promote their academic success, "said Minister Duchesne. 
Minister Pierre Duchesne Announces $ 5 Million Investments in the College Network to strengthen student support services and special needs. // (c) MESRT 
Since 2013-2014, $ 3 million will help strengthen support for students and students with special needs and developing new initiatives. 
On the one hand, these investments will enable institutions of the collegial network to strengthen support for the student population with disabilities. Thanks to these amounts, they will be able to improve the organization and offer of services for them, with a view to promoting their perseverance and academic success. 
On the other hand, these investments will enable CEGEPs to develop new structuring initiatives for indigenous students and those from immigrant background. Aboriginal initiatives could, for example, emphasize tutoring and personalized support measures. To this end, the institutions will be invited to submit their projects to the department before the end of 2013. 
As for young people from immigration, the addition of new resources could allow CEGEPs to target their needs according to their own characteristics and programs in which they study, and to propose initiatives adapted to them. Training could also be offered to CEGEP staff. 
From left to right: the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, the member for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques and Parliamentary Assistant to the Prime Minister (electrification component transport), Daniel Breton, the Director-General of CEGEP of Old Montreal, Ms. Murielle Lancault, the Coordinator of the College Center for Integration Support (CWCI) and Head of Visual Interpretation Service at CEGEP of Old Montreal, Ms. Emilie Boulet-Lévesque and the CEO of the Cégeps Federation, Mr. Jean Beauchesne. // (c) MESRT 
The CEGEP of Old Montreal, which is the Collegiate Integration Support Center (CCSI) for teaching institutions in Western Quebec, has developed extensive expertise with students with disabilities. "This addition of resources could, in particular, to improve the specialized educational support services for students and students who have many needs and who request continuous individualized follow-up for the development of certain skills related to their personal and social integration. Or for the development of their autonomy in their learning activities, "said Murielle Lancault, Executive Director. 
In 2014-2015, the sum of $ 2 million from the adult special needs allowance program, from study financial assistance, will further enhance the organization and supply of services to students and to students with disabilities. 
"Over the years, the college workforce has diversified and we must put in place measures to promote the academic success and perseverance of each. I am convinced that the sums allocated will have a positive impact on school success and perseverance and that they will be, for college staff, an additional lever that will allow him to fulfill his mission successfully! , "Said Minister Duchesne. 
