Québec- The member for Verchères and spokesperson for Quebec's Québec-Canada and Francophonie Relations of America, Stéphane Bergeron, has arrested this morning at the Blue Show, Minister responsible for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs and the Francophonie Canadian, Jean-Marc Fournier. The objective was to warn the pan-Canadian parties against the temptation to make commitments proposing to encroach on the skills of Quebec, in this context of federal election campaign. 
"I participated in four federal election campaigns and I followed each other, but it is more than ever the scene of promises in areas under the exclusive skills of Quebec. There is a bid between Thomas Mulcair, Stephen Harper and Justin Trudeau who, one after the other, propose programs that encroach on our jurisdiction, which, apparently, include funds available for Quebec, but only to their conditions. What does the Quebec government intend to prevent these intrusions? She asked Stéphane Bergeron to the Liberal Minister. 
The NDP, even more than the others, has made specific commitments to Quebec's skills, including health and social services. "Home Care Investments, Long-Term Care Creating, Improving Access to Palliative Care, hiring Thousands of Health Professionals ... Objectives are commendable, but Canada does not have to dictate his priorities in Quebec. When we know that the NDP spokesman stated that he wanted to see the federal government play a leading role in the field of health, it is to admit that our concerns are legitimate. The Government of Philippe Couillard must make the voice of Quebec heard and warn the federal parties that our skills, we will defend them beak and nails! "Added the member for Verchères. 
Stéphane Bergeron also considers that the method used by the Liberals to assert the wishes of Quebec does not bring any results. "In 2008, Jean Charest had sent a letter containing 14 requests to federal political parties; Only one has been heard. This failure has made Minister Pierre Moreau, in 2011, that addressing a list of claims to party leaders was an "exceeding formula"; Is this the reason why, this time, the requests were so timed that the answers were so much? Where are the concrete actions to assert Quebec's requests? , "He concluded. 
