The Prairie- The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, is committed to adopting a new mining royalty regime. "Unlike the Government of Jean Charest who has chosen to sell our natural resources at discount to enrich a minority of privileged, the Parti Québécois is determined to develop our natural resources in order to enrich all Quebeckers in a sustainable way," She stated, surrounded by the economic team of the Parti Québécois. 
"Our goal is to ensure that the exploitation of non-renewable natural resources in Quebec, including mines, reports as many wealth to Quebeckers. To get there, a government of the Quebecois party will put in place two major changes to the mining system. We will impose a mandatory minimum fee on the gross production value, so as to ensure that all mining pays a minimum every year for the extracted ore. We will put in place a 30% overprofit tax to ensure that an important part of these additional revenues come back to Quebecers who are the only real owners of the resource, "said Pauline Marois. 
The leader of the Parti Québécois also recalled that in 2010, 10 minutes out of 19 did not pay any charge to the Quebec state. Worse still: the current regime of mining royalties set up by the Liberal government ensures that the mining will pay less royalties in 2012-2013 than last year. "The mandatory minimum royalty on the gross production value is intended to give Quebeckers that a mining will never be able to exploit our resources without paying anything," she added. 
"On the basis of 2011, the new mining royalty regime proposed by the Parti Québécois reportedly reported hundreds of millions of more dollars to Quebeckers. Only by applying a compulsory royalty of 5%, there would have been $ 388 million more in the coffers of the state in 2011, "said Pauline Marois, insisting that what belongs to Quebeckers must first and foremost serve to enrich all Quebeckers. 
"On September 4, Quebeckers will have to make a choice between the Liberal Party and the CAQ, who want to keep the current royalty regime while they are foreign companies that enrich themselves with our resources, and the Parti Québécois, who wants to change the royalty regime so that Quebeckers get richer. With the Liberals and the Cavoists, it's the companies first. With the Parti Québécois, Quebeckers first, "she concluded. 
