MONTREAL - The head of the official opposition and deputy of Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, notes the failure of the Liberal government of Jean Charest to defend the interests of Quebec before Ottawa. "Since it was re-elected in 2008, Jean Charest placed Quebec in a weak position and demonstrated that he was unable to stand up to defend Quebec. Never has a Quebec Prime Minister got so little Ottawa. » 
On September 29, 2008, Jean Charest made 15 requests to the leaders of the federal parties as part of the election campaign. Today, it is clear that the result is catastrophic: 0 out of 15. Not only did Quebec have been obtained, but things have deteriorated considerably. 
"It's Ottawa 15, Quebec 0. The Government of Stephen Harper makes decisions that go against the will of Quebec while the government of Jean Charest remains the arms crossed in silence. Ottawa has awarded contracts of $ 33 billion for wafers without spin-offs for Quebec, 30 billion for hunting aircraft, subsidies in Newfoundland for hydropower to compete in Quebec, it has reduced transfers healthy and capped equalization. Worse, with Bill C-10 on crime, the Government of Quebec will have to take charge of hundreds of millions of dollars, "said Pauline Marois, adding that Ontario had received $ 10 billion. Dollars for its automotive industry while Quebec received $ 170 million for the forest. 
"While Jean Charest is in Toronto today to talk about his northern marketing plan in Ottawa we make fun of him. The Harper government is completely ignoring Quebec. Our interests, our values and our identity are violated day after day. For Quebec, the federal government is clearly part of the problems rather than solutions. There are very concrete and very negative consequences in the economic, financial, cultural, legal, environmental and linguistic plans, "said the official opposition spokesperson for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Bernard Drainville. 
"If Jean Charest has returned Quebec since he has been in power, François Legault is hardly better placed by renouncing in advance to fight. The CAQ would put Quebec in a position of weakness even more perilous. Quebec must regain a balance of power before Ottawa and only the Parti Québécois promises to fight for Quebec, "summarized Pauline Marois, concluding that the greatest risk for Quebec, it is not sovereignty. is to stay in Canada. 
