Osaka- "In Green Building, Electrification of Transport, Technological Innovation, Quebec 2014 is remarkably part of Japan's economic priorities," said Minister Jean-François Lisée, after a six-day mission that Led it with 35 Quebec economic and institutional representatives in five Japanese cities. 
The Quebec message of high-tech and investment attraction was borne by the delegation to four members of the Government of Japan, from the Governor of Kyoto Province and with more than 120 representatives of companies and government agencies and a dozen local journalists. Mr. Lisée was able to talk privately with high leaders from Nissan, Panasonic and Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma to discuss potential investments. 
Five agreements have been signed dependent on the mission and several active files have progressed, others, many have been initiated. Mr. Lisée boasted Quebec's competitive advantage for Japanese investment, taking into account his accession to the North American Free Trade Treaty, in conclusion, with Europe and perspective. a treaty, in negotiation, between Japan and Canada. 
"This first mission of our government in Japan has reaffirm the sustainability of Quebec's commitment to Japan and to increase our business and research links with this country at the cutting edge of innovation in several sectors Interest for Quebec, "said the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée. 
Accompanied by a multi-sectoral delegation of about thirty representatives of companies, institutions and research centers of Quebec, the minister has made significant interviews on politics, economics and innovation in both Tokyo , Yokohama, Osaka Kyoto, during this mission, which took place from January 19 to 24. 
Japan is a highly competitive market and a world leader in science and technology, which has many business opportunities for Quebec companies. "Our exports increased by 23% in 2012, totaling $ 1 billion and we want to increase them significantly, including through the tools announced in our foreign trade development plan, launched in October 2013," said the Minister Listed, at the time of taking stock of the actions carried out this week in Japan. 
Five partnership agreements were signed this week between organizations in Quebec and Japan. The Quebec acquired company, the world leader of the media solutions platforms for interactive media agencies, has created, with its Japanese partner IREP, the acquired Japan co-enterprise. This partnership involves common investments of $ 5 million and the creation of about thirty new jobs in Quebec. Also, the Quebec firm Toon Boom Animation, world leader in animation technology and digital content, is advantageously positioned with its Japanese partner Heartbit Digital Creation to go to Japan a market share of up to 10% of the software. Animation, and this from the first year. 
The minister listed had high-level political and business interviews that were an opportunity to raise awareness of the major Japanese decision-makers in the importance and seriousness of the Quebec strategy for transportation electrification. Politically, meetings were held with the Deputy Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI), Mr. Yoshihiko Isozaki, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs (MOFA), Mr. Seiji Kihara, as well as the Minister of Justice and President of the Canada-Japan Inter-Parliamentary Group, Mr. Sadakazu Tanigaki and the Minister Delegate to Health, Work and Social Affairs, Ms. Shinako Tsuchiya. In terms of business, the minister went to Yokohama, Nissan Motor Corporation, to talk to the World Vice President of Government and External Affairs, Mr. Toshifumi Hirai, as well as the Director General of Technical Solutions, Mr. Makoto Yoshida. 
In addition, the mission was an opportunity for the Hydro-Québec Research Institute (IREQ) and the Japanese Group Sei Corporation to announce their Union to market a new technology in the field of Li-ion batteries, including patents specific to each of the two institutions. 
The Quebec Wood Products Promotion Office (QWeb) has signed a forestry and environmental cooperation protocol with the Kyoto Forest Association (KMFA). By the increased share of their expertise in the field of forest protection and the fight against climate change, the protocol signed by these two organizations actively encourages the use of forest products as a preventive measure against climate change and the increase of CO2. 
The Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade was received by the Governor of Kyoto Prefecture, Keiji Yamada. With respect to the existing declaration of intention of cooperation between the two Governments, the Minister listed proposed that cooperation projects be identified, including the interest of Quebec for the electrification of transport, which is the subject of A priority government strategy for the Government of Quebec. 
In the presence of Minister Jean-François Lisée, the University of Quebec in Montreal (UQAM) renewed its General Cooperation Agreement with the National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies (GRIPs) of Tokyo. This agreement aims to facilitate and intensify exchanges already initiated between partners, particularly in the fields of public administration and policy study. Two joint research topics are identified: 
The minister took advantage of his meeting with the President of the GRIPS, Mr. Takashi Shiraishi, to discuss ways to implement the exchange of university students between Japan and Quebec. 
In order to increase the creative benefits of our long relationship with Japan, the minister listed has set the goal of welcoming more Japanese delegations in Quebec in the coming years. Thus, in each of his meetings, the minister promoted the C2MTL event, flagship of creativity and innovation, which brings together in Montreal the cream of influencers, assets in all sectors of the 'Mondial economy. "C2MTL is becoming the Davos of Creativity and Innovation, was pleased to repeat the minister over several forums, and in this regard, the Japanese, the world leader in innovation, must take their place. . » 
"This multisectoral mission in Japan is a success. Our relations with this country, the third world economy and seventh customer of Quebec in the world in terms of exports, are imprinted by the desire to increase our trade and our collaborations in the scientific, academic and cultural fields. Our government has given a vision to support the growth of Quebec exports and the results achieved during this mission once again demonstrate that Quebec has everything needed of talent and creativity to succeed internationally, " Concluded the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée. 
