Québec- Québec Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, went to New England to participate in meetings in anticipation of the conferencing of the Governors of New England and the Prime Ministers of Eastern Canada ( CGNA-PMEC), which will take place in Quebec on September 8th and 9th. 
The premier was able to exchange with the Governors of New Hampshire, Maggie Hassan, Massachusetts, Deval Patrick, Rhode Island, Lincoln Chafee, and Connecticut, Dannel Malloy. These meetings were an opportunity to emphasize the importance that Quebec grants the strengthening of its links with its partners in New England. They also addressed the general themes of the next CGNA-PMEC, which should include energy issues, adaptation to climate change and energy-efficient vehicles. 
"New England is a priority region for Quebec, and we have the strong intention of continuing to strengthen our economic, scientific, cultural and political ties with each of its states. I am convinced that our discussions of the last days, inter alia on issues of transport electrification, the fight against climate change and energy, will allow the next conference of the Governors of New England and the Prime Ministers From eastern Canada to experience a great success for the greatest benefit of all, "said Pauline Marois. 
The Premier has also argued, with its American counterparts, Quebec leadership in the field of hydropower in the context of a regional initiative announced last June. This initiative brings together Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Vermont, and it aims to explore ways to increase the importation of hydropower into New England. 
Remember that the CGNA-PMEC was created in 1973. It is formed of the governors of the six states of New England (Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Vermont) as well as premiers in Quebec and the provinces Atlantic (Prince Edward Island, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Newfoundland and Labrador). This is the main multilateral instrument of Quebec to develop its relations with these American states. 
