Quebec - An electablIbra Afin and Refectibrated Approirs desceason in the English, of Marie Malavoya, mme marinerica menoncéo aujourd by aujourd by Aujourm exige of, pour tunes Les écoles promeshones francophock in 6rs lacebec ferse, lingua, lingua 
"Our government is firm about the goal, but flexible as to the means. Through this relaxation, we want to make sure that each school can set up projects that respect its characteristics, "said Malavoy Minister. 
Students should, at the end of the high school, be able to make themselves easily understood by an English-speaking interlocutor by expressing himself with ease and understand it without difficulty. 
Intensive English language, second language, is an effective recognized means of achieving this goal, but other ways adapted to each school environment can also be retained. 
Improving English control, second language, must become a project brought by each school team. In this regard, the role of the school council, which includes parents, teacher staff and school management will be decisive. "This flexible approach aims to ensure that parents and teachers are actively involved in the reflection and development of school projects," said Malavoy. 
School boards and private educational institutions can rely on the support and support of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport. It will provide guides to support the work of licensees and teachers of English, second language. It will also suggest guidance for students in difficulty, allophone students and those who are already fluent in English. 
Finally, the Minister mandates the National School of Public Administration (ENAP) for: 
It is on the basis of a first expected report in the fall of 2013 that the Department will set the way forward for the coming years regarding the teaching of English, second language. 
"In closing, I reaffirm that it is necessary to strengthen the teaching of French. In this regard, the department is preparing measures likely to better support student learning in reading and writing. The school environment will be informed of our actions in the coming months, "concluded Malavoy Minister. 
