Montréal - Minister Delegate to Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today launched the first national homelessness policy - together, to avoid the street. This policy gives a strong impulse to the many actors of the environments concerned by the fight against homelessness to converge their efforts and reunite them around an ambitious, global, coherent and sustainable vision to prevent and counter homelessness. 
"Today, we send a clear message: the one we can no longer tolerate the intolerable! Roaming can no longer be considered ineffective. In this sense, the government is the engine of a change that challenges us all: elected, administrations and public institutions, community organizations, police authorities, judicial and citizen. We must fight with roaming a collective national priority, "said Minister Hivon. 
In order for each person to have a place, "his place", we need to bet on the fact that people with homelessness are full citizens. It must also be based on their power to act, taking into account the complexity of situations, the multiplicity of the faces of the roaming, the diversity of the courses and the absence of a single response to a phenomenon of this scale. It is also necessary to privilege an individualized approach to support and support. 
The policy identifies five priority axes of action: 
"You have to work to increase the ability of people to stay and accompany them in their approaches, for example by making accessible a greater diversity of housing and accommodation types. It is also fundamental to bring health services and social services to people with homelessness, adapting them to their reality and their specific needs. In terms of income, there is a need for greater financial security and better support for people to facilitate access to income. We must also be flexible and flexible in support with programming programs, including social inclusion, socio-professional integration and employability, and promote alternative training programs. With respect to social cohabitation, we need to fight prejudices, raise awareness, train and promote diversion as well as the presence of social stakeholders in police intervention teams, "added Mrs. Hivon. 
The policy will serve as a foundation for the 2014-2019 Interdepartmental Action Plan, which will be unveiled in the coming months. The action plan will advocate targeted and concrete actions for all priority axes defined in the policy. 
Already, in favor of Dubudget presented on February 20, some key actions are identified. Thus, 3,250 social housing units will be built, including 500 for people with roaming situations, which is twice the number of social housing currently reserved for them and represents an investment of $ 46 million. 
Remember that the historical enhancement of the funding of Community organizations announced last fall by the investment of $ 120 million over three years to support the overall mission of community health and social services will make a significant difference in aid. brought to people in the field. 
"Often, roaming issues are accompanied by mental health and addiction issues. In this context, our government chooses to invest as an additional $ 6 million for local services to people with homelessness, mainly in mental health and community support. It is essential to act on the ground and this investment is in line with the objectives we are pursuing with the next Mental Health Action Plan. We are confident that this strong commitment will help reduce homelessness, "said Minister of Health and Social Services, Mr. Réjean Hébert. 
This policy marks a turning point in Quebec's action on homelessness. It is the result of a thorough consultation, which has consolidated in the context of the Minister Hivon's consultation forum last June, and which created a real synergy between the approximately 140 participants of all spheres. and from all regions of Quebec. It responds to a demand from the homelessness Many times repeated since 2006. The Government is satisfied that this policy will arouse the necessary accession and mobilization to its proper implementation, and that it will promote continued action and Coordinated to meet the needs of both complex and varied people in this situation of great vulnerability. 
"Roaming has been particularly present in recent news. The national roaming policy will help keep it at the forefront, but for a resolutely positive reason: that of the birth of an unprecedented solidarity movement that will blow a wind of change in the streets of the Quebec. For the message that this policy is launching is one of hope, that of telling us that together we can prevent and counter homelessness, that we can make a real difference in the lives of people with homelessness which, Like all the others, simply aspire to a beautiful and worthy life, "concluded Mrs. Hivon. 
To learn more about the national homelessness policy, visit Lehttp: //msss.gouv.qc.ca/itinance 
