As part of our National Council on 21 and 22 November 2015 in Sherbrooke, our invited blogger, Annick Vigeant, met Véronique Hivon. 
When we remember the fingering with which Véronique Hivon managed to overcome the partisan barriers to complete the delicate bill to die in dignity in the National Assembly, we can only rejoice that the leader of the Parti Quebec, Pierre Karl Péladeau, named him responsible for the convergence of the independence movement. 
Véronique Hivon takes this new role with a lot of humility: "Convergence will not be done with my little ways to me. The idea is first and foremost to send the signal that the Parti Québécois wants to work with others, that it is serious. " 
Since the beginning of September, formal and informal discussions have multiplied with other party leaders, but also with other elements of civil society that are interested in independence. 
"The first step is to rebuild trust," says Véronique Hivon. "You have to learn not to observe dogs of faience between different partners. It is obvious that there have been events in the past, on both sides, who have made sure there have been breaches. It must be taken and say that we want to pick up the pieces. " 
The Parti Québécois also wishes to work in collegiality to build the country's project: "If we want to get closer and that everyone adheres to certain ideas, it is necessary to elaborate the roadmap together," says Véronique Hivon. 
Various joint activities bringing together all the independence parties have already begun to organize under neutral ecids, such as the yes Quebec and the intellectuals for sovereignty. "Then what would be really interesting, it would be to get out of our convinced circles and see how together we are able to go to meet people who are political orphans, which are disinterested, who have Already believed to independence and who believe less, to try to revitalize the movement with a diversity of points of view, "says the member for Joliette. 
"I am convinced that diversity in the movement will really be a significant stimulus force. Do not see that as a source of division as we have done too long. " 
"The Union is not the merger. The Union is to work together in respect of our differences to advance a common cause. " 
- Véronique Hivon 
According to Véronique Hivon, citizens must reappropriate the project individually. "This is not the project of a political party, it is first a citizen project. But we can perhaps facilitate this and give people to people, from the base, to make the link with the project of independence and to work in their respective circles, rather than itself carried only by political institutions. " 
The challenge is therefore great and the liability, immense, but we can count on the opening, listening and the great humanity of Véronique Hivon to carry out this ambitious mission. 
