Cap-aux-grinders - the member of the Madeleine Islands, Ms. Jeannine Richard, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, and the President of Tourism Islands of the Madeleine, Mr. Sébastien Cummings, are Proud to announce the renewal of the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement which aims to promote the development of tourist offer. By 2015, an amount of $ 367,996 will be invested for the achievement of this goal. 
According to the terms of the agreement, Tourisme Québec and Tourism Islands of the Madeleine each will invest $ 111,000 until 2015. Other financial partners are the municipality of the Madeleine Islands ($ 78,370) and The Regional Conference of the Elected Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine ($ 67,626). Ultimately, the leverage effect of this fund is likely to generate investments estimated at $ 3.7 million. 
"The renewal of this agreement constitutes a regional leverage to support companies and organizations working in the Tourism field of the Madeleine Islands. To this end, I am pleased that the Government of Quebec units its efforts to those of the socio-economic partners of the region to support the development of the tourism industry so important for the number of jobs created in the islands. I am convinced that this agreement will generate new investment projects in our region which is distinguished by natural attractions that are both spectacular and very diverse, "said the member of the Islands of La-Madeleine, Ms. Jeannine Richard. 
"The tourism industry is a major engine for the economy of the Madeleine Islands. I am pleased with the partnership that has been renewed with the same partners that Tourisme Québec, the Municipality of the Magdalen Islands and the Regional Conference of the Elected Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine. This agreement will support promoters in the realization of structuring projects for the development of tourist offer in the region, "said Tourism President of the Madeleine, Mr. Sébastien Cummings. 
Under the 2008-2012 Agreement, emphasize that it has contributed to the completion of 11 tourist projects for total investments of more than $ 1.2 million thanks to a funding of $ 157,199. 
Remember that the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement aims to renew the tourism offer according to regional priorities. The partners, Tourisme Québec, Tourism Islands de la Madeleine, the Municipality of the Madeleine Islands and the Regional Conference of Elected Gaspésie-Islands-de-la-Madeleine sit on the management committee of this agreement to which also participates. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupancy of the Territory. 
A first call for projects is under way for the new 2012-2015 agreement. For more information and to apply, you can reach Tourism Islands de la Madeleine. 
