Quebec- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today announced the conclusion of an agreement in principle between the Government of Quebec and the grouping of Quebec's midwives ( RSFQ) regarding the working conditions of midwives. 
"I look forward to the conclusion of this agreement in principle that recognizes the contribution of midwives in the Quebec health network. In addition to respecting the state's ability to pay, this agreement is added to our government's efforts to accelerate the development of the midwives' service offering, in line with the guidelines and priorities of the perinatal policy. 2008-2018 of the Government of Quebec, "said Minister Hébert. 
Indeed, in addition to recognizing their expertise and know-how, this Agreement makes it possible to significantly improve the working conditions of midwives and middle-wife services, while valuing an offer of service that meets the needs of the population. 
This agreement of principle comes close to the negotiations that had been bringing for several years. Indeed, remember that in 2005, the previous government put an end to the negotiations by unilaterally imposing the midwives a collective agreement, expired on March 31, 2010. The negotiations had been under way since 2011. The parties are finally Arrived at an agreement in principle on January 6th. The latter was subsequently presented to the General Assembly of the RSFQ members, to finally be endorsed on January 8, 2014. 
"Our government has demonstrated openness and has been able to negotiate a satisfactory agreement for both parties. We can be proud of the conclusion of such an agreement, which required a sustained work on the part of the RSFQ and our government. Various measures of great importance can now be easier implemented, including to increase customer care in vulnerability, which is another objective of perinatal policy. It is without a doubt of a good news for the midwives of Quebec and for all Quebec women and families who use their services, "concluded the Hébert minister. 
