Quebec- The member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, protection of youth, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, denounces the attitude of the Minister delegated to the Minister Rehabilitation, the protection of youth and public health, Lucie Charlebois, who completely abandoned, facing Ottawa, the Quebec approach to the fight against homelessness; Tags for the next project call for roaming partnership strategy demonstrate. 
Indeed, the majority (65%) of the deposited projects will have to focus on the federal government's approach, focused solely on housing first, while Quebec should be able to decide itself to resort to a diversity of approaches rather than to one. Roaming is a complex problem with multiple faces; To counter it, so multiple approaches must be used. 
"Our worst fears are confirmed with respect to the renewal of the agreement between Quebec and Ottawa for financing. For several months, we have joined our voice to that of the organizations, to say that the taxation of the Federal Wall Wall approach is not the way to effectively support the most vulnerable of our society and the organizations that help them. Just before the holiday season, we learn that Minister Lucie Charlebois completely abandoned the Quebec approach. What does she meet the organizations that will be affected by the cuts? What will it do for street work and reintegration work, among others, can continue? "Said Jean-François Lisée. 
The member deplores that on the one hand, the minister launched the approach plan for the fight against homelessness, whereas, on the other, it jeopardizes the very existence of projects and essential organizations for their communities, everywhere in Quebec. 
"It's a nonsense! The minister, in coherence with his government, has yielded everything to the federal government. The national roaming policy adopted by Quebec advocates a multitude of approaches and focusing on homelessness. By abandoning the defense of the interests and needs of Quebec before Ottawa, the Liberal government is turning completely in the other direction. Unfortunately, it will be the most vulnerable of our society that will pay the price, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
