Quebec, February 16, 2018 -The official opposition to health, accessibility to home care and home support, Diane Lamarre, denounces the fact that the government intends to pay additional $ 2 billion to specialist doctors , and without any guarantee that access to health care will be improved. 
IN SHORT 
"The Liberal government is currently in crisis management, and it's a crisis that it has created itself. He also favored physicians at the expense of other health professionals, and he is now forced to disassemble us part of the agreement he concluded with the FMSQ. In total, additional $ 2 billion that will be paid to specialist physicians, while they are already better paid than their Ontario colleagues. These sums should never have been promised or paid! Summarizes: Physicians, including 10,000 specialists, already increased 8% of the Quebec budget and 20% of the health budget. The latter being called to grow, no need to add, in addition, the guarantee that doctors will always monitor this proportion. This shows how long the Liberal government is disconnected, "the spokesman insisted. 
"In addition, do you see how ironic it's? This bad deal comes to overcome the gaps of an even worse agreement, concluded in 2007 between the Minister of Health by Philippe Couillard, and the representative of the doctors specialists of then, Gaétan barrette. Today, speaking of "savings", the Liberals implicitly admitted! She added. 
Diane Lamarre recalls the solid plan of the Quebecois health party: "We propose to freeze the remuneration of doctors and to reopen this indecent agreement, while the Liberals and the Caquists agree to continue to increase the remuneration of doctors . In addition, instead of giving $ 500 million recurring more to specialist doctors, we will reinvest these $ 500 recurring home support. We are also committed to giving more autonomy to specialized nurse practitioners and other professionals to improve access to care. In short, we will stop giving everything to doctors! It is with our plan that access to health care will improve, not by adding $ 2 billion to the compensation of specialists, "she supported. 
Finally, the member for Taillon sums the government to make public the agreements with family physicians and specialist doctors. "We are entitled to know the extent of the damage of liberal mismanagement. And I remind the government that it had committed to reveal the details of these agreements. » 
