Québec- The member for Taillon and spokesperson for the health and accessibility of care, Diane Lamarre, denounces the creation of a "bolduc premium" for specialist physicians in the agreement between the FMSQ and The Minister of Health. 
"We learn this morning that specialist doctors have negotiated an additional premium modeled on the" Bolduc premium ", in addition to having the opportunity to reduce the targets to be reached along the way, without any penalty. It's scandalous! What the minister asks for is to see the patients who are urgently within 2 to 4 hours, only between 8 am and 4 pm and only ... on weekdays. If you have the misfortune to be at emergency before 8:00 am, after 4 pm or weekend, you have no guarantee that you will succeed in a specialist within a reasonable time, "said Ms. Lamarre. 
"Did the minister really need to give them a bonus for that? Sign an agreement in which one of the two parties promises to try to respect it, but which does not understand any consequence in case of failure, it is absurd absurd and it is to lack deep respect towards Quebeckers, " declared the member. 
"In front of the ridicule of what is asked of specialists, it is understood that the Minister has been embarrassed to unveil the agreement before the end of the last parliamentary session, while it was immersed in hot water because of the report of The Auditor General. Today, three months later, the population realizes the minister's monumental bluff, for whom the agreement with specialists is an autopromotion operation, "said Lamarre. 
In the interview, the Chair of the FMSQ even went so far as to assert that the Minister Barrette "is still sitting in Chair [S], [and that he tries to manage the Federation according to his current vision." "This is unfortunately an admission of more that confirms that we have a minister of doctors, who works for his colleagues doctors, and not for Quebec patients," said the member. 
It should also be remembered that in the Clarification Agreement of the Physician Remuneration Increase, the Minister Barrette has made them an additional increase of $ 150 million. Added to this are the 400 million that have been paid to them too much, a situation highlighted by the Auditor General of Quebec last fall. 
