Quebec, October 5, 2016 -Ars that the deadlines for the Lumber Agreement file expires in a week, the member for Jonquière and Official Opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the member bonaventure and spokesperson for the Quebecois on forests, Sylvain Roy, arrested the Prime Minister of Quebec, Philippe Couillard, to act with the aim of avoiding our regions, again, hard hit by a forest crisis. 
"The expiry of time will open the door to the imposition of new tariffs that go against the interests of our forest industry. If we rely on the past, the Americans could impose a fare of 25% that would hit our businesses hard. In the last crisis, several Quebec companies had to close because of these sanctions. The role of the Prime Minister is to ensure that the new Quebec regime is taken into consideration by Canadian negotiators. What is his match plan? Asked Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"The big difference, in relation to the previous negotiation, is that Quebec now has a new forest regime in accordance with the rules of international trade, which makes it even more unjustifiable the taxation of tariffs. However, at a week of maturity, there is no progress; not only our new forest regime is not recognized by the US government but, in addition, Prime Minister Couillard did not even have been able to convince the Canadian government that it can no longer accept the conditions of an agreement. Western Canada and the Maritimes. Our regions and the forestry sector have already undergone several job losses and plant closures. What are the Prime Minister and the Minister of Forests answered? He wanted to know Sylvain Roy. 
"The intentions of the Americans are clear and disturbing for our foresters, who do not know if they will still have the work at the end of the year. They need to be reassured. There is a week. In addition, in the Saguenay-Lac Saint John, my region and the Prime Minister, we know that the surcharge on the overcomed paper, imposed by the US government with Kenogami and Dolbeau factories, will have serious consequences. A million dollars a month, by factory. The Prime Minister knows that they will not be able to endure it long. What does he intend to do with this second issue that is in addition to the lumber? ", Concluded the leader of the official opposition. 
