Québec- The member for Taillon and sentence of the official objection to health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, and the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for social services, Jean-François Lisée, denounce The fact that the agreement entered into by the Government with the Federation of Omnipratic Physicians of Quebec (FMOQ) contains not only the return of the bolduc premium, but also an article aimed at remunerating doctors for acts posed by other professionals. health. 
"The more we read the agreement with the general practitioners, the better we understand the financial gains that the minister has granted them. Article 21 meets a long-standing wish of doctors: to receive a supplement to work with other professionals. Already, Yves Bolduc gave them a $ 60,000 bonus a year for each supervised specialized practitioner in GMF. However, in the agreement concluded, there is a question of expanding this way of doing things to other categories of professionals, "said Diane Lamarre. 
"In the current fiscal context, where every dollar account, how can the minister choose to pay a supplement to doctors for just working with other professionals? All health professionals who want more interdisciplinarity want it to be the patient who kind of this better collaboration ", continued the member. 
For his part, Jean-François Lisée denounced the fact that on the one hand, the Liberal government invokes austerity to recover money from other health craftsmen, but that, on the other hand, it houses the doctors. "The government proposes to abolish retention premiums for nurses in the region, claims $ 177 million to pharmacists, wants to impoverish all health employees by not even indemdening their salary over the next few years, but it offers more Doctors. The barrette minister had a huge report of power with his bill 20 that threatened doctors, but he did not get anything in exchange for his abandonment. Contrary to what we thought, he was a very bad negotiator, "he said. 
"The minister missed the boat; The agreement he has signed with the general practitioners does not even guarantee any results for Quebec patients, nor does it anticipate sanctions if doctors do not meet the objectives set. That the Prime Minister endorsed this agreement is simply aberrant, "concluded the member for Rosemont. 
