Quebec - Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the Quebec Region Regional Tourism (CPRT) Management Committee, is pleased to announce a financial assistance of $ 109,000 for The infrastructure bonus of the German Christmas market of Quebec. The Committee also supported the market development plan by aid of $ 27,000 in 2012, adding support for $ 136,000 for this event. 
"The Committee is proud to support this event that aims to enrich the tourist offer of the City of Quebec and to strengthen its distinctive position as a winter destination. The German community has demonstrated its rigor in the operation and management of the event so that today, the traffic of the Christmas market is growing and even provides for an increase in visitors from 55,000 in 2012. 150,000 In 2017. The Christmas market is therefore a central attraction to launch the winter tourist season in Quebec City, "said Minister Tourism Minister Pascal Bérubé. 
The aid of $ 109,000 granted made it possible to improve market infrastructure, including the addition and decoration of kiosks, the layout of the two main entrances and the atmosphere lighting. These improvements will increase the urban attractiveness of the destination during the winter period and will gradually achieve the expansion of the market and thus tender, in the short term, towards a standard of international caliber. 
Organized since 2008 by the German community, the Christmas market has been held, since 2009, in the heart of Old Quebec and offers shopping lovers with a different experience for the purchase of Christmas gifts. In addition to helping to mitigate seasonality gaps, the event relies on tourist development guidelines for the Quebec City Tourist Office, which aim, in particular, to make the Quebec City region, by 2020, The capital of winter. 
This financial support stems from the TPRT from the Quebec region whose partners are Tourisme Québec, the Tourist Office of Quebec, the Secretariat at the Capitale-Nationale, the Regional Conference of the elected representative of the Capitale-Nationale and the local center of Quebec's development. It should be remembered that the CPTR aims to renew the tourism offer by financially supporting structuring projects that take into account the regional and distinctive priorities of the Quebec City region. 
