Quebec, December 6, 2017 -The official opposition for the finance and relations Québec-Canada, Nicolas Marceau, and the crop spokesperson, Agnès Maltese, once again denounce the Agreement with Netflix signed by the Minister of Canadian Heritage, Mélanie Joly. "By exempt Netflix from the obligation to collect taxes, the minister disadvates artists, producers, broadcasters, workers and businesses working in the Quebec cultural environment," they insist. 
IN SHORT 
"Mélanie Joly and Justin Trudeau act without any consideration for Quebec. They started together to say all the Quebec cultural background: Netflix passes before you. All we ask is equity between Netflix and the broadcasters here. But for Ottawa, priority is to exempt multinationals from the obligation to collect taxes. In addition, we still do not have access to the federal agreement with Netflix, despite the repeated Quebec requests. This lack of transparency confirms that for Mélanie Joly and Justin Trudeau, they are the multinationals first and the Quebeckers after, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
According to what we know, so not only the agreement with Netflix is unacceptable but, in addition, the whole cultural policy presented by Mélanie Joly does not pass. "In addition to giving privileges to Netflix, which will not have to perceive taxes, the federal government does nothing to accompany the press written in its transition to digital. However, as soon as Ottawa will not intervene to mark the flight of advertising dollars to Google and Facebook, the middle of the print media will not be more advanced. The federal government must engage in a real support approach to it, "added Agnès Maltese. 
Remember that the Parti Québécois proposes to bring the mandatory perception of taxes on all goods and services purchased on the Internet, while offsetting the effect on the tax burden with an equivalent decrease in the overall tax rate. "Our position, fair and balanced, makes it possible to satisfy all the speakers in this file, without overwhelming taxpayers," concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
