Quebec- Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, are pleased to announce the conclusion of the Canada-Quebec 2014-2020 Agreement to transfer the amount of the Canadian Employment Fund. 
The Canada-Quebec Agreement 2014-2020 is in line with the Labor Market Agreement (EMT) and provides for the transfer of amounts from the Canadian Employment Fund to support the services offered in Quebec To improve the employment insertion of underrepresented labor market and workers with a significant deficit in basic training. It also takes into account the essential role of the Labor Market Partner Commission (CPMT), a Quebec government partner with respect to the orientation and planning of the public employment services. 
"Since the signing of the first working market agreement, in 1997, Quebec has developed a unique partnership model in Canada that gives excellent results and that promotes the participation and financial contribution of employers to the training of the hand. -Please and skills development. I want to emphasize the openness of Minister Jason Kenney with whom we have been able to negotiate in any transparency and good faith. He has recognized the Quebec reality and the crucial role of the labor market partners, which allowed the conclusion of the agreement, "said Minister Agnès Maltese. 
For 15 years, Quebec can count on a single consultation structure, the Commission of Labor Market Partners. It brings together employers' representatives, the workforce, the education community, community organizations and government agencies and relies on the 17 regional councils of labor market partners. In addition, the existence in Quebec of the law promoting the recognition and development of powers, commonly referred to as the 1% Act, already had to respond to several federal government goals, including participation and financial contribution. employers in the formation of the workforce. 
"Quebec's model has proven itself. There is consensus both at the National Assembly and among the workers and employers for Ottawa respects this exclusive competence of Quebec and to ensure that the current model of training of the workforce can continue to bring results. This agreement is good news for people away from the labor market, for partners and for the Quebec economy, "said Minister Alexandre Cloutier. 
Note that for a few months, the federal government has negotiated agreements with the provinces and territories on the implementation of the new Canadian Employment Grant (EC) in a model adapted to their reality. The Canada-Québec 2014-2020 Agreement aimed at transferring the amount of the Canadian Employment Fund respects the terms of the current labor market agreement as claimed by the National Assembly of Quebec. 
