Terrebonne- The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane de Courcy, the alternate Mayor of the City of Terrebonne, Stéphane Berthe, and the President of the Regional Conference of the Regional Conference Elected of Lanaudière, Mr. Gaétan Morin, unveiled today, in the presence of the member for Terrebonne, Mr. Mathieu Traversy, the Specific Immigration Agreement for the Lanaudière Region for the 2013-2018 period. 
"I have often pointed out, regionalization of immigration is one of my priorities. This agreement aims to promote the sustainable establishment of immigrant people in Lanaudière. We want to attract qualified immigrant workers able to meet the labor needs of Lanaudoise companies and able to contribute to regional economic development while participating in the dynamism of communities, "said Minister Diane de Courcy. 
"Integration with public life and the labor market for immigrant persons is an important issue for the Lanaudière community and, in this sense, regional partners are committed to working together. Neo-Lanaudois who settle here represent a real asset for our region because they contribute to economic, social and cultural development. Finally, we work vigorously so that integration into Quebec society is in French, our common language, the keystone for successful integration, "said the Minister Delegate to Social Services and the Protection of Youth and Minister responsible for the Lanaudière region, Véronique Hivon. 
"The agreement concluded today also aims to put in place measures to promote harmonious intercultural relations. To this end, we can count on the support of two organizations, created in the context of the last agreement, which propose services adapted to the growing needs of immigrant clientele, the multiethnic reception and integration of newcomers to Terrebonne and The surroundings (aminate) and the immigrant family aid service of the Regional County Municipality of Assumption (Safima). These two organizations cover the south of the Lanaudière region where newcomers are established in large numbers, "said Mathieu Traversy. 
The signing of the specific immigration agreement occurs a little over a year after the visit of Minister Diane de Courcy into the Lanaudière conducted on the occasion of the tour she has made in the regions of Quebec. She then met with the department's regional partners and traded with them on the main issues related to immigration. 
For a period of five years, the present agreement brings together the ministries of immigration and cultural communities, employment and social solidarity, municipal affairs, regions and occupation of the territory, culture and Communications, Finance and Economy, the Regional Conference of the Lanaudière elected representatives, the City of Terrebonne, the Lanaudière Health and Social Services Agency, the Northern Lanaudière Health and Social Services Center , the Council of the Status of Women, the Quebec Housing Corporation, the Lanaudière Youth Forum and the Regional Concert Committee for Lanaudière Immigration. 
A total of $ 2.2 million will be invested by all the partners of the Agreement. The contribution of the Government of Quebec represents more than $ 1.4 million and, of this amount, $ 875,000 comes from the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities. 
The agreement will: 
"The announcement of this morning is an excellent news for Terrebonne and for the aminate organization that works hard with the social and economic integration of newcomers. Like all the actors gathered here today, we want the immigrants to be included in the Lanaudoise region to their living environment, and it is imperative by integration into the labor market and financial autonomy. This agreement will act as a tremendous lever to promote full citizen emancipation and the local economy, "said Mayor Jean-Marc Robitaille. 
According to the job forecasts-Québec, by 2016 there will be 50,700 job vacancies in Lanaudière, of which 37% are the result of economic growth and 63% of retirements. The fields of metallurgy, furnishing and agri-food design are nickels of excellence in the region, and companies will need a skilled workforce to support their development, which it comes from the environment or immigration. 
"Immigrants are essential to the development of our region. They bring a new and promising expertise in socio-economic and cultural development, "said La Cré de Lanaudière, Mr. Gaétan Morin. 
"The agreement will make it possible to raise awareness of the capital gains by the immigrant workforce and the benefits of diversity. It also meets various regional needs and reflects the collective commitment of Lanaudière's partners to create a welcoming environment for newcomers, an environment where they can settle in a sustainable way to live and to work, "concluded the Minister Diane de Courcy. 
