Quebec- The member for Taillon and sentence of the official opposition in terms of health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, welcomed the announcement of an agreement made this morning by the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, and the Federation of Omnipratic Physicians of Quebec (FMOQ). 
First, the problem of access to care will remain at least until December 2017. "The minister asks us to trust him; We will not know before two and a half years if this agreement works. A year ago, when studying the 2014 credits, the minister made many formal promises that he did not know. There is no tangible improvement for the population. People are desperate. We ask him to make the agreement he concluded with the FMOQ and report on the situation to parliamentarians and the population every three months, in order to have a right portrait and for the sake of transparency. If he refuses is that he is not so some of the results for Quebeckers, "said Diane Lamarre. 
Thanks to the work of the Parti Québécois and the many groups that came to testify in parliamentary committee, the minister finally accepted that his requirements to family physicians were unrealistic. "However, we must not confuse a doctor and access to the latter; accessibility to care, it also spends more physician availability and an increased role given to other professionals - including specialized nurse practitioners, psychologists, pharmacists - who could greatly contribute to improving access to our system. health. Now nothing has been mentioned by the minister this morning, "added the spokesman. 
"This agreement has been negotiated between a doctor and other doctors, without a global plan. For those who expect more than 16 hours, on average, urgently, for 25% Quebeckers who do not have a family doctor, for people who need home care, for the 37,000 residents in CHSLD who barely get a bath a week and who we want to charge more for their accommodation ... For all these people, indeed, there is nothing more today, neither tomorrow ", concluded Diane Lamarre . 
