Québec- The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, transmitted to the Director of Criminal and Criminal Prosecutions (PCPP) new guidelines for adolescent criminal justice. 
On this day, the provisions of the Young Offenders Act, the Minister to Prosecutor's instructions aim to confirm the maintenance of a truly distinct adolescent justice system from that of adults, which promotes first and foremost. rehabilitation and social reintegration. 
"The Quebec People's Criminal Justice Model has been proven for a long time by focusing on the rehabilitation and reintegration of young offenders. We must continue to focus on this path that contributes to the sustainable protection of the public, "said Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud. 
The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec also requests prosecutors to use only the new legislative provision for exception to disclose the identity of a teenager. 
Finally, the Government of Quebec adopted a decree laying down 16 years of the minimum age of a teenager who has committed a serious crime and for which a prosecutor is obliged to inform the court if he does not call for an adult sentence. The Federal Act provides that the provinces can set an age between 14 and 16 years in this respect. 
"Despite the entry into force of the Federal Act C-10, we intend to use all the means at our disposal to preserve our acquis on the rehabilitation of young offenders while effectively fighting against the crime," concluded the Minister of the Justice. 
The Adolescent Criminal Justice Act (LSJPA) is as a principle that the adolescent criminal justice system must be distinct from that applicable to adults since, "because of their age adolescents are more vulnerable, less mature and less able to exercise moral judgment "(R. c DB, [2008] 2 RCS 3, para 41). The "creation of such a system is based on the recognition of the presumption of less adolescents and their greater vulnerability in the face of the judicial system" (R. v.J.L., [2009] 1 R.C.S. 426). 
In the adolescent criminal justice system, the focus must be on rehabilitation and social reintegration of adolescents as well as on the search for fair and proportional responsibility, compatible with their state of dependence and their degree of maturity. In addition, it is important that measures taken with regard to adolescents aim to strengthen their respect for the values of our company and that they promote the compensation for damage to the victim and the community. 
The decisions of the prosecutor, which is a front-line stakeholder in the judicial system for adolescents, must tend to ensure the sustainable protection of the public. To achieve this goal, prosecutors must remember the constant lessons of the Supreme Court of Canada that, in the long term, the Company is better protected by rehabilitation, rehabilitation and social reintegration of a teen (R. c. M. (JJ), [1993] 2 RCS 421). This is the best way to avoid the recidivism of the young offender (R. c. B.W., R. c. B.V., [2006] 1 R.C.S. 941, paragraph 39). 
Taking into account these fundamental principles in the treatment of juvenile delinquency requires that the prosecutor constantly have in mind the fact that, according to the circumstances of the case submitted to it, the use of extrajudicial measures often represents the best way to Tackling juvenile delinquency in the sense that it makes it possible to intervene quickly and effectively to correct the discerning behaviors of adolescents. 
The Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health and Social Services therefore provided, in an extrajudicial penalty program, the modalities for implementing teen prosecutions. So, once he has determined that the evidence is sufficient, the prosecutor may, in cases of serious crimes or in recurrence, authorize a lawsuit without referring to the "Provincial Director". In other cases, it must route the file to the Provincial Director to assess the opportunity to provide youth with extrajudicial penalties. 
The need to maintain for adolescents a system actually distinct from that of adults also goes through the objectives and principles that must be put forward at the stage of sentences, promoting those affecting rehabilitation and reintegration. In addition, when it requests the Tribunal to impose a specific sentence for the purpose of denouncing illegal behavior or deterring the adolescent of recurrence, he must do so by keeping it to attach to these objectives the same importance and meaning that these have in the regime applicable to adults. In particular, the pursuer should not unduly insist on these aspects. 
Finally, the presumption of less moral guilt materializes by taking action to ensure the protection of adolescent rights, particularly with respect to their privacy. Thus, the lifting of the prohibition of publishing the adolescent identity should be exceptional, taking into account the statement of the Supreme Court that "the lifting of a publication prohibition makes the adolescent vulnerable to psychological stress and social social ", thus greatly increasing the severity of the sentence (R. v dB, supra, paragraph 87). The pursuer must therefore be very cautious and carefully analyze all the circumstances before positioning themselves in this respect. 
