Laval- The Minister of the Family and Minister responsible for the Laval Region, Ms. Nicole Léger, accompanied by the member for Sainte-Rose and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Suzanne Proulx, announced, on behalf of The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, the payment of $ 523,730 for the creation of Unfemmessor in Laval. Lefemmessor are non-profit economic development organizations that are dedicated exclusively to the growth of female entrepreneurship. 
"Women bring different entrepreneurial vision and values, they breathe creativity and motivation in the business world," said Minister Nicole Léger. "That's why it's so important for the Quebec government to support initiatives such as this, which encourage them to start in business and to carry out their projects. This support will allow women to access funding in addition to deploying management, negotiation, business development and networking skills. I am convinced that this project will have positive spin-offs for the Laval region and for Quebec society. » 
"FEMMESSOR LAVAL, the fourteenth in Quebec, is the result of a vast economic consultation and a demand from the environment," said the member Suzanne Proulx. "I want to emphasize the important contribution of Laval's economic players for the establishment of this project, which will play a decisive role in the evolution of the regional female entrepreneurship. The organization benefits from important regional support from the Laval Regional Conference of the Laval Local Development Center and the Partners of the Specific Female Agreement. I am proud of this initiative, which will meet the specific needs of women entrepreneurs in the Laval region. » 
"For our government, it is a priority to stimulate Quebec entrepreneurship, which is a creator of wealth and jobs," said Sulaian Deputy Minister Zakaïb. "By intervening in all sectors of activity, organizationsFemmessor work in this direction. In Quebec, the percentage of women entrepreneurs compared to all entrepreneurs rose from 28% in 1987 to 36% in 2011, thus exceeding the Canadian average, which is 35%. I am very pleased to see that the efforts made bear fruit and I wish good continuation auxfemmessor, which are valuable allies in the establishment of a strong and sustainable economy. » 
Currently, in addition to Laval, Quebec has thirteen organizationsFemmessor in as many regions: Bas-Saint-Laurent, Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, Capitale-Nationale, Mauricie, Estrie, Montreal, Outaouais, Abitibi-Témiscamingue, North Shore , Nord-du-Québec, Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine, Montérégie and Center-du-Québec. 
"Lesfemmessor were born from an initiative of the Côte-Nord region in 1995, while it was established that women had difficulty accessing funding and needed supported support, particularly in terms of management and networking, "said Gloria Lemire, President of the NetworkFemmessor. "That's why we are now happy to create privileged links with businesswomen in our regions. Since their inception, agenciesFemmessor, thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, have lent to entrepreneurs nearly $ 8.4 million, thus generating investments of more than $ 51 million and enabling the creation and maintenance of more 1,850 jobs. Over the last three years, we have responded to nearly 2,500 requests for information, in addition to making consulting interventions with 2,150 clients. We are happy to be able to expand our services to the Laval region. » 
