Quebec - "The Government of Quebec has abandoned the forest industry. Still, he has all the tools to help and sustainably help businesses and forestry workers and he must use it to act at the earliest, "said Denis Trottier, MP and Spokesperson for the Official opposition to forests, after an arrest where he questioned Minister Clement Gignac. 
The official opposition took advantage of this interpellation to question the minister on several difficulties experienced by the forest sector, including the lack of money; the delay in the announcement of the amounts for silvicultural work; the refusal of banks to finance forest companies; poorly adapted programs, etc. 
The official opposition also presented cases of workers affected by the crisis that has been caught since 2005. "These people deserve all our support and admiration. They believe deeply, like our party, in the future of the wood industry in Quebec. But in this time of crisis, the government must provide assistance to these workers, which has not been done since 2005, "continued the member. 
Denis Trottier also offered solutions to the crisis so that it does not increase as the forecasts seem to indicate it. "We propose a real wood charter that will promote the 2nd and 3rd transformation. We have filed a bill aimed at promoting the use of wood in construction, which would help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We also want to launch a vast sylvicole project that could double in 25 years of forest production and production. Also, we would add the establishment of a forest savings plan that would allow workers and citizens to invest in their businesses to help revive the forest environment. To all this, add up loan guarantees for businesses and state participation in the most innovative companies, "the member explained. 
"To implement these solutions, it takes a real political will and that is what is missing from Jean Charest's government that remains insensitive since the beginning of the forest crisis in 2005. It's time for it to change! ", Concluded Denis Trottier. 
