SALABERRY-DE-VALLEYFIELD, QC, Nov 5, 2013 / CNW Telbec / - The member for Beauharnois, Guy Leclair, is pleased to announce on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation The territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the granting of $ 55,915 financial assistance to the Beauharnois-Salaberry Regional County Municipality (MRC). This grant, paid in the Framework for Financial Assistance to the Maintenance of the Green Road, aims to maintain the quality of this cycle planning on the territory of the RCM of Beauharnois-Salaberry. 
The eligible cycle paths in the territory of the MRC de Beauharnois-Salaberry in 2013-2014 currently total 39 km. The grant grant will cover half of the maintenance costs of this section of the road. Remember that the route of the Green Road offers 387 km of cycle paths over the entire Montérégie. 
"The Green Road is the largest bike route in North America and I am pleased to confirm the government's desire to maintain the quality of this infrastructure. Many cyclists can continue to enjoy the typical landscapes of your beautiful region, "said Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"We thus contribute by this announcement to the economic development of the MRC de Beauharnois-Salaberry, but we also encourage the practice of easy access physical activity for people of all ages," said Mr. Leclair. 
As a reminder, on October 24th, Mr. Gaudreault announced the creation of a financial assistance program for cycling and pedestrian infrastructure. Thus, $ 7 million will be awarded for 2013-2014. In addition to allowing the completion of the green road and ensuring the sustainability, this program, for a period of 3 years, aims to support municipalities in their desire to put in place transport infrastructures that promote travel. assets. 
The Green Road is an original idea of bike Québec Association, carried out in collaboration with the Government of Quebec, including the Ministry of Transport, and regional partners. 
