Quebec- This morning, while Quebec Solidarity (QS) challenged the Liberal government about social inequalities, the hon. Member for Rimouski and the official opposition spokeswoman in the fight against poverty, solidarity and social economy , Harold Lebel, wanted to emphasize that between QS speech, which is limited to the slogan "do the rich", and the toxic austerity measures of the Liberal government, there is the responsible vision of the Quebecois party, which Give priority to equal opportunities for Quebeckers. 
"When we were in the government, we worked to counter injustices, notably by eliminating the health tax for the least, shrugging by 200 million the contribution of financial institutions to the Quebec economy, as well as by increasing the tax. For people earning more than $ 100,000. At the time, Quebec Solidaire and the Liberal Party voted against the budget; So they have harmed equal opportunities, "said Harold Lebel. 
Tax evasion 
The hon. Member also recalls that through the work of the Parti Québécois, the Public Finance Commission has accepted last February to take a mandate of initiative on the phenomenon of tax havens, which allow citizens and to Quebec companies use tax evasion. 
"It is unfortunate that Quebec Solidarity did not involve in the work of this commission. Quebeckers want this serious and unfair phenomenon to end, and the parliamentary committee will, precisely, to hear all the parties concerned and to reflect on sustainable solutions to combat tax evasion. If QS elected officials are serious in their willingness to combat inequalities, what are they better to do than work to fight tax evasion? The gestures of this party do not follow his word, unfortunately, "added the hon. Member for Rimouski. 
Redistributive taxation 
According to Harold Lebel, the choice of redistributive taxation must be reaffirmed and maintained. A more gradual taxation allows for a better redistribution of wealth, and therefore contributes to improving social cohesion and to establish a more egalitarian and just society. Let us add that the universality of services ensures greater solidarity between income categories. 
More taxes and tariffs = more poverty 
The austerity imposed by the government opens the door to declines, including the erosion of our social security net. Indeed, the Liberal method, which consists of more useful to taxes and pricing to maintain the level of state revenue, mostly affects less fortunate taxpayers and undermines accessibility of public services. 
"Liberal austerity, by impoverishing a large part of our fellow citizens, divides Quebec in two. When the life expectancy of the Montrealers of poor neighborhoods is 11 years lower than that of the Montrealers of rich neighborhoods, there is a big problem. Between liberal austerity and hollow slogans of Qs, we must act. I am increasingly convinced that after ten years of application, we all need to sit down to take a balancing of Laloi to fight against poverty and social exclusion, and ask us the real questions: have -We really managed to fight poverty? Do we have less prejudices? For now, I have a serious questions, "concluded the official opposition spokesman. 
