Quebec- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces that the preliminary plan filed by the company with power equipment Reliance Ltd. (Reliance) is considered acceptable to Look of the order that was served on August 29th. The company will be able to move forward with this preliminary plan which aims to secure the site and to free it from all stored CBPs. Despite the foregoing, however, the Department remains ready to intervene at the first gap recognized. 
Remember that the order of 29 August imposes certain time of action with Reliance. By September 13, the company will have to comply with the minimum storage standards, which include in particular the establishment of a storage area in accordance with the Hazardous Materials Regulations, the identification of subjects Dangerous, building development to contain leaks or spills and the conservation of absorbent materials at any time. In addition, Reliance A until September 28th to install a fire and intrusion detection system and for draining all equipment containing BPCs or contaminated with PCBs. The Department is also expected to receive a comprehensive comprehensive action plan at that date, including the stages of characterization and removal of materials or equipment containing BPCs or contaminated by PCBs. 
The plan of action today demonstrates the intention of the company to comply with these deadlines, but the Department will continue to ensure a presence at the scene in order to ensure full compliance with these provisions. At the slightest failure, the department will implement the work for which the company is in default in place and at the expense of it. "The Department does not renounce any possible action, but the preliminary plan of action deposited generally matches our expectations. The speed of execution is likely to reassure people, securing the site is in progress and reliance will pay its suppliers directly. For the moment, it's the best scenario. Our vigilance will remain supported, however, "said Minister Blanchet. 
In addition, the Department's investigators yesterday proceeded to a search at the Reliance offices to recover all the necessary documents for the inquiry currently underway. "Whatever the goodwill that the Reliance business manifests since we have forced him to take his responsibilities, I see no reason to believe that the company does not seek to conceal or destroy evidence. It took a few days, but we started the approach from Wednesday night to last Thursday so that a mandate is issued to recover all the potentially useful documents, "said the minister. 
