Pointe-Claire- The Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces that the Department supports the security and management of hazardous materials on the site of Reliance, the company did not comply with several measures required by noi-controlled on 29 August. 
Inspections conducted over the weekend have indeed determined that the company has not respected the first step imposed by the prescription regarding the safe development of the site. The company had until September 13 at 11:59 pm, to comply with it. "The first steps of security were both simple and urgent to achieve. Yet, Reliance has failed in its obligations under the first deadline. So, as I said, we take care of the operations on the site to make it safe and adequately disposing of the hazardous materials. The environment and safety must be taken seriously, "said Minister Blanchet. 
The minister also assured that all measures are taken to proceed without delay. Already, companies are mandated to initiate security work. From today, the work to repair the fence will begin and additional security measures will be put in place to avoid any intrusion on the site. A contract was also concluded with the company Sanexen to dispose of PCBs. Under the order, the Reliance undertaking will have to reimburse all the costs of the work assumed by the Government. "The financial capacity of the company may be involved," said the Minister Blanchet. We also initiated a procedure to take a legal mortgage on the company's assets. If Quebeckers are imposed part of this burden, it will be the least important possible. » 
"I will make sure everything is done without compromise so that the citizens of Pointe-Claire no longer have to live with the concern that an accident can occur. From today, we are making every effort to get rid of these PCBs as quickly and in the safest way possible. The situation must be adjusted quickly and there are no more cases like this in the future. My patience has reached its limits on this issue, "concluded the minister. 
