Quebec, on September 26, 2016 -The member for Rimouski and spokesman for the Quebecois for seniors, Harold Lebel, as well as the member for Taillon and spokesperson for health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, ask Government to reinvest right now to improve access to mental health services, so as to reduce the surplus of antidepressants, particularly among seniors. 
"The elderly live a lot of solitude and distress, and it takes time and human resources to break this isolation. For them, the disappearance of several positions of family auxiliaries and beneficiary attendants has a real and direct impact. It is necessary to increase home support, not cut off the hours available for seniors who are still able to stay at home and want to stay there as long as possible. Centralization with outrage, combined with compressions of nearly $ 1 billion, detrimental to access to psychology services for patients, including the elderly, "deplored Harold Lebel. 
"Major depression is an urgency as serious as a hemorrhage. The emergencies of hospitals overflow and psychosocial services are too often absent. It is common for patients to come out left to themselves. In Jonquière, suicides documented by the Commissioner for Complaints testify. The pressure on physicians, so that they see a greater volume of patients, compared to the availability of each favors the rapid use of drugs rather than non-pharmacological measures, which, however, give convincing results for patients . SuperDiagnosis and surplus are documented, and there are billions of dollars to recover to improve access to patient services. The minister barrette must reinvest now in mental health and place once and access to care for all patients and access to the heart of his decisions, "says Diane Lamarre. 
"Mental health waiting times are indecent! They often exceed several months. Depressive patients do not have the energy to denounce the lack of essential services for them. To properly treat a patient with symptoms of depression, psychologists should be on the front line. But it is missing in the public system and the minister refuses to put in place a simple measure that would provide 250 from next year: the remuneration of internal psychology. We take the opportunity to remind him of his commitment to invest $ 70 million in mental health, where waiting lists are just lying down. Unfortunately, it is again the patients - and, in this case, vulnerable patients - who unfairly make the costs of the liberal reforms. It must cease, "have concluded members. 
