Québec- The Minister of the Family, Ms. Nicole Léger, today launched a call for proposals for the establishment of a one-stop access to child care services. This one-stop shop will become the only parent entry door to register their children with childcare service providers offering $ 7 in the various regions of Quebec. 
"Today's announcement is part of the government's vision for today's and tomorrow's family. We want to better meet the needs of families, but also to make life easier. That's why I now annoy the setting up of a one-stop shop that will allow parents to register, by one approach and alone, with all the care services of our network that offer places At $ 7, "said Minister Nicole Léger. 
By this call for proposals, the management of this new tool will be entrusted to a neutral organization. The implantation of the one-stop shop will target early childhood centers and subsidized childcare. The organization chosen must carry out the integration of the data from the regional counters and the waiting lists of non-registered providers of the regional counters and the launch of the operations of the single window (registration of providers of subsidized child care and parent registration). Once these steps are crossed, the one-stop shop will formally come into effect. 
"We now ask the first milestones of a major project for our child care network. Currently, parents must bang on several doors to have a place for their child. In the long term, they will only have one step to register their child with all childcare services that offer places at $ 7 in Quebec. I want to reassure parents, this registration will be free, "mentioned Léger Nicole Minister. 
In the coming days, the Ministry of Family will send an invitation to organizations that may submit a proposal. These will have until November 15, 2013 to follow up on this invitation. The details surrounding the setting up of the one-stop shop are available on the Department's website (www.mfa.gouv.qc.ca). The announcement of the chosen organization will be done in December 2013. 
