Sainte-Julie- Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport and Minister responsible for the Montérégie Region, Mrs Marie Malavoy, with the member for Verchères, Minister of Public Safety and Minister responsible for the Region of L 'Outaouais, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, made public today the sums devoted to sports and recreational infrastructure projects in the region. These are 12 projects of sports and recreational facilities that will be achieved through government financial assistance up to $ 26,024,883. 
"Our government has decided to invest heavily to improve and build modern and safe sporting and recreational infrastructures to give all the pleasure and the taste of moving. As part of the development of a new national sport, leisure and physical activity policy, these investments fallow. As a Montérégie, government assistance will enable total investments of nearly $ 70 million, "Ms. Malavoy announced. 
Malavoy Minister has benefited from the opportunity to unveil some of the projects that will be carried out, including the construction of a third ice and the renovation of the building of the Sainte-Julie Arena, the construction of a rink Multifunctional to Verchères, the repair of several sports equipment to Acton Vale and the construction of a single gymnasium at Sorel-Tracy Cégep. 
"I am very proud to be able to associate with this government decision, as it demonstrates an integrated vision of development that contributes to the rise of Quebec society as a whole by initiatives that have concrete impact on the daily life of the People, including an increase in their quality of life, "said Stéphane Bergeron. 
These projects were analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the support program for sports and recreational facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the Eligible costs. 
Across Québec, 84 projects for the development, renovation, development and setting up to sports and recreation standards will materialize through investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from an envelope of $ 50 million allocated as part of the second component of the Sports and Recreation Support Program - Phase II of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport. At this envelope adds additional support of $ 80 million, thanks to the acceleration of investments, to support new projects now. 
It should be noted that these investments are planned as part of the Government of Quebec's economic policy, employment priority, recently presented by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. This policy is intended to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, short and medium term. 
Some $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments for the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructure, some $ 401 million are devoted to making healthy educational infrastructures from healthier environments to learn. The realization of these projects should allow the creation of about 3,500 jobs. 
"For a year, we have multiplied the actions to improve public infrastructure. We do even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing heavily in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being and quality of life. In my view, these are strong and responsible gestures, "Malavoy said. 
