Laval- As part of the economic lapolitics: employment priority, family minister and minister responsible for the Laval region, Ms. Nicole Léger, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, An announced that a major sporting infrastructure project would be achieved in the region through government financial assistance up to $ 1,718,100. This is the enlargement of the environment initiation and training center. Ms. Léger was accompanied for the occasion of the member for Laval-des-Rapides, Mr. Leo Bureau-Blouin, and the member for Sainte-Rose, Ms. Suzanne Proulx. 
"Government investments will add an inner rowing bin, an area of ergometers, a weight room as well as new locker rooms and sanitary facilities. User users will now be able to train three times in better adapted spaces and the number of introductory activities offered to the general public will be increased, "said Ms. Léger. 
This project has been analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the sports and recreational facility support program - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the Eligible costs. 
Across Québec, 84 projects for the development, renovation, development and setting up to sports and recreation standards will materialize through investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from an envelope of $ 50 million allocated as part of the second component of the Sports and Recreation Support Program - Phase II of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport. At this envelope adds additional $ 80 million to support new projects now. 
It should be noted that these investments are planned in the context of economic lapolitics: employment priority, recently presented by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau. This policy is intended to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, short and medium term. 
Some $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments for the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructure, some $ 401 million are devoted to making healthy educational infrastructures from healthier environments to learn. The realization of these projects should allow the creation of about 3,500 jobs. 
"For a year, we have multiplied the actions to improve public infrastructure. We do even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing heavily in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the health, wellness and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible gestures, "Malavoy said. 
