Alma - Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Officer Governance, MP Alexandre Cloutier, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, announces the allocation of financial assistance of more than $ 400,000 for the second phase of the renovation of Metabetchouan-Lac-to-La-Croix arena as part of the sports facilities support program and Recreation - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity. 
Built in 1975, the Arena requires significant investments to meet the needs of the population and neighboring localities. In 2002, investments in the order of $ 1.2 million made it possible to complete the first phase of the renovation work. The second phase of the project, estimated at more than $ 800,000, proposes a seven-point renovation either the renovation of the roof, the replacement of the rink bands, the relocation of the surface, the upgrade of the sound, the replacement The floor coating of the players 'rooms, the replacement of the lighting of the main enclosure as well as the improvement of the arbitrators' room. In concrete terms, this project will upgrade a sporting infrastructure used at full capacity and make it available over a period of seven months annually. 
"It is with great pleasure that I announce a financial contribution from the Marois Government over $ 400,000 to complete the renovation of Metabetchouan-Lac-to-La-Croix arena as part of the phase. II of the project. The accessibility of this sporting infrastructure, highly solicited by the population, is limited. The work that will be carried out will extend the period of use of the arena and to respond adequately to the needs of users, "said Alexandre Cloutier. 
Across Québec, 84 projects for the development, renovation, development and setting up to sports and recreation standards will materialize through investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from an envelope of $ 50 million allocated as part of the second component of the sports and recreational infrastructure support program - Phase II of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport. At this envelope adds additional support of $ 80 million, thanks to the acceleration of investments, to support new projects now. 
These projects were analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the support program for sports and recreational facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the Eligible costs. 
It should be noted that these investments are planned as part of the Government of Quebec's economic policy, employment priority, recently presented by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. This policy is intended to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, short and medium term. 
Of the $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to the $ 130 million for the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructure, some $ 401 million is devoted to making healthy education infrastructures from healthier environments to learn. The realization of these projects should allow the creation of about 3,500 jobs. 
"For a year, we have multiplied the actions to improve public infrastructure. We do even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing heavily in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the health, wellness and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible gestures, "Malavoy said. 
