For the entire document, go here. 
Dear militants, 
I am pleased to speak directly to you after the extraordinary congress held on 9 and 10 November 2019 in Trois-Rivières. 
As a chairmanship of our political formation, I see how much the Parti Québécois is an institution to which thousands of Quebeckers are attached to the four corners of our territory. 
It is therefore proud and enthusiastic that I will have the opportunity to meet you during my mandate. You are the pillars of our political movement and I want to salute your commitment. 
In this first "President's Report", I unveil the priorities of action that will mark my presidency: the gathering, youth and Quebeckers of all origins. These are "inevitable" for the project of independence that is at the heart of our political action. 
In your future local and territorial action plans, I invite you to identify actions that will collectively enable us to put concrete gestures within these three priorities. 
In closing, rest assured that in this period of Changes to the Parti Québécois, we make every effort to adequately meet your needs and live up to your expectations. 
Good reading. 
A more agile citizen party 
In 52 years, Quebec has changed a lot. Of two political parties that ruling in power, there are now four courses represented at the National Assembly. 
This reality controls to the political parties to adapt by processing in depth. That is why after the electoral defeat of October 1, 2018, the Parti Québécois committed in a process of refoundation and modernization that will end next 19 juin with the election of the 10th Head of Party History. 
We have thus adopted the extraordinary congress of new, more modern status, which will allow members to devote more time and energy to the shares on the ground. The new statement of principle also comes to dispel any ambiguity about the raison d'être of our party: make Quebec a country! 
At the last coordination conference, a new proceeding that replaces the National Conference of the Presidents and Presidents, we adopted a new rules of procedure which allows to implement the principles put forward in the new statutes of the party. For example, a new coupling of Quebec has been adopted through a regional organization to a territorial organization. 
Other decisions of the Extraordinary Congress will be implemented in the coming months and the management of change remains a challenge. I am above all convinced that we will raise this challenge together with Brio. 
Honestly, we must welcome the work already done and remember that the ultimate goal of this modernization is to give themselves the means to achieve our goals as a sovereignist party. 
During the next election campaign, the Parti Québécois will be more agile to achieve the election goals we are going to fix ourselves. 
First priority: a mandate marked by the desire to gather all the independence. 
By observing the independence movement very closely, it is clear that its main challenge is to unite all its living forces. 
That's why I started my mandate as President by a letter to all independentists and a tour of all independent civil society organizations. 
To date, I have met seven organizations and dozens of independent leaders to discuss the state of situation of the movement, its future and the actions to be undertaken. 
It emerges from these meetings a real desire to work together, to focus on what brings us together, to make a common Front for the independence of Quebec. Like me, the leaders and organizations faced believe a new momentum, as in 1980 and 1995, to invite our people to decide whether or not to the Canadian Federation. 
So that this 3rd appointment with the story is different from the other two, it is necessary to hold the hand, to keep our eyes on the final destination and to change the narrative of our project by presenting in particular to our fellow citizens economic and socio-political benefits of Quebec's independence. 
The time has come to tighten the elbows instead of being enemies inside the movement. All independent leaders must engage on this path so that we find the credibility and seriousness that have once characterized the Quebec sovereignist movement. Thus we will succeed in convincing the population that has always had higher expectations vis-à-vis the Quebec party given the project which is ours. 
Second priority: a more active national executive on the ground 
A political party is a big organization whose permanent challenge is to remain connected with militants. The new governance of the party will certainly promote regular exchanges with the base to consolidate our territorial anchoring. As new bodies are putting in place, I personally intend to keep a direct link with activists by participating as often as possible in the activities you organize around Quebec. 
My goal is to put behind this false perception that the National Executive Council is far from the party activist base. At the top of our organization chart are the activists who are the founding of our political party. More than ever, your voice must be heard within all the bodies of the Parti Québécois and you can count on me to recall it as often as possible for my colleagues Local and Territorial Presidents as well as the Political Commission and the Caucus of Deputies . 
So far, I visited the activists in five of our 17 regions and these visit will continue throughout my mandate with the goal of going to see you as often as possible. 
Our opponents are used to saying that our project does not meet the new generations. This observation is not totally false when we observe the election results of the Parti Québécois among 18-34 years. However, it is essential to have the support of these new generations in order to carry out our collective project. 
That is why, the Parti Québécois committed to supporting its youth wing so that it continues to mobilize young sovereignists in all teacher training institutions, CEGEP and universities across Quebec (Priority 2). 
The mobilization of young people is one of the ingredients whose movement needs to create the winning conditions and the Parti Québécois will do everything possible for this mobilization inside and outside the party. 
The independence of Quebec will not be done without the Quebeckers of all origins that do not know the PQ apart from how it is described by its opponents. It is therefore crucial to start a frank dialogue with these fellow citizens so that they are a stakeholder of our project (priority 3). 
It must be recognized that other political courses seem to be better than us to mobilize new Quebecers. Yet the PQ has already been very popular with immigrant communities, including the Haitian community, going to elect Jean Alfred in 1976, the first black member of the Quebec National Assembly. 
We have to reconnect these links now without denying who we are, neither the collective aspirations that motivate our actions. This work started with some groups and will continue throughout my mandate as president. 
Third priority: a coherent and assumed direction. 
From now on, there is no one who will question the raison d'être of the Parti Québécois: we want to base a state instead of simply governing a province. 
Such a position arouses the worst mistrust or the better questioning in the context where independence has not been at the center of the political debate since the 1995 referendum. 
It is therefore necessary to prepare to deconstruct the argument against independence by starting several sites simultaneously. These would focus on major issues such as public finances, money, army, endless pensions and debt. In addition to the language and culture that are pillars of the French-speaking nation alone in North America, an argument for independence on these major issues will rally several of our fellow citizens, particularly those of the new generations. 
In addition to civil society, this work will allow citizens to appropriate this ambitious project for Quebec whose promotion can not be done exclusively by political parties. 
This renewed project naturally includes indigenous peoples as stipulated in our statement of principle. The new Leader of the Parti Québécois will meet the Aboriginal leaders like René-Lévesque and Bernard Landry did it in time. These nations must be clear that their future is with us in Quebec and not in Canada. 
The future of the planet is worried more and more citizens and even if it is an issue that must be seen from a global point of view, it remains that Quebec can be a leader in the fight against climate changes. Despite all the goodwill of a provincial government is Canada as a country that has frank cubits to act. However, it will not make it afraid to jeopardize the exploitation of the oil oil from the west of the country. 
For Quebec to act, Quebeckers have to leave Canada to make our own decisions. Staying in Canada is therefore accepting not to act against climate change because there will not be truly from Quebec Green without an independent Quebec, so free to make one's own decisions. 
Recommendations: 
At the end of my 100 days to the Presidency of the Parti Québécois, much remains to be done to comfortably establish our reforms. This work will be done in respect and will take the necessary time according to the constraints that are not lacking but we must succeed. 
At this stage of the course, I would like to formulate the following three recommendations: 
Recommendation # 1 
That the Parti Québécois actively collaborates with the independence organizations of civil society in order to adopt a common roadmap whose main objective will be to convince a majority of Quebeckers to support the sovereignty of Quebec 
Recommendation # 2 
That the Parti Québécois renews the dialogue with new Quebecers on a permanent basis and initiates or participates in all actions aimed at mobilizing young people for sovereignty 
Recommendation # 3 
That the Parti Québécois, in collaboration with independence organizations, initiates the reflections on the issues of sovereignty so that citizens appropriate the arguments in favor of the independence of Quebec 
