Acton vale- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec Region and MP Johnson, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, on behalf of the Minister of Education, leisure and sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, released today a project of sports and recreational infrastructures that will be carried out in Acton Vale. Financial assistance up to $ 841,717.31 will be granted for this purpose. 
"I am pleased to announce this investment that aims to improve the quality of life of Acton Vale citizens," said the Minister Blanchet. It is profitable to invest in this type of infrastructure in more than one share, as sport is a complete activity, which is not only beneficial for personal health and development, but also a strong integration and integration and social cohesion. It is essential to make it accessible to the greatest number and in the best possible conditions. » 
These projects were analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the support program for sports and recreational facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the Eligible costs. 
Across Québec, 84 projects for the development, renovation, development and setting up to sports and recreation standards will materialize through investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from an envelope of $ 50 million, allocated as part of the second component of the sports and recreational infrastructure support program - Phase II of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport. At this envelope adds additional support of $ 80 million, thanks to the acceleration of investments, to support new projects now. 
It should be noted that these investments are planned as part of the Government of Quebec's economic policy, employment priority, recently presented by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. This policy is intended to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, short and medium term. 
Some $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments for the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructure, some $ 401 million are devoted to making healthy educational infrastructures from healthier environments to learn. The realization of these projects should allow the creation of about 3,500 jobs. 
"For a year, we have multiplied the actions to improve public infrastructure. We do even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing heavily in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the health, wellness and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible gestures, "Malavoy said. 
