Saint-Célestin- As part of an outstanding tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, Today announced the renovation of the exterior rink of the village of Saint-Célestin. Financial assistance up to $ 640,593.38 will be provided for this purpose. 
"The rink is an important pole of sporting and recreational activity located at the very heart of the village of Saint-Célestin. I am convinced that residents of the village, young people in particular, will take full advantage of this new facility, "said Malavoy. 
The proposed work, the costs of which are estimated at more than $ 1.3 million, consist of expanding and making the full renovation of the existing outdoor rink, including the Foundation and the Bands. The project also includes the addition of a roof to optimize its use. 
This project has been analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the sports and recreational facility support program - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the Eligible costs. 
Across Québec, more than 80 construction, renovation, development and development projects of sports and recreational facilities should be done through investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from an envelope of $ 50 million allocated as part of the second component of the Sports and Recreation Support Program - Phase II of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport. At this envelope adds additional $ 80 million to support new projects now. 
"For a year, we have multiplied the actions to improve public infrastructure. We do even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing heavily in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being and quality of life. In my view, these are strong and responsible gestures, "Malavoy said. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers met on the 5th and 6th of February in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They took advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will proceed with more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
