Saint-Roch-de-Lachigan- The Minister of Finance and the Economy and Deputy of Rousseau, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, Announcement That a major sports and recreational infrastructure project will be carried out in Saint-Roch-de-L'achigan. Financial assistance up to $ 4,700,000 will be granted by the Government for the realization of the project. 
"This is a major project, worth more than $ 15 million, which was strongly expected in our community. It will offer a quality sport and recreational infrastructure, in a complex including two ice creams, a sports performance research institute, the head office of the preparatory league school, a physiotherapy clinic, a sports shop, a restaurant, a restaurant, a restaurant, a restaurant. meeting rooms and offices. It's for more than three years that promoters refine their business plan. The demand for this type of project is strong in our region and I am pleased that our government meets the people's demands of the rural riding, "said Minister Marceau. 
This project has been analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the sports and recreational facility support program - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the Eligible costs. 
Across Québec, 84 projects for the development, renovation, development and setting up to sports and recreation standards will materialize through investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from an envelope of $ 50 million allocated as part of the second component of the sports and recreational infrastructure support program - Phase II of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport. At this envelope adds additional support of $ 80 million, thanks to the acceleration of investments, to support new projects now. 
It should be noted that these investments are planned as part of the Government of Quebec's economic policy, employment priority, recently presented by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. This policy is intended to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, short and medium term. 
Some $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments for the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructure, some $ 401 million are devoted to making healthy educational infrastructures from healthier environments to learn. The realization of these projects should allow the creation of about 3,500 jobs. 
"For a year, we have multiplied the actions to improve public infrastructure. We do even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing heavily in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the health, wellness and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible gestures, "Malavoy said. 
