Mont-Tremblant - On behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, his Parliamentary Assistant at the Response and Sport, MP, and Head of the Laurentians Region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, announced today that a construction project of an aquatic complex would be realized in Mont-Tremblant. Financial assistance up to $ 5 million will be granted for this purpose. 
The project focuses on the construction of an Olympic pool of 50 meters with 8 corridors, a recreational basin with beach and water games, as well as cloakrooms and administrative offices. 
"I am very pleased to announce the realization of this major project for the city of Mont-Tremblant, but more particularly for the citizens of the immediate region, which will finally enjoy a high quality facility. This infrastructure will also have a structuring effect for the regional economy, as it will allow, the holding of national and international caliber competitions, such as the Ironman Championship, "said Mr. Pagé. 
This project has been analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the sports and recreational facility support program - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the Eligible costs. 
Across Québec, 84 projects for the development, renovation, development and setting up to sports and recreation standards will materialize through investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from an envelope of $ 50 million allocated as part of the second component of the sports and recreational infrastructure support program - Phase II of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport. At this envelope adds additional support of $ 80 million, thanks to the acceleration of investments, to support new projects now. 
It should be noted that these investments are planned as part of the Government of Quebec's economic policy, employment priority, recently presented by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. This policy is intended to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, short and medium term. 
Some $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments for the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructure, some $ 401 million are devoted to making healthy educational infrastructures from healthier environments to learn. The realization of these projects should allow the creation of about 3,500 jobs. 
"For a year, we have multiplied the actions to improve public infrastructure. We do even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing heavily in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the health, wellness and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible gestures, "Malavoy said. 
