Gatineau- As part of the economic lapolitics: employment priority, the minister of education, leisure and sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, made public the four projects of sports and recreational infrastructures that will receive financial assistance up to 574 399 $ 12 in the Ottawa region. 
"In a context where we want Quebec to become one of the world's most-like nations, athletes of all ages of adequate and accessible infrastructure must be made available. This financial support of nearly $ 575,000 will allow the realization of four projects in the parks of the region, something to give all the taste of moving, "said Malavoy. 
These projects were analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the support program for sports and recreational facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the Eligible costs. Across Québec, more than 80 construction, renovation, development and development projects of sports and recreational facilities should be done through investments totaling $ 130 million. 
It should be noted that these investments are provided for in the context of economic policy: employment priority, recently presented by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. This policy is intended to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, short and medium term. 
Of the $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments for the lamination of sports and recreational infrastructure, some $ 401 million are devoted to educational infrastructures of Quebec healthy environments to learn. The realization of these projects should allow the creation of about 3,500 jobs. 
"For a year, we have multiplied the actions to improve public infrastructure. We do even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing heavily in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the health, wellness and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible gestures, "concluded Malavoy minister. 
