Boucherville- As part of the economic lapolitics: priority employment, the minister of education, leisure and sport and minister responsible for Montérégie, Mrs Marie Malavoy, announced that a major sports infrastructure project would be carried out in the region thanks to government financial assistance up to $ 7.5 million. This is the construction of a new aquatic complex in Boucherville. 
"I know that the population of Boucherville demanded these new infrastructures and cause. Municipal swimming pools, built in the 1960s, accuses significant aging and development is no longer adjusted to contemporary sports practices. In addition, demand for swimming courses and free swimming goes far beyond what the city can offer in its current infrastructure. Thanks to this help, the city of Boucherville will be able to better meet the needs of its population, "said Malavoy Minister. 
The total cost of the project is estimated at more than $ 34 million. This includes transforming the various buildings from the Pierre-Laporte sports center to include a 25-meter basin with 10 corridors, a 25-meter basin with 8 corridors and a recreational basin. The infrastructure will also have changing rooms, a sauna, a judo room, a weight room and offices. 
This project has been analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the sports and recreational facility support program - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the Eligible costs. 
Across Québec, 84 projects for the development, renovation, development and setting up to sports and recreation standards will materialize through investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from an envelope of $ 50 million allocated as part of the second component of the Sports and Recreation Support Program - Phase II of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport. At this envelope adds additional $ 80 million to support new projects now. 
It should be noted that these investments are planned in the context of economic lapolitics: employment priority, recently presented by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau. This policy is intended to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, short and medium term. 
Some $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments for the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructure, some $ 401 million are devoted to making healthy educational infrastructures from healthier environments to learn. The realization of these projects should allow the creation of about 3,500 jobs. 
"For a year, we have multiplied the actions to improve public infrastructure. We are doing even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and to improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. Involving massively in sports and recreational infrastructure, we stimulate economic development while contributing to health, to the well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible gestures, "concluded Malavoy minister. 
