Val-d'Or- As part of the economic lapolitics: employment priority, the Minister's Aboriginal and Aboriginal Affairs Minister, Ms. Elizabeth Larouche, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, unveiled the sport and recreational infrastructure project that will be achieved in Abitibi East, the construction of a Multisport Center in Malartic. Financial assistance up to $ 6,420,197 will be provided for this purpose. 
"Our government has set clear objectives for physical activity. Quebeckers will meet, within ten years, one of the most fit nations in the world. I am extremely proud to announce today, in Malartic, the participation of our government in the construction of a state-of-the-art multisport center. The realization of this project, in addition to improving the supply of sports trays in the region and to respond to real needs, will be beneficial to the whole community and citizens of the region! "," Said Ms. Larouche. 
This project has been analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the sports and recreational facility support program - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the Eligible costs. 
Across Québec, 84 projects for the development, renovation, development and setting up to sports and recreation standards will materialize through investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from an envelope of $ 50 million allocated as part of the second component of the sports and recreational infrastructure support program - Phase II of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport. At this envelope adds additional $ 80 million to support new projects now. 
It should be noted that these investments are planned in the context of economic lapolitics: employment priority, recently presented by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau. This policy is intended to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, short and medium term. 
Of the $ 565 million in public infrastructure, Ortreles Investments for the modernization of sports and recreation infrastructure, some $ 401 million are devoted to making healthy educational infrastructures from healthier environments to learn. The realization of these projects should allow the creation of about 3,500 jobs. 
"For a year, we have multiplied the actions to improve public infrastructure. We do even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing heavily in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the health, wellness and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible gestures, "Malavoy said. 
