Carleton-sur-Mer- As part of Economic Policy: Priority Employment, the hon. Member for Bonaventure and Parliament Assistant to the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (Fauna and Parks), Mr. Sylvain Roy, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, made public today the sports and recreational infrastructure projects that will be carried out in the bonaventure riding. Financial assistance up to $ 7,655,900 will be provided for this purpose. 
"We must not only encourage people to be active, they must give them the means. To become one of the world's most-like nations, there is a need for athletes of all ages, amateurs or elite, adequate and accessible infrastructures. This is what this financial support, "said Roy. 
These projects were analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the support program for sports and recreational facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the Eligible costs. 
Across Québec, 84 projects for the development, renovation, development and setting up to sports and recreation standards will materialize through investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from an envelope of $ 50 million allocated as part of the second component of the sports and recreational infrastructure support program - Phase II of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport. At this envelope adds additional support of $ 80 million, thanks to the acceleration of investments, to support new projects now. 
It should be noted that these investments are planned as part of the Government of Quebec's economic policy, employment priority, recently presented by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. This policy is intended to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, short and medium term. 
Some $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments for the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructure, some $ 401 million are devoted to making healthy educational infrastructures from healthier environments to learn. The realization of these projects should allow the creation of about 3,500 jobs. 
"For a year, we have multiplied the actions to improve public infrastructure. We do even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing heavily in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the health, wellness and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible gestures, "Malavoy said. 
