Alma - Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Officer Governance, MP Alexandre Cloutier, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, announces the award of financial assistance of more than $ 1.4 million for the construction of a sports, recreational and cultural center in Saint-Gédéon as part of the sports and recreational facilities support program - Phase II of the Fund for Sport Development and Physical Activity. 
"I am extremely pleased to proceed to the official announcement of the participation of the Marois government in the construction of a sports, recreational and cultural center in Saint-Gédéon. To have visited it several times, I can confirm that the gym currently used by the school and municipal clientele is completely obsolete. This project, which is particularly important to me, will allow all the population of Saint-Gédéon as well as children attending the Saint-Antoine primary school to have access to modern and quality infrastructures while expanding the offer sports, recreational and cultural activities, "said Minister Cloutier. 
The Saint-Gideon sports, recreational and cultural center project, estimated at $ 4.7 million, will allow the people to have access to a wide range of activities in a safe and welcoming environment with activities and The school calendar. As a first step, prefabricated spaces adjacent to Saint-Antoine elementary school be housed a gym, a class of music, obsolete and unsecurious heating spaces. Thereafter will begin the construction of a new gym, a municipal and school library, to which a computer laboratory will be connected, two collective locker rooms with associated show spaces, a local teachers' room. Storage, a hall and a mechanical room. There is also a versatile recreation room, a music room and a psychomotricity room. 
Across Québec, 84 projects for the development, renovation, development and setting up to sports and recreation standards will materialize through investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from a $ 50 million envelope allocated as part of the second component of the sports and recreational infrastructure support program? Phase II of the Ministry of Education, Leisure and Sport. At this envelope adds additional support of $ 80 million, thanks to the acceleration of investments, to support new projects now. 
These projects were analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the support program for sports and recreational facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the Eligible costs. 
It should be noted that these investments are planned as part of the Government of Quebec's economic policy, employment priority, recently presented by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. This policy is intended to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, short and medium term. 
Of the $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to the $ 130 million for the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructure, some $ 401 million is devoted to making healthy education infrastructures from healthier environments to learn. The realization of these projects should allow the creation of about 3,500 jobs. 
"For a year, we have multiplied the actions to improve public infrastructure. We do even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing heavily in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the health, wellness and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible gestures, "Malavoy said. 
