Quebec, on March 4, 2018 - Inspires with successful initiatives such as teaching Kamouraska, the official opposition spokesperson for primary and secondary education and school perseverance, Carole Poirier, and spokesperson In terms of national identity, Pascal Bérubé, announced that a government of the Quebecois party, through pilot projects, will offer students of 2nd and 3rd cycles of primary schools of discovery, familiarization and attachment to their identity, their history and reality. 
In short • by the launch of pilot projects, a Quebec party government intends to offer students 2nd and 3rd cycles of primary school from the activities of discovery, familiarization and attachment to their local and regional history. • These activities, in particular With the MRCs and local history companies, will be part of the current "social universe" and "science and technology" fields or as part of the citizenship education course that will replace the ethical course and religious culture. • A $ 20 million will be allocated annually to cover the costs of educational projects, which will have to meet specific criteria. • Ten half-days will be devoted over 3 years. 
"The launch of these pilot projects aims to offer students of 2nd and 3rd cycles of primary school the opportunity to develop an attachment to their region. Learning the local environment, including historical, as we propose, will be in the context of the current fields "Social Universe" and "Science and Technology" or in the Citizenship Education Course that we Let's wish to set up. Schools will participate in pilot projects on a voluntary basis first, then the activities will gradually be extended to the whole Quebec. These activities will be determined according to the needs and realities of the media. We believe that this proposal will have a very positive impact on the knowledge of the identity and local and regional history of our young people, "said Carole Poirier. 
"We live in Quebec, yes, but first, we live in a neighborhood, a village, a region. To know his living environment, the territory we frequent daily, the contribution of men and women who have shaped it is part of the local and national anchor of each of us, "said Pascal Bérubé . 
"We inspired the project to teach Kamouraska; This Bas-Laurentian initiative, developed by the Kamouraska MRC and for 4 years, aims to increase the knowledge and pride of young people with regard to our territory. Our program, once fully implemented, will be equipped with a budget of $ 20 million, an amount that will be used to cover the costs of educational projects, "the spokesman concluded. 
