Quebec- Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, today announced a government investment of more than $ 130 million in sports and recreational infrastructures to encourage the people to adopt a way of life physically active. In total, 84 projects can be carried out throughout Quebec through this financial assistance. 
"As soon as it comes in office, Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, launched a challenge to the population: that Quebec is, within ten years, one of the most fitting nations in the world. To meet this bold and packaging challenge, we need to offer accessible, modern and safe sports and recreation facilities in all regions of Quebec. This is what we are committed to doing by accelerating the investments planned for this purpose, "said Malavoy Minister. 
This total investment of $ 130 million will make it possible to carry out several types of projects: 17 sports and recreational centers or complexes; 12 terrain or sports surfaces for the practice of soccer, football, tennis and others; 12 multisport parks; 11 rinks; 10 gymnasiums, 7 arenas, 7 swimming pools and 8 other various infrastructure projects. 
"To this government envelope adds the investment of project promoters and other private partners, which multiplies the impact of the projects that will be launched to modernize our sports and recreational infrastructures. We believe that the benefits will amount to about $ 375 million, "supported the minister. 
To concretize this vision of a nation in the form, the Government has allocated $ 50 million as part of the second component of the Sport and Recreational Infrastructure Support Program - Phase II of the Ministry of Education, Leisure and Sport. This amount is added additional support of $ 80 million for new construction, modernization and renovation projects for sports and recreational facilities. 
It is also important to clarify that these investments are planned as part of the Government of Quebec's economic policy, recently presented by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. This policy is intended to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, short and medium term. 
Of the $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments for the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructure, mention that some $ 401 million will be devoted to making healthy educational infrastructures from healthier environments to learn. The realization of these projects should allow the creation of about 3,500 jobs. 
"For a year, we have not stopped acting to improve our public infrastructure. We do even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. We stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible gestures, "the minister concluded. 
