Sept-Îles- As part of the economic lapolitics: employment priority, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, accompanied by the member for Duplessis, Ms. Lorraine Richard, announced that an important project. Sport Infrastructure would be achieved in the region through government financial assistance up to $ 3 million. This is the construction of a new seven-Îles aquatic complex. 
This project, the total cost of which is estimated at more than $ 17 million, aims, in particular, to enlarge the current socio-recreational center to allow the development of a new aquatic basin of twenty-five meters to six corridors and ponds. recreational vocation. It has been analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the sports and recreational facilities - phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half the costs. eligible. 
"For a year, we have multiplied the actions to improve public infrastructure. We do even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing heavily in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the health, wellness and quality of life of people. In my view, it's strong and responsible gestures, "said Malavoy. 
"I am very pleased that our government be associated with the realization of this project, which has been providing strong expectations for several years in the region. Thanks to this precious support, the population of seven-islands and the surroundings will soon enjoy a quality, modern and safe sport facility, which will meet their needs, "said Ms. Richard. 
Across Québec, 84 projects for the development, renovation, development and setting up to sports and recreation standards will materialize through investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from an envelope of $ 50 million allocated as part of the second component of the Sports and Recreation Support Program - Phase II of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport. At this envelope adds additional $ 80 million to support new projects now. 
It should be noted that these investments are planned as part of the Government of Quebec's economic policy, employment priority, recently presented by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. This policy is intended to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, short and medium term. 
Some $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments for the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructure, some $ 401 million are devoted to making healthy educational infrastructures from healthier environments to learn. The realization of these projects should allow the creation of about 3,500 jobs. 
