Montreal- The Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Mr. Jean-François Listed, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy , made public sports and recreational infrastructure projects that will be carried out in the Montreal area. Financial assistance up to $ 5,024,076.06 will be provided for this purpose. 
The department's contribution to these projects details as follows: 
"We have before us organizations that have, by presenting sports and recreational infrastructure projects, demonstrated that they are committed to improving the quality of life on their territory. I am convinced that the Montreal population, young people in particular, will be happy to enjoy these modern and quality facilities. This is a concrete impact of the government's willingness to make Quebec one of the most fit nations in the world, "said the minister listed. 
These projects were analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the support program for sports and recreational facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the Eligible costs. 
Across Québec, about 80 construction, renovation, development and development projects of sports and recreational facilities should be achieved through investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from an envelope of $ 50 million allocated as part of the second component of the Sports and Recreation Support Program - Phase II of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport. At this envelope adds additional $ 80 million, to support new projects now. 
It should be noted that these investments are planned in the context of economic lapolitics: employment priority, recently presented by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau. This policy is intended to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, short and medium term. 
Some $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments for the lamination of sports and recreational infrastructures, some $ 430.4 million are devoted to making healthy education infrastructures from healthier environments to learn. The realization of these projects should allow the creation of about 3,500 jobs. 
"For a year, we have multiplied the actions to improve public infrastructure. We do even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing heavily in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being and quality of life. In my view, these are strong and responsible gestures, "Malavoy said. 
