Joliette- The member for Joliette, Minister responsible for the Lanaudière Region and Minister for Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today announced, on behalf of the Minister of Education, the Leisure And sport, Mrs. Marie Malavoy, a financial assistance up to $ 7.5 million would be granted to the Samares School Board to support the construction project of a Multisport Center in Joliette. 
"There was, with reason, many expectations in the community towards this mobilizing project as much for young people and the education community as for the social and economic development of the Great Joliette and North Lanaudière. After supporting this project for almost five years, I am delighted to have the honor today, to announce its realization. The Multisport Center will allow people from here, first of charge young people of course, to benefit from this high-level collective infrastructure. With this major investment, our government is activated so that Lanaudois, too, are among the most fit in the world and that our young people have all the tools in hand to persevere and fulfill to school! Huron said. 
"I want to emphasize in a particular way the unwavering commitment of the three main localities of the Great Joliette, without which this project would never have emerged. These have been unanimous throughout the process. This is the proof of their deep and sincere willingness to serve youth and their population in general. And is important to remember: In the last five years, no party has thought of falling even in times of doubt, "said the President of the Samares School Board, Mr. François Charbonneau. 
Minister Hivon also wanted to thank the Samares School Board for the leadership she has exercised in order to equip the region with high quality sports infrastructure, as well as the elected officials of Greater Joliette, who still have supported the project. "The consensus and synergy that has developed around the project have certainly been a meaningful condition of success," said Hivon. 
All projects have been analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the sports and recreational facilities - phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs. 
Across Québec, 84 projects for the development, renovation, development and setting up to sports and recreation standards will materialize through investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from an envelope of $ 50 million allocated as part of the second component of the Sports and Recreation Support Program - Phase II of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport. At this envelope adds additional support of $ 80 million, thanks to the acceleration of investments, to support new projects now. 
"For a year, we have multiplied the actions to improve public infrastructure. We do even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing heavily in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being and quality of life. In my view, these are strong and responsible gestures, "Malavoy said. 
