Alma - Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Officer Governance, MP Alexandre Cloutier, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, announces the award of financial assistance of more than $ 5.5 million for Phase II of the Mario Tremblay Center in Alma as part of the Fund's Sports and Recreational Facilities Support Program - Phase II Development of sport and physical activity. 
"I was committed to making everything implemented to make sure that the Quebec government is at the rendezvous to support Phase II of the renovation of the Mario-Tremblay Center, it is now done. I am extremely pleased to give the green light to phase II of the work that will complete the renovation project of our Supra Municipal Sports Center. Widely frequented by a large part of the population, this center allows people of all ages to practice different activities. With the finalization of the work, the Mario-Tremblay Center will offer the population of modern and high quality sports and recreational infrastructures, "said Minister Cloutier. 
The Mario Tremblay Center Renovation Project is estimated at more than $ 11 million. The financial contribution of the Marois Government of more than $ 5.5 million complements the financial assembly of the City of Alma and the Lac-Saint-Jean School Board. Phase II will mainly allow the renovation of the pool, rinks and gymnasiums. More specifically, we will complete the pool, locker rooms and stands upstairs as well as an enlargement allowing the addition of a new water basin. Also, the repair of gymnasiums, locker rooms and showers is planned. The ice cream sector will be reviewed with the redevelopment of team rooms, new ice rink and glazed berries and adding spaces for spectators. Finally, the project will complement the refurbishment of facades and outside the Mario-Tremblay Center. 
Across Québec, 84 projects for the development, renovation, development and setting up to sports and recreation standards will materialize through investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from an envelope of $ 50 million allocated as part of the second component of the sports and recreational infrastructure support program - Phase II of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport. At this envelope adds additional support of $ 80 million, thanks to the acceleration of investments, to support new projects now. 
These projects were analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the support program for sports and recreational facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the Eligible costs. 
It should be noted that these investments are planned as part of the Government of Quebec's economic policy, employment priority, recently presented by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. This policy is intended to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, short and medium term. 
Of the $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to the $ 130 million for the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructure, some $ 401 million is devoted to making healthy education infrastructure from healthier environments to learn. The realization of these projects should allow the creation of about 3,500 jobs. 
"For a year, we have multiplied our actions to improve our public infrastructure. We do even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing heavily in our sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the health, well-being and quality of life. In my view, these are strong and responsible gestures, "Malavoy said. 
