Pohenegamook- As part of the economic policy: priority employment, the Minister of Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, today announced that five sports and recreational infrastructure projects would be carried out in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region. Financial assistance up to $ 1,829,792, will be provided for this purpose. 
"The realization of these projects will give a thumbs up to the regional economy. This means not only many jobs created or maintained, but above all the presence of quality sports and recreational infrastructures that will allow the people to practice its favorite activities in a safe and adapted settings, "said Mr. Bérubé. . 
These projects were analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the support program for sports and recreational facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the Eligible costs. 
Across Québec, 84 projects for the development, renovation, development and setting up to sports and recreation standards will materialize through investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from an envelope of $ 50 million allocated as part of the second part of the sports and recreational facilities support program? Phase II of the Ministry of Education, Leisure and Sport. At this envelope adds additional support of $ 80 million, thanks to the acceleration of investments, to support new projects now. 
It should be noted that these investments are planned as part of the Government of Quebec's economic policy, employment priority, recently presented by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. This policy is intended to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, short and medium term. 
Some $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments for the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructure, some $ 401 million are devoted to making healthy educational infrastructures from healthier environments to learn. The realization of these projects should allow the creation of about 3,500 jobs. 
"For a year, we have multiplied the actions to improve public infrastructure. We do even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing heavily in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being and quality of life. In my view, these are strong and responsible gestures, "Malavoy said. 
