Quebec- The Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women, and Minister responsible for the Regions of the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches, Agnès Maltais, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Marie Malavoy, made public sports and recreational infrastructure projects that will be carried out in the Capitale-Nationale region. Financial assistance up to $ 19,162,072.68 will be provided for this purpose, of which $ 7,500,000 announced on December 8 as part of the construction of a sports complex at Rochebelle High School and 2 987 $ 824.48 announced on February 6th by the Prime Minister for the construction of a Attractive and Recreational Regional Center in Beaupré. 
The department's contribution to these projects details as follows: 
"If we want to give Quebeckers and Quebecers the taste to move more, we need to provide them with places where all, whatever their age, will be able to practice their physical activity in a safe and adapted setting. This is what our government does by the massive investments it carries out in sports and recreational infrastructures, "Ms Maltais said. 
These projects were analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the support program for sports and recreational facilities - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the Eligible costs. 
Across Québec, nearly 80 projects for the development, renovation, development and setting up to sports and recreational facilities should be done through investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from an envelope of $ 50 million allocated as part of the second component of the Sports and Recreation Support Program - Phase II of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport. At this envelope adds additional $ 80 million, to support new projects now. 
It should be noted that these investments are planned in the context of economic lapolitics: employment priority, recently presented by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau. This policy is intended to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, short and medium term. 
Of the $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investments for the modernization of sports and recreation infrastructure, some $ 430.4 million are devoted to making healthy education infrastructures from healthier environments to learn. The realization of these projects should allow the creation of about 3,500 jobs. 
"For a year, we have multiplied the actions to improve public infrastructure. We do even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing heavily in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being and quality of life. In my view, these are strong and responsible gestures, "Malavoy said. 
