The story is recurrent: the federal government tries to impose its conditions with health and education transfers in the fields of competence of Quebec. Government after government, Liberal as Conservative, Quebec refuses. He refused, he currently refuses and he will refuse in the future. The federal government tries to finance the municipalities directly, the Quebec government must once again get up and protect its jurisdictions, political responsibilities and priorities. 
The Legault government uses the same strategy against the Quebec population, against democracy, against the sound management of the common good and against the protection of the environment. With Bill 61 [1] and using the pretext of the pandemic, it tries to counter the current safeguards that are needed to finance and carry out large public projects. This summer, the tour of François Legault across Quebec has turned into arguing seduction that only CAQ defends the realization of major infrastructure work. As if without the PL61, Quebec was stopped and could not develop anything. From this strategy that goes against our laws and regulations as well as parliamentary work, we are particularly surprised and shocked. 
Collectively, we must be proud of the eludes, organizations and thousands of citizens who refuse to lift the guardians in terms of granting and management of contracts by the Quebec state. We applaud the meaning of the responsibilities shown by the elected representatives of the opposition to the National Assembly. It is not folding over this undue pressure that Quebec's development will be diligent and ordered. Moreover, even the list of projects is still a centralized vision of what is good for each part of Quebec. Why not ask each region its priorities instead of imposing them as often tries to do Ottawa vis-à-vis Québec? 
We, Québécois activists and activists, fully support the realization of infrastructure projects in all regions of Quebec but without failing our laws and regulations. 
At the end of the crisis, the revival of the Quebec economy will include public investment. However, if Quebeckers want an acceleration of major infrastructure work, they do not want to relive the years of collusion and corruption that forced the establishment of the Charbonneau Commission. They especially want these great works to come true with a social consensus and respecting all our environmental protection laws. 
The Legault government must therefore provide the corrective requirements for Bill 61 and we want the ELU.s.s, organizations and citizens continue to put pressure in the interest of all our regions and from all Quebeckers. 
Other signatories: 
Clement ArseneaT, Verchères 
Sylvain Barrette, Jean-Talon 
Mario Beauchesne, Arthabaska 
Aline Beauchamp, Saint Rose 
Line Beaudin, Gaspé 
François Beaulne, Richelieu 
Lyne Bélanger, Drumond-Bois-Francs 
François Bérard, Bourget 
Mathieu Bernier, Bas-Saint-Laurent 
Mario Blanchard, Granby 
Chantal Boivin, Bellechasse 
Linda bossed, taillon 
Katia Bouchard, Hochelaga-Maisonneuve 
Julie Boucher, Berthier 
Roxanne Bourget, Chomedey 
Daniel Brassard, Jonquière 
Michel Breton, Estrie 
Frédéric Burque, Roussillon 
Robert Carrier, Thousand Islands 
Alain Castonguay, Vachon 
Thérèse Chaput, Joliette 
Céline Charest, Chambly 
Loïc Chartier, Chicoutimi 
Martin Clément, Chapleau 
Patrick Côté, Argenteuil 
Vincent Couture, River-Du-Loup-Témiscouta 
Yves Dumas, Saint-Laurent 
Etienne Evans, Mont-Royal-Outremont 
Raymond Faucher, Orford 
Jonathan Fraser Gagnon, Chauveau 
Michel Forget, South Côte-du- 
Paul Gagné, Abitibi West 
Alexis Gagné-Lebrun, Montérégie 
Jerome Gagnon, Nicolet-Bécancour 
Claude Gauthier, Lafontaine 
Yves Garneau, Grand-Lévis 
Cédric G-Ducharme, the patriots 
Olivier Gendreau, Jeanne-Mance-Viger 
Jean-René Giguère, Duplessis 
Christian Generous, Ste-Marie St-Jacques 
Mathieu Gomez, Laurier-Dorion 
Jean Hudon, Taschereau 
Alexandre Jobin, port-nine 
André Julien, Verdun 
Olivier Lacelle, North Montreal 
Guillaume Lacroix, Blainville 
Philippe L.Depatie, Anjou Louis-Riel 
Patrick-André Lavoie, Vanier-les-Rivières 
Paul Lavoie, Saint-François 
Manon Leclerc, Rouyn-Noranda 
Francis Lepage, North Shore 
François Leroux, Laporte 
Jonathan Massy Chagnon, Assumption 
Jonathan Mattson, Ungava 
Daniel Michelin, Montarville 
Sylvie Moreau, Vimont 
Nicole Morin, Maskinongé 
Marysa Nadeau, Hull 
Let's get it 
Diane Ouellet, Labelle 
Normand Ouellette, the plains 
Carole Ouellette, Laurentians 
Richard Perreault, Laviolette-Saint-Maurice 
Mathieu Package, The Prairie 
Pierre Poirier, Champlain 
Jean-François Primeau, Rosemont 
Rémi Proulx, Sainte-Hyacinthe 
Pierre Paquette, Robert-Baldwin 
François Package, two-mountains 
Alain Querry, Acadie 
Jeannine Richard, Gaspésie-les-Islands 
Michel Senechal, Chateauguay 
Andrée Sylvain, Lévis 
Jacques Seminaro, Marie-Victorin 
Jules Simard, Roberval 
Roberte Sylvestre, Rousseau 
Mireille Theoret, Beauharnois 
Manon Thériault, Louis-Hébert 
Serge Touter, Trois-Rivières 
Jean-Frédéric Vaudry, Marquette 
[1] Act for the revival of the Quebec economy and the mitigation of the consequences of the state of health declared on March 13, 2020 because of the Pandemic of COVID-19 
