Montreal- Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, "said the board members of the Canadian Federation of Agriculture this morning. The Hilton Montreal Bonaventure hotel. He presented them with the main axes of the food sovereignty policy and told them about the agricultural and agri-food sector, including those of the defense of the management of the supply and reciprocity of the standards. 
Mr. Gendron took care to clarify that the policy of food sovereignty is adapted to Quebec reality and reflects the aspirations and expectations of artisans in the bioalimentary sector, recalling that this policy is based on three major objectives, either ensuring. All Quebeckers a quality food supply, at fair prices and good for their health; Increase the proportion of food with food from here and developing a prosperous bioalimentary sector, remunerative, employment generator, environmentally friendly and contributing to the dynamic occupation of Quebec. 
In terms of international trade, the minister reiterated the importance of maintaining the advocacy efforts in the trade agreements negotiations. "International markets offer potential for increased Canadian and Quebec exports and I have always been favorable to it. I reiterated with the Minister Ritz, at the Federal-Provincial Meeting held in Halifax, two weeks ago, the importance of maintaining the supply management, "said Gendron. The Minister also added that the federal government is necessary to tighten and clarifies the rules applicable to imported products competing with the products under supply management and maintains the necessary border controls. 
The regulatory differences between countries and border controls are an important concern of the Quebec Bioalimentary Partner Concertation Table. It is from the perspective of "reciprocity of standards" that the latter addresses these issues, including those related to gaps in the health, phytosanitary or labeling rules. "It is important for agricultural and agri-food companies to fight equally with their foreign competitors. Minister Ritz assured me that he would look at the question, "said Gendron. 
To learn more about the food sovereignty policy, consult the blog (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) or the website (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and diet. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
