Quebec, November 18, 2016 - In response to the decision of the Director of Criminal and Criminal Prosecutions on allegations of sexual abuse against Aboriginal women, the spokesman for the Parti Québécois in Aboriginal Affairs, Alexandre Cloutier, the door Word in the field of women's condition, Mireille John, and the public safety spokesperson, Pascal Bérubé, reiterate the holding of an independent Quebec survey on the relationship between Aboriginal women and police. 
Aboriginal women are bitterly disappointed and abandoned; Alexandre Cloutier believes that it is essential to restore the trust link, currently broken. "The report tabled yesterday by me Fannie Lafontaine is clear. It reads that "in a crisis situation, a criminal investigation is necessary, but it is insufficient." It is therefore absolutely necessary that an expanded investigation into relations between Aboriginal nations and police forces is triggered. We have been calling for it for months. The Liberal government can not abdicate its responsibility; He has the duty to go deeply. He can not use the pretext that the federal government holds its own commission of inquiry because it does not have the same objective, "he said. 
"The Lafontaine report also specifies that the need for protection and support for victims is urgent. Since one year, the government has not put any emergency action forward to support these victims. Why, during the unveiling of the sexual violence strategy, the minister responsible for the status of women has proposed nothing about supporting Aboriginal women? , "Added Mireille John. 
The Parti Québécois is also dissatisfied with the investigation process. "The police investigated the police. We, however, claimed many times that the government mandates the Office of Independent Investigations to conduct the investigation. Unfortunately, the Liberal government refused to respond to our request. The result is that Aboriginal women no longer confidence in the justice system. It's serious! ", Estimates for his share Pascal Bérubé. 
"While we were in the government, we undertook extensive consultation with a view to developing a government action plan to counter racism and discrimination against Aboriginal people. The Liberal government did not follow this initiative. In light of recent events, this action plan is all the more necessary, and its application is urgent, "concluded Alexandre Cloutier. 
