Quebec- In order to regain public confidence, when it comes to justice and appearance of justice, the hon. Member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, asked the Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard To entrust the survey of allegations of abutments to Aboriginal women and aimed at eight VAL-D'OR police officers to an independent committee. The Director of the Office for Independent Investigations (EIB), which is already appointed, could indeed create a Hocformed Committee of Independent Persons, to conduct the investigation until the EIB is functional. 
"Last Thursday, I was already doing this request to the Prime Minister. He got up and told us that he was comfortable with a police investigation on the police. Obviously, the Prime Minister considers that police bodies can conduct an independent investigation of other police officers. However, our duty, as parliamentarians, is so much to ensure the victims that a full and complete justice will be made to preserve the public confidence in the police. The survey triggered by the government does not make it possible to fulfill this second obligation, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"The allegations survey is one thing. It is important, however, to look at the living conditions of Aboriginal people. That is why my colleague Carole Poirier has obtained an initiative mandate on the living conditions of Aboriginal women in relation to sexual assault and spousal violence, "he added. 
The Leader of the Official Opposition has recalled that the Protector of the Citizen said yesterday, in the interview, that the investigation should be entrusted to the EIB. "What would prevent the director of this office from creating a hoc investigation team? It would give more credibility to the current investigation, "she said. 
"In light of the protection of the Protector, the Prime Minister should realize that entrusting the investigation to an independent committee is the only thing to do. Yet today, the government rejected our motion that went to that effect. In addition, the Prime Minister says he always confidence in his minister of public safety, despite his admission that she had been aware of the allegations for several months already. In short, since the beginning, this file is managed in a erratic way, result, first, of a lack of judgment by Minister Thériault, "concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
