Quebec- While new cases of aboriginal women who are victims of sexual assaults have been denounced, the spokesman for the Parti Québécois on public safety, Pascal Bérubé, the spokesperson for the status of women. Carole Poirier, as well as the indigenous business spokesperson, Guy Leclair, wonder why the government still refuses to trigger independent investigations of cases revealed by investigating journalists. 
Let us first remember that the government of the Parti Québécois created the Office of Independent Investigations (EIB), and that the Minister of Public Safety has the power to give it the mandate "to investigate any event involving an agent of the peace ". The EIB would also be operational as of April 2016. "What does this government expect to entrust the EIB to the Aboriginal Women's Aggression Survey? Moreover, how is it that the training budgets of Quebec Security Police on Aboriginal reality have been sabrated? The responsibility of a Minister of Public Security is to correct this situation as soon as possible, "Pascal Bérubé insisted. 
"When cases of sexual abuse suffered by Aboriginal women in Val-d'Or have been revealed, the Liberal government has refused to trigger independent investigations to shed light on events. Today, new cases are added; This has just demonstrated that these Aboriginal women experienced is not an isolated phenomenon. Lise Thériault, as Minister of Public Security, had said not to independent investigations. Is as minister responsible for the female status, she recognizes her mistake? When will it act to protect these women? There is urgency, all this has lasted enough! "Insisted Carole Poirier. By the case that investigations are triggered, the spokesperson suggests to the Government to put forward measures to stop the so-called "geographical cure", which consists of abandoning aboriginal people in the middle of nowhere, the time than the effects of alcohol dissipate. "It would be a good start, if we really want to do justice to Aboriginal people," she said. 
"Last fall, Prime Minister Philippe Couillard stated that the whole society was responsible for the situation in which Aboriginal communities were, especially Aboriginal women. Now is the time to demonstrate that words want to say something for the Prime Minister and his ministers. The government does not have the right to drop these women, "concluded Guy Leclair. 
