Quebec- "How has the Minister of Public Safety responded when it was awarded a few months ago that eight police officers in Quebec would have rehearsed the repetition of Aboriginal women in Val-D 'Gold? It decided that it would be the security of Quebec, which would investigate the police officers of Quebec. As if this case was commonplace, as if it was USUAL AS. Now, now that Radio? Canada has revealed history in broad daylight, it pays tears in front of the cameras. These tears, the minister should have paid them in the spring, and do something at that moment? ", Are Pascal Bérubé, Carole Poirier and Guy Leclair, members of the Parti Québécois respectively Public Safety, Status of Women and Aboriginal Affairs respectively. 
"Yesterday, when Pierre Karl Péladeau questioned the Prime Minister to ask for a real investigation, above all suspicion, Philippe Couillard responded that the current investigations were sufficient, that there was no problem. For him, the safety of Quebec which investigates eight police officers of Quebec, it is an independent investigation! Then, suddenly, following the diffusion of a report, the government changes its shoulder rifle and entrusts the survey to the SPVM. It's a real stuffing. We face a government that wants to preserve its image than to help aboriginal women, "pursued Pascal Bérubé. 
" That's enough! As a society, it will be necessary to stop close to the physical, psychological and sexual violence against women. This violence is real, more affects Aboriginal women, and it continues with impunity in a situation of abuse of power. Aboriginal women deserve better, and we no longer have the right to remain silent, "has insisted Carole Poirier. 
"Government laxity in the file is unacceptable. Where is the Minister responsible for Aboriginal Affairs? For the last five months, he has been lobbying on his colleague to public safety to trigger a public inquiry and suspends the police involved? Geoffrey Kelley is assumed to be the first Aboriginal advocate in the government. Was he only aware of the situation? His silence in the file is troubling, "said Guy Leclair, who also wanted to thank the journalists who have allowed to update this unacceptable situation. 
