Montreal- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, accompanied by the Mayor of Montreal, Mr. Denis Coderre, and the Mayor of Longueuil, Mrs. Caroline St-Hilaire , announced the addition of seven steps to mitigate the impact of the closure of a second lane on the Champlain Bridge. 
"A two-lane-by-way traffic management scenario has been unanimous, mentioned Minister Gaudreault. This configuration of the Champlain bridge provides mobility and security of users in context, "he added. 
The bus route in the Champlain Bridge Corridor, although you amputée of the Even Infrastructure Section, offers an alternative choice to users. This reserved lane allows easy access, reducing congestion points on either side of the bridge. 
In the coming days, the metropolitan transport agency, with the collaboration with the company the bridges Jacques Cartier and Champlain incorporated, will prolong the reserved lane between Marc-Cantin Street and the old toll station, giving even more direct access. and fast at the bridge during peak period. On the side of the south shore, patrollers will be added to facilitate the insertion of the buses to the bridge after the reserved lane, which extends from the Chevrier parking at Highway 15, avoiding a lot of recurrent congestion. 
Also, the ILC and RTL transport holders will be able to use them on the suburban trains of the Mont-Saint-Hilaire lines and Candiac to which cars were added last week. Remember also the addition of cars on the yellow line of the metro. 
"Motorists must consider collective transportation to plan their displacement," said Minister Gaudreault. Additional cars did not reach their full capacity and can accommodate new passengers. Without the accession and participation of the population, regardless of the measures put in place, there will be no possible improvement in traffic. » 
Demobility partners Montréréside their work to implement, where appropriate, new measures. 
In order to facilitate the mobility of people and goods in the coming weeks, the collaboration of all is requested. Collective transportation and carpooling therefore represent winning solutions to facilitate travel between the South Shore and Montreal. 
Consult the Montreal Mobility of the SitequeBec511.Infopour section monitor the implementation and range of measures in place and thus better plan your trips. 
Collective transport and reserved routes 
Increased capacity on other bridges 
