Sainte-Angele-de-Prémont- The member for Champlain, Mrs. Noëlla Champagne, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to the Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, and the Vice -Premier Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François GENDRON, the allocation of financial assistance of nearly $ 130,000 for the opening to the public of the New France Farm located in Sainte-Angele-de-Prémont. 
For this project, the Ministry of Finance and the Economy has paid a financial contribution of $ 85,000 from the Support Program for the Recovery and Retention of Strategic Enterprises and Troubles in difficulty. This aid has supported the establishment of a gluten-free product processing center. As for the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, it grants nearly $ 45,000 under the Pilot Support Program for Agriculture Multifunctionality and Agricultural and Agri-Food Development Program. 
"It's always a pride in finding the dynamism and boldness of our entrepreneurs. Today we have the result of hard work done by people who had a vision and who went to the end of their dreams. This is an innovative and structuring project that places in the forefront of our agricultural and rural heritage Quebec. It is a duty for our government to support this type of initiatives that create jobs and contribute to the influence of our local products, "Ms. Élain Zakab said. 
"I am always a pleasure to support large projects that focus on the diversity of the bioalmic sector while supporting its development and boom. Agritourism is a complementary activity of agriculture and helps to discover the Quebec terroir and stimulate the dynamism of the regions. What's more, the New France Farm Project Framework perfectly with the Quebec government's food sovereignt policy, "said Francois Gendron. 
Thanks to this financial assistance, the New France Farm has set up an agritouristic interpretation center that will highlight the rural and agricultural heritage of the region and which will also give visitors and tourists the opportunity to meet local producers and to get fruits and seasonal vegetables. 
The support for the recovery and retention of strategic enterprises and the territories in difficulty, component support for the development and economic diversification of a territory, aims to maintain, consolidate and revive business activities. strategic as well as support the economic diversification initiatives affected by the closure of companies. This component is the rest of the Monoindustrial Municipalities (FAMM) Fund and is exclusively for territories that have already begun a development and economic diversification process. 
Also remember that the pilot support for the multifunctionality of agriculture is to encourage projects that recognize and exploit the social, environmental and economic functions of agriculture. With respect to the support program for agricultural and agri-food development in the region, it helps support innovative projects in the sector. 
To learn more about the food sovereignty policy, the blog (www.politicsa.gouv.qc.ca) or the website (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa) of the Ministry of Agriculture , fisheries and diet. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
