Saguenay- The member and candidate of the Quebecois Party of Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, bitterly deplores the final closure of the Novelis Jonquière plant that will result in the loss of some 160 jobs. 
"The Liberal government has failed to find the necessary arguments for Novelis to revisit its position and if it is necessary to recognize that it has tried, it must also be recognized that it has failed and in this respect, the closure of Novelis must also be attributable to him, believes the member of the Parti Québécois. And it pushes me to conclude that foreign companies need to be supervised who want to buy Quebec companies to prevent wild closures like that of Novelis does not reproduce at any end of the field. The Liberal government has no strategy for such situations to occur. With the number of companies come to settle at us who have decided to close, it seems to me that it should have understood that we must act before the company closes, not once the jobs are lost. It is a government to leave it and it is not the first time that workers pay the price. » 
Obviously, Sylvain Gaudreault intends to work in collaboration with all the actors concerned to find a way to revive the company. "The revival of Novelis and the backup of jobs affected by this wild closure will be my priority once the elections are completed. Once again, I am convinced that it is the solidarity and creativity of Quebeckers who will allow us to resolve the situation for the workers. » 
"While the Liberals claim to be champions of the economy, they start their election campaign with a major closure that demonstrates the Liberal government's refusal to support the transformation of the raw material. Saguenay and aluminum, it seems to me that our reputation is no longer to do and yet the Liberals have not been able to convince novelis than investing in Quebec was worth it. It is time to assert itself, to help each other and get rich. It's time to better defend Quebec workers and stand up. It's time to change government! Nicolas Marceau, spokesman for the Parti Québécois in terms of finance and economic development. 
