Montreal - While more than 450 Montreal families have learned, on the eve of the holidays, that they would lose their livelihood by the end of next year, the leader of the official opposition, Jean? François The spokesperson for the Partié Québécois in the field of economy and deputy of Sanguinet, Alain Therrien, as well as the chief official opposition whip of Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, denounce the fact that the government Liberal has completely renounced protecting our manufacturing jobs. 
"We want to express our solidarity to the 454 families who have learned this difficult news at one time of the year as little favorable. What a lack of respect on the part of MONDELEZ, for their employees and for Quebec! However, beyond the particular case, it is to admit that the defeatism of the Liberal government places Quebec in a passive victim position against bad corporate citizens. More than ever, Quebec needs a government that acts vigorously to protect families' jobs, "said Jean? François Lisée. 
"At the Québécois Party, we have a plan to protect our economy and jobs. Unlike the Liberals, we are also determined to protect our social seats through concrete legislative measures. In the same way, we intend to strongly encourage companies to install and maintain their production in Quebec, "said Alain Therien. 
The Parti Québécois offers three flagship measures to achieve this. First, support business times by employees, including providing financial support for cooperatives and providing tax benefits - for example, by allowing tax deferral to facilitate transfers. Then make conditional status grants to a commitment, from companies that will benefit, maintain economic activities in Quebec, including a reimbursement clause in the event of a default. Then, use our extraordinary purchasing power, as a government, to express our preference for the purchase Quebec. 
"Obviously, we will act responsibly and push our actions on the limit of what the trade agreements allow. But when we see the energy with which the Americans defend their businesses and their jobs, especially in the lumber issue, we must take note of the reality: the naivety and the liberal passivity is exceeded ", Concluded the leader of the official opposition. 
