Quebec- The Quebec Party spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisé, denounces the inaction of the Liberal government in the resource issue in addiction. 
"As the Hamad Ministers and Charlebois have been knew for almost three months that their drastic cups with social assistance placed addiction centers in addiction in an untenable location, they made the choice of not helping them and the Let closing, abandoning the people who followed a therapy at the same time, "deplored the member. 
"In three distinct reports on the financial situation and management of centers, commanded by the MTSW, which we have obtained a copy, it is indicated that mismanagement is not the cause of their financial problems, but that it is indeed. Well, social assistance cuts that have placed them in a situation of great precariousness. The various reports recommend that the government enhance the financial support it provides to these centers and prevent it at risk of closure. Despite this, for almost three months, the Liberal government closes its eyes, "added Jean-François Lisée. 
"I arrested the government five times over the past year and, however, the latter has always denied the problem. Even today, he continues to show a shouting lack of empathy towards people who suffer the consequences of his compressions. It is time for the Minister Hamad to come out of his vacation and that he explains to Quebeckers for what reasons his government did not take into account the information provided by the experts he himself mandated to analyze the Finance and the management of the centers and, above all, that it stops haemorrhage to prevent other closures, "concluded the member for Rosemont. 
Here are some excerpts from the reports in question: 
"When implementing the new regulations, the AFDQ provider clientele has massively left the centers, either to have access to their full service or lack of income to defray the therapy costs. (...) This situation could compel several centers to review their offer in the option to stop offering their service in addiction with accommodation. »Report of the Caroline Roy Center (Optim'Hum Consulting Management), page 5. 
"The impacts of the recent measures implanted in May 2015 are: voluntary clientele leak, (...) of the staff out of breath and worried, (...) operations become deficit. Report of Toxi? Cottages (Optim'Hum Consulting), page 40. 
"Revenue reductions (...) arising from government decisions of May 1, 2015 greatly mortgize Melaric's financial position. Meraric Report (Evolia Strategies), page 5. 
"We recommend the government to help Melaric in one or more ways: (...) increase the reimbursement of accommodation costs of about $ 10 per day per resident. Meraric Report (evolia strategies), page 44. 
