Shawinigan-as a result of the announcement of the Shawinigan aluminum production stop by the direction of Rio Tinto Alcan (RTA), the member for Saint-Maurice, Luc Trudel, provided full collaboration and That of his government with employees and the company to accompany them in this process: "It's the end of a great great adventure. This is a difficult time for workers and their families, for subcontractors, as well as the whole community. " 
"We were aware that it could happen anytime, given the current situation of the aluminum market. It is a great shock certainly, but it is unfortunately not a surprise. I held my breath since last winter, while the signals accumulated. But here it's true! "Said the hon. Member. "We will be there and we will do everything in our action to accompany the factory workers who lose their jobs, but also the company in this process of stopping the factory production as well as the city in His economic diversification approaches, "he added. 
As a result of the file, the member has multiplied meetings and interventions since the past autumn. Directorate of the factory, union, senior management, city of Shawinigan and ministers. "The goal that must be fixed is to establish all stakeholders directly concerned to reduce the impact of this end of production on workers, their families, subcontractors, and the city," explained Luc Trudel . 
The hon. Member unveiled the establishment of an action committee formed by representatives of the union, the company, the city and its own. This committee will be mandated to establish an action plan to follow up on the file of the production stop and to accompany Shawinigan in its industrial diversification projects. The Government of Quebec ensures that it will work together with the committee. 
The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, will meet the management of the company and has already mandated Investisse Québec to accompany Rio Tinto Alcan in its reconversion projects of the site. 
The Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Ms. Agnès Maltais, also provided full collaboration on the issue and confirmed the deployment of Quebec's employment resources to ensure maximum reclassification of employees of factory. 
For Mr. Trudel, "it's a new difficult, but Shawinigan has the potential to get up from this hard shot with brio. Already several projects are under construction. More workers could be seen in 5 to 10 years that are currently found on this industrial site. It's a nice challenge, "he said with optimism. 
