Quebec-the member for Lac-Saint-Jean and the official opposition on Aboriginal business, Alexandre Cloutier, the member for René-Lévesque, Marjolan Dufour, and the member for Duplessis, Lorraine Richard, claim the The urgent intervention of the Prime Minister of Quebec, Jean Charest, in order to prevent the situation degenerating on Highway 138. 
"Monday, the leader of the Innu de Pessamit, Raphael Picard, wrote to the Prime Minister to claim a summit meeting with Mr. Charest and the senior management of Hydro-Québec. Due to the lack of government response, the Innu has undertaken this morning an intermittent blocking of Route 138 which could turn into a total blocking in the coming weeks. The Prime Minister must take over this situation and meet the chief Picard to untie the impasse before the situation is surprised, "said Alexandre Cloutier. 
In his letter, Chief Picard claimed, "[...] We find that the Quebec government despises the rights and interests of the Innu First Nation of Pessamit. This situation, which takes disproportionate proportions with your North Plan, must change. 
"It's been twice in three days as the Parti Québécois challenges the Prime Minister to the National Assembly on this issue and that the latter refuses to rise to answer. Since the unveiling of the North Plan, the Prime Minister attempts to believe the people he agreed with all indigenous communities living in the territory of the North Plan. Obviously, this is not the case. Due to the negligence of the government, it is the population that ends up in hostage in a conflict between the Liberal government and the Innu of Pessamit, "added Marjolan Dufour. 
"By inaction and the refusal of the Prime Minister to take the situation in hand, it is the whole population of the North Shore who will have to live with the effects on social peace and the economy of the region. A complete blockade of Route 138 could cause significant harm to the Romaine project. As a result, the Prime Minister must act without delay to prevent the already tense situation from becoming unsustainable for the North Coastal ", concluded Lorraine Richard. 
