Quebec- The Quebec Party spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care, public health and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, and the spokesperson for employment, 'Social economy, the fight against poverty and solidarity, Dave Turcotte, obsolete that the concerns raised for a year materialize with the closure, announced today, from the Melaric dependency intervention center. 
"These are 75 people on the path of reintegration that will be thrown at the street or returned in detention facility because of liberal austerity, not to mention the 16 workers who lose their jobs," lamented Jean-François Lisée. 
Already, last winter, the Parti Québécois denounced the courses to the social assistance made by the Liberal government; These measures, remember, have been described as "discriminatory" and "regressive" by the Human Rights Commission. "The Liberal government has cut the resources, despite the unfavorable opinion of all actors in the fight against addiction. It thus compromised the rehabilitation of 7000 people staying in an intervention center, their benefits had been cut by 80%. At the 75 people left behind by the closure of the Meraric Center are added nearly 1000 others who, between May and October 2015, had to abandon a therapy because of the selective austerity of the Liberal government. It is unfortunate, and we can not remain arms crossed before such a situation. Where is the promised help at the intervention centers by Sam Hamad? Asked Dave Turcotte. 
"Where is the Minister delegated to Rehabilitation, the Protection of Youth and Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, today, while she must help 75 people left behind by closing the center Melaric? Will it continue to defend the indefensible and to pretend that liberal cuts have no impact on people who are trying to free themselves from addiction? "Added Mr. Lisée. 
"We are asking the government to intervene now to prevent the closure of the Meraric Center and that of the forty other centers that are threatened by the liberal cuts. Why stand up to make the burden of austerity to people who, despite their great vulnerability, find the courage needed to try to get by? , Have concluded members. 
