Quebec - At the initiative of the Parti Québécois, the National Assembly today adopted a unanimous motion to force the law adopted by the Federal Parliament for the maintenance of jobs in Montreal, after the privatization of Air Canada . 
"It's been months that worry is real. The closure has all the leisure of a duly planned closure as evidenced by the liquidation of the assets. It is therefore necessary to do everything so that the law be respected and prevent this liquidation, not only to preserve this essential economic activity in the metropolitan area, but also for the 1800 families affected by this decision just as doubtful as brutal, "said the member. of Gouin and spokesperson for the official opposition in terms of transport, Nicolas Girard. 
Thus, the deputies of the National Assembly have unanimously adopted the following motion: 
The member for Gouin recalled that from April 19, 2011, workers from Aveos had submitted to the National Assembly to share their concerns. "Liberal inaction is expensive, 1800 workers have lost their job. They need help today. The adoption of a motion, it is good, but it is not enough. The ball is in Charest government camp to force Ottawa to enforce the law, "continued Nicolas Girard. 
For the Parti Québécois, the attitude of the Conservative government is totally reprehensible. "When Air Canada workers want to exercise their right to strike, Ottawa intervenes and it becomes a national issue. When 1800 workers lose their jobs in Montreal, Ottawa remains marble and do not intervene! It's two weights, two measures, "said the member for Marie-Victorin and spokesperson for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Bernard Drainville. 
It insists that the adoption of this motion is followed by a concrete gesture by the Harper government, totally carefree, insensitive. " Enough is enough. The Federal Minister of Transport, Denis Lebel, hides in his office while 1800 workers are in the street, left to their fate. The law gives it the power to intervene; It's his duty and responsibility. Unlike the Conservatives, we will not let them down, "concluded Bernard Drainville. 
