Quebec- The member for Richelieu and the official opposition spokeswoman for seniors, Sylvain Rochon, and the member for Taillon and spokesperson for health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, denounce the closure of the centers Seniors' day and the forced transfer of services given by the health and social services network to community community. 
"The Minister of Finance said a few months ago that" community organizations can deliver social services, it costs less ". His prime minister had disavowed him the next day. However, it is learned that health facilities have recently been discharged from the activities of seniors' daylight centers by transferring them to community organizations. Day centers offer quality care to our elders. They support families by giving them essential respite and represent, for the most vulnerable of us, a way to get out of isolation. Community organizations already overwhelmed will receive massively requests to provide additional service, but without the need for resources or funding needed, "said Sylvain Rochon. 
"The minister is disconnected from the needs of citizens, which the elders and their caregivers live on a daily basis. It does not take any initiative to provide the necessary patches, both for patients and employees who testify to the breaks of service that affect our health system. In the past few months, in Outaouais, it is a flying team that offers services in three day centers. In Montérégie, day centers were closed in five municipalities: Cowansville, Farnham, Lac-Brome, Bedford and Sutton. Everywhere, we cut, while the needs are screaming and growing. The minister needs to retreat and maintain open day centers, "added Diane Lamarre. 
"Not only does the network are forced to abandon its responsibilities because of the liberal cuts but, in addition, it should not be known. Indeed, in Rivière-du-Loup, a nurse and a recreation technician have been suspended a week without pay for supporting users and their families in their efforts so that the day center services are maintained. It is surprising that the Minister of Health has declared not to be aware of this situation made public, yesterday, by the President of the Quebec Health Interprofessional Federation. This is unacceptable; The gagging law in the health network must stop, "concluded members. 
