Davos - During its global economic participation of Davos last year, Pauline Marois had met Pedro Larrea, President Deferroatlántica, to discuss the possibility of establishing a silicon plant in Quebec. The premier is therefore pleased to announce the next implantation, with us, a new plant in the Spanish company Ferroatlántica, the world's largest growing silicon producer. With investments to total $ 375 million, the FerroatLántica project is structuring for the Quebec economy and will eventually create more than 300 jobs. 
"The obsession of my government since its election is to create jobs in all regions of Quebec. Economic Lapolitics Priority Using Last Fall proposed to use the high excess electricity we have to stimulate investment and employment. The coming to Quebec of the Ferroatlántica project is a concrete repercussion of this policy. Our important surpluses and the possibility of proposing an advantageous pricing have been determining factors, "said the Prime Minister. 
Let us mention that the construction of this plant will also result in the creation of indirect jobs. Many subcontractors and suppliers will benefit from contracts during the exploitation phase. The company is currently analyzing different sites in Quebec for construction, which will begin in the coming months. The plant will start operations at the end of 2016. 
This project also has a strong potential for creating a vertically integrated production chain. Thus, the quartz supply may come partly from the Quebec mining. In addition, residues of Quebec woody matter may be used in the process of producing and transforming metal silicon raw materials. 
"After several meetings and prospecting visits, we have come to the conclusion that Quebec had the different characteristics we identified for the realization of a competitive factory in our field. I would like to thank the representatives of the Government and Investissement Québec, which tightly accompanied us in our efforts, and which allowed us to quickly obtain the information we needed. We greatly appreciated their ability to make us known many very attractive possibilities for several essential aspects of our activities and the completion of the two phases of our project. We visited and analyzed several interesting sites and we should confirm our choice in the coming months, "concluded Mr. Pedro Larrea, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Ferroatlántica Group. 
The Grupo Ferroatlántica is a full-fledged subsidiary of the Spanish Group Villar Mir. FerroatLántica is the world leader in metal silicon production and one of the largest producers of manganese and ferrosilicon alloys. The use of these alloys is mainly intended for the automotive industry, the manufacture of silicone, the development of high performance concrete and the solar panel industry. In 2012, FerroatLántica carried out sales of 1.1 billion euros and employed approximately 3100 people in its 15 factories in Europe, South America, Africa and Asia. 
Present everywhere in the world, Grupo Villar Mir is one of the main Spanish industrial groups belonging to private interests. The group exercises its multiple activities in 40 countries, spread over five continents. In 25 years, Grupo Villar Mir has expanded its fields of expertise to include construction, transportation infrastructure, real estate, electrometallurgy, energy, fertilizers and services. Through its OHL subsidiary, the Group already conducts several projects in Canada in the construction sector, including the University of Montreal Hospital, one of the world's largest hospitals in the world, including the world. budget amounts to more than $ 2 billion. OHL holds a 25% concession and a 50% stake in this construction project. The group also holds a 50% stake in the Toronto metro project, estimated at $ 400 million, which includes a double 3.5 km tunnel, the construction of the 407 highway and 600 surface parking spaces. 
Investissement Québec's mission is to promote investment growth in Quebec, thus contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The company puts companies with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and capital investment, in order to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, it is responsible for the administration of tax measures and prospecting investments abroad. 
