Québec- "An important step has just been crossed to contribute to the health and survival of great premature. Indeed, the National Assembly has adopted yesterday the law of law amending the law on Héma-Québec and on the hemovigilance committee thus gives the green light to Héma-Québec for the creation of a public bank of breast milk for great breast milk. Premature, "said Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert. 
A breast milk bank is a service that aims to ensure the collection, screening, treatment and distribution of human milk, for large premature people who do not receive or too little milk from their own mother. "This project was very expected and enjoys the support of many associations in the field of perinatality as well as several groups of health professionals, including neonatalogists. Above all, the future breast milk bank is a real relief for parents of great premature, who will now be able to count on a solution recognized for its incomparable benefits on the health of small patients, "added the minister. 
The early decrease in certain conditions in premature babies as well as the economy on the purchase of commercial milk for these children ensure that the establishment of a breast milk bank should also result in savings for the network. 
"Héma-Québec welcomes the adoption of the law amending the Héma-Québec law and the Hemovigilance Committee. This amendment will allow it, from the spring of 2014, to provide hospitals from pasteurized breast milk, safe and a recognized nutritional value. It will also modernize some articles and will give the necessary latitude to integrate new responsibilities with the mandate of Héma-Québec, particularly with respect to stem cells, "said Dr. Jean de Serres, President and Head of The direction of Héma-Québec. 
"The manufacture of stem cell products is a booming field in the medical world. This bill brings more flexibility in order to allow Héma-Québec to continue to innovate and stay at the forefront as a regulated producer of human products, consolidating by the very fact its position of choice to help Researchers and universities in this area of activity, "concluded Minister Hébert. 
