Montréal- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, the member for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Daniel Breton, and the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, announced Today the creation of a birthplace in the territory of the Health and Social Services Center (CSSS) Jeanne-Mance. With this facility, the property will soon offer a new option for women in the sector waiting for a child. 
"This birthplace project is an excellent news for future moms and their families, especially those who live in vulnerability context, many in the eastern Montreal sector. At the same time, it shows the importance that our government attaches to the work done by midwives in Quebec. In line with our 2008-2018 perinatality policy, we want to further promote this organizational model, which meets the desire for more and more women, "said Minister Hébert. 
More than 400 families will be able to benefit from the services of the birthplace every year. Parallel to the front-line perinatal services, which include deliveries and pregnancy follow-ups, the birthplace will offer many community activities. Note that in order to promote interprofessional collaboration and knowledge sharing, deliveries will continue to be practiced by midwives at Saint-Luc Hospital. 
"This project was very expected by women and by perinatal organizations. In the long term, its realization will generate more places for deliveries in eastern Montreal and will allow women who wish to benefit from a more intimate environment and an environment designed for natural births, "said Daniel Breton. 
For his part, Carole Poirier added, "As a member of Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, I was able to follow this project closely and I am delighted to see him materialize. This birth house is part of a community vision where everything happens on a human scale. Indeed, midwives are a good example of engagement in their environment. The new house will be the foundation that will allow them to organize their services more efficiently, with the greatest benefit of the community. » 
The Ministry of Health and Social Services will pay $ 300,000 to the birthplace for the purchase of furniture and equipment, and will allocate a recurring additional budget of $ 154,672 to cover its operating costs. In addition, a call for tenders will be launched shortly to find a space to establish the birthplace in Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques. The amount of the rental will be specified at the end of this process and will be added to the amounts announced today. The birthplace should open its doors within 12 to 18 months. 
