Quebec- The Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, entrusts Mr. Guy Morneau the realization of a post-mortem on the management of forest fires of 2013 in consultation with communities and businesses. 
"In order to analyze the forest fire events that took place in the summer of 2013, I mandated Mr. Guy Morneau who has extensive experience in the state administration. The government is concerned about adapting fire protection services to the realities experienced by the population. For this reason, Mr. Morneau is mandated to analyze the means taken by the various stakeholders related to the fight against forest fires, to receive the concerns of the population concerned and to make recommendations to the Government of Quebec. This approach is done with the aim of improving forest fire management, particularly north of the 51st parallel and in Lower North Shore, "said Minister Martine Ouellet. 
The mandate entrusted to Mr. Morneau also includes consultations with groups affected by the events of this summer. Meetings are planned in particular with the elected representatives of the region of Minganie, Aboriginal communities, mining and forestry companies, the SOPFEU, the Quebec Federation of Founders, the representatives of the Chalet owners of the Minganie Government agencies as well as the Ministries concerned. 
"Mr. Morneau will subsequently submit a report that I will make public. I want to make sure that sharing roles and responsibilities in the protection of people, infrastructure and forest resource is optimal in major forest fire. By proposing this approach, our government wants to improve forest fire management and ensure that communities' realities, "added Minister Martine Ouellet. 
Mr. Guy Morneau has held various senior management positions in various government departments and agencies. From 1984 to 1989, he was Vice-President of the Administration and Development of the Administrative Commission for Pension and Insurance Plans. From 1989 to 1994, he acted as a deputy minister associated with the Department of Natural Resources. From 1995 to 1998, he held the position of Associate Secretary General Manager of the Priority Committee at the Ministry of the Executive Board. He subsequently assumed the position of President and Chief Executive Officer of the Régie des Pentes du Québec from 1998 to 2004. Since 2004, he has acted as a trainer and consultant at the National School of Public Administration and is Currently Chairman of the Board of Violins of the Roy and Associate Member of the Network of Expertise in Strategic Consulting Associated with the National School of Public Administration (ENAP). 
