Quebec- On the sidelines of the traditional parade that will close today, the week of activities surrounding the Festival Pride Montreal, the member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the member for Lac-Saint- John and Speaker on Justice, Alexander Cloutier, and the member for Taschereau, Agnès Maltese, have kept reminded that since always, the Parti Québécois is committed to recognize all and all the same rights. 
"Quebeckers form one of the most progressive, open and inclusive peoples in the world. We are recognized as pioneers as to the recognition of the rights of people LGBT, in particular. We can be very proud of this reality, but we also have the duty to remain vigilant to avoid the declines; We must be aware that part of the fight to overcome homophobia, in all its forms, remains to be conducted, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
It was under a government of the Quebecois Party, in 1977, that the prohibition of discriminating a person on the basis of his sexual orientation was included in the Charter of Rights and Freedoms. "We paved the way by becoming the first jurisdiction in North America to take this giant step. Nearly forty years later, we must continue this march towards equality, stressed Alexandre Cloutier. In 2013, our government piloted the adoption of a bill that lifted several administrative barriers facing transgender and transgender people. Then last May we did to the Minister of Justice many proposals that would make it possible to promote their inclusion and emancipation, including to facilitate the change in marital sex. This step forward would do Quebec a leader in the recognition of the rights of trans; We strongly want the minister to respond to these recommendations. » 
"Quebec is a land of equity and tolerance, and it is important to demonstrate it. The parade of pride is one of the opportunities to seize! I am very happy that the Parti Québécois is represented, among others by my colleagues Carole Poirier and Bernard Drainville, as well as many activists of all ages and all cultures. Equality and recognition of rights is our business to all, and we must take care of it! I would also like to thank the organizing committee of Pride Montreal, which, as every year, has invested a lot of effort to make this great popular gathering a success, "said Agnès Maltese. 
