Quebec, March 5, 2018 -The chief and spokesman of the official environmental and climate change opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, the spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Sylvain Rochon, and the head of the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine Region, Sylvain Roy, claim that the Minister of the Environment, Isabelle Melançon, entrusts BAPE a generic mandate to study the issues related to the Exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in Gaspésie. 
IN SHORT 
"Several issues are at the heart of the concerns of the Gaspésians: the economic benefits for Gaspésie, the effects on other sectors of activity, such as tourism, the impacts of hydraulic fracturing or another similar chemical process on the water. drinking and air, the contribution of projects to GHG emissions, etc. To gain people's trust, it is essential to provide them with complete and objective information, and give them the opportunity to express themselves, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"After a law on hydrocarbons adopted under gag, in the middle of the night, and the regulations that escaped any public debate, does the government want to deprive the population of the Gaspésie objective data that BAPE could provide it on the Exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the territory? Opinion surveys show that the Gaspéisians are very concerned about the technique of hydraulic fracturing that neither the Liberals nor the CAQ have consented to prohibit, according to the proposal of the Parti Québécois. Citizens, however, have the right to know if the use of this technique and similar processes are common at home, "said Sylvain Rochon. 
For its part, Sylvain Roy emphasizes that the touching victory of Ristigouche-part-southeast facing the oil company Gastem is important because it recalls that municipalities have the power to adopt regulations to protect the environment (particularly their sources of water) on their territory against any activity that could alter the quality of their drinking water. "The Liberal government, which has become widely involved throughout this case, must draw political lessons and listen to the municipalities, which require it to change the regulation on the protection of drinking water. As far as I'm concerned, as a deputy independentist and deputy of the region, I will defend the territorial sovereignty of my population, "he insisted. 
For the Parti Québécois, any project currently underway related to the exploration or exploitation of hydrocarbons must imperatively ensure social acceptability, contribute to reduce our ecological footprint, and not to use hydraulic fracturing or a similar chemical process. 
Remember that last December, the elected representatives of the MRC La Côte-de-Gaspé gave until 1mars 2018 to the Government of Quebec to put in place a complete information mechanism on the development of Gaspésian hydrocarbons, and This, in order to evaluate, among other things, their economic benefits and their environmental consequences. 
