Quebec- The member for Marie-Victorin, Bernard Drainville, is pleased that the National Assembly will formally decide on a proposal that he has led with his colleagues in Gouin and Rousseau, Nicolas Girard and Nicolas Marceau, at the National Congress From the Parti Québécois in April 2011 to limit the annual contribution to a political party at $ 100. 
"It took two years to convince the Liberal ministers to lower the maximum contribution to a political party from $ 3,000 to $ 1,000. The PLQ has sold under pressure by the multiplication of scandals and revelations. It's not a motive to stop on the way, there is a need for real popular funding, "said Bernard Drainville. 
The Québécois party is pleased that the CAQ and François Legault, after playing on the two tables for months, appear clearly in favor of the position adopted by the Parti Québécois there is already more than a year. However, Bernard Drainville is still questioned on Quebec's position in Quebec that prefers a maximum contribution to $ 500. 
The members of the National Assembly will therefore have to vote on Wednesday, May 9, on the following motion: 
"In accordance with the Program of the Parti Québécois adopted at the National Congress of 17 April 2011, that the National Assembly requires that the financing rules of political parties be modified so that the maximum annual contribution by voter is $ 100. » 
"For years, there are no longer revelations involving doubtful funding strategies. The most recent, including the organization by Cocktail Engineering Firms of the PLQ or the presence of an alleged member of the Mafia during a breakfast with Minister Line Beauchamp, contribute to cynicism and undermine the Citizens' confidence in our political institutions and elected officials. To restore confidence, we must keep the policy out of the undue influence of fundraisers and lobbies. We invite Liberal members to put aside their partisan interests and those of their friends in order to act for the common good and for Quebec, "concluded Bernard Drainville. 
