Montmagny - Present at the launch of the farmhouse of Montmagny, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is proud to announce the allocation of financial assistance totaling more than $ 285,000 for the holding of this edition will take place until 25 August. 
For the first time this year, Montmagny will be the hostess city of the Quebec final of animal judgments. Recall that this provincial final constitutes, for all the breeders of the agricultural Quebec, a springboard to international competitions. The activity also represents an opportunity to build business links and develop a successful meeting place and exchange for succession, which holds its classic rural youth. 
"Appointments like the Montmagny Expo, who are part of the summer exits of many Quebeckers, make it possible to showcase the work and skills of our farmers. So that's an excellent pretext to shine our agri-food know-how, "said the minister. 
For the minister, there is no doubt that agricultural exhibitions are extraordinary showcases to publicize Quebec's food. "When a consumer falls in love with a product he has discovered during his visit, there is a good chance that he takes the habit of putting him in his grocery basket or he asks him to his merchant, if he does not find it on the tablets. This fits perfectly with the objectives of the food sovereignty that we have unveiled in May, "added Gendron. 
Financial assistance is granted under the financial support program to agricultural exhibitions, which aims to support in a structured way the agricultural exhibition network as well as to support the growth and development of agriculture and of the Quebec agribusiness. It should be noted that every year agricultural exhibits host nearly one million visitors. 
To learn more about the food sovereignty policy, the blog (www.politicsa.gouv.qc.caou websitewww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politique) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
