Québec- Believing that the funding of community organizations must be enhanced, the spokesman for the Quebecois on social services and youth protection, Dave Turcotte, and the spokesperson for seniors as well as against poverty and fight against intimidation, social and solidarity economy, Harold Lebel, support the campaign "Commit to the community", in which 4000 Community action agencies across Quebec will mobilize This week, to raise awareness of their mission. 
"The financing of these organizations must be adequate. More than ever, we see the disastrous effects of liberal austerity on vulnerable people who benefit from the support of community organizations. Indeed, there are more and more young people, families and elders who need help, and organizations have fewer and fewer resources to accompany them, "said Dave Turcotte. 
"If he refuses to enhance their funding, the government compels these agencies to rationing their services, which will deprive thousands of vulnerable people of support which is essential to them. At the Parti Québécois, we believe that the wealth of a society is also measured by the way it takes care of the poorest, and this involves supporting community organizations. With the Liberal Party in power, a cut does not wait for the other, and the situation is constantly deteriorating, "says Harold Lebel for his part. 
MEPs reminiscent that in the fall of 2013, the government of the Parti Québécois had announced a significant increase in budgets allocated to community organizations, following the unanimous adoption of a motion claiming such enhancement. However, this did not prevent the Liberals from their arrival in 2014 to cancel this increase. "Never have we seen a government on so much inconsistency," they denounced. 
"The government must recognize their autonomy and ability to act according to their values. He must also stop requiring them that they provide services for which itself has disengaged. Our leaders have a duty to sit down with organizations and recognize once and for all the valuable work they are doing on a daily basis and the social net they represent. The Parti Québécois will bear the voice of the community community at the National Assembly; The well-being of our society ", have concluded the spokespersons. 
