Quebec- The member for Rosemont and spokespersons of the Parti Québécois on social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, denounced, at a press point, Morning, the disastrous effects of liberal austerity for vulnerable people who benefit from the support of community organizations. On this occasion, the member was accompanied by representatives of the Regional Table of Community Organizations (barter) Center-du-Québec / Mauricie and the Troc-Montérégie. 
"Concrete testimonies on the impact of liberal austerity on the services rendered to the poorest citizens flock. In a food bank serving the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, there are 2700 additional requests for help that have been received this year, bringing the total to 18,700. However, the organization has been forced to DISPOSITING THE SERVICES OF A FULL TIME EMPLOYEE, FORMING MEANS. Today, I join my voice with that of community organizations in the region who ask the government to take the measure of the consequences of its decisions and to give the means to those in the field to support people in need, " said Mr. Lisée. 
"In the region, there is an increase in home maintenance demands and for food security services, and in any case, community organizations do not provide, given the demand. Another example: In Bécancour, one of the two street worker positions had to be removed and an organization had to stop offering homework assistance to some 100 young people in need, "added the holder. Word. 
"The situation is no more rose in Montérégie, where organizations, to meet the two ends, find themselves in the obligation to rate activities or the food repair service, which were previously free. Other examples: The closure of youth houses on weekends and the decline in community support for supervised apartments dedicated to young people aged 16 to 23 years. The government must realize that they are those who help the most vulnerable that pull the alarm bell today because they can no longer support all those who need it. As they collaborate with different ministries, organizations see the cuts on all sides. In addition, Minister Charleboe still refuses to enhance their PSOC financing, despite her and his government voted in favor of a motion asking for it. It is enough, we ask the government to act now to support those who help the direct victims of the Liberal austerity regime, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
