River-du-Loup - Minister Delegate to Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology , Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is proud to associate with the Eastern Regional Final of the Expo-Sciences Hydro-Québec and invites the population to encourage young exhibitors and exhibitors. 
"The Expo-Sciences offer students a unique chance to carry out a scientific project of their choice. For visitors, it's an opportunity to see all the ingenuity and passion that animate our young people. The valuation of the scientific culture passes among others by the awakening of the interest in science and technology and the expo sciences fulfill admirably this mandate, "said Minister Bérubé. 
Expo-Sciences are a scientific competition for primary, secondary and college young people. It is organized by the CDLS-CLS network, formed of the Scientific Leisure Development Board and nine regional scientific leisure councils. 
The Eastern Regional Final (Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine) will take place from 21 to 23 February at the Cégep de Rivière-du-Loup. Subsequently, the winners and the winners of the secondary school and collegiate will be invited to the Quebec final, which will take place from 10 to 13 April at the Regional CEGEP of Lanaudière in Terrebonne. 
Through its NovaScience Program, the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology grants to the Scientific Leisure Development Board and each of the CLS Annual Financial Assistance to Achieve their mission. It consists of promoting the recreation and scientific culture as well as careers in science and technology in the regional population, and more particularly with young people. 
National Lapolian of Research and Innovation (PNRI) 2014-2019Reconates the role played by this network in promoting science and technology. For 2013-2014, it is an amount of $ 1,582,219 which is paid to these organizations and which serves in particular for the organization of science expans. 
"The Expo-Sciences Hydro-Québec are a unique way to perfect its scientific knowledge because they allow participants to experiment, stand out and excel. It is a concrete trainer activity and I encourage young people to sign up or to visit the various regional exhibitions and the super expo sciences, "launched the Director General of the Scientific Leisure Development Board, Mr. Roland Big house. 
"It is essential to generate the interest of young people for science and technology and to maintain their curiosity and thirst for learning. That's exactly what the science expans are doing, in addition to experiencing the most rewarding experience to participants. My most expensive wish is that these young people cultivate, as a result of their visit to the event, a true passion for scientific disciplines and join a brilliant and innovative scientific succession, "said Minister Duchesne . 
The NPCP is part of the four strategic initiatives of the Employment Priority Policy of the Government of Quebec. It is the result of many consultations with actors from all sectors concerned with research and innovation: companies, educational institutions, state and society. With an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion over five years, it will make it possible to advance Quebec in the knowledge and innovation society. 
For more information on Departmental Programs and Services, including PNRI, visitwww.messt.gouv.qc.ca. 
