Quebec- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves- François Blanchet, are pleased to confirm funding for 2013-2017 of the Véloce II Financial Assistance Program, which will benefit from $ 23 million. Active transportation support is a long-term government commitment: National lasting sustainable mobility commitment announced on February 10thPrevious a $ 35 million investment by 2020 in support for active transportation. 
The Vécoce II program aims to support regional county municipalities (MRCs) and municipalities in their willingness to set up cycling or pedestrian transport infrastructures that promote active travel. 
"Cycling and walking are healthy, economical and ecological practices to get around. By allowing MRCs and municipalities to plan in the longer term the development of active transportation in urban perimeters, we will be able to continue, to my great satisfaction, to offer the population even more alternative solutions to the automobile ", has Declared Minister Gaudreault. 
"Today, before the threat of significant climate change, the need to act to curb the phenomenon is necessary more than ever. And, at home, it is in the transport sector that is the most to do, since it is responsible for almost 43% of all greenhouse gas emissions in Quebec. The announced investments will give new impetus to active modes of transport by developing urban infrastructures in a perspective of mobility and sustainable development of the territory, "said the Minister Blanchet. 
Recall that Véloce II, since its creation and public announcement October 24, 2013, replaces all programs administered until recently by the Ministry of Transport in terms of bicycle infrastructures: the program of financial assistance to the development of the road green; the government assistance program with alternative modes of transportation to the automobile; The Vécoce program (2012 edition) and the Financial Assistance Program for the Maintenance of the Green Road. 
The help program includes 4 components: 
Component 1- Transportation of transport in urban perimetersVolet 2- Green road development and its branchmentsVolet 3- conservation of transport infrastructureVolet 4- Maintenance of the green road 
Funding for the Violace II program comes from the Green Fund under the 2013-2020 Action Plan on Climate Change. This support aims to promote the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions associated with people's displacement. 
