Quebec- The member for Vachon and sentence of the official opposition in terms of transport, maritime strategy and electrification of transport, Martine Ouellet, and the hon. Member for Verchères and spokespersons in terms of ethics and Integrity, Stéphane Bergeron, denounce the end of unjustified contract of the President and CEO of the Transport Metropolitan Agency (AMT), Nicolas Girard. 
"It was Mr. Girard who rectified the AMT as a result of the Fiasco of the East Train, occurred during the passage at the head of the AMT of the former Director General of the Liberal Party, Joel Gauthier. Thanks to Mr. Girard's work, Joël Gauthier is currently under UPAC's investigation, which earned Mr. Girard Congratulations from the Minister of Transport, Robert Poëti. Mr. Girard has been cleaning and demonstrated his manager qualities many times. The Liberal government has no reason to give Quebeckers to motivate this end of contract. Does Philippe Couillard puts his threat of "I will not leave an inch to the sovereignists" at execution, with a unwritten intolerance policy? In question Martine Ouellet. 
It is important to highlight the manager qualities of Nicolas Girard. In 2014, the overall amount of punctuality of the AMT trains was 96.6%, the best networks of suburban trains in North America, in front of the operators of Chicago, Boston, New York and Toronto. Under the guidance of Mr. Girard, the AMT reduced its workforce by 10%, while increasing its service offering by 20%. In 2015, the AMT has also won two private business leadership in the annual convention of the Canadian Urban Transport Association. 
"What is wrong with Nicolas Girard, exactly? Certainly not having done the housework and straightened the finances of the body! Where is the problem, in this case, otherwise the fact that Nicolas Girard has been guilty of a more serious fault, in the eyes of the Liberals, that corruption or incompetence: to be sovereignist! Decidedly, the witch hunt on the Prime Minister to the sovereignists is well launched. In the case of the AMT, the obsession of Philippe Couillard will cost Quebecers and Quebeckers. We lose an outstanding manager, and the planning of the collective transport in the metropolis is likely to suffer from remembrance to which the liberal management has been used to us, "concluded Stéphane Bergeron. 
