Quebec- In the aftermath of the end of the consultations surrounding Bill 20, the member for Taillon and sentence of the official opposition in terms of health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, draws up a sad assessment for patients of Quebec. 
"Of the 46 groups we have heard, 36 told us that the minister is wrong. Indeed, improvisingly imposing patient quotas and tightening criteria for women's procreation treatments for women, Bill 20 further reduce access to care, "said Diane Lamarre. . 
In addition, the minister, by treating patients as numbers, dehumanizes the practice of medicine. "By proposing measures dictating to doctors how to do their job, instead of first looking at the needs of patients, he commits a serious mistake. To achieve its goals, the minister would benefit from focusing his energies on the computerization of the network and interdisciplinarity. It should also be concerned with providing patients with the most appropriate services, closest to them and at the best cost, so as to reduce unnecessary and expensive appeals to hospitals' emergencies, "continued the spokesperson. 
Obscal orientations 
In the eyes of many groups, Bill 20 is an empty shell, since everything will be realized by regulation. However, the admission of directly affected professionals, the minister's regulatory directions are unclear and confusing. A file perfectly illustrates this situation: that of the quotas imposed on physicians as to the number of abortions they are allowed to achieve. 
Assisted procreation: a deplorable decline caused by the obsession of a minister to control everything 
In the consultations, the Minister Barrette had not been corrected for his mania to want to manage everything, even when he moves away from his field of competence. Take the example of the assisted procreation: he wishes to make illegal the use of in vitro (IVF) fertilization for women over the age of 42, impose a minimum period of sexual intercourse before authorizing the treatments, and to control the treatment. Access to IVF by introducing an exclusive tax credit to children without children. However, these aspects should not be in a law, support the groups and experts heard; It is at the College of Physicians that the mandate is to develop guidelines on this subject, and the health care team, as appropriate, which treatments are optimal. 
Gaétan barrette, this big misunderstood 
"To all our questions and those posed by the groups who came to parliamentary committee, the minister refused to answer. He is misunderstood! Nobody, except him, would be able to understand or adequately interpret his bill. I remind him that he will need all the health system workers to achieve his ends; It would therefore be advantageous to listen to them, to mobilize them, instead of confronting them with coercive measures. Several stakeholders asked the Minister to file a comprehensive plan for his reform, in order to obtain, finally, the portrait he alone is at present; We support this idea and demand from the minister that he seamlessly presents his strategy ", concluded Diane Lamarre. 
