Quebec- The rector of Laval University, Mr. Denis Briere, today announced, in the presence of the Minister of Veterans Affairs and Minister of La Francophonie, the Honorable Steven Blaney, the Minister of Labor, Employment and social solidarity and minister responsible for the regions of the Capitale-Nationale and the Chaudière-Appalaches Mrs. Agnès Maltais, and the Mayor of the City of Quebec, Mr. Regis Labeaume, the end of the expansion work of the flag of the Physical Education and Sports (PEPS). 
The conclusion of this important step now allows Laval University to develop new facilities so that they are ready to welcome students, the university community and the regional community next September. 
New infrastructure includes a sports amphitheater with nearly 3100 seats, a water center with an Olympic basin that can accommodate nearly 1000 spectators and an in-room training center accessible to students, athletes of all levels. the whole population of the region. These enlargements and improvements make Peps from Laval University the largest sports complex of Quebec. 
The architectural concept that is largely appealing to wood, the aesthetic qualities of the building as well as the many green measures that have been taken make this pavilion an exemplary building that meets the will of Laval University to erect a compliant infrastructure the principles of sustainable development. 
"Our government's main priorities are employment, growth and long-term prosperity. Our Government recognizes the importance of supporting recreational infrastructure projects with many opportunities for residents, visitors and students to remain active, healthy and participate in sporting events, said the honorable Steven Blaney. We are proud to invest in recreational infrastructure projects such as the PEPS while we focus on job creation, promotion of the growth and building of strong and prosperous communities in Quebec. » 
"The Government of Quebec is proud to be associated with this mobilizing project that testifies to the strength of our regional consultation. I am convinced that thanks to these new modern and high quality facilities, the Capitale-Nationale region can reaffirm its positioning in the organization of high-level sporting events and thus radiate on the international scene. The multisport center will serve the development of elite athletes, while remaining accessible to the population, "said Maltese minister. 
"Today, the expansion of the PEPS is completed and another dream has become reality. These modern facilities testify to the city's willingness to promote an active lifestyle and promote the development of high-level sport in the region. I encourage the people of Quebec to use these magnificent facilities and sports federations to propose them for national and international competitions, "said the Mayor of Quebec, Mr. Regis Labeaume. 
"We are pleased to offer our students, members of our staff and the entire regional community a very high-caliber sports infrastructure that will contribute, in its own way, to the well-being of the population, all in The respect of the financial parameters set out from this ambitious project, "said the rector of Laval University, Mr. Denis Brière. 
This project, whose total cost amounted to $ 81.46 million, could be achieved through investments of the Canada Building Fund - Government of Canada and the Fund for Sport Development and the Fund for Sport Development and the Fund. physical activity of the Ministry of Education, Leisure and Sport. The two levels of government contributed $ 35.73 million each. The city of Quebec, meanwhile, contributed $ 10 million. 
In addition, the Government of Canada has contributed $ 481,000 under the Quebec Economic Development Canada Development Program. 
