Quebec, December 10, 2016 - Meaning of duty and respect for citizens and groups that demanded that their vote be heard at the National Assembly, the members of the Parti Quebecois, including the Leader of the Official Opposition, the Leader parliamentarian as well as the deputy leader and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in terms of energy and natural resources, Jean? François Lisée, Pascal Bérubé and Sylvain Rochon, led the exercise until the end, although they knew the outcome. 
By forcing the adoption of a bill that violates social acceptability, the government has chosen to finish the session by giving satisfaction with tankers rather than citizens of Quebec. As for the CAQ, it showed its true face, pronouncing for hydraulic fracturing and petroleum drilling in the Gaspé berries. For its part, the leader of the Parti Québécois committed to annul this law, which allows expropriation and devoting fracturing, upon arrival in power in 2018. 
"This government believes everything allowed. Without remorse, without anymore, he crowds the common good and democracy. When the Parti Québécois will be elected, we will abolish this odd on hydrocarbons, Chapter 4 of the Energy Transition Act. I take the commitment today, "said Jean? François Lisée. 
"We knew obviously that at the end of the debates, and despite the strong opposition, Bill 106 would be adopted. However, if the government has reached its ends, it should be ashamed of gagging the voice of the citizens of Quebec. Meanwhile, patients, students in difficulty, seniors expect services. Instead of using the last hours of this parliamentary session to correct its many mistakes, it has chosen to devote its time to the oils! On his side reacts Pascal Bérubé. 
Remember that three chapters of Bill 106 were largely consensus. The fourth, on the hydrocarbons, aroused strong concern; The opposition parties, as well as representatives of agricultural, business, legal, environmental, union, scientific and municipal, in particular, have strongly denounced it. That's why the Parti Québécois had repeatedly asked that this delicate issue is treated separately. In vain. 
"We could have finished the session by adopting, perhaps unanimously, the portion on the energy transition. But, to do this, it would have fallen a little collaboration and good faith. However, this government is completely foreign to these notions, it seems, "continued Sylvain Rochon. "Several voices have risen, and often, to claim the split of Bill 106. Unfortunately, the Liberals, in this case, have been equal to themselves: they did not listen. They have felled legitimate concerns from Quebecers to advantage the oil tankers, which would have been impatient. I insist: Under this law, oil and gas companies will have the power to expropriate people! ", he added. 
"Throughout the process, the Liberal government has demonstrated that it has no respect for the collective choices that Quebeckers have made and that focus on renewable energies. The worst thing is that we are not surprised. We knew we were going to find ourselves in front of an intransigence wall because, from the beginning, it was quite absurd to bind, in the same bill, the issue of the energy transition with that of hydrocarbons. Especially since we have not even had access to the regulations addressing the controversial issue of fracturing, at the base of the shale gas crisis, "concluded the official opposition. 
