I was recently president of the Order of Engineers of Quebec. 
As much as an engineer as a business leader, so I have seen the devastating effects that allegations of corruption and collusion in the construction industry have had for the profession. For months, then years, the reputation of engineers has been affected by these revelations. All Engineers in Quebec felt salised by the unacceptable behaviors of a minority. 
All that happened without the Liberal government agreed to put the necessary gestures to restore the credibility of engineers. 
These events were dramatically experienced by many of my colleagues, including me. While consulting genius has been a jewel of the Quebec economy for years and a symbol of know-how, the Liberals have abandoned the industry by allowing corruption to extend. 
The negligence of the Liberals did very badly. 
Within the Order of Engineers, I had to work very hard to restore the probity and credibility of the profession. I have invested a lot of effort to improve the training of engineers on the rules of ethics. Just like Pauline Marois and the Parti Québécois team made it to the Government of Quebec. 
Since 18 months, several very important laws have been reviewed or adopted. Above all, we sent a very clear message to say that the malpractices will no longer be tolerated. With the Parti Québécois, integrity has advanced, corruption has declined. And, today, trust comes back. 
The Parti Québécois has proposed a plan to strengthen the integrity of our institutions. Starting with Law 1 (when we talk about priority!) On the granting of public contracts. 
I do not want to come back at the time of fake-fled and cach farm. Above all, I do not want to come back to the liberal years. 
I want a government that will take care of economy, employment and integrity. 
Quebeckers have the opportunity to give this government on April 7th. A majority citizen party government. 
The government of the Québécois party has made the fight against corruption a priority - and will continue to do it with determination.Lissez, comment and share the ticket from Pauline Marois. 
