Quebec- "With its income-pro-income repayment program, the government serves us from the warming. In 2005, Pierre Reid, then Minister of Education and now MP for Orford, had offered exactly the same thing. This program had never seen the day, because it was abolished two months later by its successor, Jean-Marc Fournier, current leader of the government. If the Prime Minister does not remember this 2005 decision, it may be because it's been too long since it's in power! Said the member for Taillon and sentence of the official opposition in the field of higher education and loans and scholarships, Marie Malavoy, in response to measures to facilitate the accessibility of graduate studies proposed by the Minister of Education and the Minister of Finance. 
"The government imposes its students with students instead of sitting with them to listen to their proposals. This is not in this way that he will untie the impasse in which we find ourselves. As usual, it feels improvisation on the government side! Marie Malavoy added Marie Malavoy. 
"The government has no intention of being in good faith in this case. The liberal increase of 143% of 10-year tuition fees is an aberration that mainly penalizes the middle class. The government, leaving its hat an improvised solution, does not realize that the problems of accessibility and indebtedness will remain the same for students, "said the member for Terrebonne and spokesperson for the official opposition. For youth and student affairs, Mathieu Traversy. 
The member for Taillon again asked the government to meet the students by presenting the following motion: 
"That the Quebec National Assembly requires the Liberal government to negotiate in good faith with the elected representatives of the student movement to untie the current stalemate as to the increase in tuition fees. » 
"The Liberals have not even deigned to allow me to rise to read this motion at the National Assembly. They yawned students and use the same tactics with the official opposition in the room. It is shameful! ", Concluded the member for Taillon. 
