Saint-Pierre-de-éîle-d'Orleans- The Prime Minister of Quebec and MP for Charlevoix-Côte-de-Beaupré, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the Minister Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches, Agnès Maltese, made two important announcements in the context of Celebrations of the 100th birthday birthday of Félix Leclerc. 
First, Félix Leclerc will be designated historical character under the Cultural Heritage Act. In addition, $ 235,500 financial assistance will be granted to the Félix-Leclerc Foundation. 
"By these actions, we assume our duty of memory towards this great man and the work he has bequeathed us. Félix Leclerc was proud to be Quebec, and this pride, he embarked on it in an eloquent manner, putting it in songs and transmitting it to his fellow citizens, "said Pauline Marois. 
This designation testifies to the influence that the artist has exercised in Quebec's history. Considered one of our greatest cultural personalities, he participated, with all of his work, to shape the collective identity of Quebeckers. In addition to participating in radio shows and radio series and its literary work, it is its career as a song, which has profoundly marked Quebec. Indeed, Félix Leclerc has composed nearly 150 songs, and his career has led it to Europe. 
"For years, Félix Leclerc was for the Francophonie the Incarnation of Quebec, and what incarnation! Fort and sweet, proud and humble, it has been all its life in love with this Quebec that it has, in many ways, allowed to define. We welcome today the contribution of this immortal and give him a homage more than deserved. Thank you, Felix! , "Added Maka Kotto. 
The financial support of the Ministry of Culture and Communications at the Félix-Leclerc Foundation, totaling $ 209,000, will enable two projects to the Félix-Leclerc space. First, $ 159,000 will be awarded for the implementation of the exposure life, love, death, and $ 50,000 for the realization of Robert Lepage the sound trails. These two projects are supported by the program helps the projects of the Quebec Cultural Heritage Fund. 
"As a minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale Region, and as Quebec, I have a particular affection for this place of interpretation which, at the entrance of the island and fifteen minutes from the city center of Our capital, presents the life and work of Félix Leclerc. These beautiful landscapes, this rich heritage land, these historical villages, the poet made them discover the whole world by his songs, "said Agnès Maltese. 
In addition, the Secretariat at the Capitale-Nationale will contribute, within the framework of the 100th birthday of the poet, to the installation of an earth sculpture in his honor in the gardens of the Espace Félix-Leclerc. The financial participation of the Secretariat will amount to $ 50,000 at a total cost of $ 85,000. 
The Ministry of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade will attribute $ 26,500 to the Félix-Leclerc Foundation to allow the exhibition of life, love, the death of a tour in Europe, in 2014 . 
"Félix Leclerc has long been an ambassador of Quebec culture, particularly in French-speaking Europe. The tour of this exhibition will allow Europeans and Europeans, Francophones and Francophiles, to discover or deepen their knowledge of the masterful work of Félix Leclerc, but also the richness of the Quebec cultural heritage, "held to emphasize Jean- François Lisée, who unfortunately could not be present at the announcement. 
Additional information regarding Félix Leclerc as well as all heritage elements enrolled in the Quebec Cultural Heritage Register (RPCQ) are available at www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca. New cultural heritage dissemination tools are also added to the RCPQ, allowing to discover all its richness and diversity, making it accessible to all. Part of the RPCQ content is now on the Open Data Portal of the Government of Quebec, atwww.donnes.gouv.qc.ca, as well as on the Pinterest social network, in the form of virtual exhibitions, at www. .pinterest.com / RPCQ. 
Online training is also offered, at the address www.formation-patrimoine.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. Composed of video capsules and learning activities, it presents the basic notions of the Cultural Heritage Act and explains the roles and responsibilities of each to promote the knowledge, protection, development and transmission of the Cultural Heritage. 
