Quebec- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, is proud to support the twenty artists and organisms in Digital Arts and the Montreal Elektra Festival to Brussels from 26 to 28 September, To participate in the Focus Québec Bozar Electronic Arts Festival (BEAF), Event dedicated to electronic crops. 
"The place offered in Quebec in the programming of this festival demonstrates that we are at the cutting edge of digital arts, an innovative arts sector and in full effervescence. This is an exceptional showcase for the dissemination and promotion of Quebec know-how around the world. This type of event is valuable for the development of international markets for our artists and cultural organizations, "said Minister Kotto. 
This Focus Québec has two components: a public and a professional. On the one hand, audiovisual and sound performance and audiovisual and participatory facilities will be disseminated to the general public in order to increase the accessibility of Quebec digital art and visibility. As for the professional component, workshops and a special edition of the International Digital Art (MANI) will take place to promote international partnerships in this sector. For example, artists and organizations of the two partner territories will present, during the MANA, their most recent achievements in front of artists, commissioners, broadcasters and journalists specializing in digital arts from the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, but also. France, Italy, Germany, Spain. 
Guest at BeAF 2013, the Elektra festival has co-core this showcase with the Palace of Fine Arts in Brussels, thanks to the important financial support of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation (30,000 euros). This collaboration is part of a spirit of reciprocity. Indeed, at the next edition of the Elektra Festival and the International Biennale of Digital Art, artists from the Wallonia-Brussels Federation will have a place of choice in programming. Thus, this event reinforces the links between Quebec and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation that has been established for more than forty years. 
The Government of Quebec has invested $ 64,000 in this international window. This amount was paid under the Standing Committee on Permanent Quebec / Wallonia-Brussels and is divided between the Ministry of Culture and Communications ($ 30,000), the Quebec Arts and Letters Council ($ 30,000) and the Ministry of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade ($ 4,000). The partners of Focus Québec have been able to count on the support of the Quebec delegation in Brussels for the implementation and promotion of the project in Benelux and Europe. 
All the programming of the Focus Québec in Bozar can be consulted on the Elektra Festival, Auhttp: ///20.elektramontreal.ca/focusqc festival website. 
