Drummondville - Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie Regions, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, on behalf of the Minister Delegate for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élaine Zakaïb, the award of a $ 550,000 grant to the Drummondville Economic Development Corporation (SDED) - CLD Drummond for the construction of a Third industrial incubator, an investment estimated at $ 2.2 million. This assistance comes from the Center-du-Québec Economic Diversification Fund and the Mauricie, with an envelope of $ 200 million. 
"I gave myself the idea of special attention reserved for incubators in the processing of diversification fund records," said Yves-François Blanchet. "While most programs were reluctant to support industrial incubators, I saw the importance they play in the entrepreneurial tissue here in Drummondville. These are not so many job creators and job designers. These are upstream entrepreneurs, at the top of a business culture that allows a model based on the local and innovative ownership SME to emerge. I knew politics and business, and I tell you we still have a lot to do before having recognized enough and supported our entrepreneurs. » 
The new industrial incubator of the SDED will be approximately 14,000 square feet and will have to contribute to the start of businesses by providing organizational, operational and administrative support. The incubator can accommodate seven new businesses in premises whose space will vary between 1,650 and 2,500 square feet. 
"The establishment of the Central-du-Québec Economic Diversification Foundation and Mauricie is a success," said Zakaïb Élain. "This supporting initiative has strengthened nearly 1,900 jobs and create more than 270 others, including in the manufacturing sector. At a time when our government is working to increase the competitiveness of this key sector of our economy, using Quebec industrial lapolitics, here is a news that has something to enjoy! » 
Founded in 1984, SDED's mission is to promote trade, industry and tourism through actions to create favorable conditions for the economic development of the MRC of Drummond. In addition to providing advisory services to business developers, SDED organizes training activities, business startup assistance, made international prospecting and participates in several regional activities. 
"The construction of a third incubator will help to increase and diversify industrial activity in the Drummond MRC," said Alexandre Cusson, Mayor of the City of Drummondville and President of the SDED. "Since thirty years, Drummondville's economic development company has been a real leader in economic development. Once again, it puts its expertise to contribute to carry out a strategic project for the regional economy. » 
For more information on the Fund, the Table and Plan for the Economic Diversification of Center-du-Québec and Mauricie as well as on supported projects, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie. 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicitustrielle. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
