Lac-Mégantic- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, participated this afternoon at the first meeting of the Economics Table of the Lake Area -Mégantic, which it will provide the chair. 
The table, which is mandated to contribute to the management of the $ 10 million Economic Assistance Fund for the City of Lake Mégantic and its surroundings, will bring together the Mayor of Lac-Mégantic, Ms. Colette Roy- Laroche, and representatives of the local economic community: Ginette Isabel, General Manager of the Mégantic SADC, Marie-José Loiselle, Industrial Commissioner, Francis Bouffard, Co-owner of the company Signs Bouffard Senc, Vincent Fish, Engineer Forestier, Provenêt, Luc Quirion, Director of Risk Management and Special Mandates to the Regional Solidarity Fund FTQ and Jacques Vidal, Acting Director General of the CLD of the Granite MRC. 
"The economy help table is one of the measures put in place by our government to promote the recovery of the economic activity of Lac-Mégantic," said Élaine Zakaïb. "We are counting on the consultation and mobilization of all our partners to ensure success and, above all, to allow the emergence of unifying and structuring projects. It's our priority! Through the Special Fund for Economy Assistance, we will be able to attract new future-oriented businesses and generate private investment, which will be added to the efforts made since July for the economic recovery of Lac-Mégantic. . » 
The Special Economy Assistance Fund, announced by the Prime Minister Pauline Marois, aims to support economic and tourism development in order to promote the restructuring of the City of Lac-Mégantic. In particular, it is intended to revitalize entrepreneurial activity and to promote job creation in all sectors of activity. 
"The economy help table will help restore the dynamism of our region by allowing its players to promote the realization of wealth and job-creating business projects," added the Mégantic Lake Mayor, Ms. Colette Roy-Laroche. "The work of the table will therefore be carrying important economic benefits for our city, and will help to restore hope for the entire population of Lac-Mégantic and to improve its quality of life. » 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
