Québec - Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs, Mrs ELIZABETH LAROUCHE, announces the grant of a $ 157,500 grant to the Innu Essipit First Nation Council. This grant will allow the Board to acquire the Ste-Anne-de-Portneuf Hunting Club and Fishing Club and integrate it into the Essipit Proviliary Network. The acquisition of this outfitter will create seven jobs in the community. 
"I am convinced that this initiative will have a significant impact, not only for the community, but also for the North Shore region. This is a good example of the participation of Aboriginal people in the economic and tourist development of Quebec, as well as the development of the resources of its territory, "said Minister Larouche. 
The current outfitter and fishing club Ste-Anne-de-Portneuf has an exclusive lease of hunting, fishing and trapping rights, for a territory of 48 square kilometers on which we find 24 bodies of water and infrastructures. hosting nearly 80 guests in eight chalets. This territory is contiguous to two outfitters already belonging to the Council of the First Nation of the Innu Essipit, or the field of Lake des Cœurs and the sports field of Lac Loup. 
"I am very happy with the outcome in this file. It is essential to maintain regional interests in this outfitter. The acquisition by the Innu Essipit First Nation Council brings this interest. Outfitters occupy an important part of the regional economy. For this reason, it is essential that people from the Côte-Nords retain the economic benefits and generate economic activity. The First Nation of Innu Essipit is exemplary in this regard, "said the member for René-Lévesque and head of the North Shore Region, Mr. Marjolain Dufour. 
The financial assistance granted to the Innu Essipit First Nation Council is equivalent to 50% of the costs of acquiring. This financial assistance comes from the Aboriginal Aboriginal Affairs Secretariat Fund II (SAA). The objective of this fund is to support projects that can have significant benefits on Quebec's Aboriginal Nations Economic, Social or Community Development. 
