Québec- The Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs, Mrs ELIZABETH LAROUCHE, announces the granting of a $ 157,410 grant over three years to the Quebec and Labrador First Nations Health and Social Services Commission (CSSSPNQL). to allow the hiring of a social economy business development agent. 
This agent will be mandated to mobilize the actors of the social economy sector, to develop partnerships and to organize information and training sessions in the Aboriginal communities of Quebec. 
"This initiative, I am convinced, will have significant benefits. It will help Aboriginal communities develop their own know-how and their own experience in setting up social economy initiatives, "said Minister Larouche. 
The objective of setting up this position is twofold: Providing the training needed to create and managing social economy companies, as well as increase knowledge and networking between partners and stakeholders in this sector. 
"The social economy is a relevant way of development for Aboriginal communities. Indeed, these face important challenges in social and economic development. In the long term, the initiatives developed by this project will contribute to creating employment and combating poverty effectively and proactively in Aboriginal communities, "the minister concluded. 
The financial assistance granted to the CSSSPNQL is $ 52,525 in 2013-2014, $ 52,910 in 2014-15 and $ 51,975 in 2015-2016. The total of these amounts equals 50% of the costs generated by the new position. This financial assistance comes from the Aboriginal Aboriginal Affairs Secretariat Fund II (SAA). The objective of this fund is to support projects that can have significant benefits on Quebec's Aboriginal Nations Economic, Social or Community Development. 
The creation of the new development agent position is also made possible through the aboriginal business and development of Northern Development (AANDC), and the First Nations Health and Social Services Commission of Quebec and Labrador (CSSSPNQL). 
