Quebec- The Minister Aboriginal Affairs, Ms. Elizabeth Larouche, took advantage of his visit to the Innue Community of Matimekosh-Lac-John to announce the grant of a $ 500,000 grant for the repair of the Arena. The work includes the integration of a swimming pool in the building to transform it into a sports complex. 
"The arena will become a meeting place for diversified sports activities. By providing the community of such a building, we are helping to counterbalances issues related to isolation and difficult social realities, such as school dropout, consumption, idleness and health problems related to sedentarity. , said Minister Larouche. 
In addition to increasing the supply and diversity of activities, the work aim to provide residents of all ages facilities and equipment that meets current standards of use, hygiene and safety. By the very fact, the customers of the arena should increase. Estimated over $ 4 million, the work will be made by Mamu Construction, a company born of a partnership between Aboriginal and native entrepreneurs. When the Arena has its new vocation, four jobs will be created. 
"I am proud to be able to collaborate in the realization of this project, which has both social, economic, educational and recreational aims. He is a gathering for the community and certainly encourage him to adopt or maintain healthy lifestyle, and thus live in better health, "said the minister. 
In addition to visiting the Innue Community of Matimekosh-Lac-John, the Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs went to greet yesterday the Naskapie community of Kawawachikamach. These visits were part of Mamu Minuinniutau "Together be good", a cultural and spiritual gathering organized by the two Aboriginal communities in the region. 
The financial assistance granted for the repair of the work of the Matimekosh-Lac-John Area is derived from Fonfonds of Indigenous Initiatives IIDU Aboriginal Affairs Secretariat. The objective of this fund is to support projects that can have significant benefits on Quebec's Aboriginal Nations Economic, Social or Community Development. 
