Asbestos- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced the allocation, as part of the Regional County Municipality Fund (MRC) from sources, Financial aid totaling $ 567,585 to five companies for their investment projects, which amount to nearly $ 1.5 million in the manufacturing and tertiary engine sectors of the Estrie region. These projects, mainly focused on marketing, ensure the maintenance or creation of about forty jobs. 
"The SMEs of the manufacturing and tertiary motor sectors must cross several stages of growth that are so many challenges," said Élain Zakaïb. "Commercialization is a particularly crucial issue, especially to adapt to a constant mutation market. It is therefore proud that we support the projects of five companies, which will allow them to stay in the race and continue to contribute to the dynamism and economic vitality of the Sources. » 
These projects are part of Lastrategy Economic Diversification of the Territory, which promotes the growth and growth of entrepreneurship in the region. FINANCIAL AID INCLUDES THE PAYMENT OF COMPANIES TO COMPANIES NATUR'AU-LAC INC. ($ 14,075 for a $ 61,070 project), Groll products inc. ($ 14,510 for a $ 30,883 project), Solutech Inc. packaging systems. ($ 54,000 for a $ 142,000 project) and VR2 Distribution ($ 85,000 for a $ 345,000 project), as well as the allocation of an interest-free loan of $ 400,000 to Entrepreneurship Canada Ltd. For a project assessed at $ 880,000. 
"We are making constant efforts to support and support our entrepreneurs in their major economic impact projects for the region," said the President of the RCM Economic Diversification Table of the Sources and the company ABS trailers, M. François Gouin. "Today, we are very pleased with the support granted for the realization of these projects, which reinforce the industrial offer of our territory. » 
"It is thanks to the realization of structuring projects like these that the RCM of sources can consolidate its position in a flourishing manufacturing sector that diversifies", supported the prefect of the RCM des Sources, President of the Local Development Center (CLD) of the sources and mayor of the city of Asbestos, Mr. Hugues Grimard. "We have, once again, a great proof of the deployment of the expertise and potential of companies in our region. » 
The Minister Zakaïb also took advantage of his passage in the Estrie region to take stock of the Mono-Industrial Municipalities Assistance Fund (FAMM) from the MRC Sources. This fund allowed, over the last three years, financial aid totaling $ 725,000 to about twenty diversification projects. 
For more information on the strategy, the Table and the Fund for the Economic Diversification of the Sources and on supported projects, consult the www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/strategiemrcsources. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
Consult the news releases issued by the Parti Québécois government concerning Gentilly-2 
The Parti Québécois requires excuses from the Liberal Party of Quebec to lie on Gentilly-2: Watch Judgment of Presse de Luc Trudel and NoëlThe Champagne. 
