Quebec, on January 26, 2017 - Sylvain Gaudreault, Member of Parliament for Jonquière and spokesman for the Parti Party in the field of regional and decentralization development, is dissatisfied with the Regions' Radiation Support Fund (FARR) announced by the Liberal government; In addition to being managed in Quebec City, this fund will not be enough to overcome the shortfall caused by the numerous compressions that the regions experience. 
"The Liberals have not just closed several regional offices from the ministries, which, already, has had a significant economic impact; They pushed insult to abolish regional elected representatives and the Regional Development Fund. Today, the government realizes its mistake; It thus puts in place another regional fund, but it is managed from Quebec! It is also less advantageous: the sums announced are lower than those enjoyed by the regions before, "from the outset declared the door. 
Sylvain Gaudreault insists: We must not forget how much liberal austerity hurts, especially outside the major urban centers. "What the government proposes to the regions is to wait 6 years for the budgets dedicated to their economic development to reap the levels of a few years ago, or $ 180 million, and even longer to fill The financing gap caused by the municipal couples imposed on the signing of the tax pact, an amount of $ 300 million. It's foolish, "he continued. 
"The Government proposes that the Farr be administered by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the occupation of the territory, while the MRCs have been demanding management for months. This approach is totally incompatible with the principle of decentralization of regional and local environments. Liberals are intended, although the regions have long demonstrated their know-how in the management of regional funds. They certainly do not need to come back to a model where the state controls their every gestures! , Brought the hon. Member. 
"Mayors will also be surprised to see the contradictions in the Minister's speech. On the one hand, he says that local authorities must make decisions; On the other hand, it abolishes regional resources and tools. That's the Liberal government. It's inconsistency. And, at the end of the way, it is the regions of Quebec who find themselves losing, "lamented the door? 
"Unlike the current government, the Parti Québécois, we trust the regions. From 2018, with us, they will find the means of their ambitions, "concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
