The Prairie- The Minister of Infrastructure, Communities and Intergovernmental Affairs and Minister of the Economic Development Agency of Canada for the Regions of Quebec, the Honorable Denis Lebel, as well as the member for Sanguinet and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister Finance and the economy, Mr. Alain Therrien, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Deputy of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, are pleased to announce that the Régie Water Sanitation of the LaPrairie Basin (RAEBL) will benefit from Canada-Québec joint financial assistance of $ 11,937,438, granted under the Canada-Quebec Chantier Fund Communities component for repair work at purification. 
"Through the support for the Sanitation and Water Supply Project of the LaPrairie Basin, our government has its desire to promote the economic development of communities and the well-being of the people," said Minister Denis Lebel. 
"I am very proud of the support announced today by our government to the Région for the Waters of the LaPrairie Basin for the implementation of this important project, which represents an investment of the most valuable for the future. Thus, the improvements that will be made to the Régie's treatment plant will reduce the quantity or improve the quality of wastewater discharges thus contributing to the protection of the environment and the renewal of collective infrastructures. This upgrading of the treatment plant will contribute to the well-being of the residents of Candiac, Delson, the Prairie, Sainte-Catherine and Saint-Constant, all in a perspective of sustainable development, "said Alain Therien. 
Government support will make it possible to carry out several work at the RaEBL sewage plant, including the replacement of existing systems with a fine bubble ventilation system and a centrifugation dehydration system, improvements to the odor treatment system as well as the addition of equipment for disinfection and various complementary work. This work will benefit about 92,300 people. 
The realization of this project requires an estimated investment at $ 15,500,000, which is based on the eligible costs of the project. The governments of Quebec and Canada each grant $ 5,968,719, a total government financial assistance of $ 11,937,438, while RaEBL's financial participation is $ 3,562,562 in line with the requirements for this project. . 
The Communities Component of the Canada-Quebec Chantier Fund, whereby the contributions of both levels of government are equal, aims to finance the implementation of infrastructure projects in communities with less than 100,000 inhabitants. These communities can, thanks to the sums that are granted to them, modernize facilities or equipment that have great needs, including water treatment plants, aqueduct networks as well as cultural and sporting centers. 
To learn more about the componentColtsBearn Canada fund, visit www.infrastructure.gc.ca/prog/bcf-fcc-fra.html. 
To learn more about investments in infrastructure in your area, go towww.infrastructure.gc.ca / Regions / Regions-Fra.html. 
Visit the Canada Economic Action Plan website atwww.plandaction.gc.capor Learn more about the Government of Canada on Jobs and Economics. 
For more information on the Infrastructure Québec, visit the websitewww.infrastructures.gouv.qc.ca/plan-infrastructure/index.asp 
