Montréal - Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, accompanied by the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, launches today The first call for propositions that will create eight new research chairs on Quebec identity in French and history. 
A call for proposals of six Chairs is launched today by the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology (MESRST). Another call for proposals will be launched during this year with the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport (MELS), which will allow the creation of two additional chairs. This new initiative is part of the National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI), one of which one of three priority areas is Quebec's identity. The implementation of the research chairs will be under the responsibility of the Québec-Society and Culture Research Fund (FRQSC). 
"Not only will these research chairs serve as a springboard for young teachers and promising young researchers who want to develop a recognized expertise on Quebec, but they will also contribute to the training and networking of students researchers in history and in French. These chairs will also support French research as well as the extension and transmission of knowledge about Quebec, "said Minister Duchesne. 
This first call for proposals consists of three Chairs in French and three others in history. Each Chair will receive $ 100,000 a year for five years, which represents an overall investment of $ 3 million. Chairs' projects will be evaluated by specialized peer committees in Quebec studies according to FRQSC scientific evaluation procedures. Decisions will be rendered in December 2014, for an implementation in January 2015. 
"The Quebec - Society and Culture Research Fund is pleased to submit to the Scientific Community this call for proposals for research chairs as part of its concerted actions program. It is, ultimately, to deepen our knowledge about our language, on our history, on what has shaped our Quebec identity, "said Normand Labrie, Scientific Director of the Research Fund - Society and Culture . 
Two additional chairs will be created thanks to the financial commitment of the MELS. In total, so it's eight new Research Chairs on Quebec Identity that will be established by 2014-2015. 
In 2014-2015, MELS will finance a Chair of Research on the French Language and a Chair of Research on History. These identity research chairs are intended specific to allow the development of profitable expertise to the department. This is why the MELS will produce, in collaboration with the FRQSC, a call for proposals adapted to its needs which will be unveiled from the year 2014. Each of these additional chairs will benefit from an annual grant of $ 100,000 in five years, for an investment totaling $ 1 million. 
"By creating a pulpit on the teaching of French and another on history, we work on the very basics of teacher training by developing new pedagogical approaches while deepening the necessary knowledge to understand the The singularity of our collective course, "added Malavoy Minister. 
The persons wishing to submit their application for the first call for proposals of the MESRST may consult the conditions of the competition accessible on the FRQSC website at the following address: www.fqrsc.gouv.qc.ca. 
For more information on PNRI, visitwww.messst.gouv.qc.ca/pnri/. 
