Trois-Rivières- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, and the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife. and responsible parks and minister responsible for the regions of Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec, Yves François Blanchet, confirmed the award of a loan of $ 5 million to the company Marmen, for an expansion project that will create 100 jobs. This is the first project funded under the Economic Diversification Fund of the Center du Québec and Mauricie. 
The project, estimated at $ 25 million, aims at the expansion of two buildings as well as the purchase of tool machines for this three-river company specializing in high precision machining. It will allow it to increase its production capacity and maintain its leader position. 
"At the closure of Gentilly-2, our government is committed to providing the means to the regions of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie to diversify their economy, reminded Pauline Marois. A $ 200 million fund has been put in place to support structuring projects for both regions. I note today with great enthusiasm the positive spin-offs of this decision. The Marmen project will contribute to the economic growth of the City of Trois-Rivières, creating 100 quality jobs. » 
"Today's announcement is the result of a remarkable consultation work done by the Stakeholders of the Center-du-Québec Economic Diversification Table and Mauricie, with a view to revitalizing the economy of these two Regions, emphasized for its part Yves-François Blanchet. Together, they have developed an economic diversification plan that takes root in regional forces and stimulate the entrepreneurial spirit of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie. In this regard, I would like to remember that 75% of the Fund's investments will be for Trois-Rivières and Bécancour MRCs. » 
"The Economic Diversification Fund is a strategic lever to support business projects to increase their competitiveness in global markets as well as the development of new green economy-based industries," said Élain Zakaïb. The Center-du-Québec's Economic Diversification Table and Mauricie worked intensely and I would soon announce new job creative investments in the region. » 
Founded in 1972, the company Marmen exploits a major high precision machining manufacturing complex, manufacturing and mechanical assembly at Trois-Rivières. Recognized internationally, it offers its services to companies operating in very diverse sectors, such as energy, oil and gas, mining, aviation and wind industry. 
"The support of the Government of Quebec will help us maintain our leader status and respond to the growing demand for medium and large pieces, mentioned the President of Marmen, Patrick Pellerin. Our expansion project will allow us to increase our production capacity and remain one of the largest North American manufacturers of petrol fields and gas turbines. » 
For more information on the modalities of the Center Diversification Fund of the Center Du-Québec and Mauricie, consult the www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie. 
