Isle-aux-Coudres- Québec Prime Minister and MP from Charlevoix-Côte-de-Beaupré, Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Marie Malavoy, today announced that today Financial assistance up to $ 97,679 is granted to the municipality of Isle-aux-Coudres for the renovation and setting up the standards of its outdoor rink. 
"In the opening speech that I said a few months ago, I proposed that the government modernize its national politics on sport, leisure and physical activity and launched to the population of Quebec a challenge. At least stimulating: that of becoming, within ten years of the world's most-like nation. To give everyone and all the taste to move and take up this challenge, again, among other actions, offer them modern, accessible and safe sporting infrastructures. This is what the Quebec government has chosen to do today's announcement, testifies to it, "said the premier. 
The project consists mainly of redeveloping the outdoor rink by adding new permanent bands and a new cement slab. Field upgrading work is also planned to make the rink safer and better adapted to the needs of the residents and residents, who can practice the wheeled skate aligned during the summer season. The rink will also be made available to students from Saint-Pierre School. 
This project, to which the municipality is financially participated, has been selected as part of the Support Program for Sport and Recreation - Phase II of the Fund for Sport Development and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs. 
"Each of the projects we support financially under this program is rigorously analyzed according to the eligibility criteria established in the rules and standards of the latter. The projects meet the needs of the population concerned and will allow greater accessibility to various clients, thus promoting the adoption of a physically active way of life by the greatest number of people possible, "said Malavoy Minister. 
By creating the Fund for Sport Development and Physical Activity, the Government of Quebec wanted to ensure that all regions enjoy modern and safe sports and recreation facilities. For more information on this fund, visit www.mels.gouv.qc.ca. 
