Quebec, on October 4, 2016 -The MP for Terrebonne and spokesman for the Quebecois environment and climate change, Mathieu Traversy, denounces the inconsistency of Prime Minister Philippe Couillard, who has self-proclaimed champion. From the environment at the Paris Conference, in December 2015, but which never made the gestures accordingly. "The Prime Minister has left the Green Fund management to Fiaisco; Even today, it remains unable to assess the impact of programs funded by the Green Fund to achieve its climate goals, "he said. 
"The Prime Minister uses a lot of words, but we understood that he implements little means. The Green Fund finances programs of the 2013-2020 Action Plan on Climate Change, the PACC, but these do not result. The admission of program loaders, GHG reductions are impossible to calculate, and in some cases there is even a total absence of targets or indicators to check if the $ 3.3 billion of the Green Fund are not spent unnecessarily, "then exposed Mathieu Traversy. 
"The Parti Québécois has addressed to the Government 15 requests for information on the evaluation of 22 PACC programs and the Green Fund, whose objective is to reduce GHGs. The result is extremely disappointing, but limpid: the Prime Minister has never followed his commitments. Of the 22 programs, only 3 have GHG reduction targets, only 3 have quantifiable budgets, 9 have no indicator, 9 are without calculation of GHGs, 6 do not even identify a project, 3 have allowed situations. Abusive and 2 have not even been monitored. And all this was denounced by the Commissioner for Sustainable Development, "also recalled the member for Terrebonne. 
"Quebec goes straight towards a wall; It will not reach GHG reduction targets that it has set itself upright 2020. There are only three and a half years left. Philippe Couillard must quickly and completely meet the way of managing the Green Fund, at the risk of losing all credibility in Quebec on the international environmental scene, "said the spokesperson. 
