Bécancour- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Regions of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, confirmed, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, the payment of financial aid totaling more than $ 2.7 million to four companies in the Center-du-Québec region: the corporation of Promotion and development of Bécancour, the cheesery The ancestor, Oriens Technologies and thermoform of America. More than sixty new jobs will be created in the region, while nearly 140 others will be consolidated. 
From the Center-du-Québec Economic Diversification Fund and the Mauricie, with an envelope of $ 200 million, government participation will contribute to four investment projects estimated at more than 14.4 million dollars. 
"The creation of the Center-du-Québec Economic Diversification Fund and Mauricie has had a mobilizing effect on the economic stakeholders of both regions," said Yves-François Blanchet. "These four projects, to which our government proudly associates, are very stimulating. They confirm, like others who will be announced later, the relevance and the need for this approach as well as the effectiveness of the Fund and the Economic Diversification Plan. » 
"Our government's choices are part of a sustainable development perspective," said Zakaïb Élain. "We have made difficult decisions in the short term, but guided by a long-term prosperity goal for affected areas. This is why our decisions are always accompanied by measures adapted to local realities in order to support the regions in this period of transition. The good news is that these decisions awaken unsuspected forces and lead to great achievements, as we now prove these four companies and their carrier projects. » 
Bécancour's promotion and development corporation wishes to establish an incubator of specific technology companies in a disused plant located on an unoccupied industrial site, formerly intended for the nuclear industry. In order to assess the feasibility of this project and to develop a business plan, a non-refundable financial contribution of nearly $ 120,000 is attributed to the organization. The realization of these two preliminary steps in the implementation of the incubator is estimated at nearly $ 256,000. 
The Economic Diversification Plan of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, set up under the Fund, advocates that a special effort is consented to support the growth of green technologies. The establishment of such an incubator of companies would thus contribute to the growth of a sector of the future in the region, in addition to stimulating entrepreneurship, which is the basis of regional development and job creation. . The consultation between the middle actors in such an infrastructure as well as the supervision of entrepreneurs would promote the sustainability of emerging firms in this sector. In addition, the coveted industrial site for the project would find a new vocation oriented towards sustainable development. 
Founded in 1992, the ancestor's cheesery specializes in the manufacture of cheeses, such as cheddar, parmesan and mozzarella, and biological butters. It markets its products across Canada. In order to improve its productivity, the company will carry out a project to enlarge and acquisition equipment estimated at nearly $ 2.6 million. In addition to consolidating 48 jobs within the cheese factory, this project, which receives the support of the Government of Quebec in the form of a loan of $ 643,500, will allow the creation of 5 new jobs. 
Created in 2010, Oriens Technologies is a start-up enterprise that wants to implement an industrial residue processing plant to create a new cientatory additive, adcimmc. The addition of this additive gives better durability and performance properties when making concrete works and masonry products, such as united pavers, retaining blocks and culverts. It offers its customers an innovative and secure environmental solution for the transformation of their residues. This project is estimated at $ 6 million, nearly $ 1.3 million is awarded as a loan by the Quebec government. He will initially create 35 jobs in the region and generate favorable economic and environmental benefits for Quebec. 
Since 1994, America's thermoform manufactures cabinet doors using a method of applying polyvinyl polychloride (PVC) that it has developed. The company will carry out an expansion project, rated nearly $ 5.6 million, which will create 21 jobs, in addition to consolidating 89 others. The Government of Quebec attributes $ 650,000 refundable financial support to support the completion of this project comprising two phases. The first phase aims at the expansion of the company rolling plant as well as the acquisition of a venue building and land. As for the second phase, it consists of a redevelopment of the current sections of the main plant as well as the purchase of another land, which will enable the installation of a new mass production machine. 
"Companies in both regions have introduced us to this day more than 90 files and this is just a beginning," added Yves-François Blanchet. "They announce excellent benefits and, even more importantly, they will contribute to more diversifying the regional economy. At a time when we need to build on sectors of the future, these projects give me hope for the region and its population. Beyond any doubt, the entrepreneurial spirit that reigns here will be the basis of several other equally inspiring initiatives. » 
For more information on the Fund, the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie Economic Diversification Table, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
Consult the news releases issued by the Parti Québécois government concerning Gentilly-2 
The Parti Québécois requires excuses from the Liberal Party of Quebec to lie on Gentilly-2: Watch Judgment of Presse de Luc Trudel and NoëlThe Champagne. 
