Quebec - During the 2014-2015 budget speech, the Quebec government has announced that it intends to invest $ 4 million annually for the implementation of an aid program that will allow for the most part of the costs of Firefighters' training volunteers and part-time. This program will be set up and managed by the Ministry of Public Safety. 
"The establishment of a program by the Ministry of Public Safety will fund the majority of the training costs that were assumed to date by some 1,100 municipalities in Quebec. This is a very good news for these municipalities that use voluntary or part-time firefighters, "said Minister of Public Safety Stéphane Bergeron. 
Remember that the exclusion of nine major urban agglomerations, municipalities have almost exclusively use voluntary or part-time firefighters. The latter represent 77% of all the firefighters of Quebec, about 17,800 firefighters on the approximately 23,000 firefighters found throughout the territory. 
This program, whose modalities and functioning remain to be specified, will provide for the reimbursement of certain costs assumed by municipalities, including those for hiring instructors and instructors, the costs of using professional qualification centers, as well as those for support documents and other publications necessary for the various formations. 
"We have all been upset by the tragic events in Lac-Mégantic in July and Isle-Green more recently. We have a thought for people who have been victims of these disasters, but also for the work of front-line stakeholders, the vast majority of whom are volunteer and part-time firefighters. The announcement of today is a very expected decision and I asked my department to prioritize the modalities and functioning of this program in order to be able to implement it as quickly as possible, "concluded the Minister Bergeron. 
To know everything about the Quebec budget 
Consult all the following press releases 
Masters and prosperous with us 
A successful expenditure control and good public finance management 
Ensure the prosperity of the regions 
More than $ 280 million to strengthen solidarity 
Patient-oriented funding in the health sector: the expert group report welcomed by the government 
Culture: both reflection of our identity and economic engine 
See also the "budget at a glance" document 
Visit the Department of Finance website atbudget.finances.gouv.qc.ca 
