Québec- Participant in the 15th anniversary stressing the partnership between Emploi-Québec and the Labor Market Partner Commission, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltese, acknowledged the extent of the work that has been achieved, as well as the commitment and support of Quebec's key players in the training of the workforce. However, in a context marked by the uncertainty surrounding the renewal of the Canada? Quebec in the labor market, Ms. Marois urged Quebec's willingness to maintain exclusive project management in this area. 
"More than ever, Quebec must be able to have all the tools and the full flexibility to ensure all Quebeckers and Quebeckers, as well as our businesses, access to effective active employment measures and adapted to the work market by here. The government is best placed to ensure these services to Quebecers. By encroaching on this field of competence that is not his, the federal government calls into question the partnership dynamics developed here and which is its own. Worse, it brings Quebec 15 years back by setting up Canadian employment lasubvention, which duplicates and rides Quebec already effectively, "said the premier. 
For 15 years now, the Labor Market Partner and Employment Partner Commission have been working together to meet the training needs of businesses and workers in Quebec. Gathered around this theme, the representatives of the employers, the workforce, the environment of the teaching, the community organizations and government agencies have highlighted the foundations that led to the current partnership, which today allows Quebec to stand out and reach convincing results. 
The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltese, emphasized the importance of the close collaboration that has built to ensure economic prosperity and Social of Quebec. "People at work as unemployed must have the opportunity to develop their skills and put them at the service of Quebec society. However, the federal government risks compromising 15 years of Quebec success since it will make it more difficult for training for Quebec SMEs and will undermine the capacity of employment? Quebec to reach remote labor market. » 
"I am proud to be part of this Quebec, which is committed to its human resources and makes every effort to increase their potential. The Government of Quebec will continue its efforts to promote the development of the skills of Quebeckers, "concluded the Prime Minister. 
