Quebec- The President of the Government Caucus and Head of the Laurentian Region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, on behalf of the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, and the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announces the attribution of nearly $ 1 million for the refurbishment of the Ceizur Bridge located in the northern part of the ZEC Petawaga, in the Laurentians region. 
"The Ceizur Bridge is a neuralgic transportation structure for the region since it gives access to a vast tourism and forestry territory. This is why our government considers it essential to carry out its refurbishment to make it functional and safe, both for the transport of people and goods, "said the member of the member. 
The repair of the Ceizur Bridge will be funded by the Ministry of Natural Resources and Forex, which will invest $ 70,000 in the project. Given its expertise, the Ministry of Transport will collaborate with the Ministry of Natural Resources to assess the state of the current structure and frame the repairs work. Once the work is complete, the bearing capacity of this bridge will be increased by 45 tonnes, passing from 15 to 60 tonnes, which will again allow traffic and forest transport. 
"The environment hoped this work on the Ceizur Bridge. That's why I am very happy with its rehabilitation and also the increased capacity of this transportation structure, "said Mr. Pagé. 
Length of 105 meters and equipped with a traffic lane, the Ceizur Bridge spans the Gatineau River north of the Baskatong Reservoir in the Laurentians. It is a Bailey type bridge with a central pillar, a spanway is suspended. Recall that it has been closed since November 1, 2012 for security reasons. 
"This work will allow the people to enjoy the multiple uses of the public forest. It is the companies, the workers, the resorts and all the users of this vast territory that will benefit ", concluded Minister Martine Ouellet. 
The call for tenders for the realization of this work will be launched as soon as possible. 
