Quebec- The hon. Member for Bonaventure and Forest Opposition Spokesman, Sylvain Roy, the member for Matane-Matapédia, Pascal Bérubé, the hon. Member for Rimouski, Harold Lebel, as well as the member for Gaspé and Porte- Speech on the development of the regions, Gaétan Lelièvre, this morning, have denounced the abandonment by the Liberal government of the Forest job creation program and the silvicultural investment program. At a press briefing, accompanied by representatives of the forest midfielder of Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie, they asked the Minister of Forests, Wildlife and Parks, Laurent Lessard, to restore the budgets dedicated to the Private forest. 
"For the regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie, we are talking about $ 6 million less for private forest. I would like to remind the minister, as he was repeated at his regional tour, that with us, dozens of villages live exclusively on the operation of the forest; When 250 workers are forced unemployed, it is the whole community and hundreds of families who find themselves in difficulty. The minister must absolutely return to his decision and renew the silvicultural investment program and the forest job creation program, "said Sylvain Roy. 
"Asking the foresters to do more with less, saying to the workers they have enough money to start the season and that for the future," We will see, "the minister plunges families into uncertainty. Would it find normal, it, to live from day to day, without knowing if it will have an income until the end of the year? , For his part, asked Pascal Bérubé. 
Harold Lebel remembers, as for him, election promises of the Liberals. "Just two weeks ago, the regional minister promised an imminent announcement for the people of the private forest. We are still waiting. However, the time press for producers and forestry groups; They only ask to be supported to work their world, "he added. 
Finally, Gaétan Lelièvre said, too, very worried about the future of the private foresters of Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie. "In the forest, every dollar invested reports $ 6 in economic activity. The government can not afford to drop this sector essential to the vitality of our regions and the dynamic occupation of our territory, "he concluded. 
