Montreal- "Mental Health is a priority for our government and we are committed to developing a mental health action plan that will truly improve our practices and accessibility to care and services in this sector. The successful discussions we have had national aufort on the mental health action plan will result in several ways of solution that we will examine with the utmost seriousness. Our goal is to bring Quebec from a mental health action plan that can adequately meet the needs of the population and contribute efficiently to improving care and services offered to people with mental health disorders as well as From their loved ones, "said the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert following the Forum held on January 28 in Montreal. The Minister provides a positive review of this forum that brought together more than 100 participants and observers, and helped to hear key mental health stakeholders about the best measures to be implemented in the future health action plan. mental. 
Participants have gaming emphasized the importance of putting the patient at the heart of our mental health actions: for example, it has been suggested that it must be actively involved in its intervention plan or be able to benefit recovery measures promoting social participation or a return to employment. Family relatives and family members are also an important link in our mental health interventions. 
Mental health work uses as many actions as varied. Among the different points raised by participants note the important place that mental health prevention should be occupied. "Working on mental health is, among other things, asking good diagnosis, but also improve detection and prevention. This can be done in a great diversity of environments, from schooling, to youth centers, workplaces or in family medicine groups. This observation leads us to emphasize the important place that needs to be reserved for mental health in our future national prevention policy and we will work in this direction, "said Minister Hébert. 
In terms of prevention, the minister also retains the importance of targeting the social determinants of health in order to reduce exposure to risk factors and thus strengthen protective factors? Involved in the development of mental illnesses. 
Stakeholders in several circles have also highlighted the challenges imposed on transition to adult services when a patient reaches the age of 18. "In mental health like in other sectors of health, it is important to ensure the continuity of services that is the best possible. There are probative examples of service laughazing plans in other sectors. It would be interesting to see if such examples can inspire our mental health practices, in order to reduce the age border as much as possible and avoid the breaks of service, "said the minister. 
Finally, the minister takes note of the need to continue strengthening the first line and improving access to a family doctor. At the same time, it appears essential to ensure optimal collaboration between the different health professionals arrested by mental health, whether by promoting multidisciplinary teams, the participation of pharmacists, improving the initial training of professionals, or even By deploying respondent psychiatrists in GMF, for example. Community organizations also hold significant mental health expertise and strengthening collaboration between these stakeholders and the health network must be increased. Some of these organizations play a key role in supporting people with mental health disorders and their loved ones. 
"It is important to change mental health perceptions, both in the public and in our network. The reflection to which the forum gave us to deepen several keystone themes and explore different avenues to improve our practices in this area. Our job is now to integrate the comments and proposals made by the participants to possibly have an action plan that will mobilize all stakeholders around common goals aimed at improving our mental health interventions, and this. , everywhere in Quebec, "concluded Dr. Hébert. 
