Québec- It is with enthusiasm that the Minister for Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Ms. Véronique Hivon, has opened the Forum for Consultation on the National Program on Homelessness. Addressing the more than 140 participants and observers collected for the occasion, the Minister Delegate explained the importance of this consultation phase. 
"People from all walks of life are gathered at this forum, and they are for a common goal: to equip Quebec with a national roaming policy. In order to bring us a comprehensive, coherent and sustainable strategy to counter and prevent homelessness, the active participation of environmental actors is essential. The comments and concerns heard during these two days of forum will enhance the policy project according to the field expertise and realities, both in rural areas and in urban areas, "said the Minister Delegate Véronique Hivon. 
As Parliamentary Locommission on Homelessness, which was held in 2008-2009, this desire to develop a concerted strategy is shared by a large number of stakeholders and organizations that act with people in situations. homelessness or at risk of becoming it. The report which was tabled at the end of this Commission, in November 2009, clearly recommended the development of a roaming policy. Community approach to homelessness also demanded it for a long time. 
"This approach testifies to the sincere will of our government to respond to this recommendation and thus improve the living conditions of people who live the reality of homelessness. As the premier said so well at the inaugural surge, on October 31, he is the government's duty to help them. Government guidelines are nothing without the support of the people of the community. It is by working together that we will be able to improve the living conditions of people with homelessness, as well as to prevent and counter the phenomenon of homelessness more effectively. In this sense, the participation of the various stakeholders in the field of this consultation on the policy project is very valuable for the future, "added the minister. 
The Homelessness Policy Project Forum is held on 17 and 18 June 2013, at the Montreal Congress Palace, under the chairmanship of Minister Véronique Hivon. Nearly 140 people are present at the event, as participant or observer. These include representatives from several national associations and groupings, community partners, intersectoral coordinating coordinating committees, roaming tables, the interdepartmental roaming table, the expertise of experts, contributed to the development of the policy project, health agencies and social services of all regions of Quebec, as well as many partners from the Department and the Health and Social Services Network. 
