Québec- On the occasion of the closing of the National Homelessness Policy Consultation Forum, the Minister Delegate to Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Ms. Véronique Hivon, urged the active participation of all the actors concerned by the problem of homelessness in Quebec. 
"This forum was an opportunity to hear and discuss with a multitude of stakeholders and organizations, including community community, working with people with homelessness or at risk of becoming necessary to improve our policy project and to anchor it in their realities. It is a new dynamic and a true synergy that emerge from our work. I was impressed by the mobilization of all the actors concerned. We all agree that we must go beyond the simple cumulation of sectoral actions to counter homelessness. The exchanges that took place during these two days will undoubtedly ensure a better integration of all the concerns expressed and, above all, to put forward a shared vision for the continuation of things, "said the Minister Véronique Hivon. 
In addition to proposing a definition and a vision of roaming as it is observed in urban and rural circles in Quebec, the draft policy describes the guiding principles and the axes of intervention on which the Government action, for example: 
These areas of intervention have nourished many discussions during the forum and have made it possible to bring out strong consensus. It should be noted, for example, the fundamental importance of prevention and support, taking into account the own situation of each. Several participants also reaffirmed the rights of people in homelessness, particularly with respect to access to housing. Several issues related to income have also been discussed, including the barrier of administrative procedures for people living on a homelessness. In addition, all agreed on the need for better consultation and greater coordination between the actors of different environments. The importance of ensuring a response adapted to the realities of itinerant people, taking into account the special needs of women, Aboriginal people and young people, as well as the question of the presence of concomitant, very frequent disorders among traveling people, also have been addressed. In addition, participants wished that the different realities that characterize remote areas as well as the differences between urban and rural circles are reflected in politics. Finally, intersectoral collaboration and the importance of promoting social diversity and the prevention of judicialization are also important issues that will have to be considered in politics. 
"The consultation exercise that has just ended will be valuable for the next policy development stage. I thank all the groups and partners who participated with a lot of seriousness, opening and commitment. I really felt on their part a great desire to do better, and this, for the greatest of the most vulnerable people in society. This will also guides the actions of our government and translates into our determination to develop this national roaming policy by December 2013 and the resulting action plan for the spring of 2014 ", concluded the Minister. 
The Forum on the Roaming Policy Project was held on 17 and 18 June 2013 under the chairmanship of Minister Véronique Hivon. Nearly 140 people were present at the event. These include representatives from several national associations and groupings, community partners, intersectoral coordinating coordinating committees, roaming tables, the interdepartmental roaming table, the expertise of experts, contributed to the development of the policy project, health agencies and social services of all regions of Quebec, as well as many partners from the Department and the Health and Social Services Network. 
