Québec- "The effervescence, the remarkable quality of the speakers, the audacity of the exchanges and deducts it without complaceing with the secretary general of the Francophonie, the streets animated by French-speaking cultures amalgamated with happiness, brief , the balance sheet of the world's first French language forum seems to us to be a success. This is what the hon. Member for Drummond, spokesman for the official opposition in terms of language and delegate of the Parti Québécois at the World Forum of the French Language, Yves-François Blanchet, before adding: " On the other hand, the strong student presence carrying the red square and the denunciations during the workshops of the disastrous balance sheet of the Liberal government on the language, to which new revelations were added, all that constitutes a sad assessment for the Liberal Party of John. Charest. » 
Indeed, between the protocol, which is often the occasion of very constructive meetings and the artistic services that have allowed to seal friendships between young people and future leaders of the global Francophonie, serious presentations, sometimes even severe, have been offered to delegates from five continents. "The will of the Secretary-General, Mr. Abdou Diouf, to allow exchanges outside the binding framework of the summits in order to promote the emergence of new ideas proved to be more than a winner. In addition, the Secretary-General expressed his pride in the successes of a language soon spoked by half a billion speakers, but also a certain impatience towards the dangers hanging above the future of French, one of the three main languages. international people, "added the member for Drummond. 
On the other hand, and even if it should only be seen that a sign of openness and healthy curiosity in relation to a tumultuous news, the spontaneous visit of Mr. Diouf to the protesters of the Quebec French movement has thrown a cold shower on the triumphant attitude of the Prime Minister. "We will remember that the government used the student spring to turn away from Quebec's embarrassing reports and he tried to do the same with the forum to hide a pitiful linguistic assessment in the face of the world. As if it was not enough, here is the St-Pierre minister in the heart of a new scandal. Indeed, the manipulation of data on the attendance of CEGEP in French by the allophones, a crucial question, reveals too well that this government is made too low to be worthy of directing Quebec, "said Yves-François Blanchet. 
Finally, the hon. Member for Drummond believed that the appointment given more than 1200 young people from the Francophone world in Quebec would also inform them about the student protest movement in Quebec without the filter that attempts to apply the government. "I therefore gathered representatives of the Fleaq and about forty delegates representing the civil society of each of the five continents and Quebec at the National Assembly. The exchanges were animated and, the National Assembly being the House of the People, it was normal that it is made available to a student youth whose Quebec must be proud in front of the entire Francophonie, "concluded the delegate of the Québécois Party at the World Forum of the French language. 
