London- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, draws up a positive assessment of his participation in the 2003th annual meeting of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. The Premier has multiplied the meetings to promote Quebec and to discuss issues that affect its development. 
"Quebec has recently endowed with measures to ensure its economic growth that make it particularly attractive for investment. Our presence in Davos has allowed these attractions to economic decision-makers as well as current partners who contribute to Quebec's prosperity, "said Pauline Marois. 
Accompanied by the President of Investment Québec, Jacques Daoust, the Prime Minister participated in a dozen meetings with business leaders and subsidiaries in Quebec. In total, the companies encountered hold in Quebec about fifty institutions in the aerospace, life and energy sectors. Trade have made it possible to present the new governmental guidelines for economic development and to consolidate business relations. 
In the wake of these meetings, the Prime Minister said that the Government of Quebec has signed an agreement in principle with the company RSW RER Ltd. and the Boeing company for development in Quebec a pilot production project for hydroleums intended international markets. The details of the project, which will help position Quebec as a leader in the development of clean energy technologies, will be unveiled at an ad in Quebec. 
The Prime Minister spoke with the Secretary of Finance from the United States Méxicans, Luis Videgaray Caso. On this occasion, she emphasized the importance of the Mexican market for Quebec exports, being the 7th customer of Quebec in the world. Ms. Marois also met with the Director General of the Proméxico Investment Agency, Ernesto de Lucas Hopkins. More than 600 Quebec companies maintain business relationships with Mexico. 
An interview with the Minister of Economy and Finance of France, Pierre Moscovici, allowed to discuss the economic component of the 17th alternating meeting of Quebec and French prime ministers to be held in Quebec later this winter. Trade have also focused on the economic situation in Quebec and France. 
The Premier met with the President of the African Development Bank (AfDB), Donald Kaberuka. She mentioned that Quebec wanted to increase partnerships between companies and Quebec and African institutions, particularly in the context of the Kinshasa Declaration of the 14th Summit of La Francophonie calling for the creation of an economic Francophonie. The AfDB, a funding institution dedicated to Africa's development, appears as a privileged lever to increase the links of Quebec with the African continent. 
The fight against climate change has been at the heart of an interview with the Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, Christiana Figueres. Ms. Figueres welcomed the commitment of the Government of Quebec to increase the target of greenhouse gases at 25% under the 1990 level. The Prime Minister and the Executive Secretary agreed to establish a direct collaboration. between Quebec and the Secretariat. The Premier also met with the President of Climate Group, Mark Kenber, an ally of Quebec in the fight against climate change. 
Ms. Marois spoke with the Internal Market Commissioner and the services of the European Commission, Michel Barnier. The exchanges focused on issues related to the recognition of professional qualifications as well as changes to legislation affecting financial institutions and the EU rating agencies. The economic situation in Europe has also been addressed. 
The Prime Minister also met with Minister-President of Flanders, Kris Peeters, particularly in the context of the coming in Quebec in March of a large commercial and academic Flemish delegation. Finally, she spoke with Hannelore Kraft, Minister-President of North Rhine-Westphalia, one of the most important German Länder from an economic point of view. 
The Prime Minister was invited to initiate an exchange between leaders on responsible mining development practices. She shared the Quebec avant-garde approach to environmental protection as well as the new impetus that the Quebec government wishes to give the development of Northern Quebec. 
In the company of other female leaders, it has also participated in a reflection on means designed to reduce the economic imbalance that persists between the genres. 
